DRN-4204654
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money, transferred money to an 
incorrect account.
What happened
On the maturity of his ISA account, Mr R instructed Virgin to transfer approximately £8,000 
to his nominated account. But Virgin didnt process the transfer to Mr Rs nominated account 
and instead moved the money to an account they opened for Mr R without his consent. Mr R 
wasnt happy about this, or with the service he received from Virgin when trying to resolve 
the matter with them. So, he raised a complaint.
Virgin responded to Mr R and explained that they had processed the transfer to the account 
registered with them as being Mr Rs nominated account at that time  which Mr R had 
updated only after the transfer had been made. And because of this, Virgin didnt feel that 
theyd acted unfairly by processing the transfer as they had. 
However, Virgin did accept that Mr R had experienced long hold times when trying to call 
Virgin and hadnt received the standard of service he was reasonably entitled to expect 
when he was able to speak with their staff. Virgin apologised to Mr R for this and made a 
payment of £150 to him as compensation for any trouble or upset he may have incurred.    
Mr R wasnt satisfied with Virgins response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt the response that Virgin had 
issued to Mr Rs complaint already represented a fair outcome. Mr R remained dissatisfied, 
so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. This means that it isnt within my remit here to 
declare that Virgin have or havent acted in a non-regulatory or unlawful way. 
Instead, this service is an informal, impartial dispute resolution service. And while we do take 
relevant law and regulation into account when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed 
on determining whether we feel a fair or unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial 
perspective, after taking all the circumstances and factors of a complaint into consideration. 
Mr R believed Virgin had transferred his money to a new account that Virgin had opened for 
him without his permission. However, Virgin have able to demonstrate that the account to 
which they transferred the money had been opened by Mr R in 2017 and had been listed 
with them as Mr Rs nominated account for transfers at the time of the transfer in question.
As such, Im satisfied that whats happened here is that Mr R has simply forgotten to update 
his nominated account with Virgin. And given that its Mr Rs responsibility, as the account 
holding customer, to remain aware of the nominated account he has listed with Virgin and to 
update the nominated account so that it remains in line with his wishes, Im satisfied that 
Virgin havent done anything wrong here.
Virgin have accepted that Mr R has experienced some service issues when trying to contact 
them, including long hold times, and being asked to call Virgin to then discover that Virgins 
telephony staff were unable to help him. Virgin have apologised to Mr R for this, and theyve 
made a payment of £150 to him as compensation for any trouble and upset hes incurred.
Matters of compensation can be subjective, but Virgins payment of £150 feels fair to me 
here, given what happened. And I can confirm that its commensurate with what I might have 
instructed Virgin to pay, had they not already done so. I say this in consideration of the 
inconvenience and frustration Mr R has experienced as well as the general framework which 
this service uses when considering compensation amounts  details of which are on this 
services website. But also, in consideration that the root cause of whats happened here is a 
mistake made by Mr R in not keeping his nominated account details with Virgin up to date. 
Mr R feels that a higher amount of compensation should be paid in this instance because 
hes had to try to contact Virgin while being overseas and has incurred greater costs as a 
result. But again, it must be remembered that the root cause of whats happened here is an 
oversight by Mr R, and not anything for which Virgin should fairly be considered accountable. 
And its also not Virgins fault that Mr R is overseas whereby greater costs are incurred. As 
such, I remain satisfied that £150 is a fair compensation amount.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr R was wanting, but it follows that I feel the response to 
Mr Rs complaint already issued by Virgin is a fair outcome to what happened. And this 
means I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Virgin to take any further action. I 
trust Mr R will understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman