DRN-4078843
The complaint
Mr G has complained about delays Aviva Insurance Limited caused in carrying out a boiler 
check when he bought a Heating, Plumbing and Electrics Plus (HPE) agreement.
Mr G says the delay resulted in him not having cover when a boiler broke down at a property 
he rents out to tenants.
What happened
Mr G is a landlord and bought a HPE agreement with Aviva in September 2022. A condition
of the agreement was to allow an engineer to check the boiler to confirm it was eligible for
Aviva to provide cover for. This was to take place within 90 days of the agreement start date.
Avivas appointed engineer failed to attend twice and without notifying Mr G. By the time the
third appointment took place in December 2022, the 90 days had passed.
In December 2022 an engineer attended. They said the boiler wasnt eligible for cover due to
the location of it, which was under stairs. Mr G didnt agree.
About a week later the boiler broke down and required repair.
Mr G complained to Aviva. He said previous engineers under other agreements - including
with Aviva - hadnt failed the boiler check and the location of it had always been under the
stairs. He said that through no fault of Mr Gs or his tenants, there had been an
unreasonable delay in getting the boiler checked. And because of this delay, Mr G hadnt
been able to put alternative cover in place in time when the boiler broke down.
Mr G said that he paid for a replacement boiler. He wanted Aviva to reimburse him and
compensate him and his tenants for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Aviva upheld Mr Gs complaint in part. It accepted it had caused a delay in arranging the
boiler check due to missed appointments. It said this was due to the engineer being unwell.
For the inconvenience caused, it paid Mr G £50 compensation.
As Mr G didnt agree with the engineers decision in December 2022, Aviva agreed for an
engineer to attend in January 2023. But Aviva said the boiler check failed because of health
and safety issues. It said this decision was correct due to access to the boiler in its location.
Aviva said its health and safety guidance is subject to change - so what may have been
acceptable before doesnt necessarily mean it will be acceptable in the future. So Aviva said
it wasnt responsible for repairs to the boiler when it broke down in December 2022.
Mr G remained unhappy and asked us to look at his complaint. He wanted Aviva to cover the
costs he paid to replace the boiler in January 2023, £200 compensation for his
inconvenience as landlord and £500 compensation for his tenants distress and
inconvenience for the time they didnt have use of a boiler or hot water in December 2022.
Our Investigator initially didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. But Mr G didnt
agree - and on further consideration, the Investigator thought Aviva should increase the
compensation to £150. She agreed with Mr G that - had the first or even the second
appointment taken place in October or November 2022, Mr G would have been in a position
to have obtained alternative cover in good time before the boiler broke down.
Aviva didnt agree. It said in a call on 31 December 2022 that it offered for Mr G to arrange
for repairs to be done and it could consider possible reimbursement of the repair costs -
subject to the outcome of the engineers appointment in January 2023. But Mr G decided to
wait for Aviva to come back to him. In any event, Aviva said the agreement didnt provide
cover for a replacement boiler in the first six months. As Mr G had the boiler replaced, Aviva
said Mr G wasnt prejudiced by its delay. Aviva said Mr G wouldnt have been able to obtain
alternative cover to provide replacement boiler cover by December 2022 - even if an
engineer had attended in October 2022.
Mr G didnt agree. He provided safety check certificates from previous engineers which he
says show the location of the boiler hasnt been an issue before. And he provided photos 
and proof of payment for a replacement boiler fitted by an engineer in the same location in 
January 2023.
I issued a provisional decision on 12 April 2023. I thought Aviva should increase the 
compensation it paid to £400. 
Both parties replied. Aviva accepted my provisional decision. Mr G didnt agree for the same 
reasons he gave to the Investigator. 
So the case has been passed back to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr G doesnt agree the compensation I intend to award is enough. But for 
the reasons given in my provisional decision, my final decision is along the same lines. 
I have taken an even handed approach to the comments provided by both parties.
Aviva says Mr G wouldnt have been able to obtain alternative cover elsewhere in time to
cover a boiler replacement - even if an engineer had attended in October 2022.
I cant say that Avivas decision to fail the boiler due to its location was unreasonable. Aviva
relied on the professional opinion of a qualified engineer and its for Aviva to decide what risk
it is content to underwrite.
But Ive also taken into account the fact that a new replacement boiler has been fitted in the
same location by an independent engineer. And I cant safely conclude that the outcome
would have been no different if an engineer had attended in October 2022. I cant say what
alternative cover Mr G may or may not have obtained with another provider - and the terms
and conditions that would have applied. Theres no dispute that Aviva caused an
unreasonable delay in arranging for the boiler to be checked. There were two missed
appointments - and Aviva failed to let Mr G know that the engineer wouldnt be attending
both times.
Mr G told us that the repair estimate came to between £500 and £600. As the boiler was tenyears old and he wasnt covered for the repairs, Mr G said he made the decision to replace
the boiler
As Mr G opted to have the boiler replaced rather than repaired, I cant consider redress for
Avivas delays by asking it to pay a percentage of the repair costs. And I think the boiler was
most likely reaching the end of its serviceable life. So I dont think it reasonable to ask Aviva
to pay for the costs to replace the boiler.
But I think Aviva delays in inspecting the boiler did prejudice Mr Gs position in that he
couldnt arrange alternative cover before the boiler failed and was replaced. There was a
window of approximately a week between 22 December 2022 and 30 December 2002 when
Mr G could have obtained alternative cover. But Ive also kept in mind that during this time,
Mr G was in communication with Aviva as he disagreed with the engineers reason for failing 
the boiler check.
Im satisfied from the evidence provided by Mr G in the previous successful safety checks for
the boiler that Mr G would have promptly obtained alternative cover - and that this would
have happened sooner if Aviva hadnt caused delays.
So - taking everything into account - I dont think compensation of £50 is enough to put 
things right. I think a fairer outcome is for Aviva to increase the compensation it paid Mr G for 
the inconvenience caused. As Mr G is the policyholder, I can only consider awarding 
compensation for his inconvenience. In the circumstances I intend to award a total 
compensation award of £400. So if Aviva has already paid Mr G £50 compensation, it should 
pay a further £350.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Aviva Insurance Limited to 
increase the compensation it pays Mr G from £50 to £400 for the inconvenience its poor 
service caused.
Aviva Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Mr G accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple rate of 
8% a year.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 May 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman