DRN-2096479
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money (Virgin), lowered the 
interest rate on his savings account. 
What happened
Mr S opened a savings account with Virgin in November 2019. Hes said that when he 
applied for it, the account was advertised as paying a fixed interest rate for 12 months.
 
On 2 June 2020, Virgin contacted Mr S to let him know the interest rate was being reduced. 
Mr S didnt think this was right, so he complained. He said his account should be exempt 
from any interest rate decrease because the product was sold as having a fixed interest rate 
of 1.45% for 12 months. He also didnt think Virgin gave him enough notice of the change in 
interest rate. Mr S said he shouldve been given two months notice but had only been given 
two weeks.
 
Virgin sent Mr S its final response on 8 June 2020. In it, it said the savings account Mr S 
opened had never been advertised or sold as a fixed rate product. Instead, Virgin said the 
account allowed customers limited withdrawals over a 12-month period without affecting the 
interest rate. But at no time had this brand of savings account ever been sold as fixed rate. 
Mr S remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service. An investigator 
considered the complaint, but he didnt think Virgin had done anything wrong. He said Mr S 
had been provided with the key product information (KPI) when he opened the account. 
And this explained the interest rate was variable. He also said Virgin didnt need to give Mr S 
two months notice regarding the interest rate change because of the type of account.
Mr S disagreed. He said that hes not been dishonest at any point, and he believes the issue 
to be miscommunication about the product he was sold.
 
As an agreement couldnt be reached the case has been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S opened a Double Take E-Saver Issue 12. Ive looked at how Mr S opened the account, 
and the information he was provided with during the application process.
 
Virgin has provided system screenshots which show Mr S opened the account online. Its 
also shown me the steps Mr S wouldve taken during the account opening process. 
Additionally, Virgin has provided its key product information (KPI) specific to the account 
Mr S opened. The KPI gives detailed information about the product such as the interest rate 
and withdrawal information, among other things. 
Having reviewed Virgins online opening process, Ive seen that once a customer has 
chosen the account theyd like to open, a product summary is displayed. The product 
summary sets out the KPI. In correspondence with Virgin, Mr S said he didnt receive any 
account information by post or by email. But even if Mr S didnt receive anything once the 
account was opened, Im satisfied his attention wouldve been drawn to the key information 
when he applied for it. 
The KPI for a Double Take E-Saver Issue 12 account explains 
 
Rates are variable. This means we may increase or decrease rates at any time. 
When we decrease rates we will give you at least 14 days notice before the rate 
reduces.
I think thats clear enough to show the product doesnt carry a fixed interest rate. Further, 
Ive seen nothing to suggest this KPI was altered after Mr S opened the account or that the 
product was advertised in any other way. Virgin has provided me with a list of available 
products from the time Mr S opened his account. And, from what Ive seen, none offered a 
fixed interest rate of 1.45% for 12 months. Ive also looked at a contemporaneous industry 
publication which records interest rates on savings products. This has Mr Ss account - 
Double Take E-Saver Issue 12 - as a variable account.
  
Im not implying theres been any dishonesty on Mr Ss part. Afterall, things can get 
overlooked and memories arent perfect. But Im satisfied the Double Take E-Saver Issue 12 
is and always has been variable, rather than fixed. And Im satisfied from what Ive seen that 
Virgin made this sufficiently clear through the online application process.
  
Mr S is also unhappy that Virgin didnt give him more notice when it decreased the interest 
rate. For some types of account, there is a requirement to give two months notice of interest 
rate changes. But not all. The requirement is only relevant to payment accounts, which are 
accounts from which holders are able to make payments. Mr S opened a savings account, 
and it doesnt allow account holders to make payments directly from it. On that basis, its not 
an account which requires Virgin to provide Mr S with two months notice. And I dont think 
Virgin did anything wrong by giving Mr S the two weeks notice its KPI outlines.
 
While I appreciate Mr Ss strength of feeling on the matter, I dont think Virgin has acted 
unfairly or unreasonably. It follows that I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2020.
 
Simon Louth
Ombudsman