DRN-3250512
The complaint
Mr C complains that TSB Bank plc recorded a search on his credit file even though he didnt 
apply for an account with any lending facilities. Mr C also complains that TSB didnt respond 
to Confirmation of Payee (CofP) checks from other banks. 
What happened
Mr C applied online for a Spend and Save account with TSB in April 2021. During the 
application process, TSB completed a hard credit search that is recorded on Mr Cs credit 
file. 
A short time after opening his account, Mr C complained to TSB. Mr C said TSB hadnt 
made it clear it would carry out a credit search for an account that didnt offer lending. Mr C 
also complained that transfers into his account werent subject to the CofP validation 
process. 
TSB sent Mr C a final response and said the nature of the credit search was set out in his 
application. TSB also said it had signed up to the CofP process and were introducing it to 
customers shortly. TSB paid Mr C £25 for any trouble and upset caused and offered to cover 
expenses he mayve incurred. 
Mr C referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They thought 
TSB had dealt with Mr Cs complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr C asked 
to appeal so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
TSB has sent us screenshots of the information Mr C received when he completed his online 
account application. To progress the application, Mr C had to confirm hed read certain 
information. This included a statement that said We may obtain information about you from 
the credit reference agencies, fraud prevention agencies and records in our group to check 
your credit status and identity. The agencies will record our enquires which may be seen by 
other companies who make their own credit enquiries. This may affect your ability to obtain 
credit elsewhere in the future.
Im satisfied TSB did notify Mr C it would carry out a credit search that would be visible to 
other businesses when he applied. Mr C has questioned why a credit search was needed as 
the account didnt offer lending facilities. But the credit search is used for various purposes 
including identification and fraud prevention. I havent been persuaded TSB acted unfairly 
when it completed a credit search and recorded it on Mr Cs credit file. 
Mr Cs response to our investigator said he expected the new account with TSB to offer the 
CofP facility. I appreciate Mr C was disappointed to learn TSB hadnt introduced it at the 
point his account opened.. But, TSB wasnt part of the first group of banks to adopt the CofP 
process. And I havent seen any evidence that shows TSB misled Mr C or told him his new 
account would have the CofP facility in place when it opened. 
I understand Mr C feels the CofP process is integral to running a bank account. But I havent 
been persuaded TSB misled Mr C or treated him unfairly in this case. I note Lloyds told Mr C 
it was introducing the CofP process over time. Looking at TSBs website today (nearly a year 
after Mr C complained) it appears it now offers CofP  in line with what it said in its final 
response. 
TSB paid Mr C £25 for the distress and inconvenience caused. As I havent found that TSB 
made mistakes or treated Mr C unfairly, Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman