DRN-1968017
 
The complaint
Mr S complains that Amtrust Europe Limited have unfairly declined his claim for legal 
expenses insurance (LEI).
Where I refer to Amtrust, this includes their agents and claims handlers.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So Ill only provide a 
brief overview of key events here.
In December 2014 Mr S bought a new-build house from a business B which came with a 
five year warranty. There were some initial snagging issues with the new house which were 
resolved as Mr S reported them. 
In May 2017 some tiles and part of the dry verge fell off Mr S roof. Mr S tried to claim under 
the warranty but his claim was declined. Mr S contacted Amtrust to make a claim against B. 
He says parts of his roof were incorrectly installed and that this is a breach of contract. 
Amtrust declined the claim. They said that the problems with the house were linked to the 
initial issues hed had with B which pre-dated the policy. As the policy only started in 
December 2016  the claim wasnt covered. They explained that if he could provide 
evidence of continuous similar LEI cover then they would review their position. Mr S made a 
claim to his previous LEI insurer D  this too was declined. 
The matter was referred to our service. One of our investigators thought the complaint 
should be upheld. She didnt think it was fair for Amtrust to apply the exclusion they had in 
linking Mr Ss claim in 2017 to the issues he experienced shortly after buying the house. 
Amtrust highlighted a further policy term which stated that they only cover disputes about 
contracts which were entered into after the policy had started. Our investigator didnt agree 
this had been fairly applied. As an agreement couldnt be found  Amtrust asked for an 
ombudsman to review the complaint. 
In May 2020 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
For clarity, I agree with our investigator that Amtrusts decision on linking the 2017 claim to 
the initial snagging problems Mr S experienced with his house in 2015 wasnt fair. But I wont 
discuss that point in detail, as for the reasons Ill come to, I currently think the claim has 
been fairly declined.
Under the heading of What is insured Mr S policy says: Advisers costs to pursue a legal 
action following a breach of contract you have for buying or renting goods or services for 
your private use. This includes the purchase of your main home. The contract must have 
been made after you first purchased this insurance.
Terms like this are common in LEI  Amtrust are saying that Mr S is covered for contract 
disputes (including for the purchase of his home), as long as the contract was entered into 
after the insurance started. I dont think this is unreasonable, I wouldnt automatically expect 
insurance to retrospectively cover contracts that were entered into before the cover started. 
That being said, Mr S couldnt reasonably have known, prior to the problems with his roof  
that there was a potential breach of contract in relation to him buying his house from B in 
2014. By the time the problem came to light, Mr S was on cover with Amtrust.
If Mr S had continuously maintained similar cover it might not be fair and reasonable for 
Amtrust to rely on that exclusion. I say this because Mr S would have continually insured 
himself for the legal costs involved in pursuing a breach of contract. In these circumstances 
Id potentially expect Amtrust or one of his previous insurers to cover the claim. So Ive 
looked at the LEI cover Mr S had in place for the relevant time period. The following timeline 
indicates the key events. 
17 December 2014 Mr S purchased his house;
17 December 2014 Mr S LEI cover with D started which ran until 16 December 
2015;
19 December 2015 Mr S LEI cover with E started which ran until 19 December 
2016;
21 December 2016 Mr S LEI cover with Amtrust started which continued into 2018;
11 December 2017 Mr S makes a claim to Amtrust for Bs breach of contract.
Based on this, Mr S hasnt had continuous cover for LEI. There was a break in cover 
between 16 and 19 December 2015 and again between 19 and 21 December 2016. 
Because of these breaks in cover, Mr S wasnt continuously covered for the legal costs 
involved in a breach of contract. So, in this case I dont think its unfair for Amtrust to rely on 
the above policy term to decline the claim.
Amtrust didnt have anything to add in response to my provisional decision. Mr S disagreed 
with my provisional decision, he responded and made some points which Ill address below. 
Now both parties have had the opportunity to comment, I can go ahead with my final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S explained he accidently had short gaps in his cover which happened when he was 
changing insurers. He says it was always his intention to have continuous cover. He also 
says that the policy documents dont make clear that continuous cover is a requirement. 
Mr S also highlighted a further part of the policy under the heading of What is not insured 
which says: In respect of disputes over the purchase of your main home, the purchase 
must have commenced at least 30 days after you first purchased this insurance or 
purchased similar insurance which expired immediately before this insurance began. Mr S 
says that immediately isnt defined and that this is ambiguous.  
Ive thought about Mr S point about immediately in the above policy term. But Im not 
persuaded that it can fairly be said that his previous policies expired immediately before the 
next one starting when there are gaps in cover such as those listed above.
 
The policy term (as quoted in my provisional decision) is clear that cover is only available for 
contracts that were entered into after Mr S first purchased the insurance. Mr S purchased his house in December 2014 and first purchased his insurance with Amtrust in December 
2016. So, Mr S contract (to buy his house) was entered into before he first bought his policy. 
Im satisfied that a dispute about a breach of contract for the sale of the house is excluded 
from cover by that term. But Ive reconsidered whether it was fair for Amtrust to rely on that 
term. In the circumstances of this complaint, I think it was. 
Mr S hasnt maintained continuous cover for contract disputes. And whilst I appreciate that 
might not have been Mr S intention, that is what happened. In these circumstances, I dont 
think it would be fair for me to ask Amtrust to ignore the policy term about contracts entered 
into before the insurance started and to cover the claim. And as I explained above, Amtrust 
thought there were further reasons why the claim wouldnt be covered. But as Im satisfied it 
has fairly been declined due to the policy term Ive referenced, there is no merit in giving a 
detailed commentary on the other reasons Amtrust gave.
Taking everything into consideration, Im satisfied that the claim has been fairly declined. So, 
Im not going to tell Amtrust they need to do anything further to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2020.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman