DRN-3778401
The complaint
Miss W complains that Erudio Student Loans Limited (Erudio) unfairly terminated her student 
loan account and applied a default.
What happened
Miss W had two student loans which were taken out in 1998, totalling around £5,500. This 
type of loan is written off after 25 years as long as the terms and conditions are adhered to. 
The loans had been successfully deferred until October 2021. When Miss W applied to have 
them deferred after this, the application was declined as her gross monthly income was 
above the threshold for deferment. So Erudio began asking Miss W for payments towards 
the loans.
Miss W called Erudio in December 2021 to discuss payments with them. On the call the 
agent told her she was required to make monthly payments of £104.01 and the account was 
currently two months in arrears which equated to £208.02. Miss W implied this was 
unaffordable and so the agent tried to complete an affordability assessment, also known as 
and income and expenditure (IE) but Miss W said she found this intrusive and didnt want to 
continue with it  she asked for a direct debit to just be set up instead.
The agent began setting up the direct debit and explained the date of each month it would 
be taken and the amount (£104.01), he asked Miss W was that ok and she said no it wasnt 
ok and asked if he could make the payments lower. The agent explained if she wanted to 
pay less the arrears would accrue. He explained what this meant for Miss W, he also 
explained that was why he had wanted to complete an IE with her to see if he could help. 
Miss W asked if the account could be placed on hold. 
The agent agreed to place the account on hold for sixty days to give Miss W time to take 
some advice, he gave her numbers of organisations that might be able to help her. He 
explained that at the end of the sixty days letters would restart. Miss W asked if Erudio would 
email her, and the agent said they would write to her by letter as there was arrears on the 
account and this is always dealt with by letter. The sixty-day hold ended on 16 February 
2022.
Erudio sent Miss W a notice of default letter (ND) on 26 January 2022, as the account was 
now four months in arrears. They wrote to her again on 24 February 2022 telling her the 
account had terminated and the full amount of the loan was now due.
In March 2022 Miss W let Erudio know that she had moved address some time in February 
2022 and said she hadnt received the letters theyd sent and asked them to reinstate the 
loan.
Miss W complained to Erudio, she felt they were unfair to terminate the loan when it was so 
close to being written off. Erudio didnt uphold her complaint and so she brought it to this 
service. Our investigator didnt think this was a complaint that should be upheld, in summary 
he said Erudio had acted fairly when applying the default to Miss Ws account. Miss W didnt 
agree she said at the time of the call she was not in a good place to deal with things and 
didnt think her side of things had been taken into account. She also mentioned she had 
suffered a bereavement and that the investigator hadnt considered this or the fact she had 
moved house. The matter has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done so
using my own words. Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the key issues. The rules 
that govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt mean that Ive not considered
everything that both parties have given to me. 
 
Having read and considered the whole file, Ive reached the same outcome as the 
investigator and for broadly the same reasons. Ill explain, but in doing so Ill keep my 
comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on a specific point, its not because I 
havent considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the 
right outcome.
Before I go on to explain my findings, Id like to offer Miss W my condolences on her loss of 
her family member.
Ive listened to the call where Miss W arranges for her account to be placed on hold for sixty 
days. And its clear in the call that Miss W doesnt think its fair that her loans cant be 
deferred. But as her salary exceeds the threshold for deferment, she was obliged under the 
terms of the agreement to begin making the contractual monthly payments. Miss W is clearly 
reluctant to do this as she infers it will not be affordable, but she isnt willing to complete the 
IE as she finds it intrusive. Had she done this, and it showed her disposable income to be at 
an amount that made the monthly payments unaffordable Erudio could have made an 
arrangement to pay with her. However, even if this were the case it would still mean that she 
wasnt meeting the contractual monthly payments and so wouldnt have necessarily avoided 
the termination of the account or the application of the default.
On the call the agent explains what happens when arrears on an account reaches four 
months. He explains the default process and how it works and also confirms that when there 
are arrears on an account all correspondence is by letter. He goes on to explain when there 
is no payment arrangement in place there is a risk of the account of the account terminating 
if the arrears build up. Based on this Im satisfied that Miss W was made aware of the risk of 
not making payments towards the account. She was also aware at the point that she asked 
for the sixty-day hold to be placed that there were already two-months of arrears 
outstanding, so at the end of the sixty days the account would already be at four months 
arrears.
While I appreciate Miss W says she didnt get the default letters, Ive seen evidence that 
Erudio sent the letters, so Im satisfied they met their obligation to write to Miss W to inform 
her of the intention to default if she didnt act in 28 days. The ND was sent on 26 January 
2022, so before Miss W says she moved, so while I accept what she says about not 
receiving it I cant hold Erudio responsible for any failings in the postal service. And even if 
the letter crossed at the time of Miss W moving its her responsibility to keep Erudio up to 
date with any address changes. And given she did know they would be writing to her by 
letter only, as they confirmed this on the call, I think its fair to say she ought to have known 
the importance of doing so.
Ive also thought about what might have happened if she had received the letters and Im not persuaded it would have changed things. I say this because Miss W made it clear on the 
call, she had with Erudio that she couldnt afford the contractual monthly payments for the 
loan. And so, I think the termination of the account and the default were inevitable and would 
have happened at some point.
I know Miss W believes it was unfair of Erudio to terminate the loan when they were so close 
to age write off. But as Erudio explained on the call loans with arrears are not eligible for the 
age write off and I dont see a way that Miss W was going to be able to clear the arrears 
given she had said she couldnt afford the contractual monthly payments, so I dont think she 
has lost out here.
I appreciate Miss W has said she was impacted by a family death but, even when asked she 
hasnt elaborated on this, other than to say a family member went to sleep and didnt wake 
up. And while I accept this is terribly sad its impossible for me to assess if this affected 
either her ability to make her monthly payments or her capacity for dealing with the situation. 
Ive also given consideration to the fact that she didnt make Erudio aware of this until now, 
so I dont think they could have taken this into consideration when dealing with her.
During the first call with Erudio she tells them she is having money deducted from her wages 
towards a student loan. Erudio explained that they dont take payments in this way and that it 
may be for a different student loan if she has one. Miss W wasnt clear if she did or not, but 
the agent explained if she didnt, she should contact HMRC who will be able to help her 
reclaim the money if its been paid in error. I just wanted to highlight this again and reiterate 
to Miss W that these payments were not going towards the Erudio student loan, as it 
appears she was confused about where those payments were going.  And if she doesnt 
have another active student loan, she should pursue this as she could be due money back.
Based on all of the above, Im satisfied that Erudio has acted fairly when terminating Miss 
Ws account and so it follows, I wont be asking it to reinstate the loan or remove the default.
I know Miss W will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision ends what we  in 
trying to resolve her dispute with Erudio can do for her.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 January 2023.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman