DRN-3848376
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that QIC Europe Limited (QIC) declined his claim under his home 
insurance for storm damage. 
Miss J brought the complaint on his behalf but, for ease of reading, Ill refer only to Mr W 
throughout my decision.
What happened
Mr W was the sole named policyholder of the buildings and contents insurance with QIC. He 
claimed under the policy after roof tiles slipped during a storm, causing further damage to 
the lower roof.
QIC sent a surveyor to inspect the damage. Using a drone, the surveyor took photos of the 
roof and concluded that all but one area of damage was caused by a storm. The surveyor 
confirmed in his report that the policy provided cover for the cost of repairs.
However, some weeks later, an in-house surveyor assessed the photos and concluded that 
the main cause of damage was gradual deterioration of the mortar holding the tiles in place. 
QIC said the lower roof wouldve been covered as accidental damage, but Mr Ws policy 
didnt provide for that.
Mr W complained to QIC because hed been led to believe his claim was being dealt with. 
He also disagreed with its conclusion that the storm wasn't the main cause of the damage. 
QIC maintained its position regarding the claim but accepted that it hadnt handled matters 
well. It offered Mr W £150 by way of apology. He remained unhappy and brought his 
complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt think it was fair or reasonable that QIC declined the claim. He said the 
first surveyor actually visited the property to inspect the damage, so he thought the first 
report carried more weight than that of the in-house surveyor. Our investigator 
recommended that QIC settle the claim.
QIC didnt agree. It said the tiles only came off the roof where they were already loose. And 
although the surveyor didnt mention the condition of the rest of the mortar, he failed to 
notice that the hip tile mortar was missing and deteriorated. QIC asked for this information to 
be taken into consideration.
I issued a provisional decision in November 2022 explaining that I was intending to uphold 
Mr Ws complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive decided to provisionally uphold Mr Ws complaint. While my reasons are broadly similar 
to our investigator, Ive also considered the compensation payment QIC offered Mr W. Ill 
explain.
Theres no dispute that there were storm conditions at the time of the claim, and I havent 
seen any dispute that a storm can cause this type of damage to a roof. So, Ive thought 
about whether the damage was caused wholly, or mainly, by the storm.
Ordinarily, homes should be able to withstand all but the most extreme weathers. Often, 
storms simply highlight existing damage. QICs surveyors likely would be aware of this. 
Turning, then, to the field surveyors report, I havent identified anything which indicates 
there was existing damage which allowed the storm to dislodge the tiles. QIC has already 
commented on this and says its surveyor missed the condition of the mortar. However, I 
struggle to see how that could be the case. A run of eight tiles had come away from the roof, 
exposing the mortar beneath. If the mortar was in such poor condition, Id have expected the 
field surveyor to notice that given the large area available for inspection. Indeed, the 
surveyor clearly stated that the property was in a fair state of repair and there were no pre-
existing or ongoing external building defects.
QIC relied on its in-house surveyors report that the mortar had deteriorated. But, again, I 
struggle to see why the conclusion from a desktop survey should carry more weight than that 
of the original, visiting surveyor, who was also able to inspect the debris on the ground.
Therefore, Im minded to place more weight on the first surveyors report, that the storm 
caused the damage. 
The damage to the lower roof was caused by the upper tiles falling onto it. QIC said that 
would be covered under accidental damage if it were available to Mr W. I agree that Mr Ws 
policy doesnt provide for accidental damage but, if it had, a separate claim mightve 
succeeded for the lower roof tiles if the storm didnt cause the upper tiles to fall. However, I 
dont think that means the lower roof isnt covered in this particular case. Here, the lower roof 
wouldnt have been damaged but for the storm dislodging the upper tiles. Therefore, Im 
minded to require QIC to consider Mr Ws claim for both areas of damage under the storm 
condition.
Ive noted that the field surveyor excluded cover for a few slipped tiles on another part of the 
roof. They do seem to be unrelated to the storm damage, so I accept that the surveyor 
reached a fair conclusion. I dont plan to ask QIC to provide cover for the additional slipped 
tiles.
QIC offered Mr W £150 for mistakenly accepting the claim, but then declining it around three 
months later. The delay was avoidable, and had QIC declined the claim sooner, Mr W 
wouldnt have been waiting for it to arrange repairs. He would also have been in a position to 
raise his complaint about the decline sooner and, ultimately, have his roof repaired. So, in 
recognition of the avoidable delay and inconvenience caused, Im minded to agree that 
QICs offer of £150 is fair and reasonable. 
Putting matters right
To put matters right, I think QIC should reconsider Mr Ws claim under the policy terms and 
conditions, without relying on the wear and tear exclusion, under the storm section. In 
addition, QIC should honour its offer to pay £150 compensation for the avoidable delays and 
mistakes made, which contributed to Mr Ws inconvenience and distress.
I said I was intending to require QIC Europe Limited to:
reconsider Mr Ws claim without relying on the wear and tear exclusion under the 
storm section of the policy, andpay £150 compensation in recognition of the avoidable delay and mistakes made, 
which caused Mr W inconvenience and distress.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Mr W didnt make any further comment.
QIC responded to say it didnt agree with my provisional decision. It said the attending 
surveyor took images of the roof using a pole camera, and the in-house surveyor completed 
a desktop review of those same images. Therefore, QIC didnt agree that the attending 
surveyors review held any more weight than the desktop review.
QIC went on to say that the attending surveyor made an error by not reviewing the exposed 
mortar bonding the tiles to the roof, as shown in the images.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ws complaint. Thats because Im not persuaded 
that QICs comments warrant a change to my provisional decision. Ill explain. 
My understanding of QICs comments is that the desktop review allowed a careful 
examination of the images, leading to identification of deteriorating mortar. Therefore, QIC is 
of the opinion that the poor condition of the mortar was the dominant cause of the damage.
Ive looked again at the photo QIC provided, and reconsidered the evidence previously 
available to me. However, I remain of the view that the attending surveyor wouldve had a 
greater understanding of the overall damage than the team reviewing images taken by the 
attending surveyor.
As I said in my provisional decision, the attending surveyor wouldve had a better view of the 
debris on the ground, including the fallen tiles and mortar. And given that the attending 
surveyor had a large area of roof to survey, along with the debris and overall circumstances, 
the evidence doesnt persuade me that the attending surveyor simply missed something that 
the desktop review picked up from images.
Therefore, Im satisfied that its fair and reasonable to place more weight on the attending 
surveyors opinion.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Ws 
complaint and QIC Europe Limited must:
reconsider Mr Ws claim without relying on the wear and tear exclusion under the 
storm section of the policy, and
pay £150 compensation in recognition of the avoidable delay and mistakes made, 
which caused Mr W inconvenience and distress.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman