DRN-3793734
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Mr W holds with Handelsbanken plc. The main points of 
the complaint, in summary are:
Handelsbankens alleged failure to provide forbearance and give reasonable 
consideration to numerous payment proposals Mr W has made in respect of his 
mortgage arrears; and
the behaviour of solicitors acting for Handelsbanken regarding the sale of the property, 
repayment of the mortgage and action to enforce a possession order.
Other issues formed part of the original complaint but a fellow ombudsman has decided that 
these either cannot or should not considered.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mr W and Handelsbanken. Im also 
aware that the investigator issued a detailed response to the complaint, which has been 
shared with all parties, and so I dont need to repeat all of the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Mr W being identified. Instead Ill provide a brief summary and then focus on giving 
the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. 
Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint, or because it fell 
outside my remit. 
Mr W has long-standing arrears on his mortgage. In 2018, he brought a complaint about how 
Handelsbanken had treated him since the arrears began in 2013, and that was the subject of 
a final decision from me in November 2018. In 2019, Handelsbanken sought and obtained a 
suspended possession order. Initially, Mr W was able to keep to the terms of the order, but 
when the COVID-19 pandemic struck in early 2020, the impact on his business meant he 
struggled. Handelsbanken agreed a six-month payment break in accordance with the rules 
brought in to help consumers experiencing difficulties as a result of the pandemic.
After the payment break ended, Mr W didnt resume payments, and Handelsbanken was 
concerned about the worsening arrears position. Mr W had the mortgaged property up for 
sale throughout 2021, during which two different parties made offers, and then withdrew 
them. Part of Mr Ws complaint is that those parties were, in effect, rogue agents colluding 
with Handelsbanken (and its solicitors) to keep the property off the open market and prevent 
him from selling it voluntarily. 
When the case came to us, our investigator didnt think we could consider all of Mr Ws 
concerns. He said that on the forbearance element, we should only look at what had 
happened since November 2018, as events prior to that date had already been dealt with in 
the final decision on the 2018 complaint. He said that the other aspects of the case fell 
outside our jurisdiction entirely. Mr W challenged this, and the case went to an ombudsman 
colleague to decide what scope we had to consider the complaint.
My fellow ombudsman agreed that our consideration of the forbearance element of the 
complaint should be confined to events post-November 2018. On the other aspects, he 
agreed that we had no power to look at the alleged actions of the would-be buyers, but that 
we could consider the actions of Handelsbankens solicitors, albeit only to the extent of those 
actions that related to the sale of the property, repayment of the mortgage and enforcement 
of the possession order.
When our investigator looked into the case  within the parameters set by my ombudsman 
colleague - he wasnt persuaded Handelsbanken or its solicitors had treated Mr W unfairly. 
Mr W asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. Regrettably, his request 
reached us whilst the investigator was on leave, and wasnt picked up until after the deadline 
wed given for Mr W to respond. In the meantime, we had informed Handelsbanken that the 
complaint was now concluded, and it had resumed action to enforce its possession order, 
which had otherwise been on hold whilst the complaint was with us.
We re-opened the case, telling Handelsbanken we had done so; the casefile, which includes 
all of Mr Ws further submissions in response to the investigators view, has come to me to 
review. Weve asked Handelsbanken is its prepared to hold its enforcement action in 
abeyance again, but this time it has declined to do so. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
FCA. We deal with individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing 
that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us. 
Mr W has sought to raise a new complaint about Handelsbankens resumption of 
enforcement action after we mistakenly told it he current complaint had been closed. The 
investigator has commented on this already, in an email dated 3 January 2023, so Mr W is 
aware of our view on it. That being the case, I can address it here, to save time for Mr W and 
Handelsbanken alike.  
It is important to explain here that lenders will generally agree to put recovery action on hold 
whilst we look at a complaint, but they dont have to and we cant force them to. If the 
Financial Ombudsman Service had that power it would undermine our impartiality between 
the parties to a complaint. It would also create the potential risk of consumers using our 
service to bring complaints with the intention of obstructing businesses that were trying to 
take legitimate action through the courts to recover money owed to them. 
I do not wish to alarm Mr W, but I would not want him to be under any misunderstanding that 
we would tell Handelsbanken that it must suspend any recovery action in the event of any 
new complaint being raised with our service, or uphold any future complaint that it refused to 
do so. The more appropriate forum to ask for recovery action to be suspended is the court 
through which the action is being taken.Mr W says Handelsbanken has concealed relevant evidence. Hes sought to raise that as a 
new complaint too, but its actually part of this complaint, and again the investigator has 
already commented on it in his email of 3 January 2023, so I can deal with it here. Where the 
evidence in a complaint is contradictory or - as is alleged here - incomplete, its for me to 
decide if the arguments and evidence before me are enough for me to determine the 
complaint fairly. Having read everything that both parties have said and provided, Im 
satisfied I have all I need to reach a fair conclusion.  
Lastly, before I address the merits, we revisit jurisdiction at every stage of a complaint. Ive 
looked at the decision my ombudsman colleague issued in August 2022. Having done so, I 
agree with his decision entirely, and confirm, for the avoidance of any ambiguity, that my 
decision on the merits of the complaint are confined to the arrears and/or forbearance 
treatment since November 2018 (albeit with a caveat Ill come to shortly) and the actions of 
Handelsbankens solicitors to the extent that they relate to the sale of the property, 
repayment of the mortgage and enforcement of the possession order. That means that I 
wont take account of any of Mr Ws many additional submissions regarding the alleged 
conspiracies involving would-be buyers or his selling agent, or any other party over which we 
have no jurisdiction.
My consideration of Handelsbankens treatment of Mr Ws arrears strictly runs from 
November 2018. Any reference I make to events preceding that date are for context only. In 
practical terms, however, I only need to look at what has happened since the suspended 
possession order was granted in August 2019. Thats because events between 
November 2018 and the date of the possession order should have been taken into account 
by the court when granting the order. Its not open to me to second guess the judgement of 
the court, and Id be doing that if I were to look at issues the court has already had the 
opportunity to take into consideration.
The suspended possession order required Mr W to pay the full monthly instalment plus a 
contribution towards reducing the arrears. To all intents and purposes, he largely kept to that 
up to the point at which the impact of the pandemic caused him to ask Handelsbanken for 
help under the special rules. That help was granted, and Mr W was afforded a six-month 
payment break. That break ran to October 2020, so its hard for me to find any shortcoming 
in Handelsbankens treatment of Mr W up to that point. Its all about what happened after 
that.
Mr W maintains he has made countless proposals on how he would get the mortgage 
payments back on track, and has supplied us with pages, running into the many hundreds, 
of email exchanges he had with his local manager. Ive looked through those, whilst I can 
see a great deal of discussion of Mr Ws business (including his opinion on its profitability) 
and the likely outcome of a sale of shares he holds in the business, all of those points are 
speculative. 
What was missing throughout is a definite commitment to resume making the monthly 
payments required under the court order, or any persuasive evidence to indicate that Mr W 
was in a position to do so. Thats actually borne out by the fact that Mr W never did resume 
making any monthly payments to the mortgage when the COVID-19 break ended. Im aware 
his circumstances continued to be difficult after the break ended, but its hard to think that 
Mr W expected to pay nothing at all towards the single most important debt he has (because 
keeping his home relies on him making it). Regardless of any other consideration, that will 
have engendered no confidence whatsoever with Handelsbanken that there was any real 
prospect of Mr W navigating his way out of a wider situation of financial hardship that had 
been going on since 2013.
In making that latter observation, Ive not overlooked that my consideration of the case here 
cant revisit what I dealt with in my final decision on the 2018 complaint. But I dont think it unreasonable that the long-standing nature of the situation will have informed 
Handelsbankens approach to more recent events, and continues to do so presently. Even if 
thats not the case, and Handelsbanken is disregarding the historic aspect, what puts things 
into context is that at the time of the possession order in August 2019, the mortgage arrears 
were approximately £417,000. By December 2021, they were over £561,000, and last week, 
Handelsbanken told us the current arrears figure is in the region of £675,000.
Taking everything into consideration, I dont find that Handelsbanken has treated Mr W 
unfairly or shown a lack of forbearance over his mortgage arrears since the suspended 
possession order was granted. 
For the avoidance of doubt, that conclusion covers the current decision by Handelsbanken to 
continue with enforcement action whilst we concluded our consideration of the complaint. 
Mr W says regulations prevent Handelsbanken from doing that; however, the regulations he 
has cited  from a document published by the FCA under the title CONC  relate to 
consumer credit, not to residential mortgages. The regulations covering mortgages are set 
out in the Mortgage and Home Finance Conduct of Business rules, or MCOB for short. In 
any event, even if Mr W was citing regulations that were relevant, the test for me to apply 
here isnt simply whether Handelsbanken has or hasnt followed MCOB provisions. Its 
whether Handelsbanken has treated Mr W fairly and reasonably in all the circumstances.
Mr W has said he is livid that Handelsbanken is going ahead with enforcement action. I dont 
doubt that for a moment; the prospect of losing ones home is a horrible one, and I do 
understand his strength of feeling. But my impartial role means I have to give equal 
consideration to Handelsbankens point of view, and it is clear from what the business has 
told us that Handelsbanken has run out patience. In all the circumstances, which include the 
fact Mr W has paid it nothing since March 2020  so almost three years  I cant say 
Handelsbankens position is either unfair or unreasonable. It granted him a six-month 
payment break, as the regulations required it to; it couldnt reasonably be expected to allow 
a thirty four-month break, which is what has happened at the time of writing.
That brings me to the role of Handelsbankens solicitors. Our remit, as decided by my 
ombudsman colleague, is to look into what the solicitors have done in relation to the sale of 
the property, repayment of the mortgage and enforcement of the possession order. 
Whilst all three of those three topics are relevant (because they cover acts or omissions 
carried out as Handelsbankens agent) its worth keeping in mind that Handelsbanken 
doesnt currently have possession of the mortgaged property. If Handelsbanken doesnt 
have possession of the mortgaged property, then it follows that Handelsbanken (and the 
solicitors acting as its agent) arent selling the property, so theres no act or omission in 
respect of selling the property for me to look at. So again, in practical terms, my 
consideration of the solicitors role is to do with repayment of the mortgage and enforcement 
of the possession order; the latter being a means of achieving the former. 
The issue is simpler than it looks; thats because anything the solicitor does is as 
Handelsbankens agent. To put the point another way, the role of the solicitor is to carry out 
Handelsbankens instructions with regard to its treatment of Mr W over his arrears. That 
means that to find that the solicitors have treated Mr W unfairly, Id first need to have found 
that Handelsbanken had treated him unfairly, and then instructed its solicitors to carry out its 
(unfair) treatment of him on its behalf. As I havent found Handelsbanken to have treated 
Mr W unfairly, it follows that I cant find its solicitors to have done so either.
Mr W doesnt have to accept my conclusions, and if he doesnt, then neither he nor 
Handelsbanken will be bound by my final decision. Subject to any time limits or other 
restrictions a court might impose, Mr Ws right to take legal action against Handelsbanken over the subject matter of this complaint wont have been prejudiced by our consideration of 
it. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this 
services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 February 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman