DRN-3759685
The complaint
Mr S complains about the decision by Unum Ltd to turn down his income protection claim.
What happened
Mr S is covered under his employers group income protection policy. The policy will pay a 
monthly benefit if Mr S cant work because of illness or injury, after a deferred period of 26 
weeks.
In March 2021 Mr S stopped work in his sedentary role. He made a claim to Unum, however 
this was turned down as Unum did not think that Mr S was incapacitated, according to the 
policy definition of this. Unhappy with Unums claims decision, Mr S brought a complaint to 
this service.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. He thought the medical evidence 
supported that Mr S did meet the policy definition of incapacity. He recommended that Unum 
pay backdated benefit due to Mr S, plus interest. 
Unum did not agree with our investigators recommendations, and so the matter has been 
passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy explains a member is incapacitated if they are:
unable to perform the material and substantial duties of their insured occupation because 
of illness or injury.
Ive therefore considered the medical evidence. 
In early 2020, Mr S had a seizure, but the cause was unknown. Then in November 2020, 
Mr S saw a consultant ophthalmic surgeon (Mr D) as he noticed his vision had deteriorated 
in his left eye.
In April 2021 Mr S had an appointment with an optometrist where he reported having frontal 
headaches with eye ache for the last month. It was noted he had been signed off work with 
stress and exhaustion. Mr S was later found to have high pressure in his left eye and was 
given drops for this. He was also referred back to Mr D.
Mr D saw Mr S in May 2021 and said he had experienced around 12 episodes of pain in his 
left eye over the previous two weeks. In June 2021, Mr S was still experiencing some eye 
pain.
Mr S was reviewed by Dr F (consultant neurologist) in June 2021. Dr F reported that he first 
met Mr S the previous year, after Mr S had experienced a seizure. Dr F said that Mr Ss 
health had deteriorated since the autumn of 2020, and he felt generally unwell. Dr F 
explained that Mr S had reached a crisis point in the first quarter of 2021 and acknowledges 
that he was experiencing a lot of work-related stress. He said that Mr S struggled to use a 
computer because he would develop a severe pressure sensation over the front of his head, 
also radiating into the left eye, after around 15 minutes use. 
Dr F also said the medication Mr S had been given had reduced the high pressure in his 
eye, but not the headaches. He explained that Mr S was still in considerable difficulties with 
his physical and psychological health. Dr F suggested withdrawing one of Mr Ss 
medications, to see if this had been impacting his mood.
Dr F reviewed Mr S again a few weeks later. He explained that Mr S was still struggling with 
neurological symptoms, and that he felt low and had become anxious because he was 
unable to work. Dr F said Mr Ss work difficulties were that he found lights and computer 
screens intolerable, and was now prone to very significant headaches. Though Dr F did not 
know why Mr S was experiencing headaches. Dr F noted that the GP had been treating Mr S 
for low mood, and thought this should continue.
In July 2021, Mr S was reviewed by his GP. He reported feeling very low and depressed, 
and was still having significant headaches. His GP referred him to Dr H (consultant 
psychiatrist & medical psychotherapist).
Mr S saw Dr H in August 2021. He thought Mr S presented with typical symptoms of 
burnout, with chronic work stress leading to mental exhaustion and a secondary depression. 
He said that for diagnostic purposes, he would classify it as a moderate depressive episode. 
He adjusted Mr Ss medication. He also considered therapy but thought Mr S should 
continue with a medication only approach, but said that if there were clear indications for 
cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT) for any focal aspects of Mr Ss anxiety, then he would 
refer him for this. 
Dr H wrote to Mr Ss GP and said that, following Mr Ss seizure (in 2020), he went back to 
work which was very stressful with long hours. Dr H said there was an extended period of 
time where Mr S was functioning at high stress levels, and the chronic stress led to mental 
exhaustion and then the emergence of a secondary depression. By the end of February 
2021, Mr S realised he wasnt coping, and the GP started him on antidepressant medication. 
Dr H said that Mr S experienced disturbed sleep, mental exhaustion and weakness, and 
some feelings of hopelessness. Dr H noted that Mr S also had daily severe headaches.
In October 2021, Dr H wrote a report. He explained he had started treating Mr S on 2 August 
2021, and that Mr Ss diagnosis was that of severe anxiety which led to a severe depressive 
episode. He confirmed this would be considered a severe mental illness. Dr H explained that 
Mr S had experienced considerable ophthalmic problems which led to stress and anxiety, 
and he was unable to carry out his functions in the workplace. 
Dr H further confirmed that, as a result of Mr Ss mental health, he was unable to function at 
normal capacity on a daily basis, and that he struggled with cognitive processing, mental and 
physical exhaustion, and memory problems (amongst other things). Dr H thought these 
symptoms prevented Mr S from carrying out his occupation, and did not think that Mr S 
would be able to return to his role in the foreseeable future.
ConclusionsThe evidence supports that Mr Ss health deteriorated before he stopped work in March 
2021. Dr H described Mr S as having burnout from chronic work stress, and Mr Ss GP 
signed him off initially with work-related stress and exhaustion (after starting him on 
antidepressant medication). However, Dr H also explained that this burnout led to Mr S 
experiencing depression. He was also experiencing headaches and left eye pain.
Dr Hs later evidence (provided some time after the deferred period had ended) said that 
Mr S had experienced severe anxiety which had led to a severe depressive illness. I havent 
seen much medical evidence past the end of the deferred period. Though I would assume 
that Mr Ss mental health deteriorated further after Dr Hs initial evidence of 2 August 2021 
(as he described Mr S as having a moderate depressive episode at this time, rather than 
severe). Though it is still the case that Dr H had been treating Mr S since August 2021, and 
concluded that he could not work from that time because of his symptoms.
Unums company medical officer has made the point that Mr S was not prescribed the 
highest dose of antidepressant medication at the time of the deferred period, and had not 
been referred for further treatment. However, I see that Dr H wanted to make changes to 
Mr Ss medication initially, to see if this improved his symptoms. My understanding is that 
this is not an uncommon approach for patients taking antidepressant medication. Dr H chose 
not to refer Mr S for therapy, but it was still the case that Mr S remained under Dr Hs care, 
as a specialist.
I recognise this is not a clear-cut situation, as Mr S was not only experiencing mental health 
problems in the deferred period, but also experienced eye pain and severe headaches. 
Although a cause could not be found for his headaches, there has been no suggestion that 
he was not experiencing these. I understand he is still under the care of a specialist for this 
medical problem.
I appreciate Mr Ss eye pain was resolved with eye drops. However, I think the evidence 
supports, on balance, that Mr S was not able to work throughout the deferred period. This 
was due to the symptoms he was experiencing relating to his mental health (as described by 
Dr H), as well as his severe headaches which prevented him from using a computer for 
longer than 15 minutes.
I therefore require Unum to accept the claim.
Ive noted Mr Ss request that Unum reimburse him for his legal fees. Our rules say that, in 
most cases, consumers should not need to have professional advisers to bring a complaint 
to us. It was Mr Ss decision to employ a solicitor to represent him. I dont think this was 
something he needed to do in the circumstances, as Mr S could have brought his complaint 
directly to our service himself. I therefore dont require Unum to reimburse him for his legal 
costs. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Unum Ltd to accept the claim and 
pay backdated benefit due to Mr S. 
Interest* should be added at the rate of 8% simple per annum from the date the benefit was 
due to the date of settlement. 
*If Unum considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should also give Mr S a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman