DRN-2282941
The complaint
Miss B complains about how Aviva Insurance Limited handled a claim she made for damage 
to, and theft from, her home. Shes also unhappy with the service she received.
Miss B is represented by her uncle in bringing this complaint. But for clarity  Ill refer to all 
submissions as being made by her directly.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 28 August 2020  a copy of which is set out here. In my provisional decision I 
explained why I didnt intend to uphold Miss Bs complaint about the way in which Aviva 
dealt with her stolen jewellery claim. I also outlined how it should deal with her claim for the 
other items that were damaged in September 2018 independently of the jewellery claim. I 
said:
What happened
Miss B held a home insurance policy which was underwritten by Aviva. On 27 September 
2018 intruders entered her home while she was out and items of furniture, clothing and other 
household goods were vandalised and damaged. Miss B also said jewellery to the value of 
around £34000 had been stolen from her home.
Miss B reported the incident to the police who attended her property and videoed the scene. 
She also contacted Aviva in order to claim against her policy.
Aviva appointed a loss adjuster, which Ill refer to as S here, to investigate what had
happened and assist it in dealing with this claim.
Miss B informed S shed made a previous claim for theft of personal possessions in July 
2016. No other claims were disclosed. But when S was investigating what had happened 
during the incident that took place in September 2018 it became aware of a theft that had 
taken place at Miss Bs parents home address during June 2017. It discovered that this 
claim had been withdrawn after a loss adjuster was appointed to investigate the 
circumstances of the theft.
S contacted the insurer that had dealt with the theft claim in 2017, who Ill call A in this 
decision. A stated Miss B had reported that jewellery worth around £20000 had been stolen 
from her parents home. S wanted to know what had been stolen in the 2017 theft. But A told 
S it couldnt provide further information due to data protection. So, S asked Miss B to provide 
the crime reference number (CRN) to enable it to obtain a police report clarifying what items 
of jewellery had been stolen at that time.
Miss B informed S that she wasnt involved in the previous theft. She said her sister had 
made the claim instead and A had made an error in recording the claim in her name. And 
she declined to share the CRN with S. Miss B stated there was sensitive information 
contained in the police report, which caused her to be fearful of reprisals against her sister.
Aviva told Miss B that without the CRN it couldnt progress her claim. While it had already 
made an interim payment to Miss B to enable her to replace her damaged sofa, it declined to 
make further payments towards her possessions that had either been stolen or damaged in 
the incident.
Miss B was unhappy with Avivas approach to her outstanding claim. So, she complained 
about how it had dealt with her claim. But Aviva didnt uphold her complaint. It explained 
that, in not providing the information it had requested, Miss B hadnt cooperated with or 
assisted it with relevant enquiries it needed to make  as was required under her policy. It 
therefore didnt feel it had treated her unfairly in placing her claim on hold.
Being dissatisfied with Avivas response to her complaint Miss B referred it our service. She 
wanted Aviva to settle her outstanding claim and said it had caused unnecessary delays.
Our investigator looked into Miss Bs complaint and recommended upholding it. They werent 
persuaded Aviva should have ceased dealing with Miss Bs claim in the absence of the 
CRN. But they didnt think it had caused unnecessary delays in assessing her claim so they 
didnt recommend upholding this part of her complaint. Both Miss B and Aviva disagreed 
with our investigators view of this complaint and asked for it to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im departing from what 
our investigator has said. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
must base my decision on the balance of probabilities. I can see Miss B has gone to some 
trouble to provide our service with some very detailed points about her complaint. I want to 
assure her that Ive read everything she's sent us. I hope Miss B will understand if I dont 
address every comment shes made in this decision. I intend to concentrate on what I 
consider is key to the complaint.
Im sorry to hear about what happened to Miss B. Im satisfied that household items within 
her home were vandalised and damaged. I can see the police investigated what happened 
in September 2018 and confirmed that this incident was genuine.
I realise that what happened in September 2018 is bound to have had a big impact on Miss 
B. And I can appreciate how distressing it must have been when Aviva put her claim on hold 
due to concerns that her jewellery claim had already been claimed for in a previous burglary 
claim. Its clear it felt Miss Bs jewellery claim was fraudulent. So, Ive carefully considered 
what happened and whether Aviva made an error it needs to put right.
This was a high value theft claim. As I mentioned in the background to this complaint 
jewellery valued at almost £34000 is said to have been stolen from Miss Bs home.
Aviva is concerned about the circumstances in which Miss Bs previous theft claim was 
withdrawn. And its also raised concerns as to whether the jewellery Miss B has claimed for 
had been stolen during an earlier burglary the previous year. Aviva has stated that, from the 
information A shared with it, several jewellery items Miss B reported as stolen appear very 
similar to those claimed for in 2017. And its said this is the reason it needs to obtain a police 
report from the 2017 burglary.Given Avivas concerns, I think its entirely reasonable for it to want to clarify which items 
were stolen in the 2017 burglary and to have sight of the police report from that incident. 
However, without the CRN for the 2017 burglary Aviva cant obtain a police report as the 
police arent prepared to disclose any information in the absence of that information.
I understand that Miss B hasnt shared either the CRN or the police report with Aviva. So, it 
cant allay its concerns that the jewellery Miss B is claiming was stolen in September 2018 
wasnt part of the claim that was made the previous year.
Miss B has informed Aviva she wasnt involved in the previous claim. But the information it 
was given by A suggests that isnt correct. And in the absence of the police report Aviva 
cant know whether A made a mistake in recording who made the claim.
I dont think its unreasonable for Aviva to want to seek clarification regarding what jewellery 
was stolen during the previous reported incident. Insurance companies have a responsibility 
to investigate claims to prevent fraud. And I can understand why, in the absence of the CRN, 
Aviva was unable to validate the circumstances of the jewellery claim Miss B was making. I 
therefore think it was reasonable for it to say it couldnt progress that part of her claim any 
further.
Under the terms of Miss Bs policy, a policyholder must provide all the information and 
assistance Aviva needs to settle their claim. It was only able to progress her claim if it 
received the information it needed here.
It isnt clear to me why Miss B is withholding the CRN from Aviva. I have no understanding 
why this situation can't be resolved by Miss B. Im satisfied she's able to provide the CRN. I 
appreciate the information contained in the police report may be sensitive and upsetting to 
Miss B and her family. But Im not persuaded thats a valid reason for not sharing the CRN 
with Aviva  particularly given the value of the claim Miss B was making here.
In not providing the CRN to Aviva Miss B didnt allay its concerns that her jewellery claim 
was fraudulent. Providing this information would have enabled Aviva to validate the 
legitimacy of that part of Miss Bs claim. And Im satisfied it was reasonable for Aviva to 
inform her that it couldnt progress her jewellery claim in the absence of the CRN. I dont 
think it had any other option in the circumstances.
I understand Miss B has complained about the time Aviva took to inform her that it wasnt 
able to progress her claim any further. She feels it caused unnecessary delays in assessing 
her claim.
In dealing with this part of Miss Bs complaint Ive carefully considered the chronology Aviva 
provided our service, which shows the steps taken by it and S in its efforts to assess Miss 
Ms claim. Its clear that Miss Ms claim was put on hold at the point that she declined to 
provide the CRN to Aviva.
I recognise Aviva didnt inform Miss B it couldnt deal with her claim any further until over 8 
months from the date of the incident. But I can see that, during this period, Aviva wrote to 
Miss Bs parents in order to obtain information about the 2017 theft. It also requested the 
information it required from A directly. And it emailed Miss Bs sister to request the CRN  
chasing her at least twice when she failed to respond.
I think Aviva went beyond what Id expect it to do to obtain information about the previous 
burglary. It made considerable efforts to chase up the information it needed. And Im not 
persuaded it caused delays in relation to this part of Miss Bs claim. Im satisfied it progressed Miss Bs jewellery theft claim as far as it could using the information it had 
available to it.
However, as Ive already mentioned the police were satisfied the damage caused to Miss Bs 
household items as a result of vandalism. It therefore isnt clear why Aviva felt it needed to 
put Miss Bs claim for damage to those items on hold when she failed to provide the CRN.
Prior to putting Miss Bs claim on hold, Aviva had already sent her a cheque for her 
damaged sofa. So, it appears it accepted that damage to Miss Bs household items was 
covered under her policy. It isnt clear why Miss B not providing the CRN, which relates only 
to concerns about her stolen jewellery claim, prevented Aviva from settling her claim for 
household items that were damaged.
So, for the reasons set out above, my provisional view is that Aviva acted fairly in how it 
dealt with Miss Bs jewellery theft claim. Theres no basis for me to say Aviva should meet 
that part of her claim. However, given that other household possessions were damaged 
during the incident in September 2018, my provisional view is that Aviva should deal with 
Miss Bs claim for these outstanding items independently of the jewellery claim.
In my provisional decision I invited both parties to respond with any additional information 
they wanted me to consider before I made my final decision, which is our service's last word 
on the matter.
When Aviva responded to my provisional decision it said Miss Bs policy states that if a claim 
is any way dishonest or exaggerated it wont pay any benefit under the policy. It explained 
that, as Miss B had refused to provide it with the CRN, it had been prevented from pursuing 
its investigations and this meant it hadnt been able to satisfy itself as to whether her claim 
had been fraudulent as it suspected.
Miss B responded to say she wished to speak with me directly and she provided some 
comments about the issues she disagrees with.
Miss B said she didnt think Id considered the evidence in her complaint fairly. She stated 
she couldnt provide the CRN to Aviva because it related to a theft that had been previously 
reported by her sister. She said, due to a family dispute, her sister wouldnt give her any 
information relating to the CRN. 
Miss B also said that Aviva had incorrectly reported that the theft in 2017 had taken place at 
her parents address. Instead, she said the theft had been from her sisters address.
Miss B questioned the relevance of my comments regarding the similarity of the jewellery 
that had been previously reported as stolen by her sister. She said that theft had occurred 
during 2017 and was therefore unrelated to the claim she was making here. Miss B also 
stated that, even if the jewellery previously reported as stolen had appeared similar to the 
jewellery stolen in 2018, this shouldn't invalidate the claim she had made.
Miss B also stated shed always told the truth about the claim and if Aviva had been 
concerned with the legitimacy of her claim it should have pursued her through the courts or 
reported her to the police. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Miss B has asked to speak to me before I issue my decision. While I can understand why 
she may want this, its my role to consider all of the information and circumstances before 
making a final decision. I can see shes been able to provide her response to my provisional 
decision via a discussion with our investigator  as Ive already indicated. The information I 
have is clear and I dont need any more to be able to reach a decision. So, Im satisfied that I 
have enough information to issue my final decision without needing to speak to Miss B. 
Im sorry to see Miss B doesnt think Ive assessed the evidence in her complaint fairly. I 
want to assure her that in considering her complaint Ive thought very carefully about what 
happened here and Im satisfied my decision is fair to both her and Aviva  as it should be.
Miss Bs has commented that she didnt understand the relevance of my comments 
regarding the similarity of the jewellery that had been previously reported as stolen by her 
sister. That theft occurred in 2017. And, as I mentioned in the background to this complaint, 
Aviva was informed by A that Miss B, not her sister, had reported the theft of jewellery worth 
around £20000 at that time. 
I understand that Miss B disputes what Aviva said about where the theft took place. She also 
denies any involvement in the previous claim. But the information Aviva was given by A 
suggests that isnt correct. And in the absence of the police report Aviva cant know whether 
A made a mistake in recording who made the claim and where the theft took place. I also 
havent seen the police report in question. And this means I havent seen enough evidence 
to persuade me that Miss B didnt make the 2017 claim.
As I mentioned in my provisional decision, Aviva told our service it had become aware that 
the 2017 claim was withdrawn after a loss adjuster was appointed to investigate the 
circumstances of that theft. This is something an insurer is bound to consider to be unusual 
behaviour. And, in those circumstances, I still think it was reasonable for Aviva to be 
concerned about the circumstances in which Miss Bs previous theft claim was withdrawn.
Miss B commented that the 2017 theft was unrelated to the claim she was making here. She 
also stated that, even if the jewellery previously reported as stolen appeared similar to the 
jewellery stolen in 2018, this shouldn't invalidate the claim she had made.
I understand the point Miss B is making here. But as I mentioned in my provisional decision, 
Aviva had concerns as to whether the jewellery she reported as stolen during the 2017 
burglary was the same as that reported as stolen in 2018. Aviva told our service that, from 
the information A shared with it, several jewellery items Miss B reported as stolen appear 
very similar to those claimed for in 2017, which is why it needs to obtain a police report from 
the 2017 burglary. 
I remain persuaded that its reasonable and fair for Aviva to want to clarify which items of 
jewellery were stolen during the 2017 burglary. The only way it can do that is for it to have 
sight of the police report. Aviva can only obtain that report if Miss B shares the CRN with it  
the report cant be provided by either A or the police due to data protection legislation. 
In her response to my provisional decision Miss B has explained that she cant provide the 
CRN to Aviva because it relates to a theft that was reported by her sister. She said her sister 
wont facilitate access to the CRN due to a family dispute. But, while thats unfortunate, 
under Miss Bs policy shes required to provide all the information and assistance Aviva 
needs to settle her claim. And Ive already explained why it needs the CRN in order to make 
progress with her claim.
In the overall circumstances of this complaint Im remain satisfied it was reasonable for Aviva 
to inform Miss B that it couldnt progress her jewellery claim in the absence of the CRN. I believe Aviva exhausted all feasible options in order to obtain the information it needed 
about the 2017 theft. As that information wasnt forthcoming, I still dont think Aviva had any 
other option in the circumstances but to stay Miss Bs claim. 
Ive considered the clause in Miss Bs policy that Aviva have drawn my attention to, which 
states:
If your claim is in any way dishonest or exaggerated, we will not pay any benefit under this 
policy or return any premium to you and we may cancel your policy immediately and 
backdate the cancellation to the date of the fraudulent claim. We may also take legal action 
against you.
Ive taken relevant case law into account too  particularly the Supreme Court ruling in 
Versloot Dredging v HDI Gerling Industrie Versicherung AG. Here, the Court held that where 
a claim has been fraudulently exaggerated, and the insured is trying to get something to 
which they arent entitled, an insurer is entitled to refuse to pay the entire claim, even if other 
parts of the claim were genuine and not exaggerated.
Aviva has stated that, while it is satisfied a third party entered Miss Bs property without her 
permission, it isnt able to satisfy itself that her jewellery claim isnt fraudulent. So, it believes 
Miss B may be attempting to claim for something she isnt entitled to claim for. In those 
circumstances, Aviva believes its entitled not to pay the entire claim she made. 
Ive carefully considered the evidence Aviva provided our service and can see that has been 
its position from the outset of this claim. As Ive already explained Miss B hasnt provided 
information that would allow Aviva to conclude its investigations and confirm whether the 
jewellery claim is fraudulent as it suspects. I therefore think it would be reasonable, and in 
line with the Versloot ruling, for Aviva to rely on its policy exclusion here. It follows that I think 
it would be fair for it not to pay out the entire claim Miss B made. 
I realise Miss B will be disappointed with this decision. But I think this is the fairest and most 
reasonable way to resolve her claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 November 2020.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman