DRN-3357013
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with Westcourt Financial Services Limited because he believes it mis-sold 
him income protection insurance.
What happened
Mr S met with an adviser from Westcourt in 2016. He took a new income protection policy 
with a new insurer that was recommended by Westcourt. This was an advised sale and the 
new policy began in September 2016. Sadly, Mr S was diagnosed with cancer in 2021 and 
so claimed on his insurance policy. His claim was accepted but the benefit amount was less 
than he expected. When he asked the insurer about this, it said that Mr S' salary was less 
than the amount he insured. And so, Mr S complained to Westcourt, because he was under 
the impression he'd insured £200,000 of his income. 
Westcourt said that although Mr S told the adviser his salary was £200,000 per year, this 
wasn't accurate. Westcourt said that his salary was around £87,000 and the cover he'd 
opted for was 55% of that. It highlighted that Mr S was a company director and that although 
company turnover may have been significantly higher, his salary was less. It also said that 
the policy wasn't mis-sold because it would've provided cover for the higher figure, had that 
been the correct salary. It also said that the policy paid out, which further evidenced that the 
policy was suitable. 
Our investigator agreed with Westcourt and said that, on balance, it looked as though Mr S 
had essentially over-insured himself. He explained this wasn't something he could 
reasonably hold Westcourt responsible for as this was information that Mr S had likely 
provided it. He recommended Mr S discuss that part of the complaint with the insurer directly 
as his premium would've likely reflected the enhanced figure. 
Mr S disagreed. In summary, he said that he'd worked with the adviser for around 10 years 
and had a good relationship and one where he certainly trusted him. Mr S said the adviser 
predetermined the level of cover that was needed, rather than Mr S personally saying his 
salary was £200,000. He explained that there should've been more due diligence before the 
policy was offered, including his salary being verified. He explained that perhaps other 
preceding policies were also set up incorrectly and would never pay out the income 
protected - meaning Mr S may have paid more in the past for those policies too. 
Mr S would like Westcourt to pay the difference and so, it's for me to make a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I've decided not to uphold it. My reasons for doing so are the same as 
those already explained by our investigator as I'm satisfied Westcourt hasn't made an error 
here. I say that because the evidence I've seen suggested that Mr S wanted to protect 
£200,000 worth of income. I'll explain why.
The notes documenting the demands and needs say that Mr S wanted to protect £200,000 
worth of income. Section 6 of the income protect form says;
"if you were unable to work due to sickness or accident, how much income would you 
require to maintain your standard of living?"
To which Mr S indicated that hed require £200,000 in order to maintain his standard of 
living. In addition, the form also stated;
"You are the Managing Director of a Business Consultancy firm and receive an annual 
salary of £200,000"
This explains where the £200,000 figure came from. I take on board Mr S arguments that 
his adviser completed this part of the form, but Ive not seen any persuasive evidence that 
suggested that Mr S disagreed with that figure. Further, thats essentially the complaint 
brought by Mr S  that he shouldve received a higher benefit amount and so Im satisfied Mr 
S was aware of the enhanced figure. Mr S has since explained that this wasnt a deliberate 
attempt to provide inaccurate information and Id like to reassure him that Im persuaded by 
what he said on that point. But ultimately, he received less benefit because his salary was 
less than the paperwork indicated. 
The application form also explains how the salary is calculated;
Annual taxable earned income*** on which the income protection policy will be based
*** By earned income, we mean the current income earned before tax, less any expenses 
that are allowable against income tax. Normally if employed this will be your salary before 
tax, but for company directors, earned income may include earnings received as dividends 
provided these are paid from currently profits. For self-employed individuals, earned income 
is taken to be their share of the profits, (gross profit less expenses). In the event of a claim 
we may request evidence of earnings such as most recent P60 and payslips for an 
employee, or the most recent accounts and HM Revenue and Customs, notice of 
assessment for the self employed. We use this evidence to confirm the level of income 
before the claim, because it is this amount that we use to work out how much well pay out. If 
the evidence we receive doesnt support the amount of cover applied for, then the amount 
well pay out for a claim may be less than the amount covered. More information on how we 
work out how much we can pay out is explained in the policy conditions
This is important and relevant in Mr S' circumstances because his salary was less than 
£200,000 and he'd opted to protect 55% of it - which is why he received less than he 
anticipated when he came to claim. I've not seen any evidence that persuades me that 
Westcourt made an error here or that it should pay him any money for loss of expectation.
The evidence is clear about how it determines the benefit amount or the amount of salary to 
protect. Westcourt said that it wouldn't usually check the level of income opted for protection 
because its general expectation is that consumers would accurately record this information. I 
understand the argument its making here as in this case, Mr S effectively overpaid for a 
policy that wouldn't ever pay the benefit amount he thought he'd protected. I should say that 
I don't believe the policy was mis-sold because I think it was suitable to his needs. The 
policy paid out, the only discrepancy is the benefit amount, but for the reasons I've 
explained, I dont think this was Westcourt's fault and so I don't uphold this complaint. 
Mr S made further representations about other, previous policies perhaps being mis-sold on 
that basis. But Ive not considered that here. Should this be something Mr S would like to 
know more about, then hell need to speak directly with Westcourt about that. Having said that, Ive seen the salary details provided on one of the previous policies and it was similar to 
the £200,000 stated in this application. And so, I couldnt reasonably conclude that 
Westcourt provided details to the new insurer that stood out as an anomaly, or that would 
reasonably prompt further investigation.  
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons Ive explained. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman