DRN-3032514
The complaint
Mr S complains that The Co-Operative Bank Plc (Co-op) recommended he take out a     
guaranteed capital equity bond (GCEB) in 1998. He complains that the term of the bond was 
inflexible as he had to keep his money tied up for five and a half years. Mr S also says he 
wasnt informed of the risk that there could be no return and that he could have obtained a 
return of 7.25 percent on a fixed rate savings account without taking that risk. He says the 
bond was unsuitable taking into account his circumstances and objectives. 
What happened
In 1998 Mr S invested £6,000 into a GCEB. In 2004 the bond matured with a maturity value 
that was slightly more than the original £6,000. 
In 2019 a claims management company (CMC) complained on Mr Ss behalf. It said that    
Mr S had been advised to take out the bond and that advice had been unsuitable. The CMC 
said at the time Mr S was self-employed and had an income that fluctuated significantly. So, 
it said he wasnt in a position to tie up a lump sum of £6,000 for five and a half years. 
The CMC also said the risk that he could receive no return on his original capital hadnt 
properly been explained to Mr S and that wasnt a risk he wouldve wanted to take. It noted 
that the return was dependant on the performance of the FTSE 100. The CMC said Mr S 
could have obtained a fixed rate product which had a similar level of return but without the 
risk of no return at the end of the term.   
Co-op didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint.  It explained the way the bond worked which was to 
compare the end value with the FTSE 100 index at the start of the term. If the value was the 
same or higher, then the bond would pay a 50 percent return (gross) on the initial 
investment. However, if the value was lower the bond holder would only receive their initial 
investment.
Co-op said the bond wasnt a regulated product. It said when customers expressed an 
interest in these products then branch staff would only provide factual information as detailed 
in the product literature. It said it was common practice for counter staff to provide product 
literature as well as an application form. 
Co-op said no advice or recommendation had been provided to Mr S and it said he had 
signed the application form to confirm he understood the nature of the product.   
Co-op also said that after the bond had matured, Mr S had attended an appointment with a 
financial adviser and invested the matured amount into a stocks and shares ISA.
Co-op said it considered it was Mr Ss own decision to open the bond and that it had been 
opened with its branch staff.  
Mr Ss representative referred his complaint to our service. He reiterated that the bond was 
unsuitable for Mr S for the reasons already outlined. 
Our investigator considered Mr Ss complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. She noted 
the bond had been taken out more than 20 years ago. The investigator considered the 
evidence available from the time the bond was taken out. She noted what Mr S had said 
about being approached by a financial adviser when he was at his local branch.  The 
investigator also took into account the x marked on the application form at the place where 
Mr S would need to sign. She didnt think the presence of the x indicated that Mr S had 
been talked through the form and given advice. The investigator concluded on balance that 
no advice had been given to Mr S. She said Mr S had been provided with information about 
the bond and had decided to take it out based on that information. 
The investigator considered the information provided by Co-op and concluded it clearly 
explained the way the bond worked. So, she didnt think the complaint should be upheld.     
Mr Ss representative disagreed and said that the x marked on the form showed that Mr S 
had been talked through the form. He also said the handwriting on the section filled in by       
Co-ops employee matched the handwriting on the rest of the form. So, he said the whole 
form had been filled in by Co-ops employee. 
Mr Ss representative said the circumstances as to how the form came to be given to Mr S 
showed that an advised process had taken place. He said Mr S hadnt actively sought this 
investment and he knew nothing about it. The representative said it was the bank employee 
who had taken him aside, discussed his circumstances and then introduced this product, 
thereby proposing this product was suitable for Mr S. He reiterated it was a sales process 
where Mr S discussed his circumstances before the product was introduced.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint was referred to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S took out a capital guaranteed bond in 1998. At the time he was in his fifties and       
self- employed. There is limited documentation available from the point of sale which isnt 
surprising given it took place more than twenty years ago.
The way the bond worked is that an amount would be invested on the initial date and remain 
invested for a set term  in Mr Ss case it was five and a half years. The level of the FTSE 
100 index at the initial date would then be compared with the level on the end of term date 
(using an average over the final 12 months). If the FTSE 100 index was higher or the same, 
then a return of 50 percent gross would be added to the initial investment. But if the FTSE 
100 index was lower, the consumer would only receive back their initial investment.  
Mr Ss representative says the bond was unsuitable for Mr S for a number of reasons. He 
says it was inflexible and Mr Ss circumstances were such that he couldnt afford to tie up his 
money for that period. He also says the risk of no return was not properly explained to Mr S 
and Mr S could have instead obtained a fixed rate product guaranteeing his capital and the 
rate of return. 
However, the first issue I have to consider is whether the bond was recommended to Mr S 
by Co-op. That is important because if no advice was given then Co-op wouldnt be 
responsible for whether the bond was suitable for Mr S. But Co-op would still have to ensure 
the information it provided to Mr S about the bond was clear, fair and not misleading.    
Was advice given? 
Mr Ss representative says Mr S remembers visiting his local branch of the Britannia 
Building Society when he was approached by a financial adviser to speak about his options 
with his savings. He says Mr S was advised to invest £6,000 into the GCEB.
Mr Ss representative says this person was holding them self out to be an adviser and so   
Mr S believed the person was a financial adviser. He said the adviser asked Mr S a series of 
questions about his circumstances, his employment and his income. That person then advised Mr S that this product was the best option for him and advised how much to put into 
the product. Mr Ss representative said Mr S had no intention of investing in this product prior 
to going into the branch. 
Co-op (formerly Britannia Building Society) says no advice was given to Mr S in relation to 
this bond. It says if customers expressed an interest in this product, branch staff would 
provide them with information, and it was common practice for counter staff to provide 
product literature as well as an application form. 
I note what Mr S has said about his recollection of events. But I have to take into account 
that more than 20 years have passed since he took out this product and since then he has 
taken out other products with the same business.  On at least one of those occasions he has 
spoken to a financial adviser. So, I think it would be quite difficult to distinguish this particular 
event from others - particularly as Mr S didnt complain about it until some 20 years later, so 
there was no particular reason for him to remember it. 
In addition, it was common for products to be advertised in branch. So, it is feasible that 
while visiting the branch Mr S asked for some information about the bond. Having been 
provided with a leaflet, he might have asked, for instance, whether there was a minimum 
amount you could pay into the bond or whether there were different terms available. I 
consider that a member of branch staff who answered that type of question would be 
providing information not advice. 
Completion of application form
Mr Ss representative points out there is an x marked on the application form (at the place 
where Mr S s signature was required) and says this indicates Mr S was taken through the 
form by an adviser and therefore shows advice was given. He also points to the handwriting 
on the application form and says this is the same as the handwriting on the section 
completed by Co-ops employee. So, he says this shows the whole form was completed by 
an adviser and not Mr S . He says this also supports the conclusion that Mr S was provided 
with advice as he reiterates Mr S was taken through the form.
I am not persuaded that marking the application form with an x at the signature section of 
the form demonstrates, of itself, that Mr S was given advice. A member of staff may assist a 
customer with a form and indicate where the form needed to be signed to be helpful, 
particularly because the branch or counter staff are likely to be more familiar with the format 
of application forms and what is required. That doesnt mean they have given advice or 
recommended that product. Similarly, they might fill in the form for a customer if requested to 
do so, or for the sake of expediency. 
It is difficult to tell solely by looking at and comparing the handwriting on different parts of the 
form, whether or not this was all completed by the same person. I note that in some court 
cases handwriting experts are instructed to determine these types of issues because this is 
not a straight forward matter. But, in any event, even if it was all completed by a staff 
member, I dont consider on balance that means advice was given, for the reasons I have 
already outlined. 
I also note that in order to take out the bond some identification wouldve been required so it 
was quite likely, especially at that time, that checking that identification would have 
happened at the branch and require some involvement from branch staff. And if they were 
already carrying out that role it wouldnt be out of the ordinary to also assist in completing the 
form itself.  
Overall, Im not satisfied on balance that advice was provided to Mr S.   
Was the information provided clear, fair and not misleading?Co- op had to provide Mr S with information about the bond which was clear, fair and not 
misleading. 
Mr S signed an application form in order to take out the GCEB. At the top of that form there 
was reference to a leaflet. Co-op has said it was common practice to provide the product 
literature with the application form. So,  I consider it more likely than not that product 
literature was provided to Mr S.  
I have carefully considered the contents of the product literature. It sets out a series of 
questions and answers which explained how the bond worked. 
I consider it explained in clear terms what the bond holder would receive and how that was 
determined. It also explained that if the FTSE 100 index was lower at the end date than the 
start date figure, then the bond holder would only receive back the initial sum they had 
invested.
I am satisfied it also explained that the commitment was to hold the bond for the full term 
and that no withdrawals could be made during that time. So, I consider it was made clear 
that the money would be tied up for the full term. 
I dont think the way the return was determined was particularly complex or difficult to 
understand. So, I am satisfied on balance the explanation provided was clear and fair and 
not misleading.
I note what Mr Ss representative has said about other fixed term products being available. 
But ultimately, I consider Mr S made the decision himself to invest in the bond and was 
made aware of the potential return. He was free to shop around for other products if he 
wasnt happy with what was being offered.  
Overall, I dont consider that the information provided was unclear or unfair or misleading. 
So, I dont think Co-op has done anything wrong here as it wasnt responsible for ensuring 
the bond was suitable for Mr S for the reasons I have outlined.
My final decision
My decision is that Mr Ss complaint against The Co-operative Bank Plc isnt upheld
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2021.
 
Julia Chittenden
Ombudsman