DRN-4009696
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) wont carry out further 
diagnostics or repairs to his car following an accident.
What happened
Mr Ms car was damaged during an accident. His car repairs were carried out by an accident 
management company, separate to Advantage.
After repairs were completed, Mr M reported the car had steering issues to Advantage. He 
says this was caused by the accident so it should be covered under his insurance policy. 
Advantage appointed an independent engineer to see if there was accident related steering 
issues, so that they could consider if repairs would be covered under Mr Ms car insurance.
However, the independent inspection didnt identify any issues with the steering. So, 
Advantage said they wouldnt carry out any further diagnostics or accident repairs.
Mr M was unhappy with Advantages position. He also said Advantage had agreed to 
reimburse £60 hed separately paid for his gearbox to be inspected, but he hadnt received 
this. As Mr M remained unhappy, he approached this service.
Our investigator looked into things, but he didnt uphold the complaint. He said Advantage 
hadnt acted unreasonably by relying on the independent engineer report which said there 
were no issues with the steering. He also said he couldnt see any evidence that Advantage 
agreed to reimburse the £60 charge Mr M had incurred.
Mr M disagreed with our investigator and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Following the accident, Mr Ms car was repaired by an accident management company 
under a credit hire agreement, separate to Advantage. The complaint Mr M has made is 
about the actions of Advantage, Mr Ms insurer. Im considering whether Advantage acted 
reasonably in declining to do further diagnostics or accident damage repairs under 
Mr Ms insurance policy, and failing to reimburse a £60 charge he incurred.
Mr M reported issues with the steering of his car, which he says was accident related, so he 
says this should be covered under his insurance policy with Advantage. 
Advantage arranged for an independent inspection to be carried out to establish if there 
were any accident related repairs that would be covered under Mr Ms car insurance. The 
independent inspection was completed but no accident related issues were identified. The 
independent engineer said:
On examination I carried out a short road test including a three point turn, 
acceleration and braking with both hands on the steering wheel and off. The vehicle 
drove in a straight line with no evidence of pulling left or right. I noticed nothing 
unusual regarding how the vehicle drove.
And they went on to say:
In conclusion: I noticed nothing unusual regarding how the vehicle drove.
So, based on this report, Im unable to conclude its been shown the accident caused an 
issue with the steering of Mr Ms car. Consequently, Im also unable to conclude Advantage 
has acted unfairly by declining to do any further accident related repairs to the steering.
I do note Mr M says the independent engineer told him something different to the report, and 
he is unhappy with the extent of the tests they carried out. However, Ive not been provided 
anything to support that the conclusions contained in the report were incorrect, or the testing 
wasnt sufficient. 
The engineer, and Advantage, suggested Mr M could take his car to the manufacturer for full 
diagnostics if he disagrees and believes there is still an issue. Mr M is unhappy with this as 
hed need to arrange and pay for this in the first instance. Mr M says Advantage, as his 
insurer, should arrange and pay for this instead.
However, Advantage has already appointed an independent engineer to determine if there 
were any accident related issues with the steering, but they didnt identify any issues in their 
report. So, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to direct Advantage to carry out further 
investigations when no accident related issues have been identified by an independent 
engineer.
If Mr M decides to take his vehicle to the manufacturer for diagnostics, and accident related 
faults or issues are identified, then he should provide any evidence in support of that to 
Advantage for consideration. But at this stage, I dont think Advantage has acted unfairly by 
relying on the findings of their independent engineer, so Im not going to direct them to do 
anything further.
Mr M says he was told to go to a gearbox specialist and he says Advantage said theyd 
reimburse the £60 he was charged for gearbox diagnostics. However, based on the 
information provided by both parties, it appears Mr M decided to take his car to the 
specialist, and I cant see that this was offered or suggested by Advantage. Consequently, 
Im not going to direct them to pay this amount.My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman