DRN-3170834
Complaint
Miss U has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) unfairly increased the limit 
on her overdraft when she couldnt afford it.
Background
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought that what Barclays has already 
done  refunding more than the fees added to Miss Us account from February 2014 
onwards  was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint. Miss U 
disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
   
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what Barclays has already done to put 
things right for Miss U is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of her complaint. Ill 
explain why I think this is the case. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a 
consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been given the credit they shouldnt 
have.
So where a business increases or continued to allow a consumer to use a credit facility 
which it should have realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the consumer 
in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt paid any further interest and charges on that 
credit. This means wed normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added 
to any credit from the point the lender ought to have realised it was unsustainable. And if 
those interest and charges were paid also add 8% simple interest per year.
In this case, Miss U has been left with an outstanding balance, with the third-party debt 
purchaser that Barclays sold her account to, even though the credits shes made to the 
account have been factored in and shes been refunded all of the interest, fees and charges 
applied from February 2014. So while Miss U has been left with a balance and she might be 
unhappy with this, Barclays has done what Id normally expect it to do here.
That said, we do look at each case individually and on its own particular merits. And while 
we have a general approach to how we how we might tell a lender to put things right where it 
continued to provided credit it shouldnt have (such as here), we can and will tell it to do 
something different and/or something more if theres a strong reason to say thats what 
would be fair and reasonable to do in the circumstances of that individual case.
Miss U says Barclays should do something different here. She says Barclays shouldnt have 
provided the facility in the first place and she wants more refunded. 
Ive thought about what Miss U has said. And what shes said is a reason for upholding her 
complaint rather than a reason for departing from our normal approach to putting things right 
in cases such as hers. All the interest, fees and charges Barclays shouldnt have added 
have been removed from the overdraft. So what Miss U is left with to repay are the funds 
which she used and benefitted from and I dont agree that the interest, fees and charges 
have left her with a debt that she wouldnt otherwise have been left with. 
In these circumstances, and bearing in mind Miss U spent them, I think its perfectly fair and 
reasonable to expect Miss U to repay these funds. And I dont think that Miss U perhaps 
being unhappy at having a balance to repay is in itself a compelling reason for me to depart 
from our usual approach here.
Bearing in mind all of this, Im satisfied that what Barclays has already done to put things 
right for Miss U is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of her case.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what Barclays Bank UK PLC has already 
done to put things right for Miss U is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of her case. 
So Im not upholding the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss U to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman