DRN-4103649
The complaint
Ms R, who is represented by a third party, complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited 
(Moneybarn) irresponsibly granted her a conditional sale agreement (agreement) she 
couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In February 2019 Ms R acquired a used car financed by an agreement from Moneybarn. 
Under the terms of the agreement, everything else being equal, Ms R undertook to make an 
advance payment of £590 followed by 59 monthly repayments of £442.85. The total 
repayable under the agreement was £26,718.15 at an APR of 31.9%.
 
Ms R says that Moneybarn didnt complete adequate affordability checks. She says if it had, 
it would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Moneybarn didnt agree. It said that it 
carried out a thorough affordability assessment before approving the finance.
One of our investigators looked into Ms Rs complaint and concluded it shouldnt be upheld. 
He said that as Ms R hadnt provided a copy of her credit file and copies of all her accounts 
for the period three months prior to February 2019 for him to be able to establish what 
proportionate checks on the part of Moneybarn might have uncovered he couldnt 
reasonably conclude it did anything wrong in approving the finance.
Ms R didnt agree and so her complaint has been passed to me for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Moneybarn and Ms Rs appointed representative will be familiar with all the rules, regulations 
and good industry practice we consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable 
and irresponsible lending. So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this 
decision. Information about our approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
For reasons Im satisfied I dont need to explain  in part because of what I go on to say 
below  I dont think Moneybarn carried out proportionate checks. But, without further 
information, I cant say that further checks by Moneybarn would, or should, have caused it to 
decline Ms Rs application.
Our investigator asked Ms R to supply a copy of her credit file and copies of all her accounts 
for the period three months prior to February 2019 so he could try and establish what further 
(and proportionate) checks by Moneybarn might have uncovered about her income, 
expenditure and her circumstances more generally.
Unfortunately, Ms R hasnt provided this information. And without it I cant reasonably 
conclude that further (and proportionate) checks on the part of Moneybarn would have 
shown the finance to be unaffordable.
I understand this will be disappointing for Ms R. But without evidence that the finance was 
unaffordable at the time it was provided, and that had Moneybarn carried out further (and 
proportionate) checks it would, or should, have realised this, Im unable to uphold 
this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont have enough information to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2023.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman