DRN-3129166
The complaint
Mrs A was unhappy that Sabre Insurance Company Limited (Sabre) unfairly declined her 
claim and cancelled her motor insurance policy. Mrs A has been represented by a third party 
during this complaint, but for ease and simplicity I will only refer to Mrs A throughout my 
decision.
What happened
Mrs A made a claim under her motor policy [on 15 October 2020] following an accident. 
Sabre said the accident address provided by Mrs A was a significant distance from the risk 
address that Mrs A stated on her policy. So, Sabre decided to carry out full validation checks 
to verify Mrs A resided at the risk address.
Sabre said it was aware that Mrs A was involved in a previous claim where similar concerns 
were noted around the residency address.
Mrs As husband was a named driver on the policy. Mrs A tried providing evidence of her 
and her husbands residency at the risk address. Sabre said Mrs A was unable to provide 
enough evidence to prove her and her husband lived there. Sabre carried out its own checks 
and said it thought Mrs A was living at a different location to the risk address stated in the 
policy.
Sabre decided to cancel Mrs As policy and later declined the claim as it said Mrs A had 
failed to provide it with all the information and assistance necessary to investigate and settle 
claims under her policy. Sabre said Mrs A had breached the policy under Section G3  
Claims Notification and Co-operation.
Mrs A was unhappy with the outcome. She felt shed provided evidence of her residency at 
the risk address. She said it appears that Sabre are minded not to consider the 
representations made and there is a prejudged determination to cancel her policy.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. She thought Sabre was fair in not 
accepting the evidence that was provided by Mrs A to prove her residency at the risk 
address. So, she thought it was reasonable for Sabre to cancel Mrs As policy and decline 
her claim. Mrs A disagreed, so the case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered my decision in two parts, the fairness of the cancellation of the policy and 
secondly the fairness of the declined claim.
Cancellation of the policy
Sabre cancelled Mrs As policy as she didnt provide enough proof that she lived at the risk 
address at the time she made a claim on her policy. I have reviewed the policy to understand 
what limitations it applies on Sabre in cancelling the policy.
The policy states [Sabre] may cancel the policy by giving seven days notice in writing, via 
post or email.
I can see that Sabre provided notice of the cancellation to Mrs A and provided opportunity 
for her to provide proof that she and the named driver lived at the risk address.
Sabre didnt think Mrs A lived at the risk address. It said no trace could be found of [Mrs A] 
living at the risk address. All evidence suggested that [Mrs A] still resided at [another 
address a significant distance from the risk address]  [Mrs A] remained on the voters roll 
there, had open current/credit accounts there and an ongoing bill.
I think the process Sabre followed in the circumstances was sensible. It carried out 
reasonable checks on Mrs A and as these didnt support that Mrs A lived at the risk address 
it fairly asked for her for some additional proof.
Mrs A couldnt provide the evidence requested. The named driver did, but Sabre raised 
some points of contention on what was provided. Mrs A did provide alternate evidence in the 
way of a mail re-direction order. But, this is not normally used as a proof of address in the 
industry, so I think Sabre were fair to not accept this.
Sabre said if a policy was taken out at an address a policyholder couldn't prove their 
residency at, and evidence suggested they didn't live there, then that is not a risk
we would allow on cover. 
As I think Sabre has been reasonable in its approach and cancelled the policy in line with the 
requirements set out in the policy, I think it has been fair. It wouldnt seem fair on Sabre to 
take policyholders on risk when it didnt know where they lived as this would impact the risk it 
was taking on.
Sabre asked Mrs A to pay the remainder of her premium (£52.69) following the cancellation 
of her policy. As the policy allows for Sabre after a claim to collect the full premium even if it 
is cancelled, then I think its fair to request Mrs A pays the outstanding balance of the 
premium. 
Declining claim 
The policy was still active at the time the claim was made.
Sabre declined the claim made by Mrs A under section G3 of the policy (claims notification 
and co-operation). The section states You and any other person claiming indemnity must 
provide us with all information and assistance necessary to investigate and settle claims 
made under this policy.
Sabre said the proof of address it requested wasnt provided to them. I think this was a 
reasonable request as it wouldve allowed Sabre to check that the details provided by Mrs A 
at the time of taking out the policy were materially correct. I think its reasonable that Sabre 
shouldve been able to check material details to validate that no misrepresentation of risk 
took place when the policy was taken out. As the information Sabre requested wasnt 
provided (or wasnt available) it wasnt able to do this. Therefore, I think Sabre has been 
reasonable in saying Mrs A didnt co-operate with Sabre when the claim was made and so 
fair in declining the claim as Mrs A had not met the terms of the policy. I dont think its fair to expect Sabre to settle a claim where it hasnt been furnished with all relevant information by 
the policyholder. Therefore, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require Sabre Insurance 
Company Limited to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2021.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman