DRN-1245282
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M say Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold them a regular 
premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  
What happened
During a meeting in 2003 Mr and Mrs M took out a loan with Halifax. At the same time they 
were sold a regular premium PPI policy to protect their repayments. Although the loan was in 
joint names the policy was in Mr Ms name only.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She thought the policy was 
presented as optional and wouldve suited their needs.  
Mr and Mrs M disagreed. They say PPI wasnt wanted or needed. 
So the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Mr and Mrs M applied for a loan during a meeting with Halifax. Mr and Mrs M say it wasnt 
made clear the policy was optional. I dont know exactly what was discussed at the time. And 
given the length of time that has passed since Mr and Mrs M were sold the policy I wouldnt 
expect them to have a detailed recollection of what was discussed. So Ive given more 
weight to what the documents from the time of the sale show.
Ive seen a copy of the loan application form that Mr and Mrs M signed. It has two separate 
boxes about PPI. One box asks if they want to take PPI. And the other asks them to confirm 
if they dont want PPI. Mr M has signed in the box to take PPI. So I think Mr and Mrs M 
wouldve realised they had a choice about whether to take the policy and I think the policy 
was added to the loan agreement because Mr M signed to take it. 
Ive also seen a copy of Mr and Mrs Ms loan agreement. I can see on the loan agreement 
that the costs of the loan and PPI are set out separately on the right. In the PPI section an 
X has been pre-populated into the Yes box for PPI with the No box being left clear. Mr 
and Mrs M have signed the agreement just to the bottom left of this. I think Mr and Mrs M 
wouldve read the agreement that they signed and understood they were taking out PPI with 
the loan and understood they had a choice as there was a No option. And I dont think that 
PPI wouldve been included on the agreement if there hadnt been a discussion about PPI 
and Mr and Mrs M hadnt agreed to take it. So taking everything into account, I think that Halifax did make it clear the policy was 
optional and that Mr and Mrs M chose to take PPI at the time of the sale.
This was an advised sale. What this means is that Halifax not only had to provide 
information about PPI in a clear, fair and not misleading way so that Mr and Mrs M could 
make an informed choice about buying PPI. They also had to make sure that if they were to 
recommend PPI that the policy was suitable to their needs and circumstances.
I dont know if Halifax did take all the steps it shouldve. But I think the policy was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr and Mrs M for the following reasons:
Mr M was eligible for the policy and it doesnt look like he wouldve been caught by 
any of the main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy which couldve 
made it difficult to make a successful claim. 
At the time of the sale Mr M says he wouldve relied on his partner to make his loan 
repayments if he couldnt work. But there is no guarantee his partner would be able 
to help and the policy wouldve covered their repayments for up to 60 months if he 
couldnt work due to accident or sickness and for up to 12 months if he lost his job. 
So I think the policy wouldve provided a useful benefit to Mr and Mrs M in their 
circumstances.  
There was nothing to suggest that the policy wasnt affordable to Mr and Mrs M at the 
time and if they no longer wanted the policy they could cancel it.  
I also need to consider whether Halifax gave Mr and Mrs M information in a way which was 
clear, fair and not misleading so that they could make a proper choice about whether or not 
they wanted to take the policy out. I can see that cost of the policy was shown on the loan 
agreement but I dont know if Halifax gave all of the information as it shouldve.
But for the same reasons that the policy was suitable and based on what Mr and Mrs M has 
told us about their circumstances at the time, I think they wouldve still taken out the PPI 
policy if theyd been given all the proper information on the policy.  
This means Mr and Mrs M arent worse off as a result of any wrong doing by Halifax.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint against
Bank of Scotland plc.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 April 2020.
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman