DRN-3401424
The complaint
Mr J complains that Bank of Scotland PLC, trading as Halifax, loaded a negative fraud
marker against his name on the National Fraud Database. Hed like the marker removed and
compensation for the impact on him.
What happened
Mr J had a personal account with Halifax, and was also the director of a Limited company Ill
call A.
A had a business account with another bank Ill call L.
In late June 2018 Bank L received a report from another third party bank Ill call B advising
Bank L that As account was the beneficiary of fraudulent funds totalling just over £42,000.
These payments credited As account between February and June 2018.
On 20 July 2018 Halifax received a report from Bank L notifying them of the fraudulent
payments. They decided to closed Mr Js Halifax account and load a negative fraud
marker against him on the National Fraud Database.
In December 2019 Mr J complained to Halifax about their actions. He explained that the 
bank had acted unfairly in loading a marker on his personal record based on activity which 
took place with a different bank  Bank L  and regarding a separate business  A. Halifax 
didnt uphold Mr Js complaint. They thought the bank had acted fairly in closing his account 
and loading a marker against him. However, they paid Mr J £201 in compensation for the 
banks delays in responding to him.
Mr J wasnt happy with Halifaxs conclusion so complained to our service.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Js complaint. On doing so they concluded that our
service didnt have the power to look into Mr Js complaint. They explained to Mr J that
because the marker had been loaded due to activity which took place on As account he
wasnt an eligible complainant. They explained hes not a consumer and he doesnt have a
direct relationship with Bank L.
However after contacting Bank L and Bank B our investigator provided new evidence to
Halifax. And on 6 November 2020 the bank agreed to remove the negative fraud marker.
Mr J didnt agree. In response he said:
Its not fair as Halifax shouldnt have been able to apply a negative marker on his 
record when the activity related to his business account.
We should be able to look at it as the marker is on his personal account.
Hed closed As account when the fraud was reported so the marker shouldnt have 
been applied.
As Mr J didnt agree with our investigators conclusions the case was passed to me to 
decide. 
On reviewing Mr Js complaint, I reached a different conclusion to our investigator. In my 
provisional decision I said I thought we could consider Mr Js complaint, and recommended 
that Halifax pay Mr J £800 in compensation for the impact of the marker on him. 
Halifax accepted my provisional decision. But Mr J didnt. He wrote a detailed response, 
which Id like to reassure him Ive read in full. But, Ill only address what I think is most 
relevant to the compensation in this case and matters relevant to Halifax, not Bank B or 
Bank L. 
In summary Mr J said:
Hes able to provide evidence of being refused bank accounts  but itll likely take a 
long time
The fees hes been charged by P are likely higher than the £800
It was impossible for him to trade successfully via his account with P 
It took him a long time to find out about the marker, despite lots of contact with 
numerous third party banks  Halifax didnt notify him as they should have done. 
Its not fair to say he should have found alternative employment, which wasnt 
impacted by the marker. 
As Mr J didnt agree with my provisional decision Ive reconsidered my conclusions. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said:
Jurisdiction:
Firstly, Ive briefly considered our services powers in relation to Mr Js complaint. And
whether I think we have the power to look into his concerns. And Ive reached a different
conclusion to our investigator on this, and Ill explain why below.
Our investigator concluded that Mr J isnt an eligible complainant because hes not a
consumer of the business  Bank L  instead A are.
However, Im satisfied he is. I say this because the bank who loaded the negative marker
against Mr J is Halifax  and Mr J had a personal account with Halifax. Meaning hes a
consumer. And therefore an eligible complainant.
Did Halifax act fairly in loading a negative marker?
Halifax have agreed to remove the negative marker loaded against Mr J, but I still need to
consider whether Halifax acted fairly in initially loading the marker.
To load a fraud marker on the national fraud database Halifax need to meet the below
standards which include:
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted.The evidence must be clear, relevant, and rigorous such that the member could
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police. 
Ive looked at the evidence provided by Halifax to show fraudulent activity took place on
Mr Js account. And Im not satisfied that Halifax had sufficient evidence to meet the required
standard. Halifaxs evidence needs to be clear, relevant, and rigorous to show that
fraudulent activity took place on Mr Js account.
Halifax have explained that they loaded a negative marker against Mr J because of contact
Bank L received from Bank B. Theyve explained that Bank L were notified that A had carried
out fraud on his account with Bank L. And as As account with Bank L was already closed, 
and Halifax are part of the same banking group as Bank L this information was shared with 
them and they decided to close Mr Js account and load a negative marker.
For Halifax to load a negative marker against Mr J they need to have evidence fraudulent
activity took place on an account that Mr J had with Halifax. From what Ive seen the alleged
fraudulent activity Halifax used to justify their decision took place between Bank B and
Bank L. And its not enough for Halifax to argue theyre part of the same banking group to
take such significant action on Mr Js record.
Even if I did think Halifax were able to use activity which took place on Bank Ls account to
load a fraud marker, Id expect Halifax to do two things which they didnt do. Firstly to contact
Mr J before loading the marker to understand whether he had an innocent explanation for
the account activity. And secondly to question the information they received from Bank B
and Bank L. Once Mr J found out about the marker he contacted Halifax to advise them that
Bank B told him they hadnt reported him for fraudulent transactions to Bank L  however
Halifax made no attempts to contact Bank B. Which I find surprising.
Overall, I think Halifax shouldnt have loaded Mr J to the national fraud database  and when
they were notified by Mr J about Bank Bs information, I think they could have done much
more to investigate their decision further.
What was the impact?
Mr J has provided a detailed breakdown of the impact of the negative fraud marker on him
and his family. Mr J first highlighted that Halifaxs decision to put a marker against him led to
his business A not being able to trade. I understand this will be disappointing to Mr J but as
this complaint has been brought by him in a personal capacity, and the loading is against
him rather than A, I cant consider any financial or other impacts A experienced.
Ive moved on to consider Mr Js additional points. Mr Js explained that he was unable to
open a non-fee paying account with a mainstream bank since the loading of the marker.
Hes been unable to provide evidence of this, however Ive seen statements from him
showing that he had an account with an e-money business Ill call P until the marker was
removed. And, as Halifax will be aware, its highly likely that the negative fraud marker
caused him significant difficulties in obtaining banking facilities or any credit. Although Mr Js
account with P gave him some basic banking facilities, he also incurred a number of charges
for day to day transactions.
Hes explained that the fee-paying account he was able to open with P severely restricted
his ability to trade  and hed like around £800,000 in compensation for this. Mr Js explained
that around the time the marker was loaded his business, A, ceased trading and as a trained
engineer he wanted to return to career as a plumber. But, because of the monthly and
annual deposit restrictions he was unable to trade successfully.Mr Js provided evidence of a job he completed in October 2020 for which he was due to be
paid just over £6.500. He explained that these jobs could be completed within 2 days, and
hed earn over £3,500 per job with two in a week meaning earnings of over £7,000 weekly.
Ive considered Mr Js argument here  and I dont doubt that having an account with P
limited some of his day to day banking activities. However Im afraid on balance I cant agree
that Halifaxs actions had the significant impact on Mr J that he describes. Looking at the
evidence that Mr Js supplied about his inability to trade I can see that this was a job Mr J
was completing in October 2020. This firstly suggests that he was able to trade  up until just
before Halifax removed the marker, in October 2020.
Secondly Mr J didnt complain to Halifax about the negative fraud marker until
December 2019  I find this strange if their actions caused him the severe impact he
describes. And I would have expected him to complain to the bank much sooner if this was
the case.
Lastly, Mr Js helpfully provided evidence of him being in receipt of Universal Credit in
October 2019  during the time the marker was loaded on record. And although I accept
Halifaxs action likely impacted on his ability to trade  through the restrictions imposed in
using his account with P  there was nothing preventing Mr J mitigating his losses by
obtaining alternative employment.
Mr Js also highlighted the impact on him, and his family from Halifaxs actions. Mr J
explained he was forced to leave the family home because of his financial problems, it
caused irreparable damage in his relationship and devastation to his life.
For the reasons Ive outlined above, I do think that Mr J has experienced inconvenience
because of Halifaxs actions. And I accept it likely caused him significant anxiety and
impacted on his familys wellbeing. But I cant agree that the banks actions prevented him
from earning the sums hes described. I appreciate this will disappoint Mr J, but overall I
think based on the lack of evidence Halifax had to load the marker in the first place, the
length of time the marker was present, Mr Js inability to open a mainstream bank account
and the challenges it presented him in trading an additional £800 is fair compensation.
Response to my provisional decision:
Mr J didnt accept my provisional decision  and in response he raised a number of points. 
Mr Js explained that he could provide evidence of the bank account refusals  but as Ive 
explained this wouldnt change the amount of compensation I think is fair. Im satisfied that 
even without this evidence its highly likely this was the case. 
Mr Js argued that it was impossible for him to trade successfully via his account with P, and 
I dont dispute that using his account with P made it more difficult for him to trade. However, 
as I explained in my provisional decision, Mr Js provided evidence that he was trading just 
before the marker was removed. Although there were barriers in place making it more 
difficult for him Im satisfied this shows he could still trade.  
Mr Js explained that he made numerous attempts to try to find out why he was unable to get 
credit and wasnt able to open a non-fee paying bank account. And this caused him 
significant distress. I dont doubt discovering the marker, and making contact with numerous 
banks was very inconvenient to Mr J. Although I agree with Mr J that Halifax should have 
contacted him about the marker, if the marker had the severe impact Mr Js explained  
including his inability to trade  Id have expected him to have discovered it sooner. And then 
complained to Halifax before December 2019. Ive considered Mr Js point, that he shouldnt have to mitigate his losses. Im afraid I cant 
agree with him here. The marker which Halifax loaded against Mr J didnt stop him trading, 
and didnt stop him from engaging in alternative types of employment. Its very difficult for me 
to say on balance that the reason Mr J was in receipt of universal credit for some of time 
when the marker was loaded was mainly or solely due to the loading of the marker. I say this 
because before the marker was loaded, Mr J was also the director of a limited company, A. 
And unfortunately A dissolved and Mr J changed employment  making it difficult to argue 
that the reduction in Mr Js income was solely or mainly due to Halifaxs actions. 
Ive lastly considered Mr Js argument that the fees he was charged by P were likely higher 
than the £800 compensation Ive awarded. Ive checked the charges P have, and I agree 
with Mr J that he was likely charged for banking activities which wouldnt have been the case 
if hed been able to open a non-fee paying account. However, the majority of these fees are 
small  for example £0.99 to pay a direct debit. And for this reason I think £800 fairly covers 
the charges imposed and the overall inconvenience caused. 
Putting things right
Overall, as I explained in my provisional decision, Im satisfied Mr J experienced significant 
inconvenience because of Halifaxs actions. But, Im unable to fairly conclude the marker led 
to the significant reduction in income Mr J describes. Therefore I think £800 compensation 
for the inconvenience caused to him is fair. 
My final decision
My final decision is I direct Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, to:
Pay Mr J £800 in compensation
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman