DRN-4309808
The complaint
Mr B complains that Wise Payments Limited, trading as Wise, wont refund money he lost 
when he was the victim of a scam. 
Mr B is represented by a firm that Ill refer to as R.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
In 2023 Mr B was the victim of a car purchase scam. Hes explained that he found the car 
advertised online and contacted the seller (scammer) who provided him with photos and 
videos showing the condition of the car, along with a copy of the V5C registration document 
(logbook). And that he also carried out MOT and HPI checks on the vehicle. Under the belief 
the car was genuine, Mr B agreed to purchase it and was provided an invoice for the 
payment to be made. 
Mr B made two international payments totalling £19,500, sent in Euros, to the scammer 
through Wise  with the funds originating from an account Mr B held with a UK bank. The 
relevant payments are:
Date Type Amount
11 April 2023 International payment £10,000
11 April 2023 International payment £9,500
Total: £19,500
Mr B realised hed been scammed when he went to collect the vehicle but it wasnt there, 
and because the scammer stopped answering their phone. 
R complained to Wise, on behalf of Mr B, in April 2023. They said Wise failed to protect Mr B 
from the scam by not identifying the above payments as out of character and indicative of 
fraud. And they considered the fraud couldve been prevented had Wise appropriately 
intervened before processing the payments  as questioning Mr B about the purpose of the 
payments wouldve uncovered he was purchasing a car he hadnt seen, which is a common 
type of scam known to Wise and so, they ought to have advised Mr B against making the 
payments. R wanted Wise to reimburse Mr B for the loss he suffered and pay 8% interest.
Wise rejected the complaint. In short, they said:
The obligation of ensuring the legitimacy of the recipient lied with Mr B, the sender of 
the payments. As they are a money remittance service, they dont have the ability to 
be involved with disputes between senders and recipients. And so, they recommend 
customers undertake their own investigations on the recipient before making 
payment. 
This is expressed in their FAQ page and the Customer Agreement which Mr B 
agreed to when creating his Wise account. As such, Wise cannot be held liable for 
losses that occur as a result of fraudulent behaviour on behalf of the recipient after 
the payment is made to them.
They can only control and monitor activities in relation to their customers and while a 
transaction is pending in their system before being sent to the recipient bank. And 
once they were made aware the recipient bank account was possibly being used for 
scam purposes, they took the appropriate actions to prevent further payments being 
made to it via their service.
Mr B made several transfers worth £6,000 using his Wise account in the past. The 
scam payments werent therefore significantly out of the ordinary. And, due to the 
nature of their service, they would expect customers to make transfers of higher 
amounts and the threshold of what they would consider out of the ordinary is higher 
than a regular bank. 
Even if they had contacted Mr B and questioned him about the payments, they didnt 
think this wouldve affected his decision to proceed. This is because Mr B had carried 
out his due diligence and was satisfied with the legitimacy of the deal. 
The funds were transferred from Mr Bs account held with a UK bank and they only 
acted as a payment processer. It therefore wouldnt be fair to put liability for Mr Bs 
loss with Wise, and not his own bank. 
They completed the payments as directed and fulfilled their contractual obligations. 
The complaint was referred to the Financial Ombudsman and our Investigator thought it 
should be upheld in part. She thought Wise ought to have identified the first payment of 
£10,000 as unusual and out of character  as, although Mr B regularly made international 
payments, they were rarely sent in Euros and were of a significantly lesser amount. So, she 
considered Wise ought to have contacted Mr B to discuss the payment before processing it. 
And, had this happened, Mr B wouldve most likely explained he was buying a car that he 
hadnt seen and that the invoice was provided from abroad (despite the car being purchased 
in the UK). Wise shouldve identified these red flags and warned Mr B about the risk of it 
being a scam  which she felt Mr B wouldve listened to and thereby decided not to go 
ahead with the payment(s). 
Our Investigator did however think Mr B couldve done more to protect himself  including 
seeing the car before purchasing it. And that he ought to have had concerns upon receiving 
an invoice requesting payment to another country, thereby prompting him to take greater 
caution. Because of this, our Investigator thought it would be fair for Wise to refund 50% of 
the loss Mr B suffered, along with paying 8% simple interest, to recognise contributary 
negligence on Mr Bs part. 
R confirmed Mr Bs acceptance.
Wise disagreed and, in short, added:
They facilitated the transfer by converting the funds to Euros, but they didnt hold 
onto the funds. And as a money remittance service, they expect customers to make 
transfers on this scale  especially with a payment reference referring to a car 
purchase. So, nothing looked irregular about the payments. Mr B has been a customer of theirs for eight years and they need to balance their 
obligations to deliver funds in a timely manner with the risks involved. Mr B had a 
history of large payments outside of the 12 months prior the dispute payments. And 
he represented a very low risk of fraud based around his actions. 
They understood Mr Bs UK bank account provider would be held responsible for 
investigating transfers if out of character. And Mr B does use his Wise account 
regularly to take advantage of their competitive exchange rate when making card 
payments  but he doesnt use them as his primary bank account. 
Although the scammer was allegedly residing in the UK and sent an invoice from 
abroad, rather than the UK, they requested payment to their account in Euros which 
Mr B was clearly comfortable with. If the payments had been transferred in sterling, 
they might have considered them as suspicious  but they feel the Euro conversion is 
pertinent as Mr B exclusively uses his account for international transactions. 
They question why Mr B didnt consider the request for payment in Euros to be a red 
flag, along with why he didnt ask why it couldnt be made in sterling at the time? 
Particularly as they didnt consider Mr B as a layperson when it came to buying cars.
Mr B made a calculated choice to send the funds before seeing the car in person  
considering that getting an MOT check completed ahead of pickup outweighed the 
risks and urgency to collect it. And seeing a car in person feels like a very basic part 
of due diligence when buying a car.
Even if they had intervened, they didnt consider it wouldve deterred Mr B from 
proceeding given the due diligence hed undertaken. And he wouldve informed them 
of the strengths of the scammer doing video tours of the car in place of an in-person 
examination, the social engineering of the customers relationship and the implied 
urgency of completing the transaction. 
As a money remittance service, they are under different scrutiny than a bank. They 
need to balance their customers needs for quick and effective completions of their 
orders and conversions with the customers safety. And the scam payments 
originated fromm Mr Bs UK bank, not them. This type of transaction(s) is a perfect 
example of common use  and they expect their customers to make large 
conversation of funds periodically for large purchases or if they need to move funds. 
Mr Bs UK bank, being his primary banking provider, has a greater understanding of 
his transaction history. And so is in a better position to determine what is considered 
out of character for Mr B.
They feel a 50/50 split is unfair and referred to another case in which the Financial 
Ombudsman suggested a 25/75 split in compensation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same outcome as our Investigator and for similar reasons. 
Ill explain why. 
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that an electronic money institute (EMI)  like 
Wise - is expected to process payments their customer authorises them to make. Here, it isnt disputed that Mr B knowingly made the payments to the scammer. I appreciate Mr B 
was tricked by the scammer as he thought it was a genuine car he was buying. 
Nevertheless, Im satisfied the payments were authorised by Mr B. So, under the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017 and the terms of his account, Wise are expected to process the 
payments and Mr B is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
Wise is an EMI and so, as theyve pointed out, Mr Bs account with them isnt a bank 
account. This means it isnt subject to the same fraud prevention expectations set out in 
guidance and regulation that a current account with UK bank provider otherwise would be. 
That said, it doesnt mean Wise has no obligation to Mr B. Im satisfied Wise, under PRIN 
2.1 in the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook, has a duty of care to treat their customers 
fairly. And Wise is also expected to be on the lookout of financial crime  and their terms and 
conditions reflect that they will take action if they suspect fraudulent activity. 
From this, Im satisfied Wise should fairly and reasonably:
 Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams. 
 Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that their customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which financial institutions are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer. 
 In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
At this point, I think it would be appropriate for me to address some of the arguments put 
forward by Wise regarding their involvement in the scam payments alongside what they 
consider to be the role and responsibilities of Mr Bs UK bank account provider too (which is 
where the funds originated). But while Ive considered Wises views on this, including that 
they believe Mr Bs UK bank to be better placed to identify whats considered as out of 
character for him and so should investigate this accordingly, I can only make a determination 
on the actions  or inactions  of Wise here. I therefore need to decide whether Wise acted 
appropriately when handling Mr Bs payments  specifically, whether they shouldve done 
more before processing them and, if they had, would it have made a difference. And so, Ive 
firstly looked at whether the instructions given by Mr B to Wise were unusual enough - in 
relation to his typical account activity  to have expected Wise to have identified Mr B was at 
risk of financial harm from fraud.
When considering this, Ive kept in mind that EMIs process high volumes of transactions 
each day. And that there is a balance for Wise to find between allowing customers to be able 
to use their account and questioning transactions to confirm theyre legitimate. But having 
looked at Mr Bs account usage in the ten months prior to the scam occurring, it was typically 
used for low value international transactions  with the highest being just less £1,700. And 
so, the first payment  of £10,000  was for significantly more than Mr B typically used his 
account for. Wise has pointed out that Mr B has, in the past, made several transfers worth 
about £6,000. But while that might be the case, I dont think those transactions were recent 
enough to the scam payments in question for them to considered part of Mr Bs typical 
account usage at that time. Because of this, and while Mr B may have regularly made international transactions, I think the £10,000 payment shouldve stood out to Wise as being 
unusual and out of character for Mr B  thereby prompting concerns he may be at risk of 
financial harm from fraud. It follows that I think Wise shouldve held this payment and 
contacted Mr B before processing it. 
Had Wise done so, I think its likely Mr B wouldve explained the purpose of the payment  
that being to purchase a car hed seen advertised online. Given Wises awareness of the 
prevalence of purchase scams, it wouldve been reasonable for them to have questioned 
Mr B about it further  including where he was buying the car from and if hed seen the car in 
person, what due diligence hed undertaken and why he was paying for the car by way of an 
international payment (in Euros).
Ive no reason to think Mr B wouldnt have answered honestly. So, I think he wouldve told 
Wise he hadnt seen the car in person as it was about 100 miles way from him (in the UK) 
but the seller had provided photos and videos showing its condition. And, as part of his due 
diligence, hed carried out MOT and HPI checks on the car and been provided photos of the 
V5C registration document from the scammer too. He was also making the payments as 
instructed by the seller, and as directed in the invoice hed received. 
Given their familiarity with the methods used by scammers, I think Wise ought to have 
identified red flags here  primarily that Mr B hadnt seen the car in person and, even though 
the car was being sold and collected in the UK, he was making international transfers to pay 
for it which offered less protection that other payment methods. And so, while Mr B may 
have been satisfied with the legitimacy of the sale due to the due diligence hed undertaken, 
I consider Wise  as the financial experts  ought to have emphasised the likely risks of it 
being a scam. And, at the very least, advised Mr B not to make any payment without seeing 
the car first  especially as they would likely be unable to recover any funds if it turned out to 
be a scam.
Although Wise has said they do not consider Mr B to be a lay person when it comes to 
buying cars, Ive not seen anything to support this. I also havent seen anything to suggest 
Mr B wouldnt have been receptive to any scam warning or advice had it been provided. I 
therefore think its reasonable to assume, had he been given a clear warning of the 
likelihood of it being a scam, Mr B wouldve most likely not gone ahead with the payment(s). 
It follows that I think Wise couldve prevented Mr Bs loss. 
Ive also thought about whether Mr B did enough to protect himself from the scam and I dont 
think he did. I think Mr B ought to have shown greater caution when buying the car. I 
appreciate Mr B has explained he relied upon the photos and videos provided by the 
scammer of the car due to it being about 100 miles away from his location. But I think it 
wouldve been reasonable for Mr B to have found a method of transport to view the car in 
person before purchasing it  particularly given the significant sale price. I also consider that 
Mr B ought to have had reason to question the legitimacy of the purchase upon receiving an 
invoice instructing him to make international payments, even though the car was being sold 
and collected in the UK. This shouldve been seen as unusual to him (as I likewise consider 
it should have for Wise). And so, I believe Mr B couldve then taken additional steps before 
making the payments. This includes looking online for tips on buying a car safely, which was 
available on the car advertisements website and  amongst other tips - advised never to buy 
a car without seeing it.
I therefore think it would be fair and reasonable to make a reduction in the award based on 
contributary negligence. Wise thinks a 50/50 split is unfair as they consider Mr B should take 
greater responsibility for the loss hes suffered. And theyve referred to another case dealt 
with by the Financial Ombudsman in which a higher reduction for contributary negligence was applied. I cannot comment on another case here but, instead, I must consider what I 
think is fair in the circumstances of Mr Bs complaint. Having done so, I think it would be fair 
and reasonable to apportion responsibility equally to both parties  as I feel both Mr B and 
Wise couldve equally prevented the scam from happening. And Im not persuaded that it 
would be fair to apply greater weight to Mr Bs failure to take greater caution when buying 
the car, than it would be for Wises lack of intervention before processing the payment(s).  
Because of this, I think it would be fair for Wise to make a 50% reduction in the award based 
on contributary negligence in the circumstances of this complaint.
To put things right, Wise should refund £9,750 to Mr B  that being 50% of Mr Bs loss. And 
they should also pay 8% simple interest to recognise Mr Bs loss of use of this money  
calculated from the date of each payment to the date of settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I direct Wise Payments Limited, 
trading as Wise, to:
Refund £9,750.
Pay 8% simple interest, per year, calculated from the date of each payment to the 
date of settlement less any tax lawfully deductible.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2023.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman