DRN-4342369
The complaint
Mr S complains MotoNovo Finance Limited (MotoNovo) acted irresponsibly when they 
entered into a Conditional Sale agreement with him as he said the lending was unaffordable.
What happened
In February 2020,Mr S acquired a van under a Conditional Sale agreement with MotoNovo. 
The purchase price of the vehicle was £14,684. Mr S part exchanged his existing vehicle 
with the new finance agreement settling any outstanding finance he had. He also paid a 
deposit payment made up of cash and a personal loan. With interest charges this meant the 
total amount to be repaid over the term of the agreement was £26,305.60, payable in 60 
monthly instalments of £395.13.
Mr S complained that the agreement was unaffordable and so should never have been 
provided to him. MotoNovo didnt uphold the complaint. They said they based their lending 
decision on the information Mr S provided at the time, and credit checks which confirmed 
that the finance was affordable and so it was reasonable to lend. 
Mr S wasnt happy with MotoNovos response and referred his complaint to us. 
Our investigator said MotoNovo hadnt done proportionate checks but if they had they would 
have still lent to him as Mr S had sufficient disposable income to show the lending was 
affordable. 
Mr S didnt agree he said his expenditure hadnt been fully considered by our investigator 
and asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
All lenders are required to ensure they dont lend irresponsibly. Ive considered the relevant 
rules, guidance and good industry practice when someone complains about irresponsible 
and/or unaffordable lending.  In reaching my decision there are two overarching questions I 
need to consider in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances of 
the complaint. These are:
1. Did MotoNovo complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy themselves 
that Mr S would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
a. if so, did MotoNovo make a fair lending decision?
b. if not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr S could 
sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did MotoNovo act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Regulations in place at the time MotoNovo lent to Mr S required them to carry out a 
reasonable assessment of whether he could afford to repay the loan in a sustainable 
manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The affordability checks should be borrower-focused, meaning MotoNovo need to think 
about whether repaying the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse 
consequences for Mr S. In other words, it wasnt enough for MotoNovo to think only about 
the likelihood that they would get their money back without considering the impact of 
repayment on Mr S himself.
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportionate checks are. But Id expect lenders 
to consider the specific circumstances of the loan application. What constitutes a 
proportionate affordability check will generally depend on several factors such as the specific 
circumstances of the borrower, their financial history, current situation and whether there are 
any indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty.
From what I can see MotoNovo relied on data and a score matrix to assess whether the loan 
was affordable for Mr S. I havent seen that there was any verification of Mr S income and 
expenditure. Given the level of indebtedness  over £20,000 and the length of time the loan 
was taken out 60 months I think it would have been proportionate and reasonable for 
MotoNovo to have done this.  
So Ive considered what MotoNovo would have seen of theyd verified Mr S income and 
expenditure and whether this would have made a difference to their decision to lend to him. 
Mr S said at the time of the loan he was living with his ex-partner and their four children. And 
he paid a monthly payment to his ex-partner to cover the cost of rent, utilities, food and other 
day to day costs. Ive considered the bank statements Mr S has sent to us. I can see there 
were some additional ad hoc payments, in and out of the account to his ex-partner, but 
overall Im only considering Mr S regular income and financial commitments.  I can see Mr S 
had a credit card with a limit of £4,500, even if he wasnt using the full limit of his credit card, 
Id consider this to be credit available to him, so Ive included in my considerations an 
amount as if Mr S was fully utilising the credit available to him.
Mr S had a regular monthly income of around £2,020 and I consider hed regular outgoings, 
to his ex partner, credit card, loan, child maintenance and motoring costs of an average each 
month of around £1,532. So, Im satisfied the information Mr S has provided about his 
finances at the time appears to show that when his committed regular living expenses and 
existing credit commitments were deducted from his monthly income, he did have the funds, 
at the time at least, to sustainably make the repayments due under this agreement.
So while Im not persuaded that MotoNovos checks before entering into this Conditional 
Sale agreement with Mr S went far enough, Im satisfied that carrying out reasonable and 
proportionate checks wont have stopped MotoNovo from providing these funds, or entering 
into this agreement with him. As this is the case, I dont think that MotoNovo acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards Mr S. So Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate that this will be 
disappointing for Mr S. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision.
I can see that after the loan was taken out Mr S financial situation changed with the impact 
of the pandemic and losing his employment. I can see that MotoNovo have been working 
with Mr S during this difficult time. And Id expect them to act with forbearance and 
consideration with Mr S in the repayment of any remaining balance.My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2023.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman