DRN-3515575
The complaint
X says Nationwide Building Society, has treated him unfairly in relation to a transaction on 
his credit card which paid for flights abroad.
What happened
In September 2019 X used his Nationwide Building Society credit card (NBS for short) to pay 
for flights for himself and his wife in the Caribbean. X paid over £390 for these to a local 
airline in the region. They were due to fly in April 2020.
As the Pandemic began in early 2020 X became concerned. In March 2020 he emailed the 
airline asking it to please cancel these flights and asking for a refund. The airline told him 
the flights were non-refundable but as a gesture it offered him a voucher for future use to the 
cost of the flights. But X wanted a refund. So he took his claim to NBS to see if it could help 
get the flight costs back. 
NBS looked into the matter and didnt think it could help. It said the airline had said that they 
were non-refundable, so it didnt raise a chargeback. So it refused to refund X. But it did say 
it would pay him £75 for the customer service it had provided in dealing with the matter. X, 
still unsatisfied, brought his complaint to this service.
Our Investigator felt NBS didnt have to do anymore. And X remains unhappy and so this 
complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
X used his NBS credit card to pay for the flights. This means under S75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (CCA for short) he can bring a like claim against NBS for any breach or 
misrepresentation made by the Supplier-the airline here. But to be clear NBS is only liable 
where its made out there is breach or misrepresentation. It isnt responsible for anything the 
supplier does outside of these two areas for example poor customer service.
Xs NBS credit card is part of a card network. And this network has rules which includes 
giving NBS an avenue for card transactions to be disputed with Suppliers, namely through 
the Chargeback process. The Chargeback process is not a right for consumers, nor does it 
provide any guarantee of success. But this service does consider raising a chargeback to be 
good practice if the credit card supplier considers the dispute has a reasonable prospect of 
success.
I should also add at this juncture that this decision is about NBS and whether it did what it 
should have and whether it treated X fairly in relation to its obligations. This decision isnt 
about the airline which isnt a party to this decision nor within this Services remit for. I hope 
this distinction is clear.
I should also add that X has raised many issues. Ive considered them all. However I will 
only address the key issues here as I see them in order to reach a fair and reasonable 
outcome in line with our aims of being clear and informal.
could NBS challenge the transaction through a Chargeback? 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute about a transaction, as X does 
here, NBS can attempt to go through the Chargeback process. X doesnt dispute that he 
used his NBS credit card here. Nor does he dispute the amount, date, or any other details 
about the transactions. So I dont think NBS couldve challenged the payment on the basis X 
didnt properly authorise the transactions, given what Ive just set out.
NBS is required to consider whether there is a reasonable prospect of success when it is 
considering whether to go through the Chargeback process or not. If it does go through the 
process, then it must do so properly. And it can fairly decide to not proceed at any stage if it 
doesnt think there is a reasonable prospect of success. This is the test here. 
NBS considered what X said and didnt think a Chargeback had a reasonable prospect of 
success. So it didnt raise a chargeback.
X wrote in March 2020 to the airline and said In accordance with your (Airline Pandemic 
Policy) please cancel these flights and refund US $480.38 to the credit card I used to book 
this flight originally. Ive considered the policy and that explains that vouchers are available 
for Pandemic effected flights, it does not give any rights for a refund. So Im satisfied X 
cancelled the flights. Accordingly the relevant terms of the contract are thus to be 
considered.
Ive considered the airlines email response to Xs request for a refund. It says the tickets are 
non-refundable. The itinerary/ booking form states Please note selected fares do not 
permit any Changes/Cancellations. The airline has since gone into administration and 
accordingly finding the full terms applicable at the time hasnt been achieved. But I note on 
the airline website which is still available it also notes that certain fares have conditions 
which limit or exclude your right to change or cancel reservations. Ive seen no persuasive 
evidence that these flights were refundable. So on balance Im satisfied that these tickets 
were non-refundable.
So I dont think NBS has done anything wrong in not raising the chargeback as Im satisfied 
such a chargeback didnt have a reasonable prospect of success.
What about s75?
Ive considered the preliminary requirements set in the CCA for a claim to be potentially 
successful. Im satisfied that the claim sits within the financial limits applicable. Im also 
satisfied that the required Debtor/Creditor/Supplier relationship is in place.
But for similar reasons as above Im not persuaded there is a breach of contract here nor a 
misrepresentation by the airline which means NBS should refund X the transaction. X 
cancelled the tickets and he got no refund as per the terms applicable. Im satisfied that the 
airline committed no breach here nor misrepresentation which X relied on to his detriment. 
So NBS has nothing to be liable for. 
Ive seen no persuasive evidence that there was anything in the contract which enabled X to 
cancel with a refund in certain circumstances such as a pandemic. And as this is a like 
claim against NBS the onus is on X to demonstrate such as would be the case if he was 
making the claim to the airline.I shall turn to some of the comments X has made for the sake of clarity.
X points to the airlines pandemic policy specifically paragraph two regarding changing 
flights. But this makes no difference because he wasnt changing his flights, as hed told the 
airline he wished to cancel. And just because the policy says some flights can be changed it 
doesnt necessarily follow that Xs flights werent non-refundable if he cancelled.
X points to another part of the pandemic policy which says ticket holders could cancel and 
get a full credit. The airline did offer him a voucher for these flights but as Im satisfied on a 
balance of probabilities this was a non-refundable flight such a voucher was offered as a 
gesture of goodwill. So I dont think it fair to make NBS liable for the cost of the flights.
X says the position of the investigator on this matter is tantamount to approving of (the 
airline) requiring us to forfeit the cost of the flights. I cannot imagine therefore why you term 
the outcome fair. But Xs argument isnt persuasive to me. Had he not cancelled, and the 
airline had breached the contract by not supplying the flights then its quite possible X would 
have been successful. But NBS is only responsible for breach of contract here and X clearly 
cancelled the flights and in essence brought the contract to a close before the airline had 
opportunity to breach the contract by not supplying the flights. Ive seen no persuasive 
evidence of X being required to cancel the flights. He could have also not cancelled and let 
the matter play out. But he chose to cancel and thus end the contract and I dont consider it 
fair to make NBS hold responsibility for that.
All in all Ive considered everything X has said. He has made numerous arguments none of 
which persuade me that NBS should bear the cost of this transaction. Im satisfied that NBS 
didnt treat X unfairly by not raising a chargeback. And Im not persuaded the airline 
breached the contract before X cancelled. So this complaint does not succeed.
Ive considered the award of £75 that NBS referred to. Considering what happened here I 
think that is a fair reflection of the customer service Mr C had.
I appreciate that this isnt the decision which X wishes to read. And I appreciate that this 
decision will mean Xs avenues for recouping these funds spent here will be significantly 
limited. But this does not mean that NBS has done anything wrong in dealing with the issues 
arising from this transaction. X cancelled the flights and has not shown these flights were 
contractually refundable. Accordingly NBS has done nothing wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Nationwide Building 
Society. It has nothing further to do in respect of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman