DRN-4021971
The complaint
Mr G complains that UK Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line (UKI) delayed sending 
him proof of his no claims following cancellation of his policy renewal. Mr G also complains 
when the proof was received it incorrectly had two claims recorded on it. 
What happened
Mr G had a motor insurance policy with UKI which was due to renew in October. Mr G was 
able to find a more competitive policy with another insurer so he cancelled his renewal with 
UKI. At the same time as the cancellation he requested a copy of his proof of no claims 
(NCD) for his new insurer. 
Following this call Mr G received a letter suggesting he still had a policy with UKI. So he 
contacted UKI several times to try and get to the bottom of things. Mr G says he was passed 
from one team to another trying to ascertain whether his proof of no claims had been sent to 
his new insurer. UKI told Mr G the letter regarding the policy was sent error and to disregard 
it. 
Around six weeks after the initial request the proof of no claims was sent to Mr G. The new 
insurer didnt cancel the policy but Mr G wasnt happy with the delay in receiving the NCD. 
So Mr G complained to UKI. UKI apologised for the delay in sending out the NCD and that 
he had been passed around to different departments. UKI said the NCD should have been 
clear the claims recorded were windscreen claims and although the correct proof had 
eventually been sent out it should not have taken so long to do so. UKI paid Mr G £5 to 
cover the cost of the calls he made and £50 for the inconvenience caused. 
Mr G wasnt satisfied with the response from UKI, so he referred his complaint to this 
service. Our investigator looked into things for him. The investigator also said he could see 
UKI liaised with Mr Gs new insurer in order to ensure the new policy wasnt cancelled, and 
he thought this was reasonable. He said he thought the offer was fair in the circumstances. 
So he didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr G didnt agree with the investigators outcome. He said he thought the compensation 
offered should be increased and that he was told he could expect to receive around £150 
when he contacted this service. So the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr G but Im not going to uphold his complaint. Ill 
explain why. 
Ive considered all of Mr Gs key points carefully. But in this decision I will focus on what I 
consider to be the key issues. My role is to decide if UKI have dealt with Mr G in a fair and 
reasonable way. 
Delay sending proof of no claims
I know Mr G spent time chasing UKI which included calling on numerous occasions to try 
and obtain a copy of his proof of no claims. I acknowledge this would have been stressful as 
he was worried his new insurer would cancel his policy if it didnt receive the proof. 
UKI accepted the error in not sending the correct proof of NCD as quickly as it should have. 
It spoke to Mr Gs new insurer to ensure they wouldnt cancel the policy owing to UKIs 
delay. It also accepted the NCD was incorrect since it showed a claim but it was a 
windscreen claim so it wouldnt affect the NCD. 
I agree UKI should have sent the NCD out sooner. I can see from the documents I have 
received that it thought it had sent the document to Mr G; but that was clearly an error. 
I am pleased the correct NCD was sent to Mr G and that his insurance policy wasnt 
cancelled due to the delay. 
UKI offered Mr G £5 for the calls he had to make chasing the NCD and £50 to apologise for 
the delay in sending out the NCD. I think £50 is reasonable in the circumstances and in line 
with what I would have suggested had UKI not already paid. 
The calls 
UKI sent us the calls made and received from UKI. As explained above UKI accept the 
service Mr G received fell below the standards it aims to achieve and so I dont have 
anything further to add in respect of those calls. 
I have also listened to the call Mr G made to the Ombudsman service since he says he was 
told he would receive around £150 in compensation for this complaint. I havent heard 
anything that suggests that level of compensation was intimated to Mr G. And in any event 
we have a process whereby a complaint is investigated by the investigator in the first 
instance. So even if Mr G was told he could expect to receive £150 it is for the investigator to 
determine the outcome based on the evidence provided. And this is what happened here. 
I do understand Mr Gs frustration at trying to obtain his NCD and the delays and errors that 
followed. I imagine it would have been stressful worrying about his new insurer cancelling 
the policy if it didnt receive proof of the no claims. However I can see UKI contacted the new 
insurer to ensure the policy wasnt cancelled and I think £50 is fair and reasonable 
compensation, so I wont be asking it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman