DRN-4304310
The complaint
Mr W complains about AWP P&C SA and the service they provided after he made a claim 
on the Home Emergency (HE) cover included within his overall home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr W held a home insurance policy. Included within this policy was separate HE cover, 
underwritten by AWP. The HE cover was administered by another business on AWPs behalf 
but, for ease of reference, I will refer to any actions taken by this business as AWP 
throughout the decision.
Unfortunately, in early December 2022, Mr Ws boiler at his home broke down. So, on 9 
December, he contacted AWP to make a claim on his HE cover. AWP arranged for an 
engineer, who Ill refer to as E to attend Mr Ws home and inspect the boiler, with 
attendance taking place on 11 December. But due to the wattage of the boiler, E was unable 
to complete any work on it. So, on 12 December, E forwarded its report to AWP explaining a 
commercial boiler engineer would be required.
AWP attempted to find another engineer who was able to inspect, and repair, Mr Ws boiler. 
But they struggled to find an engineer with availability. So, on 14 December, AWP 
authorised Mr W to source his own engineer to complete a repair up to £500, while they 
continued to find an engineer themselves.
On the same day, Mr W contacted AWP and explained the earliest attendance he could 
source would be 20 December, which he didnt think was acceptable. So, he asked that 
AWP find a way to send an engineer out sooner. AWP escalated their search to trades 
nationally but, on 17 December, Mr W made AWP aware he had taken the decision to order 
a new boiler. AWP explained they wouldnt cover the costs of this, as they hadnt authorised 
the new boiler beforehand. Mr W was unhappy about this, and the service hed received 
overall, so he raised a complaint.
Mr W was unhappy with AWPs inability to locate an engineer that could attend his property 
and repair his boiler. So, due to the time of year and the vulnerability of his wife, he felt hed 
been forced into purchasing a new boiler, to ensure they had access to heating and hot 
water. Because of this, he felt AWP should cover the cost of this, which totalled over £9,000.
AWP responded to the complaint and upheld it in part. They apologised for the customer 
support Mr W had received and offered to pay him £100 to recognise any upset this had 
caused. But they didnt think they should cover the cost of the replacement boiler, as this 
replacement was arranged without their authorisation. Mr W remained unhappy with this 
response, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and thought the £100 AWP offered was a fair 
compensatory amount to recognise the frustration Mr W was caused by the service AWP 
provided. But they didnt think AWP should cover the costs of the replacement boiler, as Mr 
W arranged for this replacement without authorisation and before a repair had been 
attempted. So, our investigator didnt think AWP needed to do anything more.
Mr W didnt agree. He didnt think it was reasonable to expect him to wait for AWP to source 
an engineer, considering the way they had dealt with and communicated with him up to the 
point he chose to replace the boiler. And he disputed our investigators belief that AWP had 
been progressing the claim effectively up to that point. So, he thought AWP should at least 
make a contribution to the cost hed incurred. As Mr W didnt agree, the complaint has been 
passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think the offer already made by AWP is a fair one. Ive focused my 
comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific point, its 
because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr W. I dont doubt the upset 
and inconvenience both Mr W and his wife wouldve felt when the boiler in their home broke 
down, especially when the time of year is considered. And I recognise Mr W took out a home 
insurance policy that included HE cover provided by AWP to assist him both practically and 
financially in situations such as the one he found himself in. So, when AWP were unable to 
repair the boiler in what Mr W felt was a reasonable amount of time, I can understand why 
Mr W would feel as though hed been treated unfairly. And, as Mr W believes it was AWPs 
actions that forced him into purchasing a new boiler, I can understand why Mr W would feel 
as though AWP should, at the very least, contribute to the cost of this. So, when AWP 
refused to do so, I can understand why Mr W would feel this was unreasonable and raise a 
complaint.
But for me to say AWP should do more than they have already, Id need to be satisfied their 
£100 offer of compensation failed to adequately compensate Mr W for the upset hes been 
caused. Or, that it failed to acknowledge something AWP did wrong. And in this situation, I 
dont think thats the case.
I note that Mr W is unhappy with the time it took AWP to locate an engineer to attend his 
property. So, this is what Ive thought about first. In this situation, I can see Mr W made his 
claim with AWP on 9 December 2022. And, that AWP sourced E, who attended two days 
later. Considering the time of year and the fact cold weather leads to an increase in demand 
for boiler engineers, I dont think this was an unreasonable amount of time.
Unfortunately for Mr W, due to the size of the boiler at his property and the wattage it used, 
E was unable to undertake work on his boiler. And having read through the documentation, 
including Mr Ws email to AWP on 17 December 2022 where he states AWP were unable to 
send out a qualified commercial gas boiler engineer Im satisfied E was unable to complete 
any repair work as Mr Ws boiler was commercial, rather than domestic.
Ive seen the terms and conditions of the policy Mr W held. And this explains under the HE 
cover that they would cover Mr Ws primary heating system, which is defined as The main 
heating systems in your home, including a domestic boiler before going onto explain 
Please note that we do not cover any form of solar heating or non-domestic central heating 
boilers and associated systems.
So, as the policy AWP provided was intended to exclude any repair work on boilers that 
werent domestic, I dont think I can say AWP have done anything wrong when sending E to 
Mr Ws home, as I think they were reasonable to assume the boiler was domestic and so, 
could be repaired by E.Unfortunately, as Mr Ws boiler was commercial, any work on the boiler would need to be 
completed by an engineer with a separate qualification that authorises them to do so. And as 
AWPs policy was designed to cover domestic boilers only, I think its reasonable to expect a 
delay in AWP being able to source an appropriate engineer.
Ive seen in AWPs system notes from 12  17 December they attempted to source an 
engineer, escalating their search nationwide in an attempt to assist Mr W. And I think they 
did so without being obligated to do so under the terms of the policy, considering Mr Ws 
boiler was non-domestic. And on top of this, I can see they offered Mr W the chance to 
source his own engineer, with a £500 authorisation limit on any repair work, to ensure Mr W 
was able to complete a repair if he could arrange this himself sooner. I think AWPs actions 
here were reasonable, and in Mr Ws best interests.
But, by 17 December, Ive seen an engineer was still unable to be located and able to attend 
Mr Ws home that dat. So, at this point Mr W took the decision to purchase a replacement 
boiler altogether. While I do understand why he chose to do this, I dont think this means 
AWP should be responsible for this cost.
I think AWP made it reasonably clear to Mr W that any cost over £500 would need to be 
authorised with them first. And I cant see Mr W discussed the replacement with AWP, 
before purchasing it. And I think if Mr W had, AWP wouldve most likely refused to cover the 
cost as, at this point, a repair still hadnt been completed. And within the terms and 
conditions, I think its made reasonably clear that, for AWP to contribute towards a new 
boiler for Mr W, if would first need to be deemed beyond economical repair. And, as a 
repair hadnt been attempted, I dont think it had been classified as this.
I also think its worth noting that, in an email sent from Mr W to AWP on 14 December, he 
stated he had found an engineer who could attend his property on 20 December. So, when 
Mr W chose to replace the boiler altogether on 17 December, I think he was reasonably 
aware a repair couldve been attempted, and up to £500 of this repair cost covered, by AWP 
three days later. So, while I do appreciate this wouldve left Mr W without heating and hot 
water for a few days more, I dont think its reasonable for Mr W to not allow for a repair 
attempt first.
And even if Mr W had attempted a repair, and the boiler been deemed beyond economical 
repair, the terms and conditions explained that if your boiler is beyond economical repair we 
will only pay up to £250 (including VAT) towards the labour and parts to replace your boiler. 
And Im aware this is a very small percentage of the £9,000 Mr W paid to replace his boiler 
in the end.
So, I dont think I can say AWP have acted unfairly, or unreasonably, when refusing to 
contribute to the cost of Mr Ws boiler replacement and I think they acted within the terms of 
the policy when taking this decision. But I note AWP accept their service couldve been 
improved during the claim process. So, as AWP accepted they acted unfairly regarding this 
aspect of the complaint, Ive then thought about what AWP should do to put things right.
Putting things right
AWP have already offered to pay Mr W £100 compensation to recognise any upset and 
inconvenience he was caused, which Mr W has refused. So, this amount hasnt yet been 
paid.
And having thought about this offer, I think it is a fair one, that falls in line with our services 
approach and what I wouldve directed, had it not already been made. I think it fairly reflects 
the fact Mr W had to chase AWP proactively on several occasions to understand what was happening with this claim, and the inconvenience this wouldve caused. And I think it also 
fairly compensates Mr W for AWPs failure to clearly explain exactly why they were 
struggling to source an appropriate engineer and give potential timescales for when they 
hoped to rectify this situation.
But I think it also takes into consideration the fact that AWP did source E to attend Mr Ws 
home initially within 2 days of him reporting the claim initially. And I think this is a very 
reasonable amount of time considering the time of year. I also think that, had Mr Ws been a 
usual domestic boiler as stipulated within the terms of the policy, then I think its most likely E 
wouldve been able to diagnose any fault, attempt to repair it or, if necessary, deem it 
beyond economical to repair at this point. As Mr Ws boiler was a commercial boiler, which I 
dont think AWP were aware of at the time the claim was made, I dont think AWP had an 
obligation under the policy from this point to assist Mr W. But they did so anyway. And I think 
the £100 offer reflects this, and their offer to Mr W to allow him to source his own engineer to 
mitigate any delays. So, Im directing AWP to pay Mr W the £100 they originally offered in 
their complaint response.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr W was hoping for. And while I dont doubt the 
inconvenience Mr W and his wife were caused by the ordeal being without heating and hot 
water during the winter months, and I can understand Mr Ws thought process behind 
purchasing a new boiler entirely, I dont think this means AWP should be responsible for the 
cost Mr W incurred, as he chose to make this purchase without AWPs authorisation which 
impacted their ability to attempt a repair first.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mr Ws complaint about AWP P&C SA and I direct 
them to take the following action:
Pay Mr W £100 to recognise the upset and inconvenience hes been caused by the 
service they provided.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman