DRN-3982901
The complaint
H complains about delays and poor customer service when trying to change a mandate on 
its business account with TSB Bank plc (TSB). 
H is being represented by its secretary who Ill refer to as T.
What happened
T sent a mandate amendment form on behalf of H to TSB, but he said it took too long to 
action. T also complained about poor advice given by TSB and issues when logging a 
complaint. 
TSB looked into the complaint and partially upheld it. It said the delay in amending the 
mandate was due to T not signing the correct place on the form several times. TSB went on 
to offer H £100 compensation for conflicting information T had been given by its branch staff. 
H didnt agree with the amount of compensation, so it brought its complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt find H had suffered any losses due to 
the delays updating the mandate form or the customer service given by TSB. Our 
investigator went on to say that as H is the eligible complainant, T couldnt claim any 
personal trouble and upset payments as the representative of H. 
T responded to the investigators view and disagreed with their findings. T said he had 
personal involvement in the complaint as well as corporate. Our investigator considered the 
point but wasnt persuaded to change their view. 
So, the complaint has been passed to me to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome the investigator reached for largely the same 
reasons. Ill explain why.
I want to clarify that I've considered H and Ts detailed submissions about what happened. 
However, if theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point or argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
H sent the mandate form back to TSB and it was received on 11 March 2022. TSB said the 
mandate wasnt completed correctly and it was returned to H to be corrected and was then 
received back on 04 April 2022. T hasnt disputed that a signature had been missed in 
section 7 of the form but has suggested the bank already had a signature on other 
documents held with the bank that it couldve used. By 12 May 2022 the changes were 
actioned, and Im satisfied this was done in a reasonable amount of time given the 
corrections needed. Im also satisfied the form wouldve needed to be signed instead of a 
signature already held used, given this was a change in a mandate that was already in 
place. T says that when he visited a TSB branch, he was given incorrect information, and he 
should be compensated for this. TSB have awarded £100, but T thinks this should be 
increased for the overall service he received. 
The rules we follow, which can be found in the regulators handbook allow us to investigate 
complaints on behalf of eligible complainants. DISP 2.7.3 lists those eligible complainants 
and the relationships required. 
H is the eligible complainant here, who has the required relationship with the business  and 
we can only make awards to eligible complainants. 
H is a legal entity separate to the people who run it. So, we cant compensate the directors, 
secretaries, or shareholders personally, or pay the company for any distress theyve incurred 
personally. The legal entity cant experience distress, or pain and suffering. Instead, the 
impact will usually have financial, operational, or reputational implications.
T is acting as a representative of H, so although I appreciate, he may have suffered trouble 
and upset personally, I can only look at the impact this situation had on H. Our investigator 
asked H and T if the business suffered any losses due to the delay in getting the mandate 
changed or the advice given in the branch, and none were supplied. T originally said that the 
business has suffered marginally, but when our investigator asked for more information 
about any losses or inconvenience, T indicated that although there were delays with being 
able to use the account, the business carried on functioning. So, on that basis Im satisfied 
that TSB doesnt need to pay any more compensation.
H says TSB didnt notify it of the change of mandate when it was completed. TSB have 
acknowledged this point but advised its not part of its business process to notify of the 
completed change. Our service also wouldnt ordinally ask a business to change its 
processes, but wed look at compensation if we think a party has been treated unfairly. As 
with the above, Ive seen no evidence that the business has suffered any losses due to the 
lack of notification.
In summary, having reviewed all the information provided by both parties, I havent found 
any evidence to suggest that H has suffered any financial loss or inconvenience because of 
TSBs handling of the mandate change, or the advice given in the branch. Therefore, I wont 
be asking TSB to do anything further in this regard.
I appreciate H and T will be unhappy with my decision, and Im not doubting some of the 
issues T says he has had, but taking all the circumstances of the complaint into account I 
think TSBs offer to H is fair and reasonable, and I can only consider the impact this situation 
had on H.
TSB have paid H £100 compensation. My decision doesnt impact the payment thats 
already been made.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 Tom Wagstaff
Ombudsman