DRN-3290705
The complaint
Miss E complains about the way Funding Circle Ltd provided updates on a loan she invested 
into through her crowdfunding account. She is also unhappy with the way the loan has been 
managed in recovery and Funding Circle Ltds failure to answer her queries about actions 
taken to ensure her investment is returned.
What happened
Miss E holds a crowdfunding account on Funding Circles peer to peer lending platform. It is 
an automated account where loan parts are bought and sold on behalf of Miss E based on a 
set criteria  including risk profile. Miss Es account had a balanced risk profile  meaning 
she could be allocated loans across the full range of risk categories (A+ to E rated loans).
The loan subject to the complaint was allocated into her account by Funding Circle. In May 
2018, it became a bad debt, the loan went into default. Funding Circle started proceedings to 
recover funds  including seeking to obtain payments from the guarantor of the loan. 
In October 2020, Funding Circle explained to Miss E that it had updated the loan comments 
and apologised for the updates not being given in a timely manner. It said investor updates 
will be provided only when there is a significant change to the status of a loan. But said 
behind the scenes it is working to pursue borrowers and guarantors to resolve late payments 
and defaulted loans to get money repaid to Miss E. 
In February 2021 Miss E complained to Funding Circle about the way the it was managing 
the recovery of the loan, the lack of updates and responses to her queries about the loan. 
In April 2021, Funding Circle responded to the complaint by providing answers to the queries 
Miss E raised about the actions it was taking with the borrower to ensure payments were 
made. It explained the reason for the decision not to pursue a security was because the 
guarantor continued to make payments. It apologised for any confusion caused by the loan 
updates it provided. Lastly it confirmed there was an agreed repayment plan in place for the 
loan. 
Miss E didnt accept the response, so referred her to complaint to this service for an 
independent review. 
One of our investigators looked int the complaint. He didnt uphold it - in summary he said:
- The terms and conditions of Miss Es account confirm that recovery actions are 
completely at the discretion of Funding Circle. But it did still need to act in line with 
the overarching principles of treating its customers fairly and acting in their best 
interests. 
- He studied the loan comments which outline the recovery actions taken. He reached 
the conclusion that Funding Circle had acted reasonably in the recovery action it has 
taken.
Miss E didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. She said:
- Her complaint is about the recovery action that Funding Circle said it would take (and 
was required to) - but did not.
- Funding Circle didnt tell investors about the recovery actions it was taking, in a 
timely manner or of its own accord. It would not discuss or clarify her concerns 
despite many times of asking. 
- She was led to understand that there was a requirement for agreed payments to be 
secured. She doesnt believe Funding Circle has been transparent about when it 
decided not to pursue the security  and because of this it didnt keep her informed 
despite the requests she made.  
As Miss E didnt accept the investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me to 
reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Miss Es complaint is about the recovery actions Funding Circle took on a 
defaulted loan, and how it kept her informed and responded to her queries about those 
actions. 
In reaching my decision, Ive reviewed Funding Circles investor terms and conditions. In 
summary these explain that Funding Circle would act in the interests of investors as a whole. 
It would have discretion to make decisions regarding recovery actions on loans  including 
whether to enforce security, seek new security and agree payment plans. 
Ive also taken into account the wider regulatory obligations on Funding Circle. Funding 
Circle is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). The relevant 
rules and regulations FCA regulated firms are required to follow are set out in the FCAs 
Handbook of rules and guidance. 
The FCA Principles for Business (PRIN) set out the overarching requirements which all 
authorised firms are required to comply with. PRIN 1.1.1G, says The Principles apply in 
whole or in part to every firm. The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. The 
most relevant principles here are: 
PRIN 2.1.1R (2) A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
PRIN 2.1.1R (6) A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and 
treat them fairly. 
PRIN 2.1.1R (7) A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, 
and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading. 
Funding Circle was also required to act in accordance with the rules set out in the Conduct 
of Business Sourcebook (COBS). And the most relevant obligations here are: 
COBS 2.1.1R (1) A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of its client. 
COBS 4.2.1R (1) A firm must ensure that a communication or a financial promotion 
is fair, clear and not misleading.
And Ive borne in mind that the FCAs consultation papers on loan-based (peer-to-peer) and 
investment-based crowdfunding platforms.When a loan goes into default (due to payment problems) Funding Circle terms indicate that 
it would undertake recovery action that it considers to be in the best interests of the affected 
investors to achieve a maximum recovery. This does mean that a variety of action could be 
taken depending on the circumstances  including pursuing guarantors, enforcing security, 
and commencing formal legal action. For this particular loan the updates it provided indicate 
that it made a variety attempts and the strategy changed as a result of ongoing engagement 
with the guarantor. I understand that payments are still being paid  albeit not at a level that 
has meant the loan has been fully repaid. So I dont think I can say Funding Circle have 
failed to act in Miss Es best interests when trying to recover owed funds. 
I acknowledge that Funding Circle did need to keep Miss E updated on the status of the loan 
and the actions it was taking to recover investors funds after the loan was defaulted. Ive 
reviewed the updates that were provided up to the date that Miss E complained. The 
frequency of the updates did vary and while some updates happened monthly or more 
frequently, there were some longer gaps. It appears the nature of recovery actions and 
negotiations with the guarantor meant that the position has changed between updates. I 
dont find this to be unusual as the payment situation can change overtime and this does 
mean updates can become outdated.
Miss E complains that Funding Circle didnt keep her properly informed and didnt answer all 
the inquiries she made. She has referred to an update in January 2020 where it was 
explained that the guarantor wants to begin making payments, but Funding Circle were 
seeking security and it said a further update on negotiations would be given. The next 
updates were two updates in October 2020. These updates happened just over a week apart 
- the first explaining that the guarantor was making regular payments and the second 
indicating a decision to commence legal proceedings because a payment plan couldnt be 
agreed. Then it wasnt until March 2021 until the next update where it was confirmed the 
guarantor continues to make monthly payments and a decision had been made not to 
pursue security whilst payments continue. 
It appears from the updates and information Funding Circle has provided that decisions 
around the recovery actions did change. As mentioned above, I dont find this in itself 
unusual as depending on the circumstances, it can be reasonable to amend strategy.  
Funding Circle is entitled to make decisions on what is in the best interest of all investors. 
Pursing legal action and requesting security are options to do this. The fact it decided to not 
follow these avenues because the guarantor continued to make payments was a decision it 
made as it believed this to be in investors best interests. And as mentioned above the 
guarantor continues to make payments. But I do acknowledge that investors like Miss E 
werent party to the negotiations and discussions with the guarantor, so the updates dont 
provide the full picture. While I understand Miss Es frustration that Funding Circle changed 
from telling her it required security over payments to then not, I dont think this means it 
treated her unfairly. But I accept it didnt update her for several months about the change in 
position, I will cover this point later in my decision. 
Funding Circle didnt provide the level of information Miss E wanted, but it says part of the 
reasons for this was because it was unable to share some information because it deemed it 
confidential. Funding Circle has provided additional information to this service about the 
actions it took but asked that it remains confidential. Our rules allow us to receive evidence 
in confidence. We may treat evidence from financial businesses as confidential for a number 
of reasons  for example, if it contains information about other customers/third parties, 
security information or commercially sensitive information. Some of the information Funding 
Circle has provided is information that we considered should be kept confidential. This 
means I wont be able to share the detail of this with Miss E, but Id like to reassure her that I 
have considered everything.Miss E is unhappy that Funding Circle didnt answer all her queries in a timely manner and 
provided contradictory information. I understand why Miss E wanted more frequent 
communication and updates. I appreciate that Miss E has spent time trying to find out more 
information and this has caused her frustration. Funding Circle has apologised for this. While 
Miss Es expectation is that there should be more frequent updates and every query she 
raises should be answered, Funding Circle says there will only be an update on a loan 
providing there is a material change. So clearly there is difference in position. I havent found 
Funding Circle promised or was obliged to provide the level of service Miss E required. 
While I agree updates could have been better, ultimately, I dont think more detailed or 
frequent updates would have led to Miss E facing a different situation with regards to the 
losses she experienced on this loan. And Ive already decided I think Funding Circle has 
treated her fairly and in line with its obligations in respect of the recovery actions after the 
loan defaulted.  
Having reviewed the circumstances of this loan and the relevant evidence, I dont find that 
Funding Circle is responsible for the losses Miss E has incurred. Ive found that Funding 
Circle did act in a fair and reasonable way when completing recovery actions on this loan. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 October 2022.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman