DRN-4509355
The complaint
Ms A and Mr B complain that Vacation Finance Limited trading as VFL Finance Solutions 
(VFL) - didnt provide a fair and reasonable response to their claim under sections 75 and 
140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA) in relation to a timeshare product 
financed by a loan they provided.  
What happened
In or around June 2019, Ms A and Mr B were holidaying using an existing timeshare product 
theyd previously purchased from a supplier who Ill refer to as A. During the course of their 
holiday, they were invited to attend an update meeting with A which, they say, turned into a 
sales presentation.
As a consequence of the meeting, Ms A and Mr B agreed to purchase another timeshare 
product at an agreed purchase price of £25,000. They say this was funded, in part, under a 
regulated loan agreement with VFL for £17,500 over a term of 120 months.
In June 2021, using a professional representative (the PR), Ms A and Mr B submitted a 
claim to VFL under sections 75 and 140A of the CCA. The PR alleged that Ms A and Mr B 
purchased the timeshare product having relied upon representations made by A which 
turned out not to be true. And under section 75 of the CCA (S75), VFL are jointly liable for 
those misrepresentations. In particular, the PR allege A had misrepresented the product as 
an excellent investment which could be sold at a profit whenever Ms A and Mr B wished, as 
part of As re-sale scheme. But, despite being on the re-sale scheme for several years, the 
timeshare product hasnt sold.
The PR also allege that the misrepresentation, together with other things done (or not done) 
by A rendered the relationship with VFL, under the agreements, unfair pursuant to section 
140A of the CCA (S140A). In particular, the PR allege that A:
pressured Ms A and Mr B into entering the purchase and loan agreements using 
aggressive commercial practices;
allowed them no time to read or consider the information provided;
failed to undertake appropriate affordability checks for the loan; 
failed to advise Ms A and Mr B of any commission they received from VFL;
made no comparisons to other loan companies; and
didnt inform Ms A and Mr B that they were free to arrange their own finance.
The PR also said that A are in liquidation, so cant provide the service sold. They suggest 
this constitutes a breach of contract which VFL are jointly liable for under S75.
VFL didnt uphold Ms A and Mr Bs claim. They didnt agree there was any evidence to 
support the allegations of misrepresentation. Or that there was any evidence to support the 
allegations of unfairness under S140A. They also didnt think there was any evidence of loss 
from the alleged breach of contract.
The PR didnt agree with VFLs findings, so referred Ms A and Mr Bs claim to this service as 
a complaint. One of this services investigators considered all the information and evidence 
provided. Having done so, they didnt think VFLs failure to uphold Ms A and Mr Bs claim 
was unfair or unreasonable. In particular, our investigator said they werent able to find any 
evidence to support the various allegations.
Ms A, Mr B and the PR didnt agree with our investigators findings. So, asked that their 
complaint be referred to an ombudsman to consider further. To support their arguments, 
they:
insisted the product had been represented as an investment, consistent with previous 
sales and purchase with A that Ms A and Mr B were party to:
outlined other purchase Ms A and Mr B had made through A;
referenced the findings of other of this services investigators suggesting that As 
resale programme featured prominently in their sales presentations;
referenced alleged breaches of the Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and 
Exchange Contracts Regulations 2010 (the TRs);
referenced various reports and publications relating to the viability of the secondary 
market for timeshares pointing out that our investigator had failed to assess Ms A 
and Mr Bs claims properly; and
provided further details from Ms A and Mr Bs recollections of the sales presentation 
with A.
As an informal resolution couldnt be achieved, Ms A and Mr Bs complaint was passed to 
me to consider further. Having done that, while I was inclined to reach the same outcome as 
our investigator, I considered a number of issues which I dont feel were previously fully 
addressed or explained. So, I issued a provisional decision on 14 November 2023 giving 
both sides the opportunity to respond.
In my provisional decision I said:
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, DISP1 3.6.4R of the FCA2 Handbook 
means Im required to take into account; relevant law and regulations, relevant 
regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider was good industry practice at the relevant time.
S75 provides consumers with protection for goods or services bought using credit. 
Its claimed that Ms A and Mr B paid for the timeshare product under a restricted use 
fixed sum loan agreement. So, where thats the case, it isnt in dispute that S75 
applies. This means Ms A and Mr B would be afforded the protection offered to 
borrowers like them under those provisions. And as a result, Ive taken this section 
into account when deciding whats fair in the circumstances of this case.
S140A looks at the fairness of the relationship between Ms A, Mr B and VFL arising 
out of the credit agreement (taken together with any related agreements). And 
because the product purchased was funded under that credit agreement, theyre 
deemed to be related agreements. Only a court has the power to make a 
determination under S140A. But as its relevant law, Ive considered it when deciding 
what I believe is fair and reasonable. 
Its important to distinguish between the complaint being considered here and the 
legal claim. The complaint this service is able to consider specifically relates to 
whether I believe VFLs failure to uphold Ms A and Mr Bs claim was fair and 
1 Dispute Resolution: The Complaints sourcebook (DISP)
2 Financial Conduct Authorityreasonable given all the evidence and information available to me, rather than 
actually deciding the legal claim itself. 
Its also relevant to stress that this services role as an Alternative Dispute Resolution 
Service (ADR) is to provide mediation in the event of a dispute. While the decision 
of an ombudsman can be legally binding, if accepted by the consumer, we dont 
provide a legal service. And as Ive already said, this service isnt able to make legal 
findings  that is the role of the courts. Where a consumer doesnt accept the findings 
of an ombudsman, this doesnt prejudice their right to pursue their claim in other 
ways.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, my 
decision is made on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive 
based it on what I think is more likely than not to have happened given the evidence 
thats available from the time and the wider circumstances. In doing so, my role isnt 
necessarily to address in my decision every single point thats been made. And for 
that reason, Im only going to refer to what I believe are the most salient points 
having considered everything thats been said and provided.
The claim submitted by the PR suggests Ms A and Mr B entered into the credit 
agreement on 13 June 2019. I cant see that a copy of the credit agreement has been 
provided, although I have seen a copy of an annual statement issued by VFL to Ms A 
and Mr B in February 2020 relating to a loan of £17,500 which started on 20 October 
2019  more than four months after the date suggested by the PR in their claim. So, 
based upon this information, its unclear whether that loan did, in fact, relate to a 
timeshare product purchased in June 2019. However, as VFL have referenced the 
purchase in their final response to the claim, Im content to continue on the basis VFL 
appear content that the loan and purchase were related.
Was the timeshare product misrepresented?
For me to conclude there was misrepresentation by A in the way that has been 
alleged, generally speaking, I would need to be satisfied, based on the available 
evidence, that A made false statements of fact when selling the timeshare product. In 
other words, that they told Ms A and Mr B something that wasnt true in relation to the 
allegation raised. I would also need to be satisfied that the misrepresentation was 
material in inducing Ms A and Mr B to enter into the purchase contract. This means I 
would need to be persuaded that they reasonably relied upon false statements when 
deciding to buy the timeshare points.
From the information available, I cant be certain about what Ms A and Mr B were 
specifically told (or not told) about the benefits of the products they purchased. It 
was, however, indicated that they were told these things. So, Ive thought about that 
alongside the evidence that is available from the time. Although not determinative of 
the matter, I havent seen any documentation which supports the assertions in Ms A 
and Mr Bs claim, such as marketing material or documentation from the time of the 
sale that echoes what the PR says they were told. In particular that the product was 
represented as an investment that could be sold at a profit. Theres simply no 
reference to this within the limited documentation provided.
I think it unlikely the product can have been marketed and sold as an investment 
contrary to the TRs simply because there might have been some inherent value to it. 
And in any event, Ive found nothing within the evidence provided to suggest A gave 
any assurances or guarantees about the future value of the product Ms A and Mr B 
purchased. A would had to have presented the product in such a way that used any 
investment element to persuade them to contract. Only then would they have fallen 
foul of the prohibition on marketing and selling certain holiday products as an 
investment, contrary to Regulation 14(3) of the TRs.The PR have referred to other (similar) cases and complaints suggesting that these 
give clear evidence of systematic failures and breaches in As sales presentations 
and representations. My role here is to consider the evidence available specifically 
relating to Mr and Mrs Ds experience within the context of their claim here. Whilst I 
acknowledge the PRs comments, it isnt the role of this service to make legal 
findings (or otherwise) about A or their actions  substantiated or not. Because of 
that, Im unable to consider findings in other complaints as I cant see how these 
would assist me in establishing the facts of what actually happened in the specific 
circumstances of Ms A and Mr Bs purchase here.
Furthermore, I havent seen any evidence to suggest that A were contractually bound 
to provide a timeshare resale service. And even if they were, Ive seen nothing that 
suggests they gave any guarantee of a successful sale or that a profit could be 
achieved. While Ms A and Mr B may have intended to purchase the timeshare 
product as a financial investment, I cant conclude, with any certainty, that intention 
was due to anything A said to them. 
Based upon the specific evidence available relating to Ms A and Mr Bs claim here, I 
cant say, with any certainty, that A did misrepresent the product in the manner 
alleged.
The breach of contract claim under S75
As far as I understand, whilst A may have entered an insolvency process, the current 
management company confirm that timeshare owners remain able to fully utilise their 
timeshare products subject to the associated agreements. So, in the absence of any 
specific explanation or evidence to support why Ms A and Mr B believe theres been 
a breach of contract which resulted in a loss for them, I havent seen anything that 
would lead me to conclude there was such a breach.
The unfair relationship claim under S140A
The court may make an order under S140B in connection with a credit agreement if it 
determines that the relationship between the creditor (VFL) and the debtor (Ms A and 
Mr B) is unfair to the debtor because of one or more of the following (from S140A):
a) any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
b) the way in which the creditor has exercised or enforced any of the rights 
under the agreement or any related agreement;
c) any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, the creditor (either 
before or after the making of the agreement or any related agreement).
The breadth of the unfair relationship test under S140A is stark. But a simple breach 
of a legal or equitable duty doesnt necessarily make the relationship unfair. It also 
isnt just about hard-edged requirements  though the standard of commercial 
conduct reasonably expected can be important. And while there may be features of 
the transaction that operate harshly against the debtor, it doesnt necessarily follow 
that the relationship is unfair. After all, such features may be required in order to 
protect what a court regards as legitimate interests. 
Relationships between businesses and private individuals are also often 
characterised by large differences of knowledge and expertise  which means theyre 
inherently unequal as a result. But as far as the Supreme Court was concerned in 
Plevin3, it cant have been parliaments intention that such relationships should be 
liable to be reopened for that reason alone.
3 The Supreme Courts judgement in Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Ltd [2014]In deciding whether to make a determination under this section the court shall have 
regard to all matters it thinks are relevant (including matters relating to the creditor 
and matters relating to the debtor). And I think its relevant to acknowledge Ms A and 
Mr Bs existing membership and relationship with A. Theyd previously purchased 
products from A, so I think its reasonable to conclude that at the time of the 
purchase in June 2019, they had a reasonably strong awareness about the product 
they purchased, how it operated and any associated costs. I also think its 
reasonable to conclude Ms A and Mr B were familiar with A (as a timeshare supplier) 
the format of their meetings and sales presentations, and their documentation. 
Particularly as the purchase in June 2019 certainly wasnt their first. 
The pressured sale and process
The claim suggests Ms A and Mr B were pressured into purchasing the product and 
entering into the finance agreement with VFL. I acknowledge what the PR have said 
about this. So, I can understand why it might be argued that any prolonged 
presentation might have felt like a pressured sale  especially if, as Ms A and Mr B 
approached the closing stages, they were going to have to make a decision on the 
day in order to avoid missing out on an offer that may not have been available at a 
later date.
Against the straightforward measure of pressure as its commonly understood, I find 
it hard to argue that Ms A and Mr B agreed to the purchase and the finance 
agreement in 2019 when they simply didnt want to. I havent seen any evidence to 
demonstrate that they went on to say something to A, after the purchase, suggesting 
theyd agreed to it when they didnt want to. And neither the PR, Ms A nor Mr B have 
provided a credible explanation for why they didnt subsequently seek to cancel the 
transaction within the 14-day cooling off period permitted here  both under the 
purchase and loan agreements. 
If they only agreed to the purchase because they felt pressured, I find this aspect 
difficult to reconcile with the allegation in question. I havent seen anything 
substantive to suggest Ms A and Mr B were obviously harassed or coerced into the 
agreements. And because of that, Im not persuaded that theres sufficient evidence 
to demonstrate that they made the decision to proceed because their ability to 
exercise choice was  or was likely to have been  significantly impaired contrary to 
the Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading Regulations (CPUT).
Time to read and consider the information provided
Ive thought about the information that I believe should have been provided to Ms A 
and Mr B as required under the TRs. Ive seen very little from the time of the sale 
here, although theres no suggestion that A didnt provide all the required 
documentation. 
Whilst its possible Ms A and Mr B werent given sufficient time to read and consider 
the contents of the documentation at the times of the sale, even if I were to find that 
was the case  and I make no such finding  Its clear they still had 14 days to 
consider their purchase and raise any questions or concerns they mightve had. And 
ultimately, if they were unhappy or uncertain, they couldve cancelled the agreement 
without incurring any costs.
Furthermore, I understand the finance agreement also included a 
withdrawal/cancellation period of 14 days. But I havent seen any evidence that Ms A 
and Mr B did raise any questions or concerns about either agreement. 
As responsibilities and disclosure of commission paid
Part of Ms A and Mr Bs S140A claim is based upon the status of A (as the introducer 
of the loan) and their (and VFLs) resultant responsibilities towards them. In particular, its argued that the payment of commission by VFL to A was kept from 
them. In response to the claim, VFL confirm that no commission was paid here. 
That said, I dont think any payment of commission by VFL to A wouldve been 
incompatible with their role in the transaction. A werent acting as an agent of Ms A 
and Mr B, but as the supplier of contractual rights they obtained under the timeshare 
product agreement. And, in relation to the loan, based upon what Ive seen so far, it 
doesnt appear it was As role to make an impartial or disinterested recommendation, 
or to give Ms A and Ms B advice or information on that basis. As far as Im aware, 
they was always at liberty to choose how they wanted to fund the transaction. 
Whats more, I havent found anything to suggest VFL were under any regulatory 
duty to disclose the amount of any commission paid in these circumstances. Nor is 
there any suggestion or evidence that Ms A and Mr B requested those details from 
VFL (or A) at any point. And on that basis, Im not persuaded its likely that a court 
would find that any non-disclosure or payment of commission wouldve created an 
unfair debtor-creditor relationship under S140A, given the circumstances of this 
complaint.
Were the required lending checks undertaken?
There are certain aspects of Ms A and Mr Bs complaint that could be considered 
outside of S75 and S140A. In particular, in relation to whether VFL undertook a 
proper credit assessment. The PR allege that a proper affordability check wasnt 
completed by A.
Ordinarily, responsibility falls with the lender to conduct affordability checks as set out 
within the Office of Fair Tradings (OFT) Irresponsible Lending Guidelines  VFL in 
this case. In response to the claim, VFL said theyd followed their usual process and 
conducted and appropriate affordability assessment. 
Its relevant that the PR havent provided any evidence to show that the loans were 
unaffordable or unsuitable for Ms A and Mr B. And Ive not seen anything that 
supports any suggestion of financial difficulty from that time. 
If I were to find that VFL hadnt complied with the regulatory guidelines and 
requirements that applied here  and I make no such finding  I would need to be 
satisfied that had such checks been completed, they wouldve revealed that the loan 
repayments werent sustainably affordable for Ms A and Mr B in order to uphold their 
complaint here. Furthermore, even if I were to find that VFL failed to comply with 
those regulations  and I also make no such finding - I dont believe that would 
automatically mean that the loan agreement is null and void. It would need to be 
proven that any such failures resulted in a loss to Ms A and Mr B as a consequence.
But as Ive seen no specific information about MS A and Mr Bs actual position at the 
time and no supporting evidence that they struggled to maintain repayments, I cant 
reasonably conclude the loan was unaffordable for them. Or that they suffered any 
loss as a consequence.
Summary
I want to reassure Ms A and Mr B that Ive carefully considered everything thats 
been said and provided. Having done so, I havent found any evidence from the time 
of the sale to support the allegations included within their claim. So, I cant say that 
VFLs failure to uphold it was ultimately unfair or unreasonable. And because of that, 
I dont currently intend to ask them to do anything more.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Despite follow up by this service, none of the parties to this complaint have provided any 
new information, comment or evidence in response to my provisional decision. So, in the 
circumstances, Ive no reason to vary from those findings.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms A and Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman