DRN-3094755
The complaint
Miss R complains about the quality of goods and services received when she paid for a new 
bathroom to be installed with a loan provided by Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc (trading as Hitachi 
Personal Finance) (HPF).
What happened
In August 2019 Miss R entered into an agreement with a third party supplier (that Ill call K) 
to supply and fit a new bathroom. She financed the purchase with a fixed sum loan from 
HPF. The bathroom cost nearly £10,000 and the cost of credit was around £15,000. Miss R 
agreed to pay back about £25,000 over the 11 year agreement duration  at about £200 a 
month for 10 years starting 12 months after supply.
Miss R was unhappy with the quality of the installation work and some of the goods 
provided. She couldnt sort things out with K so she got in touch with HPF. Miss R told HPF 
that some things had been misrepresented and K had not kept to the terms of the contract - 
in that goods and services were not supplied as agreed and/or to the appropriate standard. 
Amongst other things, Miss R said theres no extractor fan, flooring is bumpy with dents, the 
floor is not level, the bath panel is falling apart, the ceiling leaks, the floor and walls werent 
stripped and re-plastered, the hot water for the bath is connected to the bathroom radiator, 
the plinth around the bath is not wide enough and edging has not been fitted correctly 
creating a trip hazard, the handbasin is not level and water collects on the right side, wall 
cladding has peeled off in places, the door frame is out of level and has gaps, the soil pipe 
lacks a vent pipe, she was overcharged, K caused a leak when it fixed a waste pipe in the 
kitchen which damaged the floor and a freezer and she was mis-led into signing the 
satisfaction note.
HPF got in touch with K who said there were some outstanding issues but these had been 
resolved and the extractor was due to be fitted shortly. The work K did in Miss Rs kitchen 
was not paid for under the loan so HPF told Miss R she would have to take that up with K 
direct. Miss R and K continued to disagree about the scope of the works, the specification 
and remedial works required and HPF appointed an independent expert to inspect in 2020. 
He provided a report in March and found (in summary):-
part of the floor near the door is not level, theres a dip and it looks as if flooring was 
laid over the existing floor without being levelled off; 
the sink is level but has a slope that cannot be repaired;
pieces have been used to make up the door frame instead of one long full piece, 
joints haven't been filled and there are gaps;
trim around the windows above the handbasin is loose and moving and needs 
removing and refitting correctly; 
plastic trim around the edge of the flooring on the step leading to the bath has come 
off, this probably wasnt fixed properly and needs to be removed and re-fixed; 
cladding on the wall by the window above the handbasin is loose  it could be 
pressed in and the seal had broken due to the way it was fitted - cladding needs to 
be removed and some packing put behind and then resealed.
Following the experts inspection, K agreed to 
re fit the existing flooring and self-level beside the door;
order another sink to compare how they sit on the left hand side (on the proviso this 
comes from the manufacturer and may not be something that can be resolved);
remake the door frame and replace window trim above the sink;
re-trim around the step up on the bathroom floor; 
replace cladding on the window wall above the sink and pack the wall out for 
cladding to re-sit.
HPF thought this was fair but Miss R didnt agree. She wants the bathroom she paid for or 
her old bathroom back and compensation so she referred the matter to our service. 
One of our investigators looked at the evidence. She thought it was reasonable of HPF to 
instruct an independent expert and shes satisfied that K accepted what the expert said and 
agreed to fix things. She thinks Ks entitled to have the opportunity to repair, under the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) and shes not persuaded that misrepresentations were 
made. She considers Miss R was offered a reasonable resolution to her claim and didnt 
recommend HPF should have to do more.
Miss R didnt accept the investigators view. She says there are additional quality issues, 
some incorrect materials were used and she doesnt trust K to rectify faults  given whats 
happened already. She instructed a second independent expert to provide a report. The 
second expert found the following (in summary):-
the vanity unity and toilet are out of level and the door to the vanity unit catches on 
the plinth and needs adjusting; 
the raised platform around bath has a poor finish and trim is insecure; 
electrics require test and certification; 
multiple issues with cladding  expected profiles not used and trim supplied is black 
not chrome as per the contract;
depth of window sills are inconsistent and sills are not capped; 
theres no evidence of plaster boarding and the door liner depth suggests this was 
not done; 
flooring  theres no evidence of boarding or self-levelling compound and this is out 
of level in the entrance and by the bath platform; 
inappropriate plastic chrome finish trim to flooring threshold, which is out of line with 
the flooring manufacturers recommendations resulting in failure.The investigator thought the second experts findings were much the same as the remedial 
works already offered by K. Shes satisfied materials were supplied as specified and, whilst 
walls should have been plaster-boarded (according to the specification), thats not the same 
as plastered. She remains of the view K should have the chance to put things right. Shes 
not persuaded that HPF has treated Miss R unfairly or acted unreasonably and doesnt 
recommend it should have to do anything further.
Miss R remains unhappy. She feels the offer K made will result in things being patched up 
and she wont get the bathroom she paid for. She wants a different contractor to refit the 
bathroom to a proper standard using the right materials. She asked for an ombudsman to 
review the matter.
Having considered the evidence I was minded to uphold this complaint. I issued a 
provisional decision on 3 September 2021 to let the parties see my provisional findings and 
respond (if they wanted to) before I made my final decision. What I decided provisionally  
and why - is set out below and this forms part of my final decision.  
My provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Miss R has strong feelings about what happened here and I want to assure 
her that I have considered everything thats been said and sent to us carefully. If I dont 
address every single point thats been raised, its not because I havent thought about it. But, 
Im going to concentrate in this decision on the key issues that I think are relevant and 
material to reaching a fair and reasonable outcome overall.
This service provides informal resolution for individual disputes between financial businesses 
and their customers. We are impartial and we investigate complaints and reach our 
conclusions (without interference from anyone else) on the civil standard of the balance of 
probabilities. This means, where facts are in dispute and evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory - as some of it is here - I make my decision based on what I 
think is most likely to have happened, in light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
Section 75
Miss R paid for the goods and services that K provided here with a loan from HPF. She 
brings this complaint about HPF to the Financial Ombudsman Service under section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) which makes a lender equally liable with a supplier for 
breach of contract and misrepresentation, in certain circumstances.
I make my decision based on what I consider to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
And Im required to take taking relevant law (among other things) into account. But its not 
my role to apply the law - only a court can do that. In this complaint, Im looking at whether 
HPF has taken appropriate steps in response to Miss Rs section 75 claim. Im satisfied it is 
reasonable to take section 75 into account in the circumstances here so Ive gone on to 
consider whether theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by K. 
Im satisfied that K was required (under the CRA) to provide goods of satisfactory quality and 
services of reasonable skill and care. I can see that Miss R considers some of the products 
K used were not the ones she ordered. I cant be certain what was said exactly when 
materials were discussed so I checked the paperwork provided at the time  which seems to 
consist of two plans dated 17 and 21 August 2019. These show - in varying levels of detail - the bathroom layout and various products along with order specifications and a short 
description of the work to be carried out. Im satisfied that Miss R signed both schedules to 
confirm her agreement. And, as far as I can see, the products specified (including flooring) 
were supplied.
What (if anything) went wrong ?
There seems to be no dispute now that the installation work doesnt meet the appropriate 
standard. Broadly speaking, both experts found much the same faults present but they 
diverge somewhat on the nature and extent of whats required to put things right. 
The first expert confirms there are issues with the bathroom floor and flooring, wall cladding, 
the door frame, the handbasin and various bits of trim. And, whilst he recommends these 
should all be replaced, I can see that its possible to interpret this as rectifying only the 
specific areas highlighted. Im satisfied that the second expert, on the other hand, 
recommends the full removal and re-fitting of wall and floor coverings (amongst other things) 
I think both experts seem to have relevant qualifications and experience and its reasonable 
to give some weight to what theyve said. But, I find the report of the second expert to be 
more thorough and persuasive than the first. I think £10,000 (approximately) is a relatively 
substantial sum for a bathroom of this size containing only a bath with shower mixer, 
handbasin/vanity unit with mixer tap and a toilet. I havent seen a breakdown between the 
cost of materials and labour, but I think Miss R had a reasonable expectation that the 
installation work would be carried out to a proper standard. And Im minded to find it is fair 
and reasonable for rectification work to be carried out in accordance with the 
recommendations of the second expert.
Putting things right
For clarity, Ive set out below the work I think is required (based mainly on the report of the 
second expert):-
wall coverings require full removal (not just the wall by the window) and re-fitting 
using the correct installation methods and accessories  and, if walls werent plaster 
boarded in line with the specification, this should be rectified; 
flooring should also be removed fully and refitted using the correct components to 
create a step, with the sub floor correctly prepared (namely self levelling compound) 
throughout - not just levelled by the door; 
the vanity unity and toilet should be levelled and the door to the vanity unit adjusted 
so it doesnt catch on the plinth; 
the raised platform around bath should be finished properly with secure trim; 
re-make and re-fit the doorframe; 
electrics should be tested and certified; and 
the depth of window sills should be consistent and sills capped.
If theres any doubt or disagreement about this, I think it would be reasonable for the second 
expert to be instructed  at no cost to Miss R  to provide clarification and/or draw up an 
appropriate schedule of rectification works.I realise that Miss R would rather a different contractor, not K, was instructed to undertake 
the rectification work. And Im mindful the second expert says a competent contractor should 
be engaged to carry out repairs. In considering whats appropriate, Ive thought about what K 
and HPF (under section 75) are responsible for - as well as whats happened already. And, 
taking everything Ive seen so far into account, Im inclined to find it is reasonable to give K 
the opportunity to fix things.
I appreciate this may feel unfair to Miss R. And I think its understandable shes concerned 
about the standard of workmanship  in light of whats gone on previously. So, in the event 
the parties are unable to agree that the rectification work has been completed satisfactorily, I 
think it would be fair to engage the second expert (at no cost to Miss R) to approve the work 
on completion. I think this represents a fair - and proportionate  outcome overall, in these 
particular circumstances. It gives K the opportunity to put things right and provides some 
reassurance for Miss R that the work will be finished to the appropriate standard.
For the reasons Ive set out, Im not persuaded its likely materials were misrepresented but 
Im satisfied the installation work was not undertaken with reasonable skill and care, in 
breach of contract. Im inclined to find it is fair and reasonable for K to have the chance to 
put things right in accordance with the recommendations of the second expert. And, if the 
parties are unable to agree, the second expert should be engaged to approve the completed 
work.
I think it is likely Miss R has experienced distress and inconvenience because K didnt carry 
out the work to the appropriate standard and Im minded to find she should be paid £200 
compensation to reflect that. I consider she should also have the cost of the second experts 
report refunded  because she had to pay for that as a result of Ks breach of contract.
I invited the parties to let me have any further comments or information that they wanted me 
to take into account before I made my final decision. The time set for responses has now 
passed and both parties have provided relatively detailed submissions which Ive 
summarised below. 
The responses received from the parties 
Miss R accepts my provisional conclusions, in part. She says:- 
she did her research before purchase, average prices for a bathroom of this size are 
about £3,500 to £5,000 and she chose K for the quality and high standards on offer;
she had savings and didnt intend take out finance originally, she was persuaded to 
do so in case of unexpected bills, and told if she chose not to use it within a year it 
would only cost £30, she didnt realise the finance commenced upon delivery of 
materials;
she thinks she would have had more options to withhold payment if the purchase 
hadnt been funded by finance in which case K might have rectified things sooner if 
shed been able to withhold payment, she wants K to return the payment to HPF so 
HPF can provide a refund and shell pay cash when the bathroom has been fitted 
properly, as she intended in the first place;
she signed to accept materials when she was at work - so she did not see them - and 
she wasnt able to witness jobs being carried out due to work commitments, when 
she had an opportunity to inspect properly after completion she pointed issues out 
straightaway;materials are in code on the paperwork so she didnt realise they werent what she 
wanted - she specifically asked for laminate/wood flooring as tiles or vinyl are not 
suitable and she was assured a different type of better quality cladding in large 
panels would be used, she wants the bespoke unit, large blocks of cladding and 
laminate flooring as agreed at the outset as well as the other jobs - like plastering 
and floor levelling - completed properly;
she accepts the refund for the second experts report and agrees to remedial works 
on the understanding that new materials will be used rather than existing taken off 
and put back; 
shes unhappy that the compensation doesnt cover the cost of plumbing and kitchen 
floor replacement  which the installer took upon himself to fix; and 
£200 isnt enough compensation for all shes been through - she was laughed at, 
shouted at and bullied to sign forms she didnt agree with, her health suffered, she 
had a breakdown and had to close her business and this whole experience has left 
her worse off financially and devalued her house. 
HPF says documents provided already show that the initial installation was completed to 
Miss Rs satisfaction. It doesnt think it should have to pay for the second experts report as 
this wasnt required, it doesnt identify any new issues and more or less mirrors the works 
detailed in the first report - confirming that Ks offer of rectification work was correct. HPF 
accepts some issues need to be addressed but it is concerned about what will happen of 
Miss R refuses access  as K has tried to attend already but Miss R has refused - as she 
wants products to be replaced with new, which is not agreed or required. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Miss Rs strength of feeling about what happened. I appreciate she may wish 
shed never taken out this loan but Im not persuaded there are enough fair and reasonable 
grounds to conclude that it was mis-sold. I think the key terms are set out fairly prominently 
on the face of the agreement  including the interest rate and amount she had to pay each 
month as well as the deferred payment period and the duration of the loan term. I can see it 
says - in bold - if Miss R repaid the credit in full by the first payment date (deferred for 12 
months) then she would not have to pay interest but she would have to pay a fee of £29. 
And I cant reasonably conclude that this was misrepresented. 
For the reasons Ive set out above, Im satisfied there has been a breach of contract here 
and I think its understandable that Miss R feels let down by K. But, Im not persuaded this 
means I can reasonably find HPF should cancel the loan and provide a refund in the way 
that shed like. As Ive explained already, Im looking at HPFs obligations arising out of the 
finance here and considering if it acted fairly and reasonably in response to Miss Rs section 
75 claim. Im satisfied this means (amongst other things) I cant reasonably hold HPF 
responsible for work undertaken in the kitchen and elsewhere that falls outside of the 
bathroom installation funded by the loan HPF provided. 
I realise Miss R would like me to require K to fit several brand new products  because she 
thinks the ones that have been installed already are not what was agreed at the outset. I 
accept the relevant paperwork contains only the brochure codes for some products. But Im 
not persuaded thats unusual in this situation. And I dont think its unreasonable to expect a 
customer like Miss R to check at the time that the goods being ordered were the products she wanted. Im satisfied that Miss R signed both schedules to confirm she agreed the 
content. I think the products specified seem to be the ones that were supplied. And I cant 
fairly require K to install different products now. 
Ive seen nothing to suggest that existing products cant be removed and refitted properly  
except where the second expert has pointed out that incorrect or unexpected/inappropriate 
trim and profiles have been used. And Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable to 
require K to supply brand new materials where existing goods can be removed and re-
applied to the appropriate standard.  
Ive considered the certificates of satisfaction signed by Miss R that HPF refers to. As HPF 
will be aware, Miss R has consistently maintained that she felt pressured to sign these 
documents and did so before she had the chance to check things properly. In any event, I 
cant see that this paperwork takes matters much further - given both experts found the work 
wasnt completed satisfactorily and K has accepted that.     
I acknowledged in my provisional decision that the experts had found much the same faults - 
but I also explained that I thought they diverged significantly as to the nature and extent of 
the rectification work required. For the reasons I set out, I prefer the report of the second 
expert. Im satisfied she is clear that the full removal and re-fitting of wall and floor coverings 
is required - not just in certain areas. And she also identified additional issues that were not 
highlighted in the first experts report (such as the vanity unit and toilet are out of level, 
electrics require testing and certification, unexpected profiles and inappropriate or incorrect 
trim used and theres no evidence of plaster-boarding). I remain of the view it was 
reasonable for Miss R to obtain this report and I find it fair she should have the cost 
refunded. 
Ive given some thought to what Miss R says about compensation. I understand shes had a 
difficult time and Im sorry to hear about everything shes been through. However, as Ive 
explained, I cant fairly hold HPF responsible for everything that happened here. I am 
satisfied that Miss R has experienced upset and inconvenience as a result of Ks breach of 
contract. And I remain of the view that £200 is fair and reasonable compensation for that, in 
all of the circumstances. 
I realise this decision may come as something of a disappointment to Miss R (in particular) 
as its not the outcome she hoped for. Its up to Miss R to decide if she wants to accept what 
Ive said. If she does, then K will clearly need access in order to carry out the remedial work 
required. Miss R is not however obliged to accept my decision - in which case, it remains 
open to her to pursue the matter by any other means available.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my decision is I uphold this complaint and I require Hitachi 
Capital (UK) Plc (trading as Hitachi Personal Finance) to:-
1. arrange for rectification work to be carried out in accordance with the second experts 
recommendations;
2. in the event, the parties are unable to agree that the works referred to at 1 above 
have been completed satisfactorily, engage the second expert to inspect and 
approve the works on completion (at no additional cost to Miss R);
3. refund the cost of the second experts report to Miss R  on provision of documentary 
evidence that cost was incurred; and 4. pay Miss R £200 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 December 2021.
 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman