DRN-2209839
The complaint
Mr T complains that Klarna Bank AB (publ) refused to cancel his loan agreement and pay 
him fair compensation in respect of a faulty phone.
What happened
Our investigator set out the background in some detail in her view and I hope both parties 
will recognise that while this is only a brief summary of the key events, I have taken into 
account all their representations and evidence. 
Mr T bought a new phone from a supplier I will call S. This was funded by a fixed sum loan 
agreement for £741.60. When it arrived the seal was broken and he returned it to S which 
told him it would cancel the agreement. Mr T says he returned the phone to S using the 
return slip and envelope provide via a courier sent by S. S says it didnt receive it, but it had 
received his old phone which had been used as part exchange.
Later S emailed to say he would get a full refund in due course. This didnt happen and Mr T 
contacted Klarna. It said that it was waiting for S to cancel the order. Mr T brought his 
complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our investigators who 
recommended it be upheld. He noted the conflicting messages Mr T had been given by S 
and Klarna. He asked S for details of the return of the old phone, but it couldnt supply the 
address to which it had been returned. 
After our involvement Klarna offered cancel the agreement, refund all the payments and pay 
Mr T £100 compensation. Our investigator thought the compensation should be £250. He 
noted S had previously offered Mr T £150 in August 2019. He also said that it should refund 
the trade in price for the old phone unless S could document that this had already been paid 
to Mr T. Klarna said it was waiting to hear from S, but several months have passed and it is 
only fair that Mr T receive a resolution to his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having read the detailed email exchanges and other material it seems that there has been a 
lot of confusion and about what has happened to the two phones. S appears to have 
provided contradictory evidence about the return of these phones to its warehouse and what 
happened to them thereafter. Mr T has provided a clear and consistent version of events and 
I find his testimony credible. 
I than that on balance Mr T has returned both the new phone and the old one he was trading 
in to S and these seem to have been confused within its systems. S offered to cancel the 
agreement over a year ago but matters have been delayed and it seems to have resiled from 
that offer. However, after the matter was brought to this service Klarna changed its thinking 
and offered to cancel the agreement. That means the only issue of substance left for me to 
consider is the level of redress.
Putting things right
Klarna has offered Mr T £100 compensation, but our investigator has suggested £250. I can 
see the trouble and upset that has been caused to Mr T who suffers from a debilitating 
illness and in the circumstances, I find myself in agreement with our investigator.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Klarna Bank AB (publ) to:
cancel the agreement
pay a further £150 for compensation (total of £250) for the trouble and upset that this 
has caused Mr T
refund the payments he has made and add 8% interest from the date of payment to 
date of settlement
refund the trade in value offered by S for the old phone he traded in and add 8% 
interest from the date agreement to date of settlement
remove any adverse information from the credit file about this agreement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2020.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman