DRN-2505332
The complaint
Mrs L is unhappy with her replacement garage door installed by Liverpool Victoria Insurance 
Company Limited (LV) after a claim under her home insurance.
Im only going to refer to LV in my decision but Im talking about all representatives and 
appointed experts working on its behalf.
What happened
In late 2017 Mrs L made a claim to LV following her garage door being damaged during an 
attempted theft. LV arranged for a replacement up and over garage door. During the first few 
months after installation, LV attended Mrs Ls property to fix issues with the garage door. 
When Mrs L had further issues with the garage door in 2019 and 2020, LV attended again. 
But Mrs L says they refused to fix an issue reported in August 2020. So she complained to 
LV. 
In its final response letter, LV noted that the warranty on the replacement garage door had 
expired in March 2019. They noted that they had been to fix an issue after the end of the 
warranty as a gesture of goodwill. But they were no longer able to carry out further repairs. 
On referral to this service, our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Ls complaint. He agreed that 
the guarantee had run out. So he felt LV hadnt done anything wrong.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs L says that she noticed an intermittent fault with the garage door in August 2019. By 
December 2019, she says the door still wasnt opening properly. And that it sometimes 
wouldnt open at all. LV attended to fix the issue in January 2020. They felt theyd fixed the 
problem at that point. But in February 2020 LV went back to fix the same issue. In May 2020 
Mrs L found the door wasnt closing properly, so she called LV again. They asked her to 
write to them to explain the problem. Mrs L did this in early June 2020 but heard nothing 
back. In late June 2020 Mrs L called LV for an update. They asked her to send videos of the 
problem. So in early July 2020 Mrs L did that. In early August 2020 LV attended, attempted 
to fix the issue and to explain to Mrs L what the problem was. A few days later Mrs L called 
LV again, but they refused to attend. 
Given this order of events, I need to decide if LV did anything wrong when they refused to 
attend. 
The guarantee
Ive seen the guarantee on Mrs Ls garage door. Mrs Ls garage door is made from timber. 
But Ive included the wording for both Garage Doors and Timber Garage Doors as Mrs L 
says the wording was unclear:
LV guarantee the materials, components and labour supplied to you (the Customer) upon 
and subject to the terms set out below:
Garage Doors (Excluding Timber) & associated products  2 years
Timber Windows, Doors, Patio Doors, Garage Doors  12 months
This guarantee commences from the date of completion of works by LV.
The new garage door was installed on 13 March 2018. As the new door is made of timber, it 
was under guarantee for 12 months. So the guarantee would have expired on 12 March 
2019. But I can see how Mrs L has found the wording under the guarantee confusing, as it 
also refers to Garage Doors (Excluding Timber) having a two-year guarantee. Mrs L has 
said that she thought this meant the non-timber parts of her door were guaranteed for two 
years. If that had been correct, Mrs L wouldve had cover until 12 March 2020. Although I 
can understand why Mrs L thought she was covered for two years, it doesnt have any 
impact on my decision on her complaint. Thats because I can see that LV provided services 
to Mrs L without charge for more than two years.
Mrs L first reported the current issue with the garage door in December 2019, by which point 
the guarantee had already expired. Although Mrs L has mentioned that she has witnesses 
that her garage door wasnt working in early 2019, LV have no record of her reporting those 
issues at that time. So when Mrs L reported the issues that started in 2019, her guarantee 
had already expired. But LV fixed the problem anyway.
I know Mrs L wrote to LV in June 2020. In that letter she noted As my guarantee was nearly 
up (13 March 2020) I said I should perhaps write and ask for an extension, as the door had 
only been fixed about three weeks before the expiry date. I was concerned that there could 
be further trouble related to this problem. So I can see that Mrs L genuinely believed she 
had a two-year guarantee. But the guarantee document says otherwise. LV werent acting 
unfairly when they declined to fix the issue reported in August 2020, two years and five 
months after the garage door was installed.
From what Ive seen, LV have done more than I wouldve expected them to do. This is 
because they continued to fix the garage door long after the 12-month guarantee had 
expired. Theyve attended without charge to fix issues on three separate occasions after the 
guarantee expired. Theyve reviewed the videos Mrs L sent to them and have said they 
believe that the problem is that the limits need to be reset on the motor. Theyve offered to 
return to do that, but theyve said theyd have to charge. So I cant ask LV to change their 
decision. 
I understand that Mrs L feels that the garage door wasnt installed correctly. But I note that 
LV believe the problem is with the motor, rather than the door itself. So, as the problem isnt 
connected the installation of the garage door, I cant blame LV for this. 
Mrs L has also mentioned The Consumer Rights Act 2015 and the previous Supply of Goods 
and Services Act 1982. She says she has the right to expect that the product has a
reasonable life expectancy.  I agree. But from what Ive seen it appears that the problem is 
that the limits on the motor need to be reset. LV say their technical manager told Mrs L that 
the motor has memory. They told her if the electric had been turned off for a period, then 
the motor may have forgotten its limits. I dont have any evidence that the garage door itself 
wont last for as long as Mrs L would expect it to. 
I know this isnt what Mrs L was hoping to hear. I know Mrs L has put a lot of time and effort 
into her complaint, but I cant hold LV responsible for that either.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ls complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman