DRN-2461812
The complaint
Miss S complained that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) gave her the wrong 
savings account which meant that she didnt receive the UK Governments Help to Buy 
scheme bonus.
  
Miss Ss mother has helped her to make this complaint. But Ive referred to all comments 
and evidence as being made by Miss S directly.
What happened
Miss S visited a Nationwide branch in August 2015 to discuss opening a new savings 
account. Shed read that the UK Government was introducing a scheme to help future first-
time home buyers. But she didnt know what the scheme was called.
 
Following the visit, Nationwide opened a Save to Buy ISA for Miss S and regular transfers 
to it were made from a joint account with her mother. She believed that she would receive a 
Government bonus on her savings by opening this account. Her intention was to use the 
money to buy her own home in the future.
In November 2019, Miss S visited another branch of Nationwide to arrange for the account 
to be closed. She was buying a house and wanted to use the money towards it. But she was 
told that the account wasnt a Help to Buy ISA, which is the name of the governments 
scheme. So, she wouldnt receive the Government bonus as it didnt apply to the account 
that she had.
Miss S complained to Nationwide as she believed shed been given the wrong account. She 
thought that shed made it clear what she wanted when she first opened it. She also said 
that shed talked to different Nationwide staff about her account on various occasions. None 
of them told her that her account wasnt a Help to Buy ISA.
Nationwide have looked at the details of her complaint. They didnt agree that theyd acted 
incorrectly by opening the Save to Buy ISA at the time of her original visit. Miss S was 
unhappy with Nationwides response. So, she referred her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators has looked into the circumstances of her complaint. She didnt think 
that Nationwide had done anything wrong. So, Miss S has asked for her case to be referred 
to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The information provided to me includes letters received by Miss S and details of her own 
recollection of events. Nationwide have provided me with copies of all the connected 
documents and correspondence together with the records that they hold.
Account opening
 
Miss S says that when she visited the Nationwide branch in August 2015, she told them that 
shed heard about a new scheme where the Government would add 25% to any savings 
used to buy a house. She didnt know what the account was called.
Nationwide have said that the government scheme was called Help to Buy ISA and it 
wasnt launched until 1 December 2015. Theyve said that, before the ISA launched, their 
staff wouldnt have been made aware of this product and wouldnt have discussed it with 
customers. So, they could only recommend a product from those that were available at the 
time.
Although Nationwide have said this, I think it may be possible that a member of staff might 
have read about this scheme in the media. But I dont think its likely that Nationwide 
wouldve recommended, or said, that Miss S had taken out an account that it wasnt offering 
at the time. Instead, I think they offered Miss S the product which was available and that best 
met her needs at the time. I think this was appropriate in the circumstances.
Nationwide have checked their records and confirmed that Miss S opened a Save to Buy 
ISA. This was an account specifically for people who were saving to buy a house. Theyve 
provided a copy of the account opening form completed by Miss S. This shows a cross 
marked in the box for a Save to Buy ISA.
Ive looked at the form in detail. Although there are various boxes for different ISA accounts, 
they dont include one for a Help to Buy ISA. The form has been signed and dated with the 
date of the visit to the branch and includes an instruction to transfer £50 from another 
account to open it. So, while I can understand the confusion here, as the account names are 
very similar  Im satisfied that Miss S opened a Save to Buy ISA and Nationwide made her 
aware that this is what she was doing.
Visit to branch
 
Miss S said that she visited a branch, with her mother, in July 2019 to get her passbook 
entries made up. During that visit, she said that her mother asked if Miss S needed to have a 
Nationwide mortgage so that she could get the Government Bonus on her Help to Buy ISA. 
They said that she didnt need a mortgage but also didnt say that her account wasnt a Help 
to Buy ISA but a Save to Buy ISA.
Nationwide have spoken to their branch staff who recalled this visit. They say that at the 
time, they were speaking with Miss Ss mother and answered her questions in general 
terms. They also confirmed that they wouldnt have looked at Miss Ss accounts with her 
mother. So, they wouldnt have been aware of the details of any other account held by Miss 
S at the time.
I can understand why Nationwide wouldnt look at Miss Ss accounts here. They wouldnt be 
able do so without identifying Miss S first and without her specific authority to do so. Doing 
so would breach their data protection responsibilities. So, it seems reasonable that they 
wouldnt have known that Miss S didnt already have a Help to Buy ISA and that the 
information given was on a general basis  where they were trying to help.Calls to Nationwide
 
Miss S said that her mother rang Nationwide in August 2019. There was a regular monthly 
payment from a joint account with her mother into Miss Ss Save to Buy ISA. But a 
payment had been missed and she wanted to understand why. This matter was resolved at 
the time.
Miss S says that during this call, her mother told Nationwide that the regular payment 
referred to went to Miss Ss Help to Buy ISA account. She believes that Nationwide should 
have corrected her at the time. But Nationwide didnt do this.
 
Ive read a full transcript of the call between Nationwide and Miss Ss mother. Nationwide 
clearly identify Miss Ss mother and discuss the matter of the missed payment. Nationwide 
were discussing the joint account throughout the conversation. Her mother also mentions 
that the payment was going to a Help to Buy ISA. I agree that Nationwide didnt correct her 
about this.
 
But the ISA wasnt held in Miss Ss mothers name and she didnt have the authority with 
Nationwide to manage that account. This meant they couldnt discuss it with her. The 
Nationwide agent wouldnt have been able to look at Miss Ss accounts - this would breach 
the data protection rules that apply. So, I can understand why Nationwide wouldnt have 
known and been able to correct Miss Ss mother.
Letter from Nationwide about the Help to Buy ISA
Nationwide have said that they wrote to all their Save to Buy ISA customers in December 
2015 when the Help to Buy ISA was launched. Nationwide have provided a template of the 
letter that was sent. The title says, Important information on your existing Save to Buy ISA 
and there is a specific section telling customers about the new Help to Buy ISA. The letter 
also says that it is different from Save to Buy.
I think it is clear that Nationwide tried to inform their customers about this new product when 
it was launched.
 
I cant find any evidence to suggest that Miss S visited or spoke with Nationwide to 
specifically review her savings arrangements after she opened her account or after the Help 
to Buy ISA was launched. So, Nationwide wouldnt have been in a position to highlight or 
address any misunderstanding
.
In reviewing Miss Ss complaint, I can understand why Miss S might think that shed opened 
a Help to Buy ISA and why she expected to receive the bonus. But I dont think that 
Nationwide can be held responsible for that. It appears that the account opened was 
appropriate at the time based upon what Miss S needed and what Nationwide were able to 
offer.
 
Miss S believes that Nationwide should have pointed the misunderstanding out during 
various discussions. However, it appears that these discussions were between Nationwide 
and Miss Ss mother. Nationwide wouldnt be able to look at or discuss Miss Ss accounts 
with her mother without specific authority to do so. Beyond a small amount of confusion 
here, Im not persuaded that these conversations made a difference to the situation. So, Im 
not able to uphold Miss Ss complaint.My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold Miss Ss complaint against Nationwide Building 
Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 March 2021.
 
David Morgan
Ombudsman