DRN-3432574
The complaint
Mrs U complains that PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA placed a restriction on her account.
What happened
Mrs U says PayPal placed a hold on her account in around November 2021 which meant 
she couldnt withdraw about £9,000 from her account. She says the reserve amount was 
disproportionate to any risk and that she stopped trading around that time. Mrs U says she 
was in dispute with a business I will call E and questions if PayPals decision was linked to 
that dispute. She would like her money returned and compensation for what has taken place.
PayPal says its entitled to restrict an account in this way in line with its user agreement. It 
says Mrs U made over 250 sales in the six months preceding the restriction and any number 
could be subject to a claim. It also says its systems assess risk and that the money would be 
released after six months.
Mrs U brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought PayPal had acted in line with the agreed user agreement and was entitled to restrict 
an account in this way. The investigator thought Mrs U had made about 50 refunds in the 
previous six months before the restriction which PayPal was entitled to consider and didnt 
think it our role to question the fairness of the user agreement provisions.
Mrs U doesnt accept that view and says she has not had any chargebacks made against 
here in the years she has been trading and says the restriction was linked to her complaint 
against E. She says the money should have been returned before April 2022 and maintains 
PayPal has acted unfairly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mrs U will be disappointed by my decision and how strongly she feels about what 
took place. I make clear to Mrs U that I cant fairly comment on the actions of E in this 
decision and also cant comment on how many other customers were in similar positions. I 
say that as I can see that Mrs U has asked us to investigate that point but we can only 
consider her complaint.
I have looked carefully at PayPals user agreement which I am satisfied that Mrs U would 
have agreed to when the account was opened. That agreement makes clear that PayPal can 
place an account reserve or hold which restricts access to a customers money. I can see 
that PayPal provides examples on when it may take such action and in what circumstances. 
So, Im satisfied that PayPal was entitled to restrict Mrs Us account and set aside a reserve 
balance. It follows that I dont think PayPal made a mistake or acted unfairly by doing so and 
I have not seen any evidence that decision was linked to Mrs Us complaint against E.
I appreciate Mrs U says that she didnt have any chargebacks since she started trading and 
that no previous account restrictions were made. But I have made clear that I think its up to 
PayPal to assess its risk appetite and decide how much of a reserve it sets aside. I can see 
that Mrs U did make a number of sales in the six-month period ending in October 2021 and 
about 50 refunds were made in that time. It is not our role to decide if the balance was dis-
proportionate as Mrs U says and Im satisfied that its up to PayPal to make such decisions 
when exercising its commercial judgement.
I can see that Mrs U now has access to her money, but I cant fairly order PayPal pay 
compensation in circumstances where Im satisfied that it acted in line with an agreed user 
agreement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs U to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman