DRN-1999118
The complaint
Mrs J complains that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) hasnt produced a copy of a 
cheque when shes requested it.
What happened
Mrs J wrote a cheque for £15,000 in 2014 and it was debited from her account. Shes 
explained that this money was to be invested on her behalf, however the recipient of the 
cheque is now deceased. Mrs J has explained that she needs a copy of this cheque to show 
the deceaseds estate in order to get her money back.
Mrs J called Halifax in October 2019 to ask for a copy of this cheque. Halifax told her copies 
of cheques are retained for six years and it will send a copy of the cheque to her in the post. 
When Mrs J didnt receive it she called Halifax again. She was told it would send it out to 
her. Mrs J contacted Halifax on six separate occasions before she was told that it didnt have 
a copy of this cheque to send her.
Halifax has said that the second time Mrs J called, the advisor couldve looked on the 
system to see that the cheque request had been declined as it no longer had a copy of the 
cheque on its system. But its advisors failed to do this each of the times she called. It 
apologised to Mrs J and offered her £75 compensation.
Our investigator felt that Halifax should do more. She explained that Mrs J spent hours on 
the phone trying to get a copy of this cheque over a three-month period when she shouldve 
been told earlier that it wasnt available. So, she recommended Halifax pays Mrs J a total of 
£140 compensation. The investigator did explain that she couldnt hold Halifax liable for the 
£15,000 because it couldnt produce a copy of the cheque. This was something that needed 
to be settled between Mrs J and the estate of the deceased.
Halifax agreed with the investigator, but Mrs J didnt. She feels the cheque is the only proof 
she is owed money and because Halifax hasnt provided a copy, it should pay her the 
amount of the cheque. As no agreement has been reached, the complaint has been passed 
to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mrs J is so upset that shes unable to get a copy of the cheque. But I 
dont think Halifax needs to pay her the money that shes unable to recover from the estate. 
Ill explain why.
When Mrs J wrote the cheque to give to the payee she did so in agreement between her and 
the payee. This wasnt an action that Halifax was responsible for or involved in. So, it isnt 
responsible for any money that now may be lost due to that payment Mrs J made 
intentionally in 2014.Halifax hasnt handled things well. It shouldve told Mrs J that the copy of the cheque wasnt 
available as soon as this was discovered  which was in October 2019. But Mrs J had to 
continue to call and be told that a copy would be sent to her for months beyond that point. 
This wouldve led to even more upset when she was told that the copy of the cheque wasnt 
available. So, I agree that Halifax should pay her more compensation than it originally 
offered. I think £140 is fair and reasonable for this.
We have asked Halifax if there is any other way of tracing who the cheque was paid to, but it 
said there isnt. It does have a statement, however, showing the cheque number and when 
this was debited from Mrs Js account. It might be that the estate can look at the statements 
of the deceaseds accounts to find the corresponding entry.
Im sorry that Mrs J has now found herself in a position where she is finding it hard to 
retrieve money she gave to someone. But for the reasons Ive explained, this isnt Halifaxs 
fault. Halifax shouldve been able to tell Mrs J that the copy of the cheque wasnt available or 
let her know that sometimes this might be the case on her initial call. Because it didnt do 
this, it must pay Mrs J £140 compensation for the trouble and upset it caused.
Putting things right
Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) must pay Mrs J a total of £140 compensation for 
the trouble and upset it caused.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint, Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) must pay Mrs J a total of 
£140 compensation for this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2020.
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman