DRN-2763224
The complaint
Miss R is a sole trader. She complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc declined a loan which she 
applied for under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme.
What happened
Miss R applied for a loan under the Bounce Back Loan (BBL) Scheme to help with her sole 
trader business. In December 2020, Clydesdale declined the loan and informed Miss R that 
her sole trader business account would also be closed.
Miss R wasnt happy. She said her business met all the requirements needed to be eligible 
for the BBL. Clydesdale apologised for the inconvenience but didnt change their decision  
so Miss R brought the complaint to our service. 
Our investigator who reviewed things didnt uphold Miss Rs complaint. She said that while 
loans provided under the BBL Scheme are backed by a guarantee from the government, the 
decision to lend still rests ultimately with the lender. She was satisfied the application failed 
Clydesdales checks, so thought it was reasonable they declined the loan.
Miss R remained unhappy. In particular, Miss R thought that because Clydesdale had 
withdrawn another loan facility on her other business account, it had impacted the BBL for 
this business too.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be asking Clydesdale to do anything differently. I appreciate the 
position Miss R has found herself in, and Im sorry I cant uphold her complaint in the way 
shed like. But Ive explained the reasons for my decision below.
Whether Clydesdale chooses to offer lending to a customer is a commercial decision they 
are entitled to make. Our investigator has explained to Miss R that this is still the case for a 
BBL, despite it being backed by the government. And indeed, the government website 
indicates that the lender will decide whether to offer the loan and it may be declined.
I appreciate Miss R thinks her business meets all the eligibility criteria  but there are checks 
which are carried out alongside the eligibility. Our investigator helpfully shared the wording 
from the British Business Banks website which confirms that applications are also subject to 
customer fraud, Anti-Money Laundering and Know Your Customer checks. Clydesdale arent 
obliged to tell Miss R the full reasons for declining her application  and it wouldnt be 
appropriate for me to ask them to share that information. Clydesdale have shared the 
reasons with me and its information that we considered should be kept confidential. So, 
while I cant share any detail with Miss R either, I would like to reassure her that Im satisfied 
Clydesdales reasons are reasonable in the circumstances. 
Miss R thinks if Clydesdale hadnt withdrawn another loan facility on her other business 
account, Clydesdale wouldnt have declined this application. I appreciate why Miss R feels 
this way, but this decision is only focused on the BBL Miss R applied for as a sole trader. So, 
I wont be commenting on any other loan application for her other business as part of this 
decision. 
Overall, I consider Clydesdales decision to be fair in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Because of that, I cant fairly ask them to do anything differently.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 December 2021.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman