DRN-4403658
The complaint
Mrs H has complained that Great Lakes Insurance SE unfairly declined a claim on her pet 
insurance policy. 
This complaint has been brought by Mrs Hs representative on her behalf.
What happened
During the course of 2021 Mrs H took her dog, whom Ill call S, to the vet several times for 
gastrointestinal issues.
In April 2022 Mrs H took out a new policy with Great Lakes to cover S. The policy didnt 
cover pre-existing conditions.
In July 2022 S was treated for haemorrhagic gastroenteritis. Mrs H made a claim for the 
treatment which was settled. Great Lakes later said the claim had been paid in error but it 
wouldnt seek to recover the money.
In February 2023 S stopped eating and drinking. She was referred to a specialist vet. There 
was some concern that S might have a foreign body stuck in her oesophagus. After some 
investigations the specialist vet said they suspected S had chronic enteropathy. I understand 
this to be a term used for gastrointestinal diseases which are present for a few weeks or 
longer.
Mrs H claimed for the cost of the treatment S had received. After reviewing Ss clinical 
history, Great Lakes declined the claim. It said the treatment was for a pre-existing condition 
which wasnt covered by the policy.
Mrs H didnt agree that the condition being claimed for was a pre-existing condition. She 
provided evidence from the specialist vet that the chronic enteropathy wasnt related to the 
previous episodes of vomiting and diarrhoea which S had suffered in 2021. She also said 
that the specialist vet had called Great Lakes to check that the claim would be covered and 
been told that it would be covered as it was a continuation claim.
Mrs H brought a complaint to this service. Our Investigator didnt recommend that the 
complaint be upheld. He didnt think Great Lakes needed to do any more.
As Mrs H didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me. In addition, the specialist vet has 
suggested that their bill be split between the foreign body investigation and the investigation 
for vomiting and retching.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Hs policy, like many other pet insurance policies, doesnt cover pre-existing conditions.
The policy defines a pre-existing condition as anything your pet has had treatment, 
medication or advice for in the last 24 months. We consider advice to include anything a vet 
observed and recorded in your pets clinical history.
The vets clinical notes for S show that S was seen by the vet seven times in 2021 for 
gastro-intestinal problems, including vomiting, diarrhoea and blood in her stools.
When asked whether the treatment claimed for was related to the previous gastrointestinal 
issues, Mrs Hs vet said:
I cannot be sure, however it is likely that these GI [gastrointestinal] signs are all related yes 
as she has always had a sensitive stomach.
On the other hand, the specialist vet told Great Lakes:
I do not believe this to be obviously related to her previously documented episodes of 
vomiting and diarrhoea in 2021, as these were acute and resolved without specific treatment 
for chronic enteropathy.
I acknowledge that there are apparently conflicting veterinary opinions as to the connection, 
if any, between the 2021 and 2023 conditions. I can therefore only base my decision on what 
I consider more likely than not to be the case, having regard to the evidence that is available. 
Because of the fact that S was seen by Mrs Hs usual vets practice so many times in 2021 
and also treated by them for a more serious episode in 2022, Im inclined to place more 
weight on their opinion as they know S better. Also, the word chronic suggests that S had 
been suffering from chronic enteropathy for some time and/or that it was recurring. On 
balance I think the illness for which S was treated in February 2023 presented in the 24 
months before the policy was taken out and so Great Lakes has not acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in declining the claim.
Mrs H says Great Lakes told the specialist vet that the treatment would be covered. 
Unfortunately, we dont have a recording of that call. But I think there may have been a 
misunderstanding here. Its unlikely Great Lakes would have unconditionally confirmed cover 
for any treatment as it would always want to assess a claim alongside the full clinical notes. 
With regard to splitting the bill for the treatment I note that S was referred to the specialist for 
further investigations into vomiting, retching and inappetence. Mrs H reported that S might 
have eaten some sticks several days earlier. But the need for the foreign body investigation 
was because of the recurrent vomiting, retching and inappetence not because S did actually 
have a foreign body in her oesophagus. The specialist said S had mild oesophagitis which 
was likely a consequence of the frequent retching and vomiting. So I think the claim costs 
for investigation of a foreign body are probably related to the gastrointestinal issues S had 
been suffering from since 2021 rather than a separate condition. Consequently I dont think it 
would be fair to require Great Lakes to pay these costs. 
I do feel very sorry for the difficult position in which Mrs H now finds herself. But I dont think 
Great Lakes has treated her unfairly or unreasonably.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman