DRN-2332769
The complaint
Ms D is unhappy that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited has declined her income protection 
claim. 
What happened
Ms D suffers with fibromyalgia and depression. Her job role changed in March 2018, which 
triggered her illnesses. The new role required more manual work, which she found difficult to 
complete. By October 2018, she was unable to work due to her symptoms. And so she 
made a claim on her income protection policy with Aviva.
Aviva declined her claim saying that she wasnt fully incapacitated and that there were other 
suitable roles she could do within her organisation. 
Our investigator didnt uphold her complaint. She said Ms D didnt meet the policy terms 
because although she suffered with her illnesses, the symptoms werent severe enough to 
preclude her from work altogether. She said the policy Ms D had required her to be 
incapacitated to such a degree that she would be unable to complete other roles which she 
may be suited by way of education, training or experience. And because there were other 
roles which met this definition, and Ms D was suited to, she didnt meet the policys criteria. 
Ms D didnt agree. In summary, she said that she feels that shes been treated unfairly 
because of her age and that her employer simply wanted her to resign, which is why her role 
was changed. She also subsequently said her symptoms are so severe that she was totally 
incapacitated.
Ms D said this was further supported by the DWP accepting her claim for disability benefit. 
She also alleges that Aviva, and her employer, have ignored her medical evidence which 
said she was unable to work. Ms D specifically referred to her occupational health reports 
and GP notes. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. My reasons for this are largely 
similar to those already given by our investigator. I accept that Ms D was incapacitated 
during the life of her complaint. But Im not satisfied she was incapacitated to a degree that 
would preclude her from working altogether, which is the criteria set out within the policy. Ill 
explain why. 
Ms D no longer works for her employer. Her employment was terminated because of her 
absence and her overall capability to perform her role. Theres a lot of medical evidence that 
documents Ms Ds overall incapacity. Its not in dispute that she was unwell during the time 
of her claim. However, Avivas policy says;
The member's inability to perform on a full or part time basis the duties of his or her job role 
and other occupations for which they are suited by reason of education, training or
experience, as a result of their illness or injury.
The important part of that term is the other occupations as this extends the scope of the 
policy and Ms D was unable to satisfy it. Ive carefully considered the medical evidence and I 
note there were several times that Ms D explicitly said that she was capable of returning to 
her previous role within the organisation. That is to say that Ms D decided that she wasnt 
well enough to perform her new role but felt she could perform her previous one without 
difficulty. 
Ms Ds GP also recognised this and reflected those comments back in November 2018. The 
only medical evidence that challenged this was some of the occupational health reports. 
They said Ms D was incapacitated and therefore unable to perform both roles. But Im less 
persuaded by those reports as they were completed over the phone and were produced off 
the back of Ms Ds self-reported symptoms. Theres more persuasive medical evidence 
which suggested Ms D was well enough to partake in the responsibilities of her previous 
role. And for those reasons, Im satisfied that Ms D did not meet the policy terms and so 
Aviva has declined her claim fairly on that basis. 
Ms D said her evidence had been effectively ignored by Aviva, but Ive not seen anything 
that persuades me that happened. Avivas demonstrated that it considered her claim and 
provided a response to it after reviewing her medical evidence. And so, I dont agree with her 
arguments here either.
I understand Ms D is now considered disabled and I understand the connections shes 
attempted to make here, particularly that she cannot work and is in receipt of benefit from 
the DWP. But I should highlight that theres a different set of criteria thats been considered 
here. My role is to determine whether Aviva has declined her claim fairly. Ive also 
considered what Avia said about her being capable of working in a suited occupation during 
the time she was off work. Theres also no blanket reason why someone who is disabled is 
unable to work in some capacity. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2021.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman