DRN-3468306
The complaint
Ms D and Mr T complain that AXA Insurance UK Plc hasnt settled a claim under a travel 
insurance policy.
What happened
Ms D held an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy through her bank account, which also 
covered her spouse. The insurer was AXA.
Ms D and Mr T booked an all-inclusive package holiday abroad to take place between 
23 September and 3 October 2017. They started the holiday as planned but, unfortunately, 
they both fell ill shortly after.
After returning to the UK, Ms D and Mr T made a claim to AXA for the medical costs Ms D 
incurred. AXA settled this claim in 2017, without requesting evidence in relation to these 
costs. Ms D and Mr T say they also asked AXA to pay for their ruined holiday, but that AXA 
said they werent covered for this. 
Ms D and Mr T got in touch with AXA again a few years later to make a further claim about 
the same incident. They say AXA shouldve paid for their ruined holiday. AXA said it would 
look into the claim, but it needed to see evidence. Ms D and Mr T were unhappy with this, as 
AXA had already told them it didnt need to see anything, so they had disposed of the 
medical documents. But AXA said that the claim in 2017 was different to the information it 
now had, so it needed different documents to assess this claim.
Unhappy with AXAs response, Ms D and Mr T brought a complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. In summary, she didnt think AXA had acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in asking Ms D and Mr T evidence in support of their claim. She 
said it was for the policyholder to provide enough evidence to show they had a valid claim 
under their policy. Our investigator also didnt think that AXA had given Ms D and Mr T 
incorrect information about what they were covered for, based on AXAs phone call notes at 
the time.
Ms D and Mr T didnt agree with our investigators findings. As no agreement was reached, 
the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules, and 
other industry guidance, into account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of Ms D and Mr Ts complaint.
As our investigator explained, its for the policyholder to show they have a valid claim. AXA 
paid Ms D and Mr Ts claim for medical costs without any evidence. But Ms D and Mr T say 
AXA shouldve also paid for a ruined holiday, as they were confined in their hotel room.
AXA hasnt been able to locate the relevant phone call from 2017 but Im satisfied its 
attempted to do so. Ive looked through AXAs notes for that call though, which refer to Ms D 
wanting to make a claim for the food they had paid for but werent able to eat. But crucially, 
theres no mention on the notes of Ms D and Mr T being confined in their room due to their 
illness, or any mention of medical advice to that effect. I can also see that AXA sent Ms D 
and Mr T a settlement letter following this call.
I accept AXA may have told Ms D and Mr T that it didnt need to see any evidence in relation 
to their claim about the medical costs. But I dont think this wouldve been incorrect 
information, as AXA paid these costs without any evidence. And if Ms D and Mr T wanted to 
make a claim for anything else under the policy, they couldve sent the evidence to AXA.
Having considered everything, I dont think AXA has acted unfairly or unreasonably by 
asking Ms D and Mr T for evidence to confirm the diagnosis and that they were confined in 
their room due to an illness before considering the claim further.
Im sorry to disappoint Ms D and Mr T, but I dont think AXA has acted unreasonably in the 
circumstances. This is because Ms D and Mr T havent provided the required evidence to 
prove their claim and Im not persuaded that AXA gave them incorrect information in 2017. 
So, I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon which I could fairly ask AXA to 
accept the claim without the evidence.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Ms D and Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 June 2022.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman