DRN-1722724
The complaint
Mr M complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) sent him account statements in 
the name of his late partner despite being told about her passing away.
What happened
Mr M says he told RBS about his partners passing away in September 2019 but received 
account statements in her name. He says he told RBS about this in November 2019.
RBS accepts it made a mistake and says it updated its records shortly after Mr M e-mailed it 
in November 2019. It has apologised to Mr M for the mistake.
Mr M brought this complaint to us and our investigator upheld the complaint. The investigator 
thought RBS hadnt considered the emotional impact its mistake would have had on Mr M 
and recommended it pay £200 compensation.
RBS accepts that view, but Mr M has asked that an ombudsman look this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that RBS should pay the compensation of 
£200 recommended by the investigator.
I accept that RBSs mistake would have caused Mr M distress and inconvenience at what 
would have been an extremely difficult time for him. But Im also satisfied that RBS fairly 
apologised for its mistake and corrected it within a relatively short time period after being told 
about it. I think RBS should pay compensation for the distress and inconvenience and agree 
that amount should be £200 which I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. 
I make clear to Mr M that we are not RBSs regulator and so its not our role to punish or fine 
a business or order it to change the way in which it runs its business.
Putting things right
I intend that RBS should pay £200 compensation which I can see its agreed to pay.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to 
pay Mr M £200 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 March 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman