DRN-3374547
The complaint
Ms M complains (through a representative) that Morses Club PLC (Morses) didnt carry out
effective affordability checks. Had it done so, then Ms M says she wouldnt have been 
provided with the loans.
What happened
Our adjudicator partly upheld Ms Ms complaint. Morses didnt agree with the adjudicators 
opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was also intending to partially 
uphold Ms Ms complaint, but I wasnt intending to uphold as many loans. A copy of the 
background to the complaint and my provisional findings follow this in smaller font and italics 
and form part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision:
Ms M took at least seven loans between November 2013 and July 2017. Ive included some
of the information weve received about these loans in the table below.
loan 
numberMorses 
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment
1 2 £400.00 01/11/2013 15/08/2014 50 £14.00
2 3 £500.00 15/08/2014 11/06/2015 50 £17.50
3 4 £600.00 11/06/2015 25/05/2016 50 £21.00
4 5 £400.00 25/05/2016 01/12/2016 33 £20.00
5 6 £450.00 01/12/2016 21/12/2017 52 £15.75
6 7 £200.00 01/12/2016 19/07/2017 33 £10.00
7 8 £200.00 19/07/2017 01/02/2018 33 £10.00
Morses acquired some of these accounts from a previous lender, but it only purchased loans
that were open in March 2014, when the acquisition took place. So Morses believes there
may have been one additional loan prior to loan one in the table above. However, it doesnt
have any information about it because the loan was likely sold, settled or closed by March
2014. So, the loans that this decision covers are those loans listed in the table above.
Our adjudicator didnt think it was wrong for Morses to have granted loans 1 and 2. But the
adjudicator thought that loan 3 and all future loans shouldnt have been lent. He said the
pattern of lending indicated Ms M had become persistently reliant on the loans and therefore
Ms M shouldnt have been provided with loans 3 - 7.
Ms Ms representative told us she accepted the adjudicators findings.
Morses partially agreed with the adjudicators assessment about loans 5  7. Morses offered
to settle the complaint in line with what the adjudicator said which would result in a refund of
£821.71.
But it disagreed with the adjudicators assessment in relation to loans three and four. In
summary, it doesnt feel Ms M had become persistently reliant on these loans for the
following reasons:
Ms M only had one loan outstanding at the time.
All of her loans had been repaid early or on time.
The repayments for these loans werent excessive.
Ms M declared on her applications a sufficient amount of disposable income to be able to 
afford the repayments she was committing to making.
Ms M didnt ever tell Morses that she was having financial difficulties.
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me to resolve.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Ms M agreed with our adjudicators findings that Morses wasnt wrong to lend loans 1 and 2.
So, it seems this lending isnt in dispute and so I no longer think that I need to make a finding
about it. But I have kept these loans in mind when thinking about the overall lending
relationship between Morses and Ms M.
Morses has also accepted that something went wrong when loans 5  7 were granted, and it
offered to put things right for Ms M in line with the adjudicators recommendations. So, like
loans 1 and 2, these loans are no longer in dispute, but for completeness Ive included what
Morses need to do to put things right in the putting things right section at the end of the
decision.
Instead, this decision will focus on whether Morses did anything wrong when it granted loans
3 and 4.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Ms M could afford to pay back the amounts
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was
proportionate to the circumstances. Morsess checks couldve taken into account a number
of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Ms
Ms income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Ms M. These factors include:
Ms M having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Ms M having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time 
(reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or 
was becoming, unsustainable);
Ms M coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Ms M.
Morses was required to establish whether Ms M could sustainably repay the loans  not just
whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough moneyto make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Ms M was able to repay her
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Ms Ms complaint.
Loan 3
As the adjudicator has pointed out, by loan three Ms M had taken three loans in around 19
months and she was taking a new loan on the day the previous ones were repaid. Which is
why the adjudicator thought this loan (and future loans) should be upheld.
Overall, I dont think the loan activity was quite enough to suggest Ms M had become reliant
on the loans. The loan amounts hadnt really increased significantly and there werent any
obvious repayment difficulties, indeed, the statement of accounts for loans one and two
show they were repaid early.
The number of loans and time in debt, is in my view, not particularly concerning, at this point
in time. So, I dont agree with the adjudicator that Morses ought to have reasonably
concluded that these loans were unsustainable for Ms M.
But that doesnt mean that Morses carried out a proportionate check. Ms M had been almost
continuously indebted to Morses for 19 months, and she was returning for further credit,
extending her indebtedness for at least another 50 weeks.
Overall, I dont think it was reasonable for Morses to have relied on what Ms M declared to it
about her income and expenditure. Even though this information suggested Ms M had
disposable income of around £280 per week, in my view still needed to do more.
Instead, I think it needed to gain a full understanding of Ms Ms actual financial position to
ensure loan three was affordable. This couldve been done in several ways, such as asking
for evidence of outgoings or looking at bank statements and/or Ms Ms credit report. This
mightve helped verify information provided and revealed whether there was any other
information that Morses mightve needed to consider about Ms Ms general financial position.
However, that isnt the end of the matter. For me to be able to uphold these loans, I have to
be satisfied that had Morses carried out a proportionate check it wouldve likely discovered
that Ms M couldnt afford these loans.
Ms M hasnt provided this Service with a copy of her bank statements or her credit report.
So, I dont know what further checks may have highlighted about her financial situation at the
time these loans were approved.
So, without any further information from Ms M about her living costs, its difficult for me to
conclude what Morses wouldve seen had it made better checks. Although Morses didnt
carry out proportionate checks, Im not able to conclude that further checks wouldve led it to
conclude that these loans were unaffordable for Ms M.
Looking at everything together though, Ive not seen quite enough evidence to suggest
Morses shouldnt have lent loan 3. Even considering what Ms M declared to Morses for her
income and expenditure, loan three appeared affordable. Im not minded therefore to think
Morses was wrong to have provided these loans.
As this is the case, Im intending to not uphold Ms Ms complaint about this loan.Loan 4
The loan being pounds and pence affordable is only part of the consideration. So, I havent
felt he need to recreate individual, proportionate affordability checks for this loan because I
didnt consider it necessary to do so. Although, I accept, based on what Morses provided this
Service, that this loan wouldve looked affordable to it.
So, in addition to assessing the circumstances behind each individual loan provided to
Ms M, Morses also needed to consider the overall pattern of lending and what unfolded
during the course of its lending relationship with Ms M.
Having looked at the overall pattern of Morsess lending history with Ms M, I agree with our
adjudicator that at this point in time, Morses should reasonably have seen that further
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful, at the time it provided loan 4. I say this
because;
At this point Morses ought to have realised Ms M was not managing to repay her loans 
sustainably. Ms M had taken out four loans in around 36 months and she had been indebted 
to Morses for almost for the entire time. So Morses ought to have realised it was more likely 
than not Ms M was having to borrow further to cover an ongoing need and that Ms Ms 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably and her underlying financial situation didnt seem 
to be improving.
By loan four, Ms Ms weekly repayments were 50% more compared to loan one. She started 
paying £14 per week but was now committed to paying £20 per week. So, Ms Ms weekly 
repayments were increasing which suggests that the loans werent sustainable for her and 
her borrowing didnt significantly decrease over the lending relationship.
While loan four was slightly smaller than loan three, she was committing to repay over a 
shorter time, which explains why her weekly commitment reduced by £1, but I dont think that 
is significant enough for Morses to have thought that Ms M was no longer reliant on these 
loans.
Ms M took new loans on the same day as previous loans were repaid. Morses ought to have 
realised it was more likely than not Ms M, on these occasions, was having to borrow further to 
effectively cover a long-term financial need. To me, this is indicative of her indebtedness not 
being sustainable.
I think that Ms M has lost out because Morses continued to provide borrowing from loan 4
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Ms Ms indebtedness by allowing her to take 
expensive credit over an extended period of time.
the number of loans and the length of time over which Ms M borrowed was likely to have had 
negative implications on her ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market 
for these high-cost loans.
So, Im intending to uphold the complaint about loan 4.
Morses has already accepted that it needs to put things right for Ms M in relation to loans 5 -
7 and Ive included what it has already agreed to do to put things right in the section below.
Response to the Provisional decision
Both Ms M and Morses were asked to provide any further comments or evidence they 
wanted the Financial Ombudsman Service to consider no later than 16 March 2022.
Ms Ms representative told us that she was accepting the findings that were reached in the 
provisional decision.  
Morses didnt respond to the findings of the provisional decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms M has accepted the findings that I reached in the provisional decision and Morses hasnt 
provided any further comments or evidence for me to consider. 
I therefore see no reason to depart from the findings that I reached in the provisional 
decision and I still think Morses was wrong to have advanced loans 4  7 to Ms M for the 
same reasons that I reached before.
Ive outlined below what Morses needs to do in order to put things right for Ms M. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might
have happened had it stopped lending to Ms M from loan 4 (as per the first column of the 
table at the start of this decision), as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Ms M may have simply left matters there,
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative 
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Ms M in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Ms M would more likely than not have taken up any one of
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morsess liability in this case for what Im
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have given Ms M loans 4 to 7.
A. Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Ms M towards 
interest, fees and charges on these loans.
B. Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Ms 
M which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms M originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Morses should pay Ms M the total of A plus B.
D. The overall pattern of Ms Ms borrowing for loans 4 to 7 means any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so it should remove these loans entirely from 
Ms Ms credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses shouldgive Ms M a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained and in my provisional decision, Im upholding Ms Ms 
complaint.
Morses Club PLC should put things right for Ms M as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman