DRN-4153934
The complaint
Mr H complains that Standard Life Assurance Limited has not acted fairly in administering a 
pension he holds with it, in particular in the calculation and application of bonuses.
What happened
Mr H held pension benefits in a defined-benefit occupational pension scheme from a period 
of previous employment. The benefits of this scheme included that it would provide a 
guaranteed minimum pension (GMP) in retirement. In 1990, after receiving advice from a 
third party, which Ill call Firm M, Mr H transferred these benefits to a section 32 buy-out 
pension policy with Standard Life. 
The application form from the time of the transfer, signed by Mr H, selected that 100% would 
be invested in Standard Lifes with-profits fund. And this was confirmed in the policy 
schedule. Documentation from the time confirmed that units in the with profits fund were 
guaranteed to increase in value by a minimum of 4% per annum. In addition, bonus 
increases could be made by Standard Life. It explained that, once added, these bonuses 
were paid in full at the retirement date. The current rate of the bonus additions was said to 
be 7%. And the documentation also explained that a terminal, or final, bonus may be 
payable when units from the fund were withdrawn. 
The policy schedule also confirmed that the section 32 policy would pay the GMP that the 
DB scheme wouldve provided, with the policy info confirming this was payable from state 
pension date (age 65 in Mr Hs case). The schedule said this was equivalent to £1,818 per 
annum. I can see there was correspondence between Standard Life and the DB scheme 
confirming that this was what the DB scheme estimated the GMP would be at retirement, 
accounting for revaluation. And the policy provisions said that, before the sum available 
under the pension was used to provide any other benefits, Standard Life must first apply it to 
provide the GMP benefits.
In 1993, again on the advice of Firm M, Mr H transferred benefits he held in a different 
occupational pension scheme to Standard Life, opening a separate personal pension.
In October 1994, the then regulator, the Securities and Investment Board, set up an industry-
wide review of certain types of advice that was given between 29 April 1988 and 30 June 
1994. It was generally known as the Pension Review. It aimed to address concerns about 
the possible widespread mis-selling of personal pension plans between these dates.
The business responsible for selling relevant policies was required to conduct the review. 
Both of the pensions Mr H had taken out with Standard Life were included in the review. In 
2001, Firm M looked at the sales and whether Mr H was worse off. As part of which Firm M 
obtained current values of the pension policies from Standard Life. Standard Life said that 
the value of the section 32 policy was £38,966.20. This was made up of the units held within 
the with-profits fund, valued at £20,189.15, and the terminal bonus, valued at that time at 
£18,777.05. 
Firm M determined that Mr Hs section 32 policy and his personal pension had values that 
were less than the benefits of his former DB schemes. It paid £1,391.12 to the section 32 
policy to address the issues with that policy, which Mr H signed an acceptance of in full and 
final settlement of all related claims against Firm M.
The value of the bonus growth applicable to Standard Lifes with profits fund decreased 
steadily from the point Mr H took out his policy. And from February 2004 to the point Mr H 
complained has been 0%, meaning the fund has only grown by the guaranteed amount of 
4% per annum since that time. The terminal bonus value has also decreased significantly. 
Standard Life has provided a value history showing that in 2009 the terminal bonus figure 
was in fact negative. And in August 2021 it stood at £222.84.
Mr H complained to Standard Life in 2021. He said his with-profits pension had never been 
properly explained and the pension he had transferred away from wouldve provided an 
income from age 60. But under the section 32 plan, due to a shortfall and the GMP needing 
to be covered, he was being prevented from drawing benefits until age 65. And he thought 
his plan had been mis-sold. He added that he was unhappy with the returns on the policy as 
he had only benefitted from growth of 4% for a significant period of time. He said this was 
sold to him as providing investment growth but had only provided a fixed return and had 
been outperformed by the personal pension hed taken in 1993. Mr H also questioned if 
Standard Life had calculated the final bonus correctly  in particular around the time the 
redress calculation had been done by Firm M under the pension review. And he said that the 
reduction of this final bonus, including when Standard Life changed its structure between 
2004  2006, was unfair. Mr H has noted more recently that bonus values hadnt moved in 
line with the FTSE index. Mr H also asked our service to consider his complaint.
Standard Life said it wasnt responsible for advice to take out the section 32 pension plan, as 
this was provided by Firm M. In terms of the benefits that could be taken it said Mr H hadnt 
sought to take benefits when he reached the original scheduled retirement date in 2018, so it 
had written to him, noting it assumed he wasnt ready to take benefits yet and deferred doing 
so. Which was why he hadnt been paid a pension from age 60. It said he could begin 
drawing benefits. But the value of the pension wasnt sufficient to cover the provision of the 
GMP from age 65. So, the only portion of his fund he could draw from was the redress 
payment hed received previously, and growth attributed to this. Meaning he could take a 
lump sum of £3,152.12 and a pension of £12 per year until age 65, when the pension would 
increase to match the GMP.
In terms of the policy value and final bonus, Standard Life said there was a high level of 
investment growth in the second half of the 1990s, reflecting the good economic conditions 
at that time. This resulted in the good growth of the plan and final bonus value. But since 
2000, stock market growth, inflation and interest rates have all been much lower, on 
average. This has resulted in lower investment growth and the revaluation of the bonuses. 
And when Standard Life de-mutualised, profit enhancements to the final bonus value were 
also phased out. Standard Life said though that it was satisfied that the bonus values had 
been calculated and applied correctly. And it explained that the with-profits fund was 
invested across a range of assets, so comparison to the FTSE index wasnt accurate.
Standard Life also offered Mr H £200 for the administrative delay in providing information he 
had requested. I understand this has been accepted separately in respect of the 
administrative delay, Standard Life arranged for a cheque to be sent and we havent been 
asked to consider this point further.
One of our Investigators looked into the complaint but didnt think Standard Life had done 
anything wrong. She thought the information provided by Standard Life to Mr H about how 
the with-profits pension would operate was accurate. She noted bonus rates and final 
bonuses were not guaranteed, as noted in the documents provided, and she didnt think there was any evidence that these had been calculated incorrectly by Standard Life. And 
while she understood that Mr H was disappointed with the benefits available from the policy, 
she was satisfied that Standard Life was correct about the level of GMP it needed to provide 
and was acting fairly by doing so. 
Mr H disagreed and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. As a result, 
it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to firstly explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information 
provided by both parties, in reaching my decision. I say this as Im aware Ive summarised 
Mr Hs complaint in less detail than he has. If Ive not reflected something thats been said 
its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to the crux of the 
complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to reflect my 
informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I dont think 
its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question raised unless I 
think its relevant to the crux of the complaint.
The section 32 with-profits pension is the policy that Mr Hs concerns relate to and which Ill 
largely be considering. I think its also worth emphasising again though that this complaint is 
about the actions of Standard Life. Mr H has referenced a number of his concerns about the 
policy as meaning that it wasnt right for him, wasnt explained properly and should not have 
been sold to him. But Mr H was advised by, and the policies were sold to him by, Firm M. 
Standard Life is not responsible for that advice. 
The application to Standard Life for the section 32 policy was clear that it was to be invested 
entirely on a with-profits basis. The plan was set up in line with that application and the 
annual pension summaries Ive seen confirm the fund as a whole has remained invested on 
a with-profits basis. So, Im satisfied Standard Life set up and maintained the policy in line 
with the application it received.
Mr H has said the policy was sold to him as providing investment growth but has for a 
significant period of time only provided returns at 4%, which he says has not reflected 
investment markets such as the FTSE index and has been outperformed by his personal 
pension.
Again, Standard Life is not responsible for the sale of the policy. And I think the information it 
provided at the time of sale, and indeed since, explained that this policy operated differently 
to one directly invested in investment markets, such as his personal pension. 
The policy information included sections specifically about with-profits pensions. And the 
policy schedule was clear the pension was invested on this basis. The policy information 
explained that Standard Life maintained with-profits funds and the deposits made by 
policyholders into these funds were invested across a wide portfolio of investment. But the 
fund was then divided into units. And these units were allocated to policy holders. Everyone 
invested in the fund shared in any profits arising from the fund rather than their pension 
value being invested directly on an individual basis.
The units were guaranteed to increase in value by at least 4% per annum  even if the 
underlying investments hadnt achieved this level of growth. And further profit would be 
shared by way of bonus additions. But these bonuses were not guaranteed  and I cant see that Standard Life indicated otherwise. And in with-profits funds the amount of the bonus is 
not an equal proportion of the profits of the fund. Fund managers will consider the profit 
made within it and employ smoothing to account for later years when markets may be 
underperforming.
Overall, Im satisfied that Standard Life explained how the policy worked and that it didnt tell 
Mr H that its value would be directly linked to any particular investment market.
I can understand why Mr H is concerned that growth has not exceeded the 4% guaranteed 
under the contract for some time  that bonus growth increases have been at 0%. I can see, 
from evidence Standard Life has provided of historic with-profits bonus growth rates, during 
the 1990s bonus rates were higher. 
With-profits funds have attracted criticism for their lack of transparency. And I understand 
Mr Hs suspicions about the level of bonuses applied and I accept it is very difficult for 
policyholders to satisfy themselves that they are receiving what they are entitled to under the 
terms of their plan. But that doesnt necessarily mean that the business has got something 
wrong. 
Standard Life is accountable to the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) for the way in which it operates its with-profits fund (in accordance with its 
Principles and Practices of Financial Management document). And the regulator monitors 
the management of it. Businesses are required to appoint a with-profits actuary and the 
FCA provides rules and guidance on their duties. Standard Life also has an independent 
With Profits Committee who report on the management of the with-profits fund with 
particular emphasis on whether with-profits policyholders and their interests have been 
considered and treated fairly. And Im not aware that the FCA has any concerns about 
Standard Lifes with-profits fund.
Again, Mr Hs plan was guaranteed growth of 4% each year, even if the underlying 
investments did not perform to this level. And he has received this. Economic conditions 
were different from 2000 onwards, with growth, inflation and interest rates lower, meaning 
investment growth was also lower. Standard Life has said that this played a part in its 
decisions around bonuses, which I think is reasonable, particularly bearing in mind that 
guaranteed growth had to be, and was, honoured. Bonus decisions are at Standard Lifes 
discretion and take account of the fund as a whole. And again, ultimately growth above 4% 
was not guaranteed.
Taking all of this into account, I dont think Standard Life have acted unfairly in the bonus 
decisions that have been taken in respect of Mr Hs policy.
Mr H is also unhappy that the final, or terminal, bonus anticipated to be provided by the 
policy has varied significantly over time and he believes this mayve been calculated 
incorrectly. But again, I dont think I can fairly say that Standard Life has made an error in 
respect of this.
Final bonuses on with-profits policies might be paid at the end of the policy. And the policy 
information from the point of sale mentions that a final bonus may be payable on withdrawal 
from Mr Hs policy. But this was not guaranteed in the contract, nor was a particular level of 
payment guaranteed.
The general purpose of a final bonus is to reflect returns or profits not already taken into 
account. But calculation of these figures is not straightforward and take into account a 
significant number of factors. Standard Life has provided a summary of the final bonus it anticipated being due in respect 
of Mr Hs policy each year from 1995 to 2021. And this has fluctuated significantly. But that 
doesnt, in my view, mean that the calculation at any one time was incorrect. Market 
conditions have changed significantly over time, impacting investment returns. Which will 
have a knock-on effect for final bonus figures over time  although this wouldnt necessarily 
be reflected immediately due to smoothing applied by actuaries. Standard Life has also 
explained, when it de-mutualised, a shared profit enhancement previously factored into final 
bonuses was removed. Mr H has suggested this was unfair, but again this bonus, and the 
specific enhancement, was never guaranteed. Overall, I think its explanation of the reasons 
for the fluctuation in this figure are reasonable. And again, ultimately these are subject to 
scrutiny and monitoring by the regulator which, as I understand it, hasnt suggested theres 
an underlying problem.
Mr H has also said he thinks the final bonus figure should not have been included in the 
policy value Standard Life shared with Firm M during the pension review and believes this 
has incorrectly impacted the level of redress he received in respect of this policy. As Ive 
explained, I dont think there is any evidence to support that Standard Life has calculated 
this figure incorrectly. And, although it wasnt guaranteed, I understand it was part of the 
policy value  and wouldve been accounted for in the event Mr H had sought to potentially 
transfer his benefits to another provider. So, I dont think Standard Life has made a mistake 
by referencing this. 
Mr H is unhappy with the benefits that he is able to take from the policy, as the policy doesnt 
have sufficient value to provide any significant benefits in addition to the GMP, before that 
becomes due. 
Under the section 32 policy, Standard Life took on the responsibility of providing the GMP 
included in the benefits of Mr Hs DB scheme. I can see that, at the time of the transfer, 
Standard Life corresponded with the DB scheme to confirm what the level of GMP was. And 
at that time it was £2.98 per week. But that figure was subject to revaluation, in line with the 
conditions of the DB scheme. So, Standard Life also asked the DB scheme about what the 
level of GMP was expected to be at the point it became due. And the DB scheme confirmed 
that, based on revaluation rates this was expected to be £1,818 per annum. So, the 
requirement to provide this level of benefit was included in the policy schedule.
The policy provisions explained that the GMP was due from the state pension date and that 
the state pension date for Mr H was at age 65. So, Im satisfied Standard Life was only 
required to pay the GMP from age 65 and that this was disclosed at the outset. And the 
provisions also went on to say that before the sum available from the policy could be used 
for any other purpose, it first had to be used to provide the GMP, by way of an annuity. 
Mr H has mentioned that the policy schedule referred to a minimum number of units that had 
to be maintained in the with-profits pension in respect of providing the GMP. And that the 
total number of units exceeded this, so shouldve provided additional benefits. But the 
schedule is clear that this is a minimum. And the policy schedule also, in my view, explains 
that the entire sum under the policy must first be used to provide the guaranteed benefits, in 
this case the GMP. So, I think Standard Life has acted in line with the policy terms when 
saying that the GMP needed to be funded from the policy before other benefits. And as the 
value of the policy was not sufficient to provide the GMP, based on current market 
conditions, it has not made a mistake when saying the only pension benefits available were 
limited to what the redress payment from the pension review and associated growth could 
provide. 
I can see that Mr H has also raised that his more recent annual statements mention an 
indicative with-profits charge that has been deducted from his pension. And has questioned if this has been applied correctly. Standard Life has said a charge has always been applied, 
but it has more recently begun including this in monetary terms for transparency. And I think 
this explanation is reasonable. Looking at the policy provisions from the time the policy 
began, these refer to a monthly service premium being charged. So, I dont think this has 
been applied incorrectly or that this means the pension value from which benefits could be 
provided is wrong. 
I know it will have come as a significant disappointment to Mr H that the benefits he is able 
to take under the section 32 policy are a lot lower than he hoped for and expected. And I can 
see from his correspondence that he feels very strongly about this and that the pension was 
not right for him. But, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think Standard Life has made an 
error in administering his policy.  
I note that Standard Life suggested that Mr H could seek independent financial advice in 
relation to the policy, if he remained unhappy with it. And, in the circumstances, I think that 
was reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman