DRN-3924518
The complaint
Mr N complains Warranty Management Services Limited mis-sold him a motor warranty 
policy. 
What happened
In 2019 Mr N took out a motor warranty arranged by WMS. It renewed in 2020 and 2021. In 
2022 Mr N wasnt offered a renewal. WMS said his vehicle was too old, at almost 14 years, 
for it to arrange cover.
Mr N complained to WMS explaining he had been told, when buying the original policy, that 
if he renewed each year his car would be eligible for cover regardless of age. In response 
WMS said when he had taken the original policy it was possible to arrange cover regardless 
of age and mileage. It explained, following a change in company ownership, that had 
changed. WMS added it hadnt said, in 2019, that renewal would continue indefinitely.  
Finally it said it didnt, due to the age of Mr Ns vehicle, currently have a policy it could offer 
him. 
Mr N wasnt satisfied so came to this service. He says the absence of an age restriction was 
key to him taking out the policy in 2019  as the existence of an ongoing and transferable 
warranty played a big part in his decision to buy the 11-year-old high value car. He feels 
without one he will struggle to sell the car for a reasonable price and struggle to meet repair 
costs. To resolve his complaint he would like WMS to cover the loss in value resulting from a 
lack of warranty  and for it refund the premiums he paid for the three years cover.
Our investigator didnt agree the policy had been mis-sold. She said Mr N had been given 
enough information to understand the renewal wasnt guaranteed every year. Mr N didnt 
accept that outcome, so the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As this is an informal service Im not going to respond here to every point or piece of
evidence Mr N or WMS have provided. Instead Ive focused on those I consider to be key or
central to the issue. But I would like to reassure both that I have considered everything
provided.
Mr N says, in 2019, he sought and was provided with written and verbal assurance that 
cover would continue to be offered once the car reached 15 years. Ive seen an email from 
WMS that says cover would be renewed after a check with the claims team. During a call 
Mr Ns told cover would continue, but subject to underwriter approval.
It seems this information reflected the underwriting criteria of the insurer at the time.  
Insurers do though, from time to time, amend their underwriting criteria. Sometimes they 
choose to withdraw a certain product or from a specific market. These are choices firms are 
entitled to make. It seems for this complaint, for its own commercial reasons, Mr Ns insurer 
amended its own underwriting criteria.  
Unfortunately for Mr N this meant his car was no longer eligible for cover. So WMS was 
unable to arrange a suitable policy. Ive considered what hes said about his need for cover. 
And having listened to the sales calls its clear the possibility of renewing the policy 
indefinitely was important to him. 
    
However, Im not going to uphold the complaint. I dont agree the policy was mis-sold. The 
policy was sold as an annual policy. This is clear on the documentation. The full policy terms 
state the insurer shall not be bound to accept renewal. It also says renewal is subject to 
insurers approval. The terms reserve the right to decline any renewal. 
Ive considered what Mr N was told during the original sale. He was told renewal after 15 
years was possible and shouldnt be a problem. But both the written and verbal 
explanations came with qualifiers  for a renewal claims would be considered and subject 
to underwriting approval. In the sales call Mr N himself spoke of possible underwriting 
issues after the 15 years had been reached. 
Ive no reason to believe, in 2019, WMS was aware of the possibility of the underwriting 
criteria being amended  or that it should have reasonably foreseen the change. So Im 
satisfied the information provided was based on its reasonable knowledge at the time.     
Overall I cant say Mr N, either through the sales literature or additional information provided, 
was given the impression the policy would provide lifetime cover for the car  or that renewal 
was guaranteed indefinitely. Im satisfied he was aware of the possibility of renewal not 
being offered further down the road. So I cant fairly say the policy was mis-sold by WMS in 
2019. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mr Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2023.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman