DRN-3568977
The complaint
Mr E complains that Interactive Investor Services Limited (IISL) failed to clearly 
communicate changes it made on his Stocks and Shares Individual Savings Account (ISA) 
and because of this he has lost his ISA benefits.
What happened
Mr E held his account with a predecessor business. On 13 April 2022 Mr E withdrew 
£25,000 from his ISA via his online account, Mr E says after 3 business days he noticed his 
ISA allowance hadnt increased as usual and so Mr E got in touch with IISL. 
Mr E said he was willing to return the funds immediately if IISL were to reverse the 
transaction. IISL confirmed it no longer offered this feature as part of the account and 
because of this Mr E complained. IISL looked into Mr Es concerns and it didnt uphold the 
complaint. In short it said, following the migration of his account, Mr E was sufficiently made 
aware of the changes to his account. Further, he wouldve been reminded that the ISA was 
no longer flexible via a pop-up screen before the withdrawal was confirmed. Mr E remained 
unhappy and so referred his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into this, in summary he said IISL had given Mr E enough notice 
about the changes to his account and so he concluded that IISL hadnt done anything wrong. 
Mr E responded and said he didnt agree with the outcome because IISL had never 
communicated the new terms and conditions with him. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, on the face of the evidence, Im satisfied IISL has acted fairly and 
reasonably in Mr Es case, Ill explain why. My role is to decide if IISL has done anything 
wrong and where appropriate award redress for any financial losses for which its 
responsible and/or compensation for any distress and inconvenience caused. 
A financial business is entitled, in the reasonable exercise of its legitimate commercial 
judgement to change the terms of its business. So, I cant say IISL has done anything wrong 
by changing the flexibility of its Stocks and Shares ISA account. Its not for us to tell a 
business how to run its affairs.
On balance, despite what Mr E has said, Im satisfied he was sent proper notice about the 
changes to his account. I say this because in May 2021 IISLs predecessor wrote to Mr E 
confirming his account was migrating to IISL. Mr E has provided a copy of this email. Within 
the email, there is a link provided which Ive taken a look at. I can see under the section ISA 
FAQs, subsection, Will my ISA remain flexible on ii? it states: 
Your ISA will stay flexible at ii until 5 April 2022, meaning you can take money out and pay 
it back in without that affecting your annual ISA allowance. After 5 April 2022, you will not be 
able to make flexible withdrawals from your ISA, which means any payments back in would 
count towards your annual ISA allowance. 
This statement also appears within the terms and conditions of the account. Ive seen a 
screenshot of the pop-up screen Mr E wouldve seen before confirming his withdrawal, this 
explains: 
Please be aware: If you withdraw funds from your ISA you may affect the contribution you 
make to your current year ISA allowance. Current year subscriptions that are deemed to 
have been withdrawn cannot, subject to subscription levels, be reinvested into the ISA in the 
current tax year. 
Similar information is also available on IISLs website. Mr E has said he is also unhappy that 
the terms of the account were sent by IISLs predecessor and not IISL itself. I consider IISL is 
entitled to use the internal operational policies or processes it wishes to use, as long as they 
are transparent to its customers; they are not in breach of relevant laws and regulation and 
not in breach of the terms of its service; and, in the context of this services fair and 
reasonable remit, they are fair and reasonable.
Taking all the above into account I think IISL took reasonable steps to make Mr E aware of 
the changes to his account. There are several instances in which Mr E was provided this 
information, whilst I dont dispute that Mr E has said he didnt know about the changes, I 
cant fairly conclude that this is because IISL has done anything wrong. 
I understand my decision will come as a considerable disappointment to Mr E but I hope he 
can understand the reasons why  and that Ive done so only after careful consideration of 
the evidence and the particular circumstances of this case. 
My final decision
For the reasons set our above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2022.
 
Rajvinder Pnaiser
Ombudsman