DRN-2954377
The complaint
Mrs B complains about invoices she received from The Claims Guys Limited (TCG) for 
work theyve carried out on claims for mis-sold Payment Protection Insurance (PPI). 
What happened
Mrs B says she instructed TCG to deal with a claim against Lender J. This was successful 
and she says she then cancelled her agreement with TCG so she could proceed with a claim 
against Lender L and Lender V herself. Mrs B says both these claims were successful but 
she received an invoice from TCG for work they had carried out on these claims.   
Mrs B complained to TCG and they said they received signed Letters of Authority (LoA) 
from Mrs B to handle her claim against Lenders L and V. They said the LoA was completed 
online with an electronic signature, which would have been provided by finger or stylus. They 
said, due to the nature of how these signatures are completed, its reasonable to expect they 
would differ from a wet signature. TCG said their involvement had led to compensation offers 
on all of these claims so they were entitled to their fee. TCG said they hadnt received any 
correspondence from Mrs B to cancel their services. So, they didnt uphold her complaint.    
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs B. She thought TCG hadnt acted unreasonably in 
charging Mrs B their fee. Mrs B disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mrs B will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
LoAs not containing Mrs Bs signature 
Theres no dispute here that Mrs B instructed TCG to handle the claim against Lender J. She 
disputes signing LoAs which led to four offers of compensation from Lender L and Lender V. 
The system notes show documents were electronically signed online on 29 June 2019. The 
system has then generated a number of claim references  this includes the references for 
Lender L and Lender V. TCG have provided signed LoAs for Mrs B authorising them to 
investigate claims against Lender L and Lender V. Both are dated 29 June 2019. So, I think, 
on the balance of probabilities, these were two of the LoAs received by TCG. 
I understand Mrs B says she didnt sign these two but its clear the process has started 
online with LoAs being signed electronically authorising TCG to investigate PPI claims. The 
LoA for Lender J is also dated 29 June 2019 so, given its the same date as the LoA for 
Lender L and Lender V, I believe they were all signed on the same date. 
The system notes show TCG sent an email on 3 July confirming they had received an 
electronic signature for the various claims. I cant see Mrs B, at this point, responds to TCG 
to question or challenge how they have received an electronic signature to proceed with a 
claim against Lender L and Lender V.            
I note Mrs B says the signature on the LoAs is different to her signature and shes provided 
a copy of documents which contain her wet signature. Its not my role to carry out a forensic 
analysis of the signatures but I dont think its unreasonable for there to be some slight 
variation when doing a wet signature and when using a finger or stylus to do an electronic 
signature. I think its reasonable for TCG to believe the signature on the LoAs belongs to 
Mrs B. I say this because, in order to settle the claims, TCG have sent Mrs Bs LoAs to 
company S who dealt with the claims against Lender L and Lender V. TCG say the lenders 
will verify Mrs Bs signature against what they have on their records. And, company S hasnt 
rejected the signature on either LoA and instead provided the information TCG have 
requested. While I do understand signatures can vary over time, I believe its more likely 
than not, that company S wouldve raised a concern if they felt the signature was different to 
the one they have on their record. And, given that theres no evidence any lender or 
company S raised a challenge, I think its reasonable for TCG to believe Mrs B has provided 
an electronic signature. 
Fees for the successful claims 
Mrs B says she pursued the claims against Lender L and Lender V herself and this is what 
led to the offers for compensation. Mrs B says she sent a letter to TCG cancelling her 
instructions which they claim they never received. 
The LoAs authorise TCG to proceed with the claims by investigating, preparing, 
submitting and handling [Mrs Bs] Claim(s) for Compensation I can see TCG get things 
moving by registering an enquiry with company S and issuing a Data Subject Access 
Request. In response to this, company S send a letter to TCG in February 2020 to say they 
have found four accounts where PPI was mis-sold. This letter is also sent to Mrs B. Then in 
October, company S write to Mrs B with offers of compensation for four claims covered by 
the LoAs for Lender L and Lender V. A copy of these letters are also sent to TCG.
I havent seen any evidence that Mrs B was pursuing these claims herself. And, the fact that 
company S send TCG a copy letter each time they write to Mrs B referring to her as our 
mutual customer further persuades me that Mrs B wasnt dealing with these claims herself. 
The evidence shows TCG started the claim process by registering Mrs Bs claims and 
engaged with company S through the process. This has then led to offers of compensation 
being made. I havent seen any evidence which shows Mrs B ended her instructions to TCG. 
So, taking this into account, I dont think its unreasonable for TCG to invoice Mrs B. 
I can see Lender J write to TCG in September 2019 with an offer of compensation for 
£319.67. This follows TCGs handling of this claim on the basis of the LoA signed by Mrs B 
on 29 June 2019. I note Mrs B believes there was an earlier claim which also settled but I 
havent seen any evidence of this. And, I can see Lender J have also confirmed to Mrs B 
there was no earlier claim. 
I can see TCG offered to reduce their fees, which Mrs B has now paid. Taking into account 
all information I have seen, I cant say TCG have acted unreasonably in pursuing the claims 
on behalf of Mrs B and then invoicing her for the work carried out.      
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman