DRN-1240819
The complaint
Mr S complains that Capital One (Europe) plc didn't unlock his PIN over the phone while he 
was abroad. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on setting out the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Capital One is free to decide how its credit cards operate and what security 
measures to put in place. Capital One doesnt have the facility to unlock a blocked 
PIN over the telephone so that wasnt an option when Mr S called whilst abroad. 
Capital One has confirmed that Mr S only option to unlock his PIN was to use a cash 
machine. 
Capital One confirmed there were cash machines available in the city Mr S was 
visiting and explained what he needed to do to unlock his PIN. I understand Mr S 
tried other cash machines before he contacted Capital One but Im satisfied it gave 
him the relevant information when he called.
I note everything Mr S has told us about where he was and why he felt the options 
provided by Capital One werent workable, but I havent been persuaded they were 
unreasonably inconvenient. There was always going to be a degree of inconvenience 
after the PIN was locked and I'm satisfied that asking Mr S to visit a cash machine 
operated by a specific set of banks was reasonable. 
I havent seen anything that shows Capital One made a mistake or treated Mr S 
unreasonably. As Im satisfied Capital One hasnt made an error and has dealt with 
Mr S complaint fairly, Im not telling it to do anything else. 
 
My final decision
My decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman