DRN-2139861
The complaint
This complaint is about a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with 
a store card in 1998. 
The credit facility for the account was provided by a high street bank, but there has been a 
recent change in the company which is responsible for answering these types of complaint. 
The company now responsible is called AXA France IARD. Ill therefore refer mainly to AXA 
France IARD throughout this final decision, for consistency.  
What happened
Our adjudicator has assessed this complaint and already provided a view that it shouldnt be 
upheld. Mr W disagreed with this and so its been passed to me for an ombudsmans final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.  Having done this, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
Mr W says he doesnt remember agreeing to the PPI and didnt even know it was present on 
his card. However, whilst I accept this is his honest and genuine recollection now, Im afraid 
what I can see in this case points, quite strongly in my view, the other way. Im sorry to 
disappoint him.
Mr Ws card account was taken out by filling out an application leaflet in the shop. PPI was 
added on to the store card account because he ticked a box asking for it. He had the option 
to leave the box unticked. Our experience of these particular store card sales, which weve 
seen many of, is that the terms and conditions were also attached to the application leaflet.
But I also think that Mr W would have been aware of the PPI on the card because he used it 
quite a bit and so incurred PPI costs. These costs would have shown up on his account 
statements over a considerable time which he would have been able to see. So even if Mr W 
had made a mistake by ticking the PPI box on the form he signed, he would have wanted to 
know what the charges were for. If he had never apparently asked for this type of cover, I 
think he would have wanted to challenge the charges; but Ive seen no evidence he did this.  
Of course, all this was a long time ago now, so its understandable if he doesnt remember 
that far back. The sale was some 22 years ago and the card account looks like its been 
closed for many years too. However, the evidence clearly shows Mr W specifically asked for 
the PPI and would have seen it regularly appearing on his card statements. 
AXA France IARD provided a non-advised sale. This means it needed only to provide 
enough clear information for Mr W to decide for himself whether he wanted the cover. I 
acknowledge AXA France IARD could have set out the information about the PPI on the 
leaflet in a better way, but overall, I do think Mr W had access to enough information to allow 
him to make an informed decision. 
Mr W told us he had some sickness protection already with his job, implying he didnt need 
any PPI. I understand why hes told us this and Ive thought very carefully about the benefits 
Mr W says he enjoyed. But these dont necessarily mean the PPI wasnt of use. 
Ive checked that Mr W was eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the major 
exclusions we tended to see in some of these policies. The cost of the PPI offered was 
relatively expensive, but the benefits the policy offered gave more protection than most 
credit cards. For example, if hed become unable to work or lost his job, the PPI would have 
paid off 15% of his outstanding store card balance each month until he returned to work or 
until all the balance was returned to zero. These benefits would have been in addition to any 
other means Mr W had in place at the time.
So although I cant say why Mr W decided to select this cover when he applied for the card, I 
think the PPI policy was something that would have been of use to him. This could explain 
why he chose it on the form.
For me to uphold Mr Ws complaint, Id need to think it was more likely that he wasnt given 
an option or there were other serious flaws in the way the policy was sold. I simply dont 
have that evidence. Instead, what Ive seen makes me think Mr W specifically selected the 
PPI and had access nearby to the information he needed about the PPI policy and its rules. 
And I dont think theres evidence that any better  or more  information would have 
changed how Mr W acted. 
This policy was not mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint and I dont require AXA 
France IARD to pay any compensation for mis-selling. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2020.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman