DRN-1561524
The complaint
Miss S has complained about the service she received from Countrywide Principal Services 
Limited when applying for a mortgage.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons.
I cant consider any of the issues Miss S says she had with the surveyor, the vendor, the 
estate agent or the solicitor. This complaint is against Countrywide. Countrywide is in our 
jurisdiction, but only for things it did (or didnt do); we cant consider complaints against it for 
things a separate business did (or didnt do). 
Its understandable that as a first-time buyer Miss S didnt understand the different roles the 
parties play in the house buying process. Countrywide wasnt in a position to give her advice 
about anything other than the mortgage, so Miss S questions and issues about the following 
things werent the responsibility of Countrywide;
the survey report, and the surveyor not checking for mould under the floor boards, 
stamp duty being included despite Miss S being a first-time buyer, 
the difference between the original conveyancing quote and the final cost,
her help-to-buy ISA, 
the vendor not fitting the shower and finishing the bathroom, and
the vendor not removing the shed.
Countrywide simply recommended a suitable mortgage and placed that with the mortgage 
lender. Once the mortgage offer was produced its role generally came to an end. Everything 
after that is dealt with between Miss S, the solicitor and the lender. The only person who 
could give the solicitor instructions was Miss S; Countrywide had no authority (or 
responsibility) to do so. It was down to Miss S to ensure her solicitor knew she was a 
first-time buyer and that she had a help-to-buy ISA.
Miss S has said she was told there wouldnt be a fee for Countrywides service. Whilst Ive 
considered this very carefully, I simply cant ignore the fact thats contrary to what Miss S 
said in an email to Countrywide on 28 June 2019. Rather than saying shed not been told 
there would be a fee, her complaint then was that she hadnt been told she could have 
obtained free financial advice, so the opposite of what shes now saying:
Can you issue me a refund for the 250 fees as you did not advise me that I could get a 
financial advice for free. If you do not I will be lodging a formal complaint
That changed on 4 July to Miss S saying she asked if there was a charge for the service and 
was told there wasnt, and after a few months she realised shed paid £250.
In addition, Miss S signed a fee agreement that clearly set out the fees that would be due. 
Miss S has said she just signed various documents, but that agreement was an A4 page and 
was entitled Residential Countrywide Fees for our Services Agreement, written in large 
bold print.
The first line under that header says: For arranging your mortgage application, a 
non-refundable fee of £549.00 will be charged for our services.
That fee was then reiterated in the mortgage illustration that was issued to Miss S the same 
day:
Fees for our services£549.00
Payable to Countrywide Mortgage Services. £250.00 of which will be collected on application 
with a further £299.00 payable when your mortgage contracts exchange
Miss S also said she wasnt made aware of other companies that offered buildings insurance 
or that the first payment would be so high.
Countrywide set out in its terms of business document that it only offers buildings and 
contents insurance through one insurer, rather than the whole market. So it was made 
sufficiently clear to Miss S that was the basis upon which a quote was provided. 
The details of the higher first mortgage payment that would be due were set out in the 
mortgage offer (dated 20 April 2019) as one payment of £715.46, then payments of £443.03 
until 30 June 2021. The higher payment was later explained in the offer document as:
Your first monthly payment includes interest from the day the loan money is sent to your
conveyancer, plus your first monthly mortgage payment. The 'Amount of each instalment'
section of the mortgage illustration sets out your first payment assuming your mortgage 
starts on the 1st of the following month. Your first monthly payment will be different as it will 
depend on when your loan starts.
Your first payment is collected the month after your mortgage starts. For example, if your 
loan is released in June, your first payment will be collected in July.
Your first payment is collected on the day you choose unless we haven't been able to give 
you enough notice to collect it. We write to you when your mortgage starts to tell you when 
we will collect your first and subsequent payments. For more information, including an 
example of how to calculate your first payment, please refer to the 'Information about your 
mortgage' booklet which is issued with mortgage offers.
Miss S only queried this with Countrywide on 30 July 2019, saying Please can you tell me 
what the £715 is for? I am unaware of that being the first payment, this was not communicated by [the Countrywide adviser] and I will not be in a position to pay this for the 
first payment. Countrywide wouldnt have been in a position to tell Miss S what the first 
payment would be until the lender calculated it, and I cant hold it liable for Miss S not 
reading the mortgage offer that was sent to her by her lender.
I understand Miss S was disappointed that Countrywide didnt return all her calls and emails 
immediately but having reviewed everything Im satisfied it did everything it needed to do. 
There are various things Miss S says Countrywide said and did, which Countrywide denies. 
Whilst Miss S has sent us various screen shots, nothing shes provided shows Countrywide 
did anything it shouldnt have done, or that it didnt do anything it needed to. Unfortunately, it 
simply wasnt its role to deal with all the things Miss S wanted of it. 
Where weve got two directly opposing testimonies about things that were said we have to 
decide things on the basis of the balance of probabilities. Here, as Miss S is the one bringing 
the complaint against Countrywide, to uphold the complaint Miss Ss version needs to be 
more likely than Countrywides version; not just as likely. And having considered everything, 
on balance I cant say that Miss Ss version is anything other than just as likely.
Having considered everything Im satisfied that Countrywide dealt with this application 
reasonably, and that is the only party whose actions I can look at here.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Miss S to accept or reject my decision before 7 October 2020. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman