DRN-3543422
The complaint
Mr O complains that Lloyds Bank Plc closed his account and recorded a CIFAS marker 
against his name. CIFAS is the UKs fraud prevention agency. 
What happened
In March 2019 Mr O opened an account with Lloyds. Later that month the account was 
credited with a payment for £4,900; most of that money was transferred out of the account 
just over an hour after arriving. 
The payment into the account was later identified as fraudulent. This was reported to Lloyds 
by the other bank on behalf of their customer in May 2019. 
Lloyds discussed this with Mr O at the time and he said the money was a loan from a friend 
to help him set up a business and start selling goods. Lloyds say Mr O was unable to give 
them the name of the person who loaned him the money. 
Lloyds closed Mr Os account and placed a CIFAS marker against his name. Mr O 
complained, he didnt think it was fair that there was a marker against his name nor that his 
account had been closed. When he referred the complaint to this service, one of our 
Investigators looked at it but thought that Lloyds had acted fairly. Mr O didnt agree and 
asked that an Ombudsman review the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that another bank reported to Lloyds that the credit made into Mr Os account 
was as a result of fraud and I think its reasonable for them to rely on that information. But 
the bar to place a CIFAS marker is high. Lloyds must have reasonable grounds to believe 
that fraud or financial crime has been committed or attempted. They must also have 
sufficient information such that they could report matters to the authorities. In this case, I 
think there was enough information for Lloyds to do so and I dont think they acted unfairly 
by reporting to CIFAS as they did. 
I say this because Mr O transferred the bulk of the funds from his account very soon after 
they had arrived. This is something that is commonly seen with fraudulent payments being 
moved from account to account to try to hinder recovery efforts. And whilst this on its own 
might not be sufficient justification  I also think its implausible that Mr O would have 
received a business loan of nearly £5,000 from a friend, and that hed be unable to share the 
name of the friend or any other documentary evidence to support his version of events with 
Lloyds when asked about the payment. 
Im also satisfied that the terms of Mr Os account with Lloyds enable them to end their 
business relationship with him  just as Mr O would be free to choose who he banks with. I 
dont think Lloyds exercising their discretion to do so is unfair in the circumstances of this 
complaint. Overall, I dont think Mr O has been treated unfairly by Lloyds and so Im not 
going to tell them to do anything further to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman