DRN-3792108
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that the cash price of the car supplied to him through a Hire Purchase 
Agreement with BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited, trading as Alphera Financial Services 
(BMWFS), was more than the cash price hed been told by the dealer.
What happened
In March 2022, Mr B was supplied with a used car through a Hire Purchase agreement with 
BMWFS. The agreement was for £35,438.40 over 49 months; with 48 monthly repayments 
of £301.30, and a final payment of £12,476 if he wanted to keep the car.
Mr B says he bought the car from a dealer through an online website. He said the cost of the 
car was £28,295. But he was sent an invoice that showed the price was £29,610, and it was 
this price that was on his hire purchase agreement. He said he contacted the supplying 
dealer and was told by them that they would correct the error. He said the dealer didnt fix 
the issue, so he complained to BMWFS. He was unhappy because they told him they 
werent responsible for the mistake.
He said he never actually signed the agreement. He said he was within the cooling off period 
and shouldve been allowed to return the car.
He has supplied images of the advert for the car. This provides the car registration number 
on the first page, with the mileage of 31,131 miles and the price shown as £28,295 on the 
linked page.
BMWFS said that they couldnt determine from the advert Mr B provided if it was for the 
same vehicle. They also said that the third party who advertised the car had a term that said 
that the material on their website was for information purposes only, and customers should 
not rely on it to make any decision.
They also said that Mr B had signed the finance agreement and associated documentation. 
They said this included the sale price of the car as £29,610. And they said the pack also 
included a copy of the invoice which confirmed the same price as the agreement. So, they 
didnt agree that Mr B had been mis-sold the car. 
Mr B was unhappy with BMWFSs response and brought his complaint to us for 
investigation. Our investigator explained that the car wouldve been misrepresented if thered 
been a false statement of fact, and if that false statement of fact had induced Mr B to choose 
that particular car.
She said that the advertisement was for the same car, and the car had been advertised at a 
price of £28,295  so she was satisfied a false statement of fact had been made.
And she was satisfied the false statement had induced him to buy the car. She said she 
believed this because Mr B had contacted the dealer as soon as he received the sales 
invoice showing the higher amount. And she didnt think he wouldve signed the agreement if 
hed noticed the higher sale amount.
BMWFS didnt agree with the investigator and asked for an ombudsman to make a final 
decision. They repeated their stance that the advert couldnt be relied on for decision making 
purposes. And they said that the advert may have induced Mr B to view the car but not to 
purchase it.
They also said Mr B wouldve been aware of the selling price when he signed the 
agreement, unless he hadnt read the agreement before signing it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr B was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to look into complaints about it. 
This complaint is mainly about misrepresentation. And, as explained by the investigator, 
when considering misrepresentation, Im looking at two things  whether there was a false 
statement of fact and, if there was, whether or not the false statement of fact induced Mr B to 
choose this particular car, and enter into the hire purchase agreement.
Was the cash price of the car misrepresented?
The first thing I need to consider is whether or not the cash price for the car Mr B acquired 
under the hire purchase agreement was misrepresented. I think it was. Ill explain why.
This was a distance purchase. Mr B saw the car on an online car buying website. Mr B has 
provided a copy of the advertisement that he obtained direct from the website. It confirms the 
car registration number, the mileage, and the price of the car. Im satisfied that the 
advertisement is for the same car as the one supplied under this agreement. The price is 
shown as £28,295.
Mr B raised this with the supplying dealer when he received the invoice showing the higher 
amount of £29,610. Ive seen the exchange of messages he had with the dealer. In this 
exchange the dealer said they will sort it.  This appears to me to be an acknowledgment 
that the price was wrong. And so, Im satisfied this was the price the dealer agreed with Mr 
B.
Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 explains that finance providers like BMWFS are 
liable for what they say and for what is said by a credit broker before the consumer takes out 
the credit agreement
BMWFS suggest that Mr B shouldnt have relied on the information in the advertisement. I 
disagree. This was a distance sale, and the information in the advertisement forms part of 
the antecedent negotiations. And it appears from the exchange of messages that Mr B and 
the dealer had agreed the price of the car at £28,295, and the dealer accepted that the 
higher figure on the invoice was wrong.
BMWFS also said that Mr B signed the agreement and shouldve been aware of the price. 
But as Ive explained, Im satisfied that he expected the dealer to arrange for this to be 
resolved with BMWFS. And when it wasnt, he raised it directly with BMWFS.Did the false statement of fact induce Mr B to enter into the agreement?
Im satisfied that Mr B entered into the agreement on the basis of the cash price of £28,295. I 
say this because he contacted the dealer as soon as he received the invoice with the higher 
price.
Im also persuaded that he wouldnt have entered into the agreement if hed been aware that 
the price had increased. I say this as he said he wouldve returned the car to the dealer if 
hed been aware that they wouldnt change the price. The only reason he didnt return it 
within that time was because he believed the dealer was correcting the price that was on the 
invoice. And its reasonable for Mr B to have expected that correction to be reflected in the 
hire purchase agreement.
So, Im satisfied that the price of the car was misrepresented, and this lower price induced 
Mr B to enter into the agreement.
Putting things right
Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 explains that finance providers are liable for 
what is said by a credit broker before the consumer takes out the credit agreement. So, if Mr 
B was told something that was false by the dealer who supplied the car, and that led him to 
enter into an agreement he wouldnt otherwise have entered into, I would think the 
agreement had been misrepresented to him and Id ask BMWFS to take some action.
In this matter, BMWFS should take the necessary steps to amend the agreement to reflect 
the cash price of £28,295 plus £184.50 delivery charge, including making the necessary 
adjustments to the monthly repayments, and the optional final repayment.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I uphold Mr Bs complaint against BMW Financial 
Services(GB) Limited  trading as Alphera Financial Services.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2023.
 
Gordon Ramsay
Ombudsman