DRN-3091195
The complaint
Mr B complains about the way that BUPA Insurance Limited has administered his private 
medical insurance policy as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic.
What happened
Mr B has held a BUPACare personal private medical insurance policy for a number of 
years. His policy years runs from 1 October of each year until 30 September. The policy 
includes cover for Mr Bs pre-existing medical conditions.
In February 2020, Mr B underwent the first part of a two-stage treatment. The second part of 
his treatment was scheduled for early March 2020.
However, on 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a 
pandemic. Subsequently, on 16 March 2020, the UK government advised citizens to stop all 
nonessential travel and social contact. And on 23 March 2020, national lockdown was 
imposed by the UK government. Due to the large numbers of patients suffering from Covid-
19, private medical facilities and consultants were diverted to provide support to the NHS. 
Policy benefits were therefore limited for a temporary period while private facilities assisted 
the NHS, as non-urgent treatments werent being prioritised. 
The second part of Mr Bs treatment was subsequently cancelled due to the impact of Covid-
19. He ultimately underwent the procedure in mid-September 2020. Mr B contacted BUPA to 
ask whether, given he hadnt had access to the full policy benefits for six months, his 
premiums for this period could be refunded, or the policy term could be extended. 
However, BUPA said this wasnt possible under the terms of the contract. But it did tell Mr B 
that it was offering an enhanced hospital benefit, remote consultations and mental health 
support. It said it could freeze Mr Bs membership, however, if he took up this option, hed 
lose access to his policy benefits. It also said that it was committed to passing back any 
exceptional financial benefit to its members  which could be through a rebate, or other 
means. And it said that once things returned to normal, it would commission an independent 
review to work out the fairest way to do this. In addition, it offered Mr B one month of free 
cover.
Mr B wasnt happy with BUPAs position and he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. She didnt think the policy 
terms and conditions entitled Mr B to a refund of premium or freezing of the policy. While she 
appreciated that the policy hadnt provided the cover Mr B expected it to, she thought he did 
have access to some benefits under the policy. And BUPA had also introduced some remote 
services. She was persuaded that it was fair for BUPA to review the overall impact of Covid-
19 and commission a review with a view to passing back any exceptional financial benefit. 
Overall, she felt BUPA had treated Mr B fairly.
Mr B disagreed. He didnt think the investigator had considered his complaint fairly. In 
between the first part of his treatment and the time he underwent the second part, he 
couldnt make use of the services BUPA had contracted to provide. He didnt think it was fair 
to expect him to pay to keep BUPA afloat during the pandemic. BUPA had insulted him by 
only providing him with one month free. And he hadnt found the benefits BUPA had 
introduced during this period to be useful.
The complaints been passed to me to decide. Mr B has also referred to the price hes been 
charged for his most recent renewal. However, as the investigator explained, it isnt clear 
that BUPA has had a chance to investigate this particular point. Under our rules, we cant 
look into a complaint until a financial business has had the chance to do so. This means that 
Mr B will need to make a complaint to BUPA about his renewal premium before we can 
potentially help. So my decision will only consider whether BUPA should refund the 
premiums Mr B paid while its services were affected by the pandemic.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr B, I think BUPA has treated him fairly. Ill 
explain why. 
When making my decision about what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
Mr Bs complaint, Ive taken into account the terms and conditions of his contract with BUPA 
as well as other relevant considerations such as the law and industry guidance. 
The terms and conditions of Mr Bs policy say his plan is for one year and that premiums 
must be paid for BUPA to provide cover during that year. Insurance policies are intended to 
cover the risk of an uncertain event happening over the duration of the contract. An insurer is 
entitled to retain the benefit of the premium paid to cover the risk during that time, even if no 
successful claim has been made under the policy. BUPA provided cover under Mr Bs 
private medical insurance policy from 1 October 2019 until 30 September 2020. Its clear that 
Mr B did make a claim during that period. But if he hadnt done so, BUPA is entitled to retain 
the premium it charged to cover the risk of him making a claim during the policy year. 
And the terms of Mr Bs plan set out his cancellation rights under the contract. These say 
that if he cancelled his policy within 21 days of either receiving the policy documents, or the 
cover start date, hed be entitled to a full refund of his premiums (unless any claims had 
been made). If Mr B chose to cancel his policy at any point after 21 days, BUPA would 
refund the premiums theyd paid after the date the cover ended. Theres no term in the 
contract which allows Mr B to extend the policy term by a six month period or to waive 
premiums. So I think it was fair for BUPA to tell Mr B that these options werent available to 
him. 
I note BUPA did tell Mr B about the option to freeze his payments for a couple of months, but 
that he wouldnt be able to access any policy benefits during that period. As Im aware Mr B 
was awaiting treatment during that period, I can entirely understand why he didnt want to 
take up this option. But this was an option BUPA presented to Mr B to consider.
In addition, I dont think its accurate to say Mr Bs policy was unusable during the six month 
period. Depending on the type of medical treatment or services he required, BUPA couldve 
pre-authorised treatment to be carried out at a later date. Indeed, it had already pre-
authorised the second stage of his treatment. Mr B had access to, amongst other things, 
mental health support, remote services and enhanced benefits if hed been hospitalised with 
Covid-19 during that time. While I understand that Mr B has told us he wouldnt have found 
these services useful, Im satisfied that these were benefits which he couldve taken 
advantage of if hed wished to. I wouldnt ordinarily expect an insurer to refund premiums if medical treatment or medical services were unavailable due to circumstances outside of its 
control. BUPA doesnt own or operate the vast majority of the private facilities its members 
use and the requisitioning of insurer-approved private facilities for use by the NHS was 
something which was outside of BUPAs control. 
Overall, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable in the circumstances of this case to 
require BUPA to refund any premiums to Mr B. BUPA initially told him that a third-party 
independent review would take place to see if thered been any exceptional financial benefit 
to it as a result of Covid-19, once itd had the chance to assess the impact of Covid-19 on 
claims. If so, then it committed to passing back any difference to its members by way of a 
refund or other appropriate method. I dont think this was an unfair position for BUPA to take. 
I say that because it agreed to pass on any unusual financial benefits to its members to 
recognise the impact Covid-19 had had on their ability to use their policies as usual. 
BUPAs website suggests that the third-party review has now taken place and that eligible 
policyholders will receive a rebate between April and the end of September this year. I 
should say that theres no guarantee that Mr B will be entitled to any refund in 2021 this is 
for BUPA to calculate, although Mr B has suggested that he has received some money from 
it. If Mr B is unhappy with the calculation of any rebate he may receive, hell need to 
complain first to BUPA about that issue. Im sorry to disappoint Mr B, but I wont be asking 
BUPA to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman