DRN-1692901
Complaint
Mr C has complained that TFS Loans Limited (TFS) irresponsibly provided him with an 
unaffordable guarantor loan. He says that he doesnt think that enough checks were 
completed to make a fair judgement of affordability and the lending was unfair. 
Background
TFS provided Mr C with a guarantor loan for £6,500.00 in January 2017. As I understand it, 
this was Mr Cs second loan with TFS and some of the proceeds of this loan went towards 
settling his first one. The interest to be paid was £6,435.04. All of this meant that Mr C 
needed to make 48 monthly repayments of £269.48.
Mr Cs complaint was reviewed by one of our adjudicators. She told TFS that the checks it 
carried out before providing Mr C with this loan werent reasonable and proportionate and if 
such checks had been carried out it would have seen that it Mr C wasnt in a position to 
sustainably make the repayments. 
So she thought that TFS shouldnt have provided Mr C with this loan and upheld the 
complaint. TFS disagreed with our adjudicators assessment and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. So the complaint has now been passed to me for a final decision.
My findings
I have read and considered all the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, 
in order to decide what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
case. Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending 
complaints on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry 
practice and law. And Ive considered this approach when deciding Mr Cs case.
Having carefully considered matters, I think there are two overarching questions I need to 
consider in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this particular 
complaint. 
These two overarching questions are:
Did TFS complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr C 
would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way? 
 
oIf so, did it make a fair lending decision?
oIf not, would those checks have shown that Mr C wouldve been able to do 
so?
 
Did TFS act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
If I determine that TFS didnt act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr C and that he 
has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.Did TFS complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr C would be 
able to repay his loan in a sustainable way? 
The rules and regulations in place when TFS lent to Mr C required it to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay his loan in a 
sustainable manner. TFS was required to carry out this borrower focused assessment in 
addition to a similar one on the guarantor. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an 
affordability assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so TFS had to think about whether repaying the 
loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr C. In practice this 
meant that TFS had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt cause Mr C 
undue difficulty or adverse consequences. 
In other words, it wasnt enough for TFS to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its 
money back, it had to consider the impact of loan repayments on Mr C. The existence of a 
guarantee and the potential for TFS to pursue the guarantor instead of Mr C, for the loan 
payments doesnt alter, lessen, or somehow dilute this obligation.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an extended 
period); and 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive carefully 
thought about all the relevant factors in this case.
Were TFSs checks reasonable and proportionate?
TFS has said that it completed an income and expenditure assessment with Mr C and 
produced a credit report. During this assessment Mr C confirmed that he a monthly income 
of £1,560.00 and hed be left with around £360 a month once his TFS loan payments were 
also taken into account. Ive carefully thought about what TFS has said. But simply requesting information from a 
borrower doesnt, on its own, mean that a lender will have carried out a borrower focused 
assessment of the borrowers ability to sustainably repay a loan. 
TFS was aware that Mr C had previously defaulted on a number of previous credit 
commitments. I accept that Mr C may have said that his financial difficulties were due to him 
previously having a lower salary. But, in my view, Mr Cs financial history coupled with the 
fact that hed his first TFS loan was already supposed to have consolidated his existing 
debts, was inconsistent with someone having the level of disposable income that Mr C 
declared. 
I say this while especially mindful of the fact that the rules themselves provide guidance on 
the proportionality of affordability/creditworthiness assessments. The rules and guidance 
suggest that the risk of any credit not being sustainable directly relates to the amount of 
credit granted and the total charge for credit relative to the customers financial situation. 
This was an expensive loan and TFS had been told that Mr C had previous problems 
repaying credit.  
I accept that TFS might have been prepared to accept this credit risk because the existence 
of Mr Cs guarantor might have given it more confidence that the payments would be made, 
But I dont think that the existence of the guarantor, on its own, meant that Mr C himself 
would be able to sustainably make the payments given what the credit file showed.
Indeed I also think that it might also be helpful for me to explain that a less detailed 
affordability assessment, without the need for verification, is only really likely to be fair, 
reasonable and proportionate in circumstances where the amount to be repaid is relatively 
small, the consumers financial situation is stable and they will be indebted for a relatively 
short period. 
But, in circumstances  such as here - where a customers finances are showing signs of 
significant strain and distress, they are expected to maintain payments for a longer period of 
time and there is the potential that a guarantor will be required to step in and make 
payments, I think its far more likely that any affordability assessment would need to be more 
detailed and contain a greater degree of verification, in order for it to be fair, reasonable and 
proportionate. 
In my view, bearing in mind the term of the loan, the cost of the credit, what TFS had seen or 
ought to have seen in the information gathered and the potential implications for the 
guarantor, TFS needed to get a thorough understanding of Mr Cs financial position in order 
to properly assess whether hed be able to sustainably make the loan payments he was 
being asked to commit to. 
So as well as asking Mr C about the details of his income and expenditure, I think that TFS 
needed to verify what it was being told by Mr C, rather than relying on what Mr C declared 
for his monthly expenditure. It could have done this by asking for information such as bank 
statements or copies of bills. And when it obtained this information it needed to properly 
scrutinise it and ensure that Mr C did have enough funds to be able to make the payments.
As theres no evidence that TFS did properly scrutinise the information provided, or that it 
asked Mr C to provide documentary evidence to support the expenditure declarations made, 
I find that it didnt complete fair, reasonable and proportionate affordability checks before 
providing Mr C with this loan.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have indicated to TFS that Mr C would more 
likely than not have been unable to sustainably repay this loan?As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before this loan was provided, 
I cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So I need to decide whether it is more likely 
than not that a proportionate check would have told TFS that Mr C wouldve been unable to 
sustainably repay this loan. 
Mr C has now provided us with evidence of his financial circumstances at the time he 
applied for this loan. Of course, I accept different checks might show different things. And 
just because something shows up in the information Mr C has provided, it doesnt mean it 
wouldve shown up in any checks TFS mightve carried out. 
But in the absence of anything else from TFS showing what this information would have 
shown, I think its perfectly fair, reasonable and proportionate to place considerable weight 
on it as an indication of what Mr Cs financial circumstances were more likely than not to 
have been at the time.
As Ive already explained, TFS was required to establish whether Mr C could sustainably 
make his loan repayments  not just whether the loan payments were technically affordable 
on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication that a 
consumer could sustainably make the repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow that 
this is the case. And as a borrower shouldnt have to borrow further in order to make their 
payments, it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, 
that a borrower wont be able to sustainably make their repayments if it is on notice that they 
are unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered the information Mr C has provided in light of all of this. 
The information Ive been provided with shows that that Mr C was gambling unsustainable 
amounts of money. In these circumstances, I dont think that TFS would have lent if it knew, 
as I think it ought to have, that Mr Cs difficulties in repaying his previous credit was due to 
gambling. And that his ability to repay this loan would, to in all intent and purpose, be based 
on his success as a gambler. 
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would 
more likely than not have demonstrated that Mr C would not have been able to make the 
repayments to this loan without borrowing further and/or suffering undue difficulty. And, in 
these circumstances, I find that reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely than 
not have alerted TFS to the fact that Mr C would not be able to sustainably make the 
repayments to this loan. 
Did TFS act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr C in some other way?
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. Having done so, Ive not seen anything here 
that leads me to conclude TFS acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr C in some other 
way.  
So I find that TFS didnt act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr C in some other way.  
 
Did Mr C lose out as a result of TFS unfairly and unreasonably providing him with his 
guarantor loan?Mr C is being expected to pay interest and charges on a loan that he shouldnt have been 
given in the first place. So I find that Mr C did suffer adverse consequences and as a result 
lost out because TFS unfairly provided him with this loan.
Fair compensation  what TFS needs to do to put things right for Mr C
Ive carefully thought about what TFS should do to put things right in this case. Having done 
so, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of Mr Cs complaint 
for TFS to put things right by:
remove all the interest and charges applied to the loan from the outset  in other 
words Mr C should not pay any more than the £6,500.00 he was originally lent. The 
payments Mr C made should then be deducted from the new starting balance. If the 
payments Mr C has made total more than the amount he was originally lent then any 
extra should be treated as overpayments and refunded to him;
 
add interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments made, if there were any, 
from the date they were paid by Mr C to the date of settlement;
 
removing any adverse information recorded on Mr Cs credit file as a result of this 
loan.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS to take off tax from this interest. TFS must give    
Mr C a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
I would also remind TFS of its obligation to exercise forbearance should Mr C be 
experiencing financial difficulty, if an outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have 
been made and it wish to collect this from Mr C.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Cs complaint. TFS Loans Limited should 
put things right for Mr C in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman