DRN-3830459
The complaint
Miss B is unhappy that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited declined her claim 
for blocked drains under her home emergency policy. Miss B was also unhappy with the way 
DAS handled the claim.
What happened
Miss B lets out her property to tenants. Miss B was made aware that the drains were 
blocked, and sewage was backing up into the garden. This problem ended up happening on 
numerous occasions. There were debates about who was responsible for the drain, about 
how many people were needed to complete the work, the involvement of the local water 
authority and finally it was decided the responsibility lay with Miss B rather than the water 
authority. There were delays in DAS getting workmen to the site to deal with the problem 
and with the tenant requiring the basic utilities and services in the house Miss B decided to 
get her own contractors in on each occasion to clear the blockage.
Miss B claimed for the costs involved in clearing the blockages and DAS declined to pay. It 
said the drain in question serviced both properties on the site. It said the blockage was within 
the property boundary of the neighbours garden. DAS concluded the its policy doesnt 
provide cover for shared fixtures and fittings, facilities, services outside the legal boundary of 
the property.
Miss B didnt accept this and brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator upheld 
the complaint. She said the policy covered emergency call outs for plumbing and drainage 
and the damage was within the property boundary. Our investigator said the exclusion for 
communal areas shouldnt apply. She said DAS should pay for the costs of the three call out 
fees to Miss B with interest and pay £225 compensation for the stress and loss of 
expectation.
DAS didnt accept this and asked for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for a 
decision.
In my recent provisional decision, I said:
I need to decide whether or not DAS acted reasonably when it declined the claim.
The final response letter from DAS said:
Your Home Emergency policy does not provide cover for any shared fixtures or fittings, 
facilities or services outside the legal boundary of the property. However, if you are able to 
provide documents showing that the blockage is within the legal boundary of the property 
covered by your Home Emergency policy, we would be happy to reconsider this.
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) said:
What is not insured
Claims relating to shared areas or communal parts of a property including shared fixtures 
and fittings, facilities or services outside the legal boundary of your home.
The details Ive seen from the water authority state that the damage was outside the legal 
boundary of Miss Bs let property. As the water authority arent linked to DAS, I think this is 
persuasive evidence. DAS pointed out that all the details provided by the businesses called 
out and used by Miss B also confirmed the drain was a shared facility.
Miss B said the boundary was one and the same and it was all under one freehold property, 
so the drains are shared.
I can understand why Miss B expected her policy to act here. And I think shes got a good 
point about the delays she faced when claims were made - this is a home emergency policy. 
Miss B should be able to expect quick action.
But I think its clear the policy exclusion applies. The drain is shared, and the problem area 
was in the neighbours garden and the policy excludes this. So, I think DAS acted 
reasonably when it declined the claims.
However, the handling of the claims could have been better. Miss B pointed out that she 
thought she had a policy that covered 24 hours 365 days of the year. But Miss B noted when 
requesting an emergency visit DAS said it couldnt get anyone out over the weekend and 
she would have to wait until Monday. The records from DAS suggest slightly different, its 
notes said it could get someone out, but it would only be a single person rather than a two 
man team. It could only get a two man team to Miss Bs property on the following Monday 
and in this case a two man team was required.
I think DAS realised it had caused some distress and inconvenience and it offered Miss B 
£75 as compensation. I dont think thats enough in the circumstances. It is clear there was 
an impact on Miss B, and this caused problems for her in trying to get services up and 
running again and working properly for her tenants. Miss B also had to involve her father to 
help deal with DAS. So, in view of the impact on Miss B I think £150 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience is reasonable in this case.
Responses to my provisional decision
DAS responded it has no objections to the proposed outcome.
Miss B didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In view of the responses I see no reason to change my provisional decision. So, my 
provisional decision will become my final decision.
Putting things right
Pay Miss B £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part.I require DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited to:
Pay Miss B £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited must pay the compensation within 28 
days of the date on which we tell it Miss B accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this 
it must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date 
of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 December 2022.
 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman