DRN-3702926
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as P, complains that Johnston Financial Limited (Johnston), a 
broker, has provided inaccurate information to its insurer related to a claim made under its 
group income protection (GIP) policy.
Mr R, who is a director of P, brings the complaint on Ps behalf.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so Ill summarise events.
P holds a GIP policy  underwritten by Company A. This was taken out through 
Johnston as a broker in 2018.
This insurance provides cover in the event of one of Ps employees being unable to 
work through long-term illness or injury. And provides P with a percentage of the 
employees monthly salary to be paid in turn to the employee by P  when they are 
incurring a loss of earnings as a result of absence.
In September 2020 one of Ps employees (Person F) was signed off work. And P 
claimed on its Company A policy. The claim was paid in full until June 2021 and then 
in part until November 2021 following a return to work on reduced hours.
And in doing so, it came to light that the policy arranged covered Person F for 75% of 
their basic salary which did not factor in bonuses (and for which a lower salary figure 
was given by mistake). P complained, saying this wasnt what it had arranged.
Our Investigator looked at what happened and upheld the complaint. She said 
Johnston had made a mistake and not shared the relevant information and income 
data  that P had provided it with  with Company A, leading to a reduced amount of 
cover for Person F being set up.
So, the Investigator directed Johnston to pay the shortfall between the accepted 
claim and Person Fs full income and bonuses in line with its policy terms, adding 8% 
simple interest. She also explained she was unable to award any compensation for 
Mr R or Person F as the policyholder in this case was P.
Johnston agreed to settle the complaint, but put forward additional considerations it 
thought should be taken into account. Following some back and forth, our 
Investigator agreed that Johnston could reasonably factor in the lower premiums P 
had paid as a result of the lower cover in place, as well as sums received through 
furlough.
P rejected the offer, saying it wouldnt be fair for Johnston to charge for increased 
premiums, and to the contrary, it should also refund any premiums charged. P also 
said the offer was not reflective of the full timeframe of the claim, furlough payments 
had been reversed by HMRC, and that the figures were wrong.
Johnston said the evidence provided only suggested what P intended to do, not that 
furlough funds were actually repaid. Johnston said it would settle this claim up until 4 
June 2021 and no further unless P provided it with payslips and a P45 to show 
Person F was off during this time.
Our Investigator reached out to Company A. It confirmed it had not been given 
evidence to show any furlough sums were repaid, and gave commentary about 
Johnstons offer. The Investigator said Johnstons offer appeared correct given 
Company As comments. She also felt it was fair for the claim to be paid until May 
2021 only in light of the evidence outstanding (related to reduced working hours and 
furlough payments), saying P should provide this to Johnston. A revised offer from 
Johnston, that totalled £9,410.82, was shared by our Investigator as a fair settlement.
Following a further back and forth, P submitted payslips between June and 
November 2021, and the P45 in question, and said HMRC had asked P to carry on 
receiving furlough payments.
Johnston raised concerns about the information P provided to Company A and said it 
had been inconsistent about the furlough payments. And refused to cover the period 
from June 2021 onwards.
P disagreed. It said Company As calculations for the June to November 2021 period 
were accurate, and Johnston simply needed to pay that sum minus the amount 
Company A paid as a basic salary, saying the sum owed is £60,649.86 plus 8% 
simple interest. P also said Person F will begin repaying furlough payments after this 
claim is settled in line with their employment contract.
So, the complaint came to me. I reached out to Johnston with my comments on the 
period of June 2021 onwards. I acknowledged Johnston had concerns about the 
evidence provided to Company A, and stated:
[Company A] is aware of these earnings and to my knowledge hasnt taken 
action to this effect. As a result, Im not satisfied [Company A] wouldve 
declined the claim based on the available evidence
I take into account Johnston may have taken a difference stance on the 
matter. And I can understand the back and forth regarding the P45 and 
payslips may have delayed matters. But I have to consider what [Company A] 
wouldve done as ultimately this is the company that the policy was in place 
with. And based on what I have, it appears [Company A] wouldve settled the 
second part of the claim
Johnston replied with an offer for the period from June 2021  November 2021 
totalling £18,963.14. I shared its comments with P and calculations. And issued a 
provisional decision giving my thoughts on the offer. Ive included part of my decision 
below.
The central issue in this complaint is already resolved  in that Johnston has agreed 
it put the wrong level of cover in place for P which impacted a claim made under its 
Company A policy. So, I dont need to go over these points again within this decision.
In considering this complaint, I have to consider if the redress Johnston has 
proposed is fair and reasonable in the circumstances, in light of Johnstons error.
The policy that was in place at the time of the claim covered Ps employee for 75% of 
her basic salary, and not bonuses. Johnston and P accept it shouldve been set up to 
cover 75% of her actual salary including bonuses.
So, I think Johnstons redress should be putting P back into the position it would 
likely have been in, had Johnston set up the policy correctly. And this will include the 
additional claim amount P wouldve received, as well as any additional premiums the 
correct cover wouldve required P to pay.Two of the main issues that remain in contention relate to Johnstons consideration of 
furlough payments and premiums paid by P.
There has been a lot of discussion about Ps treatment of furlough payments. 
Johnston has taken into account these payments when calculating how much salary 
Person F has lost whilst off work. As it stands, P has said the funds havent been 
refunded but they will be in the future once this settlement is resolved. 
Given theres no certainty these payments will be repaid, and they havent been to 
date, Im in agreement that P should not receive funds to replicate an income it has 
already received from elsewhere. So, Im not intending to direct Johnston to 
reconsider its position on furlough payments and Im satisfied it is fair for it to 
consider these as it has done within its offer calculation.
Johnston has also said it should be able to consider the likely increased premiums 
that wouldve been charged had the policy correctly been set up to cover the 
increased risk. In principle, I agree this is a fair consideration as P wouldve been 
liable for these increased costs had the policy been set up correctly.
P has objected to this, saying Johnston should instead refund premiums for the 
period the policy was in place given its mistake, but I disagree. I say this as I dont 
think it would be fair for Johnston to receive the benefit of a policy without paying to 
have the insurance in place. I say this as the premium would always have been paid 
even if Johnston hadnt made a mistake, so its fair to factor it in.
The methodology that Johnston has proposed to estimate the premium is to pro-rata 
the premium paid in line with the proportional additional salary role that was covered. 
On its face, this seems sensible to me as Company A has confirmed it cannot given 
an exact calculation retrospectively, and Ive been given no alternative evidence from 
P that persuades me would be more accurate.
Johnstons offer for the period up until June 2021 has been shared between parties 
and discussed at length, so I wont repeat this in full here. It totals £9,410.80 for that 
period. Having reviewed its calculations, Im satisfied these are accurate and in line 
with Company As figures.
The period from June 2021 onwards (as outlined above) which totals £9,552.32 also 
appears in line with what Id expect  taking into account its consideration of 
premiums and furlough payments.
Johnston has included 8% simple interest within its offers to P in line with this 
Services approach. However, this 8% should continue up until the date the payment 
is made. So, within my direction I will also expect Johnston to revisit this calculation 
and ensure the 8% continues until the payment itself is made.
Both parties responded. P reiterated concerns about Johnston and the impact of its 
mistake on its business and wellbeing of Mr R. Johnston revisited its calculation to 
bring its 8% calculation up to date, bringing the total to £ 19,043.17  and the details 
of this offer were shared with P with my comment that this appeared in line with what 
Id expect to have seen.
P replied further to Johnston and this Service, stating it would share details of its 
accounts and requested recordings from Johnston that he said showed Johnston had 
a lack of awareness about life insurance policies. I replied to explain that neither 
accounts data nor the recordings described would likely change my mind in the 
circumstances, so I wouldnt request these myself. But I would still consider anything 
provided by the deadline provided  which was 27 September 2022. 
Johnston provided a further response. It included comments from Company A which 
have since been shared with P. In summary, Company A has said that it never had sight of Person Fs earnings between June and November 2021  and Had these 
figures been disclosed at the time of the claim then we would almost certainly not 
paid any benefits for that period
Company A also said In respect of the FOS statement Im not satisfied [Company 
A] wouldve declined the claim based on the available evidence, again I would 
disagree (although technically speaking we would have ceased the claim at that 
point, as opposed to declining it).
I reconsidered this matter, and said as a result, it seems Company A wouldve 
ceased to cover the period of June 2021 onwards. And I was now minded to say that 
Johnston was only required to make the payments up until June 2021 as it previously 
proposed. This was because whether or not P had been sold sufficient cover for its 
needs, I was satisfied Company A simply wouldnt have covered this period. And I 
requested any final submissions to be received by 4 October 2022.
Johnston recalculated its offer to be £9,468.89 (£8,713.70 + 8% interest). P stated it 
still intended to share account data with this Service, but weve received nothing 
further from it since.
The deadlines of my provisional decisions have now passed, and so the complaint has been 
passed back to me for an Ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint for the reasons previously outlined.
Within my provisional decision I explained that I was satisfied that Johnstons offer 
was fair and the reasons for this. With the exception that its calculation of 8% interest 
was not brought up to date. It has since updated this offer and its calculations have 
been shared with P for its comments  which it hasnt provided any on this subject. 
I explained in my provisional decision that I would expect Johnston to be acting as if 
Company A had been handling the claim. And based on the information I had at the 
time, I believed Company A wouldve settled the second part of the claim for the 
period from June 2021 onwards. But in light of the information Ive now received from 
Company A, Im satisfied it had justified concerns and wouldnt have paid the claim 
for this period. So, I wont be directing Johnston to cover this period.
P said it would provide account details that show the alleged impact of Johnstons 
mistake. While it hasnt gone on to provide these, it appears to me these would only 
show the financial position of P as opposed to demonstrate that Johnstons actions 
directly caused the failure of the business as P has said. 
And while Ive taken Ps comments into account, based on the available evidence Im 
not persuaded it would be reasonable to hold Johnston accountable for the failure of 
Ps business as it has alleged. So, Im not directing it to do anything further beyond 
the above offer.
P has mentioned a call recording that it says shows Johnston was not knowledgeable 
of certain insurances. But in this case, its not in dispute that Johnston set up the 
policy in question incorrectly  and Johnston has acknowledged this. So, even if Id 
been provided with a call to this effect, it wouldnt change my mind. 
P has asked me to direct Johnston to make payments to HMRC directly in relation to 
furlough it had received previously. To the contrary, I think the obligation sits with P to demonstrate these furlough funds have been, or will be, refunded to HMRC. And 
to date it hasnt done this. So, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to direct 
Johnston to interfere with Ps financial affairs with HMRC in this way.
So, for the above reasons and those outlined previously, Im satisfied Johnstons 
offer to put things right is fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances.
My final decision
Johnston Financial Limited must pay P the following:
£8,713.70 for the claim; and
8% simple interest calculated until the date this is paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman