DRN-4036502
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy with how The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society 
Limited (NFU) handled a claim they made under their home insurance policy. 
Mr and Mrs M had an appointed representative dealing with the claim on their behalf. 
References to Mr and Mrs M also refer to that representative.
NFU are the underwriters of this policy. Part of this complaint concerns the actions of the 
experts appointed by NFU. As NFU has accepted they are accountable for the actions of 
these parties, any references to NFU includes the actions of these experts.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M have explained that they noticed the drains at their property backing up. So, 
they appointed a drainage and plumber contractor, who Ill call B, to come and inspect the 
drainage system and establish what the problem was.
The drainage system included a septic tank. So, this was drained, and B were then able to 
expect the system. B noted several problems. It said there were defects to the pipework, 
including open joints, displacement, cracked pipework, debris build-up and root ingress. 
Pitch fibre pipework was also observed which has deformed, causing significant reduction in 
flow.
It recommended repairs to the pipework, as well as jet washing. B also said there were 
issues with the septic tank itself  which it said was located close to a large tree, which had 
likely compromised the tank. And there was a problem of surface water discharging through 
the tank. B considered a new sewerage treatment plant system was needed.
Given the above, at the end of November 2021, Mr and Mrs M contacted their insurer, NFU, 
to make a claim under their home insurance policy, for the necessary work. 
NFU appointed various parties to assist in validating the claim, including a loss adjuster and 
a forensic investigations expert  who compiled reports on the situation at Mr and Mrs Ms 
property. 
In March 2022 NFU informed Mr and Mrs M that their claim was declined. It said that the 
septic tank didnt conform with the building regulations, including the General Binding Rules, 
which came into effect on 1 January 2015. And so, the tank wasnt covered under the policy. 
And in terms of the pipework, NFU said this had reached the end of its anticipated lifespan.
Mr and Mrs M didnt think NFUs decision was fair. In terms of the septic tank, they didnt 
think it was fair to raise non-compliance of building regulations to decline this element of the 
claim. Mr and Mrs M said it was reasonable to conclude the septic tank was installed prior to 
the regulations NFU noted. And so, by the tank not being in line with building regulations 
referred to, the tank wasnt being non-compliant. Mr and Mrs M said they had received no 
notice that they needed to be compliant with any regulations.
In terms of the pipework, Mr and Mrs M said they didnt agree the issues were due to the 
pipes having reached the end of their expected lifespan.
Mr and Mrs M noted that the drainage field would need to be replaced, and the storm 
drainage disconnected from the existing foul system. But they understood this element of 
work needed wasnt covered by their insurance policy. 
NFU reviewed the matter further. It then accepted part of the claim  which was in relation to 
damage on the vitrified clay piping. This being because the damage there was caused by 
seasonable shrinking and swelling of the clay sub-soil. NFU offered Mr and Mrs M £2,365.20 
inclusive of VAT for this element of the claim. But its position on the remainder of the claim 
remained the same.
Mr and Mrs M remained dissatisfied with this. So, they referred their complaint to this service 
for an independent review.
In September 2022, whilst the complaint was here with this service, NFU also accepted 
there had been some delays in the handling of Mr and Mrs Ms claim and offered £300 
compensation for this.
Our investigator reviewed Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. They considered that NFU had acted 
fairly in declining to pay for the damage to the pitch fibre pipes and the septic tank. And they 
were satisfied that NFU had agreed to settle the vitrified clay pipe. Our investigator thought 
the £300 compensation offered by NFU was fair too.
Mr and Mrs M responded to our investigator. They didnt comment further on the £300, or 
the clay pipe element. And they accepted the findings in terms of the pitch fibre pipework. 
But Mr and Mrs M disagreed that the damage to the septic tank wasnt covered.
As Mr and Mrs M disagreed with this, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision to the parties. In this I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im intending on upholding this complaint in part. Ive explained my 
reasoning and intended redress below. 
When considering complaints such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and 
industry guidelines. The relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct Authority, say that 
an insurer must deal with a claim promptly and fairly, and not unreasonably decline it. So, 
Ive thought about whether NFU acted in line with these requirements, when it handled Mr 
and Mrs Ms claim. 
Ive also reviewed Mr and Mrs Ms policy documentation, to see what cover their policy 
provided. On doing so, I can see the policy says:
3) Public services
WE will pay for DAMAGE, which YOU are legally responsible for, to any cable, pipe, drain, 
inspection cover or underground sewerage tank serving YOUR BUILDINGS.
The term damage is defined as:
Unexpected and unintended physical loss or damage.Given the above, Im aware that the policy provides cover for pipework and the septic tank 
serving Mr and Mrs Ms buildings  if it suffers from unexpected and unintended physical 
loss and damage. So, Ive also considered this when deciding whether NFU has acted fairly.
Reference has been made to damage to the clay pipework, pitch fibre pipework and septic 
tank. So, Ive addressed these three elements separately. 
Vitrified Clay Pipes
NFU has accepted the damage to these pipes under Mr and Mrs Ms policy, under the public 
services section of the policy noted above. 
As this element of the claim has been accepted, and there is no further dispute in this 
respect, I havent needed to consider it further.
NFU has offered Mr and Mrs M £2,365.20 in respect of this. So, it should pay Mr and Mrs M 
this, if it hasnt already done so. 
Pitch Fibre Pipes
As above, NFU appointed representatives to assist in validating Mr and Mrs Ms claim. One 
such representative, who Ill call H, visited the property and completed an inspection of the 
septic tank and pipework. In relation to the pitch fibre pipes, H discussed the condition of the 
pipework it observed:
The entirety of the surveyed pitch fibre runs were found to be deformed by 40 to 60 percent 
throughout their length. Such deformation is a common problem with pitch fibre pipes and 
typically occurs due to a gradual deterioration in the strength of the pipe material over time 
which leads to the pipe being able to maintain a circular form. Indeed, various online sources 
(including Bs website) state that pitch fibre pipes have a design life 40 years. Whilst I do 
not know when the pitch fibre drainage runs at the property were installed, given that such 
pipes were only manufactured in the UK between the early 1950s and mid-1970s, I consider 
there pipes were most probably installed between 45 and 70 years ago, As such, I consider 
the deformation affecting these pipes to be the result their having reached the end of their 
life expectancy.
Given the above, I dont think NFU has acted unreasonably in coming to the conclusion that 
the public services section of the policy doesnt cover the damage to the pitch fibre pipes in 
this case. The particular damage to the pipework  its deformation  was to be expected. 
And the definition of damage only covers unexpected physical loss. I havent seen more 
persuasive evidence to dispute this was the cause of the damage in Mr and Mrs Ms case. 
And both the public services and general exclusions in the policy specifically exclude cover 
for damage caused by wear and tear. So, Im satisfied that NFU has acted fairly in noting the 
damage to the pitch fibre pipes isnt covered under the policy. Following our investigators 
outcome on the matter, Mr and Mrs M have accepted this too. 
Given I dont think NFU acted unfairly in this respect, I dont intend on requiring it to do 
anything more with regards to this element of the claim. 
Septic tank
I do, however, consider that NFU needs to take further action in relation to the septic tank. 
Its not in dispute that the septic tank was damaged, and so meets the criteria set out in the 
public services section of the policy. B, Mr and Mrs Ms contractor noted damage. And the report from NFUs appointed representative H, notes cracking to the tank. H notes what it 
considers the cause of the damage to the tank to be from. It says:
the cracking to the tank walls was caused by these walls having insufficient strength to 
support the ground around the tank and/or direct physical pressure from the roots of the oak 
tree that is very close to the tank. 
As the fact there is damage isnt disputed, I havent gone into further detail here. As Im 
satisfied that the damage to the septic tank is covered by an insured peril in the policy, Im 
aware that NFU would need to deal with this element of the claim, unless it has shown that 
an exclusion in the policy applies. 
From reviewing the information provided to me, NFU hasnt raised any specific exclusions in 
relation to the septic tank. But it has said the septic tank isnt in compliance with building 
regulations. And this is why it isnt settling this element of the claim. 
Reviewing the policy, I cant see any specific exclusion which notes a claim wont be settled 
if the septic tank isnt in compliance with current building regulations. So, I dont think it can 
fairly rely on this alone to decline the claim.
The only potentially relevant exclusion in the policy is one which excludes damage to public 
services, where the damage is caused by faulty design, materials or workmanship. So, Ive 
thought about whether NFU has acted fairly in this respect.
And Im not satisfied it has. I havent seen sufficient evidence that the damage discovered to 
the tank was because of it being of a faulty design, or that the materials or workmanship 
were faulty. NFU hasnt shown when the septic tank was put in place, and what regulations 
needed to be met at the time of construction. It therefore hasnt shown that its construction 
was faulty. 
I understand NFU has said that Mr and Mrs M would have needed to replace the septic tank, 
whether there was damage to it or not. And so, they would have suffered a loss anyway. It 
says this is because of the General Binding Rules which came into place in 1 January 
2015. 
Mr and Mrs M, through their representative have accepted that re-routing the storm drainage 
system, and the installation of a new drainage field arent covered by the policy. As well as 
the cost for an inlet dipper pipe. They have accepted these are things they need to do at 
their own cost, in order to update the drainage system. But they do consider that the policy 
should respond in relation to the septic tank, as it was damaged. 
And given the above, I agree. The policy does cover the damage to the septic tank itself. So, 
I think NFU should pay Mr and Mrs M it would have cost NFU to replace the septic tank with 
an equivalent one.
Claims handling
Mr and Mrs M feel the handling of their claim has been poor. NFU accepted there had been 
some delays in the claim, and in the complaint. And acknowledged the claim was declined in 
full previously when it shouldnt have been. It offered £300 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience this caused to Mr and Mrs M.
As it has been accepted there were delays, and issues which caused Mr and Mrs M distress 
and inconvenience, I havent needed to decide whether there were any failings here  it has already been acknowledged that there were. Instead, Ive needed to consider whether the 
£300 compensation offered is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I think it is. I say this because I think it fairly recognises the trouble, upset and frustration 
Mr and Mrs M have explained theyve experienced due to the initial delays, and in having the 
clay pipe element of their claim declined at first. 
Ive thought about whether any additional compensation would be fair and reasonable. But I 
dont think it would be. Im satisfied the impact of the situation wasnt sufficient enough to 
warrant an additional compensation figure. And the interest figure Im intending to award, as 
detailed below, ensures that Mr and Mrs M dont lose out because of NFUs initial decline of 
the septic tank.  
My provisional decision 
Given the above, my provisional decision is that I uphold this complaint, in part, and intend 
on requiring The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited (NFU) to:
Pay the amount it would have cost NFU to replace the septic tank with one that is 
equivalent to that which Mr and Mrs M already had. If Mr and Mrs M have completed 
work already, then NFU will need to add 8% interest, simple per annum on the 
payment it makes, from date of invoice for the work, to date of settlement, less any 
tax properly deductible, to account for the time Mr and Mrs M have been without 
these funds. 
Pay Mr and Mrs M £2,365.20 in settlement of the damage to the clay pipes, if they 
havent already. If this amount hasnt been paid, then NFU will need to pay Mr and 
Mrs M 8% interest, simple per annum, from 4 August 2022 when it offered the 
payment, to the date of settlement, less any tax properly deductible.
Pay Mr and Mrs M £300 compensation, if they havent already.
*If HM Revenue & Customers requires NFU to deduct tax from this interest, NFU should 
give Mr and Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if they ask for one. 
Mr and Mrs M, and NFU both responded to the provisional decision. Mr and Mrs M said they 
were satisfied with the outcome that the septic tank part of the claim should be covered. But 
they raised concerns with the intended redress.In terms of the redress, Mr and Mrs M said:
They didnt think it was fair for NFU to pay Mr and Mrs M the amount it would have 
cost it to replace the tank. They said NFU essentially approved the contractors Mr 
and Mrs M had appointed previously to carry out the work. So, any settlement should 
be based on those contractors undertaking the work, rather than NFU and its 
appointed contractors.
That the policy also included an allowance for meeting building regulation 
requirements. And in order for Mr and Mrs M to have done that  any requirement 
would have been for a tank of a larger size than the one that was damaged to have 
been put in place. So, any settlement should allow for that too. 
They had to take funds from a self-invested personal pension (SIPP) to help pay for 
the necessary works. Meaning an obligation to pay 20% income tax on this amount. 
So, rather than NFY paying 8% interest, they considered NFU should provide a 
settlement which meant Mr and Mrs M didnt lose this 20%.
NFU didnt agree that it should pay anything towards the septic tank. It said the damage to 
the septic tank was gradual, with it having reached the end of its life with on-going pressure 
from trees and having insufficient support. And NFU said gradual damage was specifically 
excluded under the policy. NFU also noted the tank replacement, which it didnt consider to 
be covered, wouldnt be the same, given new regulations.
I responded to the parties on the above and noted one proposed change in redress. 
Mr and Mrs M accepted this. NFU didnt respond. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part, for the same reasons as noted 
in my provisional decision. But the redress noted in my provisional decision has had one 
change. Ive detailed this, and the reasoning for it, below.
NFU has said the cracking to septic tank happened gradually, rather than this being a one-
off event. And, as the policy doesnt cover gradual damage, they noted the septic tank 
shouldnt be covered. So, Ive thought about this further.
And having looked at the policy wording, I cant see any exclusion, general or specific to the 
public services section, which excludes damage caused gradually. There is an exclusion for 
damage caused by wear and tear. But, based on the reports from all contractors, I cant see 
the damage was due to wear and tear. As detailed in my provisional decision, NFUs 
contractor H said:
the cracking to the tank walls was caused by these walls having insufficient strength to 
support the ground around the tank and/or direct physical pressure from the roots of the oak 
tree that is very close to the tank. 
Given the above, it wasnt the tank wearing that caused the damage, but was instead 
pressure from the ground and perhaps from the nearby tree.As detailed in my provisional decision, the only potentially relevant exclusion in the policy is 
one which excludes damage to public services, where the damage is caused by faulty 
design, materials or workmanship. So, I thought about whether NFU has acted fairly in this 
respect.
And Im not satisfied it has. I havent seen sufficient evidence that the damage discovered to 
the tank was because of it being of a faulty design, or that the materials or workmanship 
were faulty. NFU hasnt shown when the septic tank was put in place, and what regulations 
needed to be met at the time of construction. It therefore hasnt shown that its construction 
was faulty. 
So, Im satisfied there was an insured event, in relation to the septic tank. And, that an 
exclusion doesnt apply. With this in mind, NFU does need to replace the septic tank. 
Mr and Mrs M has said the redress provided to them for the septic tank shouldnt be based 
on what it would have cost NFU to replace the septic tank with an equivalent one.
Theyve noted that the policy allows for meeting building requirements  and that would have 
meant a larger tank. I accept the policy does make an allowance for this. I havent been 
provided with a copy of the building regulations that say this. But, if the building requirements 
mean a larger tank must be in place, then NFU should be paying for a replacement septic 
tank, of the size that meant building regulations would be met.
Mr and Mrs M have said theyve actually replaced the tank with a sewerage treatment plant. 
They explained this was a better option, and the cost differential wouldnt have been much. 
But that was Mr and Mrs Ms choice. And whilst it may have been a better option, the policy 
is clear that it only includes an allowance to meet current building regulations. I havent seen 
that current building regulations require a sewerage treatment plant, rather than a septic 
tank. So, I dont think it would be fair for NFU to base its settlement on the replacement of 
the septic tank with a sewerage treatment plant.
So, I think NFU should pay the amount it would cost to replace the septic tank, with one of a 
size which would meet current building requirements.
Mr and Mrs M have said that the cost to replace the above shouldnt be based on NFUs 
costs, but instead on the costs of Mr and Mrs Ms contractors. But I dont agree thats fair. 
When the claim was first made, Mr and Mrs Ms contractor noted the following in an email on 
30 November 2021:
We respectfully request that you consider this claim on a validation only basis. The 
policyholder has already selected their preferred contractor, therefore once you are in receipt 
of the validation report; please do contact us to provide the scope of the repairs and your 
limit of liability agreed.
Given the above, its clear that Mr and Mrs M always intended on using their own contractor. 
That is their choice. But, it wouldnt be fair for NFU to pay more than it would have paid with 
its own contractors, because Mr and Mrs M made that choice. Given it was clear from the 
outset that Mr and Mrs M were using their own contractors, Im satisfied NFU didnt approve 
on take on Mr and Mrs Ms contractors as their own  but were dealing with the claim on a 
cash settlement basis. So, I remain of view that NFU should pay what it would have cost it, 
to replace the septic tank. With the amendment above, if building regulations require it. 
Lastly, Mr and Mrs M have noted they had to take £17,500 out of a SIPP in order to carry out 
the works. And so there have been income tax implications for them. Ive thought carefully 
about this. But I also dont think it would be fair to ask NFU to negate these issues. Mr and Mrs M had a large amount of works to do on the drainage system at their property, 
including uninsured works. And I can see from Mr and Mrs Ms contactors report, that all of 
the works were costed at £34,901 plus VAT. Given this, Im aware that its likely Mr and Mrs 
M were going to need to use their own funds for a large degree of the work. And I dont think 
its fair to apportion the septic tank element to funds removed from the SIPP, when a large 
amount of other insured work was necessary. 
Im satisfied that the 8% interest previously detailed, is a fair and reasonable way to 
acknowledge that Mr and Mrs M were without funds for the septic tank replacement, when 
they should have had that earlier.  
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require The NFU 
Mutual The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited (NFU) to: 
Pay the amount it would have cost NFU to replace the septic tank with one with one 
of a size which would meet current building requirements. If Mr and Mrs M have 
completed work already, then NFU will need to add 8% interest, simple per annum 
on the payment it makes, from date of invoice for the work, to date of settlement, less 
any tax properly deductible, to account for the time Mr and Mrs M have been without 
these funds. 
Pay Mr and Mrs M £2,365.20 in settlement of the damage to the clay pipes, if they 
havent already. If this amount hasnt been paid, then NFU will need to pay Mr and 
Mrs M 8% interest, simple per annum, from 4 August 2022 when it offered the 
payment, to the date of settlement, less any tax properly deductible.
Pay Mr and Mrs M £300 compensation, if they havent already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 April 2023.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman