DRN-3833247
The complaint
Miss G complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc fraudulently misled her about an Individual 
Savings Account (ISA) by suggesting she would incur charges against its own terms and 
conditions. 
What happened
Miss G held a one-year fixed term ISA which started on 15 June 2021. On 9 April 2022 Miss 
G called Barclays to enquire about opening a new ISA. When she couldnt reach Barclays, 
she opened another fixed-rate ISA online. On 11 April 2022 Miss G requested Barclays 
close her original ISA. Barclays advised her this would incur charges as the ISA hadnt 
reached the end of its fixed term. Miss G complained as she didnt want to pay any charges 
and didnt think she should have to.
Miss G continued to call Barclays, but was unable to reach anyone. On 26 April 2022 Miss G 
asked Barclays to close her new ISA, and she was offered £25 for the lack of a call back 
from the complaint team. Miss G had to contact Barclays again as the £25 wasnt received. 
In its response to her complaint of 20 June 2022 Barclays confirmed to Miss G that her new 
ISA was closed on 5 May 2022, and her previous ISA was closed having run full term.  
Miss G said when she tried to contact Barclays about opening an ISA, she was kept waiting 
over five hours. She decided to open an ISA, but changed her mind later that day and asked 
Barclays to close it, but Barclays gave excuses saying it couldn't do that and if it did, she 
would incur extra charges. Miss G said in the following days, she called Barclays complaints 
team for five hours with no answer and was disconnected. She discovered Barclays allows 
ISAs to be closed within 14 days at no extra charge and said it had lied to her and acted 
fraudulently. 
Barclays responded to Miss G by apologising for delays in contact and misinformation about 
the timescale for its response to her complaint, and paid £75 compensation. Barclays said it 
closed her new ISA on 5 May 2022, and her previous ISA at the end of its term and 
transferred her funds into a savings account.   
Miss G said she waited days for a call from Barclays complaint team, and after four months 
its resolution to her complaint was an apology and £75. She thought this very little for the 
severe physical and mental impact with distress, and anxiety and not being able to 
concentrate at work. Miss G said shes been caused £5,000 loss as she wasnt able to 
transfer funds from her ISA on a specific date to another account.
As Miss G wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, she referred her complaint to our 
service. Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She didnt think 
Barclays had made an error and had correctly informed Miss G additional charges applied to 
a fixed term ISA closed early. The investigator thought Barclays payment of £75 
compensation for Miss Gs distress and inconvenience, was fair for the slight delays. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have looked at the sequence of events and communications between Miss G and Barclays 
regarding her ISAs to see if Barclays acted in accordance with its terms and conditions and 
treated Miss G fairly. Barclays records dont show delays in Miss Gs contacts of five hours 
before she took out the second ISA, though it has said that it disconnected one of her 
subsequent calls. 
Barclays call notes indicate that when Miss G made contact on 9 April 2022, she thought 
she had made a mistake by opening a new ISA and asked for old ISA to be closed. She was 
unhappy to be informed that charges would apply, and complained.
There appears to have been some confusion regarding the term of Miss Gs existing ISA, 
and Barclays reference to charges. Miss G may not have been aware when she enquired 
about a new ISA that her existing ISA still had two months to run. I can see that Barclays 
alerted her to the charges that would apply if she closed her existing ISA early. This was in 
accordance with Barclays terms and conditions, and I think it acted correctly. 
Miss G appears to have interpreted this as meaning that Barclays would apply charges if she 
closed her newly opened ISA, however, this was clearly not Barclays intention. Miss G is 
correct to say that a customer may close an ISA within 14 days without incurring charges 
under Barclays terms and conditions. Barclays information on charges should have been 
helpful to Miss G but confusion between the ISAs meant this wasnt the case. However, 
there was no misinformation about this from Barclays and no error regarding the closure of 
the ISA accounts. Barclays carried out Miss Gs instructions about her ISAs after a short 
delay.
Although there may have been confusion regarding the dates and charges for Miss Gs 
ISAs, I havent seen anything to support Miss Gs suggestion that Barclays lied to her and 
acted fraudulently.  
Miss G said shes been caused £5,000 loss as she wasnt able to transfer funds from her 
ISA on a specific date to another account. But had she done so she would have incurred 
charges for early closure, which she wanted to avoid. I havent seen any evidence that Miss 
G was caused losses by Barclays handling of her ISA accounts, though I can understand 
her frustration at the difficulty she faced in reaching its staff about her situation. 
Miss G said it took Barclays a total of four months to deal with her ISA instructions and her 
complaint. Miss Gs first enquiry was 9 April 2022 and Barclays final response to her 
complaint was on 20 June 2022. During this time Miss G sought an answer to her complaint 
unsuccessfully and I can understand her frustration. Barclays paid Miss G £75 compensation 
for the time she spent trying to get through, and its delayed response to her complaint, and I 
think this is fair. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 July 2023.
 Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman