DRN-3780382
The complaint
Mr M has complained about delays caused by Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited 
(Lloyds) following a claim under his home insurance policy.
References to Lloyds include companies and contractors acting on its behalf.
What happened
Mr M had an escape of water in a bathroom that damaged his home that damaged. So, he 
contacted Lloyds to make a claim. Mr M told Lloyds he would arrange to find the source of 
the leak and later submitted an invoice for the work. The property was then dried and Lloyds 
agreed to carry out works to repair the property, along with a cash settlement for some parts 
of the claim.
Mr M complained about the progress of the works. Lloyds replied and accepted there had 
been delays and communication issues. The claim continued and Mr M complained again. 
He said there was still outstanding issues, such as a leaking ensuite shower and the 
finishing of the new timber skirtings and architraves needed to match the existing fittings. He 
said the contractor had also damaged the stairwell wallpaper. He said the contractors had 
failed to complete the work in a reasonable timescale and he hadnt been able to make full 
use of his property while the claim remained unresolved. Mr M said he had also experienced 
stress and anxiety over the previous 14 months. 
When Lloyds replied it accepted there had been issues with matching the skirting and 
architrave and said a cash settlement had been offered for these. Lloyds agreed there had 
been poor communication and delays. It offered £150 compensation and said a loss adjuster 
would be in touch to progress the outstanding issues.
Following this, Mr M complained to this service. While the complaint was with this service, 
the loss adjuster and a contractor visited the property and it was agreed what action would 
be taken to deal with the outstanding issues. Lloyds said it would deal with the issues with 
the skirting and architrave. It had also asked Mr M to obtain quotes for replacement 
wallpaper in case it couldnt provide a match. It said it would also remove the shower screen, 
remove all sealant and reseal it. 
Lloyds told this service that following this it had been unable to colour match the skirting, so 
Mr M had said he would speak to his own decorator. It said tiles were on order and would be 
fixed soon and Mr M was getting quotes for the wallpaper.
Mr M later confirmed that the tiling and shower door work was completed. He said he was 
still obtaining quotes for the wallpaper and the contractor has said it would deal with the 
skirting board. Mr M also complained to Lloyds again about the outstanding issues and the 
length of time it was taking to resolve his claim. Lloyds accepted that the claim hadnt 
progressed as efficiently as it should have. It offered a further £150 compensation.
Following this, Lloyds paid Mr M £330 as a cash settlement for the skirting and architrave 
decorating, but Mr M said the shower enclosure continued to leak and the wallpaper hadnt 
been fixed.
Our investigator upheld Mr Ms complaint. He said there were a number of delays in 
completing the building works, which would have caused distress and inconvenience. He 
said Lloyds should pay a further £200 compensation. He said Lloyds should also contact Mr 
M to arrange for the outstanding work to be completed.
Mr M didnt think the investigators findings fairly reflected the length of the claim and the 
impact on him, including that some issues were still outstanding. So, the case was referred 
to me for a decision.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 16 November 2022. In my provisional decision, I 
explained the reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
As both parties are aware, Mr Ms first complaint was passed to this service more than six-
months after Lloyds replied to it. So, Im unable to consider that complaint, although Im 
aware of what it was about.
Mr M has complained because of the poor handling of his claim, including that some of the 
works werent carried out to a satisfactory standard. He was also concerned about the 
amount of time it has taken to progress the claim and that this has affected his ability to 
make full use of his home.
I can see this has been a very lengthy claim. Im aware that drying needed to take place and 
that Mr M was concerned about the amount of time it took to appoint a loss adjuster. These 
were addressed in the first complaint, so I wont comment on these further, but note this for 
context. Mr M then contacted Lloyds because there wasnt any progress on dealing with the 
building works or for dealing with the costs for the decorating work. He asked when the 
works would start. 
Several months after this, Mr M complained because the claim still wasnt resolved. Its my 
understanding that during that period, some new skirting and architrave was installed. 
However, the contractor later couldnt colour match it to the existing woodwork. The ensuite 
tiling was completed. The wall-heater leaked, which was later repaired. The shower 
enclosure also leaked. Repairs were made on the shower enclosure, but werent successful. 
When Lloyds replied to Mr Ms third complaint, it said it had arranged for site meetings to 
take place at Mr Ms home.
I can understand Mr M found this unsatisfactory. It was reasonable for him to expect that 
repairs would be carried out in a timely manner and that they would be successful. Im aware 
that Lloyds attempted further repairs on some of the items where the initial repairs failed. 
That is what I would expect an insurer to do. However, for the shower screen in particular, it 
has since been identified that the reason it kept leaking was that the shower screen fitted 
was unsuitable for the new shower tray. I think Lloyds should have taken steps to identify 
this sooner, including potentially when it was deciding the work to be carried out and the 
materials required. It seems that Lloyds either didnt consider whether the shower screen 
was suitable for fitting or it did so and was wrong in what it concluded. It then kept trying to 
fix the issue by resealing the shower screen. This wasnt going to work because the shower 
screen wasnt suitable. It was for Lloyds to identify this and provide an appropriate solution. 
But, even by the time of Mr Ms third complaint, it hadnt done so.
Mr M also said some wallpaper was damaged by the contractor. Lloyds seemed to accept 
this. However, the issue then was whether it could be matched or whether it would need to be cash settled.  Again, I havent seen evidence there was much focus from Lloyds on 
resolving this issue. Although Lloyds had delegated much of this claim to other parties, 
including the contractors who carried out the work, ultimately, it was Lloyds responsibility, as 
the insurer, to ensure this claim was handled appropriately and in a timely manner. 
Mr M has explained that Lloyds not bringing his claim to a close meant he couldnt use parts 
of his home. He said the main master bedroom was out of use, as well as the ensuite itself. 
A small bedroom was also out of use because items from the main bedroom and the ensuite 
were stored in it. Mr M was paid a cash settlement for the works to the master bedroom and 
living room. I asked Mr M why he didnt get the works done. The ensuite bathroom adjoined 
the bedroom. He said the ongoing issues with the ensuite bathroom, with no timescale for 
when these would be completed, meant he didnt want to get these works done because he 
wanted to prevent any further damage.  I can understand that the ongoing issues with the 
bathroom were likely to have influenced Mr Ms sense off whether he should have the works 
done for which he had been paid the cash settlement.
I also asked Mr M what had been agreed with Lloyds about using the bedroom for storage. 
Mr M said he couldnt recall a discussion about this specifically. But, regardless of why the 
bedroom was used, I think its unlikely Lloyds or Mr M envisaged that the claim would take 
so long to resolve. 
I note that in response to the third complaint, Lloyds said:
I understand that you were unhappy that the previous complaint response did not outline a 
date by which the works were to be completed, however this information was not provided 
as there was no way of knowing this information. All claims are handled individually and as 
the time scale for each repair differs depending on the required work, the handler would 
have been unable to provide this information.
It is normal for policyholders to be given timescales in which work is expected to be 
completed, even if these later need to be revised. I think it was a reasonable expectation 
from Mr M that he would be given some idea of when the work would be completed. I think 
Lloyds response was likely to have added to Mr Ms view that no-one seemed to be 
focussing on his claim or concerned about bringing it to a conclusion. I currently intend to 
say Lloyds needs to review this claim to ensure all the issues Mr M raised in his complaints 
have been resolved. Where issues remain outstanding, Lloyds needs to take steps to ensure 
they are dealt with in a timely way and that the details, including what action will be taken 
and timescales, are clearly communicated to Mr M.
Mr M has said he thinks Lloyds should contribute to his home insurance, council tax, 
electricity and mortgage. Ive thought about this, but these costs are ones Mr M would have 
had to pay anyway. Mr M also said alternative accommodation had to be found for guests 
who were unable to stay with him. He also outlined the stress and inconvenience caused to 
various relatives. I dont currently think Lloyds needs to pay anything towards any of these. 
The policy doesnt provide cover for those people and Im unable to make awards to parties 
other than the policyholder.
Mr M provided details of how the claim handling has impacted him, including because of 
time he had to take off work to deal with aspects of it, missed appointments, phone calls and 
getting quotes. Im also aware of the impact he has described because he couldnt use some 
of his home for a considerable time. He also outlined the stress and anxiety it had caused 
him. Im mindful that claims can be stressful anyway and that it would always have taken 
time to carry out the repairs. But looking at the period covered by the more recent 
complaints, Im currently minded to say that Lloyds should pay a total of £750 compensation, 
which includes the compensation it has already offered. Im aware that this is considerably less than Mr M has said he wants to resolve this complaint. Ive taken into account this 
services approach to compensation. Ive also outlined above why I dont think some of the 
issues Mr M raised are covered. However, I think Lloyds has failed to fully consider the 
impact on Mr M of how it has handled this claim and I think this more fairly reflects the 
impact on him.
When Mr M outlined to this service what he wanted in terms of compensation/ costs, he 
included some items that appeared to be related to the claim settlement itself, including 
additional costs for the carpet and decorating. Mr M would need to raise these concerns with 
Lloyds if he doesnt think it has made a fair settlement.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 14 December 2022. Both parties replied before that date.
Lloyds agreed with my decision. It said it would make arrangements to pay the 
compensation.
Mr M provided a range of comments, which I have summarised:
The claim was still unresolved and no definitive date had been provided for the resolution 
of both outstanding items on the claim  the shower enclosure and the damaged 
wallpaper.
Lloyds failure to respond to each of his complaint points hadnt been sufficiently 
considered.
Lloyds still hadnt responded to the point he had previously raised with it about how it 
intended to compensate Mr M for his significant losses.
Lloyds was already aware that a number of complaints had been made. It would 
therefore be reasonable to believe Lloyds would now be working diligently to resolve the 
claim as speedily as possible. However, he had recently emailed Lloyds about the 
outstanding issues on the claim and still awaited a response. There remained a complete 
disregard for proactive resolution of the claim.
He didnt understand the context when I said Id taken into account this services 
approach to compensation.
He agreed he would have had to pay some of the costs regardless. However, he would 
have expected to have full and unobstructed use of his property. Any claim should be 
completed within a reasonable timescale.
He said that even if the claim should have taken six months, it was now nearing its two-
year anniversary.
He had previously provided a summary of his time and attendance costs related to 
chasing Lloyds and related to its failure to resolve the claim. At the time of the 
calculations, this was over £4,500 and further attendance was then required.
There was no correlation between the £750 compensation I had recommended and the 
time and attendance calculation and the stress and inconvenience caused. He calculated 
the compensation at £1.37 per day over the course of 18 months.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint and for the reasons Ive given in my 
provisional decision. As part of that Ive considered the comments from both parties. I 
should, again, make clear that my decision doesnt cover the entire period of the claim. Mr M 
complained to Lloyds about the first part of the claim, but it was brought to this service 
beyond the timescales in which we could consider it. It also doesnt cover the more recent 
issues because these werent covered by the time period of the complaints that were 
brought to this service.
This service publishes guidance on our website about our approach to compensation, which 
is what I was referring to. When I looked at the circumstances of this claim and what Mr M 
wanted compensation for, I considered this. It wasnt my approach that the compensation 
should be considered as a daily rate. When I said how much compensation I thought should 
be paid, I went through each item Mr M had listed. As I previously explained, I didnt think all 
of the items and issues Mr M had listed were ones that could be covered. I was aware Mr M 
had listed a number of days he had taken off work to attend the house while work remained 
ongoing. 
I looked at Mr Ms complaint in detail, including the points he had raised and whether Lloyds 
had responded to each point and, if it had, what it had said. I consider that I did this in 
sufficient detail to reach a fair outcome on this complaint.
Ive also considered Lloyds response to my provisional decision. This was a fairly brief 
response and said it was in agreement on paying further compensation. I realise its 
response might just have been focusing on the practical process of making the payment. 
However, for avoidance of doubt, I want to be clear that I require Lloyds to do two things.
As Ive previously said, it was Lloyds responsibility to ensure the claim was handled 
appropriately and in a timely manner. Even when it delegated much of the work to other 
parties, this was still the case. My provisional decision also said that I could understand why 
Mr M might have been of the view that no-one seemed to be focussed on his claim or 
concerned about bringing it to a conclusion. As well as paying compensation, Lloyds needs 
to review the claim to ensure all the issues Mr M raised in his complaint are now resolved. It 
needs to take steps to ensure any outstanding issues are dealt with in a timely manner. Any 
required actions and timescales need to be clearly communicated to Mr M.
Putting things right
Lloyds should review the claim and ensure all the issues raised by Mr M have been 
resolved. Lloyds must take steps to resolve any outstanding issues in a timely way. It must 
clearly communicate to Mr M the outstanding actions required and the timescales in which 
they will be dealt with. Lloyds must also pay at total of £750 compensation.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that this 
complaint is upheld. I require Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited to:
review the claim to ensure all the issues Mr M raised in his complaints have been 
resolved. Where issues remain outstanding, Lloyds needs to take steps to ensure they 
are dealt with in a timely way and that the details, including the required action and 
timescales, are clearly communicated to Mr M.
pay Mr M a total of £750 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman