DRN-2925493
The complaint
Mr C complains that Portal Financial Services LLP gave him unsuitable advice to switch 
his personal pension into a self- invested personal pension (SIPP) and then invest in 
high-risk unregulated collective investment schemes (UCIS). 
What happened
In February 2012, Mr C says he was cold called by Portal Financial. It then wrote to 
Mr C setting out his pension options. It said he could:
Do nothing leaving his pension benefits with his current pension provider. 
Pension Release, releasing a cash lump sum of up to £7,008 
from his pension fund and leave the residual amount invested, 
until a time when he needed to take an income from his 
pension.
Take full benefits and retire -taking £7,008 as a lump sum and using the remaining 
fund to produce an income, going to the open market to get the best deal.
Portal Financial told him Mr C had nothing to lose by using its retirement review service, 
which was designed to help him make the right choice and maximise the benefits he would 
receive. It said any recommendation made would be backed up by a letter explaining why 
the recommendation was suitable.
A fact find interview was completed at the end of February 2012 and Mr C was sent a 
suitability report setting out Portal Financials recommendations. Mr Cs circumstances were 
noted at the time, as being, he:
was married, with grown up children
was in his late 50s, employed and working for the last 35 years 
was expecting to retire at 66
was a homeowner with a mortgage. His home was worth around £90,000
had a personal pension valued at approximately £28,000 and another 
pension which wasnt being considered as part of this advice
had around £17,000 in savings on deposit 
wanted capital to make some home improvements.
Portal Financials adviser wrote to Mr C the next day and advised him to switch his 
personal pension into a Transact SIPP. The adviser recorded that Mr C was a 
moderately cautious investor. Portal Financial recommended Mr C take his tax-free cash 
(TFC) and then invest the remainder of his pension as follows:
50% Raithwaites Hypa Fund
7.5% Cool Blue Fractional Plus Fund (also known as the Cool Blue 
Samui Fund) 
20% Venture Oil International
7.5% EOS 
Solar 
Energy 
15% Cash 
Deposit
The adviser told Mr C that Raithwaites, Venture Oil, EOS Solar and Cool Blue funds were 
Unregulated Collective Investment Schemes (UCIS). It also said some of the partners of 
Portal Financial may have business interests in some of these recommended
investments.
Mr C went ahead and transferred into the SIPP, taking the maximum amount of TFC. 
He invested in the recommended investments.
Having seen his pension fund drop substantially in value and some of the investments 
becoming illiquid, Mr C complained to Portal Financial about the advice he was given. 
Portal Financial said that Mr C had made his complaint out of time and that this service 
could not investigate it. One of our ombudsmen considered this issue and decided that 
Mr Cs complaint was brought in time and that this was one we could investigate.
Our investigator went on to consider the merits of Mr Cs complaint and concluded that 
it should be upheld.
Portal Financial did not agree with our investigators view. It asked for this complaint to 
be referred to an ombudsman. So, Mr Cs complaint now comes to me for a decision on 
the merits of it. In summary, Portal Financial said:
It did not accept the investigators assessment that Portal Financials adviser 
shouldve considered Mr C using his savings for home improvements, rather 
than switching his pension plan. 
Alternative options for raising funds were discussed with Mr C, but Mr C was 
adamant he wanted to keep his savings in place and did not wish to take any 
further credit.
The £17,000 Mr C had in savings was his emergency fund. Although this was in 
excess of some recommended emergency fund levels of three to six months 
worth of expenses, which in Mr Cs case wouldve been around £9,200, Mr C 
could, in his line of work, have  been laid off or suffered from ill
health. So, the adviser felt that he required extra savings as security.
Mr Cs existing plan wouldve had to be transferred into drawdown to access the 
TFC. He may have been able to take TFC from his existing scheme, but only if 
he also took income via an annuity. Mr C did not wish to take an income at that 
time.
The recommendation was based on the fact that Mr C needed to go into 
drawdown to take TFC, so the pension switching report from 2008 was not 
appropriate.
The adviser considered that the most suitable way Mr C could achieve his 
objectives was for him to transfer his pension to facilitate drawdown. The SIPP 
with Transact was considered suitable as it provided flexibility, greater access to 
funds and online functionality.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with our investigator that Mr Cs complaint should be upheld. I cant see that Mr C 
was given suitable advice by Portal Financial to switch his pension into a SIPP and to invest 
85% of his pension fund in high risk UCIS funds. Further, I am not satisfied that the 
information Mr C was given was clear, fair and not misleading to enable him to make an 
informed choice about his pension options and to decide what was right for him, in his 
circumstances.
Advice to transfer
Portal Financial said it advised Mr C to switch to a SIPP because he wanted to carry out 
home improvements and he was adamant he wanted to take the money from his 
pension to fund those improvements. It said Mr C couldnt access TFC from within his 
existing pension scheme, at that time, so he needed to switch his pension to a different 
arrangement (a drawdown pension) to enable him to take the TFC. 
Ive seen the notes that the adviser took recording what was discussed with Mr C at the 
fact find interview. The notes dont provide any details of the home improvements Mr C 
intended to make or show how much they were estimated to cost. The TFC available, if 
Mr C transferred, was around £7,000. Its not clear whether some, or all of this, wouldve 
been needed for these home improvements, or if that was going to be enough. The 
notes show that Mr C said his home was worth around £90,000, he still had a mortgage 
on it, but this was due to end in 2013, and he was paying £147 per month for it. The 
adviser noted down that Mr C had £17,000 in savings, on deposit, and had no other 
assets or liabilities.
Portal Financial said in response to our investigators view, that Mr C classed his 
savings as an emergency fund. Further that the adviser concluded that Mr C required 
more security than the usual recommended three to six months of savings. This was 
due to Mr Cs line of work and because he may suffer ill health. Having looked at the 
advisers notes from the time and the suitability report, theres no mention of a higher 
level of security being required. I cant therefore say whether the adviser discussed that 
with Mr C, at the time. What I can see is that it was recorded that Mr C had been 
employed for 35 years in the same line of work and was in good health. Based on the 
available information, and looking at Mr Cs line of work, its not apparent to me why the 
adviser wouldve reached a conclusion that Mr C needed more security. Even if the 
adviser reached this conclusion at the time, as Ive said, as its not evident that this was 
discussed with Mr C, to enable him to make an informed choice about the best way of 
meeting his objective. 
Im also not satisfied that Mr C was given clear, fair and not misleading information 
about all his options. In reaching this conclusion, Ive taken into account, that it seems 
Mr Cs mortgage was also due to end the following year and he said he had no other 
liabilities. So, as he intended to continue working for around another five to eight years, 
likely he wouldve had a higher level of disposable income each month once his 
mortgage was paid off. I cant see that this was fully discussed, in terms of the options 
this might present for funding his home improvements either.
The notes and suitability report dont adequately explain why it was more suitable for Mr C to use funds invested in a tax-efficient pension plan, than his savings, or credit, to fund 
home improvements the cost and nature of which appear not to have been explored. The 
adviser said in the suitability report that they would normally recommend that you leave 
your pension benefits where they are as this will be most beneficial to you in retirement. 
However, during our telephone conversation you advised me that you are aware of the 
downfalls in taking your benefits now but due to your current circumstances you would like 
to take your benefits immediately; in accordance to your wishes
As it was acknowledged that the advice being given here may not be in Mr Cs best 
financial interests, I think it was incumbent upon the adviser to provide clear and fair 
information, to enable Mr C to weigh up all his options and make an informed decision.
Ive also noted that Mr C had to pay Portal Financial an advice fee if he decided to switch his 
pension funds into the SIPP. Information about these charges was included in the suitability 
report and its noted that Mr C was told that overall, the SIPP would be more costly. There 
was an initial advice charge of 5% for providing the transfer advice, which in Mr Cs case 
was around £1,400. Following transfer, he would also have had to pay the additional SIPP 
charges. The justification for transferring to the SIPP was to access drawdown, which for the 
reasons Ive explained above, it is not clear to me was necessary or suitable given Mr Cs 
other means and circumstances. It was said that a SIPP was considered suitable because it 
provided flexibility, greater access to funds and online functionality, but Ive also not seen 
anything to show that Mr C needed to access a greater range of funds or that online 
functionality was important to him. He was assessed as having a moderately cautious 
attitude to risk, which I think could have been matched in his existing pension scheme.
Based on everything I have seen, I cant fairly conclude that Mr C was given all the 
information he needed to make an informed choice about switching his pension fund. 
Nor am I satisfied that Portal Financial has demonstrated that it gave Mr C suitable 
advice, in his circumstances.
Advice to invest in the recommended investments
I have also looked at whether the advice Mr C was given to invest 85% of his SIPP in UCIS 
was suitable in his circumstances. 
Guidance from the Regulator
In July 2010, prior to the advice given to Mr C, the industry regulator issued a report: 
Unregulated Collective Investment Schemes: Good and poor practice report. The 
Regulator gave as an example of poor advice where a customer ended up having 
100% of their funds invested in UCIS and an example of good practice, restricting the 
exposure to UCIS within a portfolio of between 3-5%. Portal Financial recommended 
that Mr C invest 85% of his fund in UCIS. He was not a sophisticated or high-risk 
investor, he was assessed by Portal Financial as having a moderately cautious ATR.
Our investigator also pointed out that in a factsheet, referenced within the regulators report, 
it stated:
As with most other investments, a client investing in a UCIS could lose some or all of 
their money. However this risk is likely to be particularly relevant to UCIS. UCIS 
frequently invest in assets that are not available to regulated CIS (for example, because 
they are riskier or less liquid), or are structured in a way that is different from regulated 
CIS. Unlike regulated CIS, UCIS are not subject to investment and borrowing 
restrictions aimed at ensuring a prudent spread of risk. As a result they are generally considered to be a high risk investment and you should always ensure that clients 
understand the risks before investing.
Your clients may not be covered by the Financial Ombudsman Service (FOS), should 
they have a complaint about the fund or the Financial Services Compensation 
Scheme (FSCS), should they need to seek compensation. You should make this clear 
to your clients. The documents from the UCIS should help confirm whether your 
clients have access to FOS or FSCS.
Portal Financials documentation, in use at the time of advice, said: 
Moderately Cautious investors typically have low to moderate levels of knowledge 
about financial matters and quite limited interest in keeping up to date with financial 
issues. They may have some experience of investment products, but will be more 
familiar with bank and building society accounts than other types of investments.
In general, moderately cautious investors are uncomfortable taking risk with their 
investments, but would be willing to do so to a limited extent. They realise that 
risky investments are likely to be better for longer-term returns.
Moderately Cautious investors typically prefer certain outcomes to gambles. 
They can take a relatively long time to make up their mind on financial matters 
and may suffer from regret when decisions turn out badly.
In my view, Portal Financials recommendation to invest 85% of his fund in UCIS, was 
unsuitable taking all of this into account as it did not match his ATR as a moderately 
cautious investor. Mr C was not a sophisticated or high-risk investor. So, I uphold Mr Cs 
complaint and require Portal Financial to compensate him for his loss.
Putting things right
To put things right, my aim is to put Mr C as close as possible to the position he would 
probably now be in if he had been given suitable advice. I think this would have meant
him staying in his existing personal pension plan.
Remaining in the Wesleyan Pension Scheme which Mr C was in at the time of advice
Any loss Mr C has suffered should be determined by obtaining the notional value of the 
pension from his Wesleyan Pension Scheme on the basis that he was invested in the 
Managed Deposit and with profit
choices funds and subtracting the current value of the pension from this notional value. If the 
answer is negative, theres a gain and no redress is payable.
If, the current investments are illiquid (meaning they cannot be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult to find the actual value of the investment. So, the actual value 
should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Portal Financial should take 
ownership of the illiquid investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension 
provider. This amount should be deducted from the compensation and the balance paid as 
above.
If Portal Financial are unable to purchase the investment the actual value should be 
assumed to be nil for the purpose of calculation. Portal Financial may wish to require that 
Mr C provides an undertaking to pay it any amount he may receive from the investment in 
the future. That undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on 
drawing the receipt from the pension plan. Portal Financial will need to meet any costs in 
drawing up the undertaking.The compensation amount should if possible be paid into Mr Cs pension plan. The 
payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The 
compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr C as a lump sum after making a notional reduction to allow 
for future income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
Mr C has taken tax-free cash from his plan, therefore he would have been taxed 
according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making 
a notional reduction of 20% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
Portal Financial should provide details of the calculation to Mr C in a clear, simple 
format.
Illiquid investments and SIPP fees
If in the event, any investments remain illiquid, it is fair that Portal Financial pay Mr C an 
upfront sum equivalent to five years worth of SIPP fees (calculated using the previous 
years fees) This gives a reasonable period for the parties to arrange for the SIPP to be 
closed. There are several ways they may want to achieve that, but this will give some 
confidence to Mr C that he will not be subject to further fees.
Awarding a lump sum for an amount equivalent to five years fees is a fair balance. It is 
possible that any residual illiquid holdings in the SIPP could be removed from the SIPP 
in fewer than five years. However, overall five years worth of fees is a fair way to 
resolve the issue now.
I consider the notional value outlined above is the fairest way of resolving this 
complaint. However if Wesleyan isnt able to calculate a notional value, my aim is to put 
Mr C as close to the position they would probably now be in if they had invested 
similarly to the Managed Deposit and with profit fund choices funds.
If the Wesleyan Pension Scheme is unable to calculate a notional value
I think Mr C would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely what he 
would have done, but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr C's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
To compensate Mr C fairly Portal Financial should:
Compare the performance of Mr C's investment with that of the benchmark 
shown below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a 
loss and compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair 
value, no compensation is payable.
Portal Financial should also pay any interest set out below.
If there is a loss, Portal Financial should pay into Mr C's pension plan, to increase its 
value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should allow 
for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Portal Financial shouldnt pay 
the compensation into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection 
or allowance.If Portal Financial are unable to pay the compensation into Mr C's pension plan, it 
should pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, 
it would have provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be 
reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr C's actual or expected marginal 
rate of tax at his selected retirement age. Mr C is presumed to be a basic rate tax 
payer at the selected retirement age. However, if Mr C would have been able to take a 
tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
Provide the details of the calculation to Mr C in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Portal Financial consider that its 
required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should 
tell Mr C how much its taken off. It should also give Mr C a tax deduction certificate if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
investment 
namestatus Benchmarkfrom
(start date)to
(end date)additional 
interest
for half the
investment:
FTSE UK Private
Investors Income
SIPP still existsTotal Return 
Index; for thedate of transferdate of 
settlementnot applicable
other half:
average rate
from fixed rate
bonds
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If, at the end date, the investments are illiquid (meaning they cannot be readily sold on 
the open market), it may be difficult to find the actual value of the investment. So, the 
actual value should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Portal Financial 
should take ownership of the illiquid investment by paying a commercial value 
acceptable to the pension provider.
This amount should be deducted from the compensation and the balance paid as above.
If Portal Financial are unable to purchase the investment the actual value should be 
assumed to be nil for the purpose of calculation. It may wish to require that Mr C 
provides an undertaking to pay it any amount he may receive from the investment in 
the future. That undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred 
on drawing the receipt from the pension plan. Portal Financial will need to meet any 
costs in drawing up the undertaking.Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Portal 
Financial should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as 
published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end 
of the previous month. Apply those rates to the investment on an annually compounded 
basis.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value 
calculation from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted 
from the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in 
the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to 
keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Portal Financial total all those payments and 
deduct that figure at the end instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr C wanted capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone 
who wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 
2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a 
range of indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and 
government bonds. Its a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take 
some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr C's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was 
prepared to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 
50/50 combination would reasonably put Mr C into that position. It does not 
mean that Mr C would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 
50% in some kind of index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a 
reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return Mr C could have 
obtained from investments suited to his objective and risk attitude.
Trouble and upset
Portal Financial should, in addition to the above, also pay Mr C £250 for the trouble 
and upset it has caused to his retirement planning by advising him to transfer into the 
SIPP to and invest a high percentage of his portfolio in unregulated investments.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Cs complaint and order Portal Financial Services 
LLP to put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 1 March 2022.
 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman