DRN-3267720
The complaint
Mrs S says MoneyGram International Limited (MoneyGram), didnt do enough to help when 
she fell victim to a romance scam and that it should reimburse her.
What happened
The details of this case have been clearly set out by our investigator. As such, the facts are 
well-known to both parties, so I dont need to repeat them at length here. 
In summary, Mrs S fell victim to a cruel romance scam. Mrs S met someone online who said 
they were an American solider deployed in Nigeria. Mrs S ended up making multiple 
payments abroad. Mrs S realised it was a scam when the fraudster kept asking for more and 
more money. 
Unfortunately Mrs S then met someone else online who was also a fraudster and also 
claimed to be an American soldier. Mrs S told this second fraudster about what had 
happened and the fraudster duped Mrs S into believing that they would investigate the 
matter. They then told Mrs S that the earlier fraudster had been arrested and that there were 
court proceedings. This was another trick to obtain money, with Mrs S making further 
payments for court costs and to obtain her money back which would also include a refund of 
the court costs.
Mrs S, over a period spanning 30 August 2019 to 24 December 2019, made multiple 
payments through her bank and through money transfer service providers  one of which 
was MoneyGram.
Mrs S made the following payments from MoneyGram:
Payment 1: 26 September 2019 - £700 (+£16 fee) to a recipient in Nigeria. 
Payment 2: 1 October 2019 - £600 (+£8 fee) to a recipient in Nigeria.
Payment 3: 2 October 2019 - £700 (online and which was declined)
Mrs S referred the matter to our service in 2020. Mrs S ended up receiving a refund of the 
payments she made from her bank  Bank S but was unable to log complaints with the 
money transfer service providers.
Our service informed MoneyGram of Mrs Ss complaint and it investigated the matter and 
declined to offer a refund. It said the funds were paid out to the receivers and the 
transactions cannot be refunded back to Mrs S.
It also explained that it was sorry to learn that Mrs S was fraudulently induced to send funds 
and confirmed that information regarding her transactions had been recorded by its 
appropriate fraud teams who work to prevent MoneyGram transactions from being used as a 
part of a fraudulent scheme.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Overall, they didnt think MoneyGram ought to have done more to identify Payments 1 and 2 
as potentially fraudulent in the circumstances. They acknowledged that Payment 3 was 
stopped by MoneyGram as a result of its security measures but considered that it didnt 
mean the earlier payments should have automatically been flagged by MoneyGram also.
They also felt as the funds for Payments 1 and 2 had already been collected, there was 
nothing MoneyGram could do further in regard to the recovery of the funds Mrs S had sent.
Mrs S responded disagreeing. In summary, Mrs S considers that money transfer service 
providers like MoneyGram should be bound by more regulations and thorough checks 
should be undertaken on both the sending party and receiving party when a payment is 
made and collected. Mrs S believes this would have prevented her losses and it would help 
other people in similar situations in the future. Mrs S also had concerns that had she been 
provided with better reasons as to why the payment was declined it could have prevented 
further losses.
As Mrs S disagreed, and as the matter hasnt been resolved, its been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I would like to clarify that this decision focuses on the actions of MoneyGram in relation 
to the payments Mrs S made. Mrs S has other complaints with our service about her bank 
and another money transfer service provider which have or are being dealt with under 
separate complaint references.
Second, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint and the responses briefly, in 
less detail than has been provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. 
Instead, Ive focussed on what I think is the heart of the matter here  which is to determine 
whether MoneyGram should have done more to prevent Mrs Ss losses. If theres something 
Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to 
comment on every individual point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service 
as an alternative to the courts. 
I would also like to point out at this juncture that while Mrs S has received a refund from her 
bank  Bank S for the payments she made through them, each case is investigated on its 
own merits. Within this decision I have considered the facts of the scam that Mrs S fell victim 
to, alongside MoneyGrams actions when Mrs S made the payments. This is in order to 
determine whether I think MoneyGram should have done more to prevent Mrs Ss losses.Im sorry to disappoint Mrs S but Im not upholding her complaint. I know shes been the
victim of a cruel romance scam at a time when she had a lot going on personally and I dont 
doubt that these events have had a significant impact on her financially, mentally, and 
emotionally. But I dont believe MoneyGram has acted unfairly or unreasonably in its 
answering of the complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a money transfer / payment service 
provider (in this case, MoneyGram) is expected to process payments and withdrawals that a 
customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and conditions. 
It is the case that Mrs S authorised the payments in dispute and thats accepted by all 
parties. And under the Payment Service Regulations 2017 (which are the relevant 
regulations in place here) that means Mrs S is responsible for the payments. That remains 
the case even though Mrs S was the unfortunate victim of a romance scam.
There are times when, dependent on the payment that I might expect a payment service 
provider to question a transaction or payment, even though it may have been properly 
authorised. Broadly speaking, firms (like MoneyGram) have certain obligations to protect 
customers from fraud. 
So in this case, I need to decide whether MoneyGram acted fairly and reasonably in its 
dealings with Mrs S when she made the payments, or whether it should have done more 
than it did.
Ive thought about this carefully. And in doing so, it is important to take into consideration the 
purpose that customers use payment service providers such as MoneyGram for. The 
primary purpose is to send payments, often in a particular currency, abroad. Payments are 
typically for friends and family members and payments can range from one-off low amounts, 
regular amounts weekly / monthly and for one-off larger amounts.
So when Mrs S used MoneyGram to make payments abroad, I cant fairly say that there was 
anything unusual or remarkable about the payments or the amount that reasonably ought to 
have alerted MoneyGram to the possibility Mrs S was potentially at risk of financial harm, 
where I would expect MoneyGram to have concerns and step in and question Mrs S further 
about the payments. 
It is also important to note that payment service providers such as MoneyGram arent a bank 
or building society where there is an ongoing relationship between the parties which enables 
the monitoring of accounts in order to detect and possibly prevent the risk of financial harm 
when a payment is made. This can make it inherently more difficult for a business such as 
MoneyGram to identify that a customer is at risk of financial harm where there isnt a lot of 
historic usage.
Here, there wasnt a historic relationship between the parties and MoneyGram didnt have a 
history of payments, or account usage to refer to in determining whether the payments being 
made by Mrs S could be classed as unusual or out of character. All things considered, I dont think there were grounds for MoneyGram to be suspicious 
Mrs S may be a victim of fraud or at risk of financial harm. And I think the fact that 
MoneyGram didnt flag the first two payments as suspicious was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances  given the primary reason for the use of payment service providers as Ive 
explained.  
MoneyGram did stop the third payment Mrs S attempted to make online for £700  on 
2 October 2019. MoneyGram has said that any transaction sent can be subject to an 
additional review. With this payment, MoneyGram has said its internal controls flagged the 
transfer for an additional review. And after the review, the transfer was rejected, and Mrs Ss 
online profile was closed.
As Mrs Ss online profile had been closed, she was unable to log on to her account. There 
was then an online chat between Mrs S and MoneyGram with MoneyGram advising that its 
security team had closed her profile and that if Mrs S wanted to process a money transfer, 
she needed to use an alternative provider. When Mrs S asked the reason, the adviser 
explained the security team hadnt provided details but also explained that MoneyGram 
wasnt comfortable with the transaction. 
Payment service providers are required to have security measures in place, and this is to 
combat fraud and to satisfy anti-money laundering regulations to prevent funding terrorism or 
organised crime. In this case, while MoneyGram cant divulge its exact security measures, 
due to the wider security implications this can have if its measures are known to fraudsters, it 
carried out an additional review / check on the £700 payment attempted online. I think this is 
reasonable. And those measures prevented that payment from being made. 
I do understand Mrs Ss frustration that earlier payments werent questioned  but as Ive 
said it wasnt unreasonable for those payments not to have flagged in the circumstances. 
Payment service providers like MoneyGram have to reasonably identify a payment that they 
consider could mean its customer is at risk. And those security measures can include a 
number of things such as (but not limited to) the amount, purpose, frequency of payments, 
the destination. It can incorporate other things such as information possibly held on file about 
the receiving beneficiary also. So I dont think MoneyGram has acted unfairly here when the 
third payment triggered its security measures despite Mrs Ss understandable frustrations 
that it didnt happen on the two earlier payments.
Mrs S considers more should be done by payment service providers in checking the sending 
party and purpose of the payment and also the receiving beneficiary. As I have said, there 
are rules and regulations in place that payment service providers have to abide by to combat 
fraud and to satisfy anti-money laundering regulations. So MoneyGram are required to have 
measures in place to identify those customers it considers could be at financial risk or 
payments that may be fraudulent  but it also has to strike a balance and not intervene 
unnecessarily on payments that are genuine. In this case, Im satisfied that it wasnt 
unreasonable for MoneyGram not to flag Mrs Ss first two payments and that it also acted 
fairly in intervening when it did. I also note that Mrs S went on to make other payments from her bank and with another 
payment service provider. MoneyGram wasnt obliged to divulge the exact reason why it 
declined her payment  for security reasons. So while I understand Mrs Ss frustrations 
when she says that she wasnt given a clear warning as to why the payment was declined 
which may have prevented further losses, Im satisfied MoneyGram had met it obligations. 
It identified, and did not process, what was a payment that was ultimately going to a 
fraudster. I also consider that it can be reasonably argued that MoneyGram, in declining to 
make the payment was also an indication to Mrs S that there were possibly some 
concerning features about the payment she was attempting to make. I dont think 
MoneyGram was required to do anything further than what it had done. It advised Mrs S 
that it wasnt comfortable with the transaction and didnt process it and closed her profile 
meaning she couldnt make any further transactions through MoneyGram. So I dont 
consider it would be fair to hold MoneyGram liable for any transactions Mrs S subsequently 
made through alternative payment service providers. 
Mrs S also attempted to make transfers through other payment service providers with Mrs S 
saying those providers wouldnt let her use their services. Mrs S thinks the providers she had 
used (one being MoneyGram) had shared information about her transaction history. I havent 
seen anything to indicate any of her information was shared, and there can be a number of 
reasons a payment service provider refuses to initiate use of their services. Im also mindful 
that after MoneyGram declined to make Mrs Ss payment on 2 October 2019, she went on to 
use another payment service provider successfully on 4 October 2019 which confirms that 
MoneyGram hadnt shared her details and only chose to close her profile with it as it wasnt 
comfortable making the payment Mrs S had requested. 
Overall, while I appreciate Mrs S has been the unfortunate victim of a cruel scam, I think 
MoneyGrams decision not to refund her in this instance was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. I say this because it followed Mrs Ss instructions to make Payments 1 and 2 
and I havent seen any reason why it shouldnt have done this. Im also satisfied it acted 
fairly by intervening on Payment 3 which resulted in that payment being declined.  
Unfortunately, MoneyGram wasnt able to recover the funds as they had already been 
collected by the beneficiaries in the destination country  so there was nothing further it 
could do for Mrs S.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2022.
 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman