DRN-3062926
The complaint
W Ltd, represented by Mr A, complained because HSBC UK Bank Plc refused to refund two 
transactions which W Ltd said it didnt make.
What happened
W Ltd opened a new HSBC account with a £50,000 Covid bounce-back loan in October 
2020. Various withdrawals ranging from £5,000 to £10,000 were made in the next month. 
The balance after the last undisputed transaction on 15 November was £17,000.
At 11:36 on 22 December, there was a login to W Ltds account. This used the correct 
password, and a correct one-time passcode which was generated from W Ltds Secure Key.
At 11:39, a new beneficiary was set up, and at 11:42 two payments were made to the new 
beneficiary, with the description refund.  One was for £5,000 and the other for £4,800, and 
the user then logged out at 11:44. The remaining balance at that point was £7,200.
Three minutes later, at 11:47, Mr A logged on to W Ltds account. He then rang HSBC and 
said he hadnt authorised the two transactions for £5,000 and £4,800, and didnt know the 
beneficiary to whom the money had gone. He told HSBC that no-one knew his security 
details or had access to his HSBC Secure Key. He also said he hadnt received any texts, 
emails or calls asking for his information. 
HSBC refused to refund Mr A for the disputed transactions totalling £9,800. In its final 
response letter, it pointed out that to authorise transactions needed the Secure Key, and the 
correct PIN, and the answer to a personalised security question. And payments to set up a 
new beneficiary also needed an individual code to be generated from the Secure Key. HSBC 
said that account holders are required to keep their personal security information secure  
which Mr A said hed done.
W Ltd, represented by Mr A, wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold W Ltds complaint. She noted that Mr A needed to enter a PIN 
in order to get the code from the Secure Key, which Mr A said he hadnt written down. The 
Secure Key was on his computer, which was still in Mr As possession. So it was unlikely 
that any third party would have been able to access the Secure Key, and guess the correct 
PIN. The investigator also pointed out that £7,200 had been left in the account  and any 
fraudster would have been likely to have taken as much as possible. So she considered Mr 
A had authorised the transactions himself.
Mr A didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman decision. He said that what the investigator 
had said was circumstantial, such as the fact that a balance of £7,200 remained after the 
disputed transactions. He said that the account had a daily withdrawal limit of £10,000. So 
Mr A said that whoever made the withdrawals must have known this, or must have tried to 
withdraw more and couldnt. Mr A wanted to know where the money had gone to  which 
bank, who owned the account, and whether this individual had been investigated and asked 
to explain why they had the money in their account. He said he didnt know if hed been 
hacked, but he didnt authorise the payments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What the regulations say
There are regulations which govern disputed transactions. The relevant regulations for 
disputed transactions taking place on 22 December 2020 are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017. These say that the payment service provider (here, HSBC) must show the 
transaction was authenticated. Thats the technical part, and here, HSBCs computer records 
show that W Ltds password and one-time-passcode were entered correctly.
The regulations also say that its necessary to look at whether the card holder authorised the 
payments. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise the payments, 
and the customer is liable if he did authorise them. 
In Mr As response to the investigators view, he asked that investigation should be done into 
the recipient of the funds. But, as Ive explained above, thats not the relevant question here 
given what the relevant regulations outline. What matters is the outgoing side of the payment 
 whether it was properly sent out, and by whom. Its about whether the technicalities were 
properly conducted, and whether the account holder was the person who authorised it.  Who 
that money was sent to isnt relevant here. 
Who carried out the disputed transactions?
The disputed transactions were carried out using W Ltds security credentials. And Mr A said 
that he hadnt disclosed W Ltds security information to any third party. So its hard to see 
how anyone else could have carried out the transactions.
After the two disputed transactions were carried out, there was still £7,200 in W Ltds 
account. Its most unlikely that any fraudster would have left this amount of money in an 
account to which they had access. Mr A has argued that whoever made the withdrawals 
must have known there was a daily withdrawal limit of £10,000, or must have tried to 
withdraw more and couldnt. I dont accept this. First, theres no explanation about how a 
fraudster would have known there was a £10,000 daily limit  or if they had, why theyd have 
withdrawn £9,800 rather than£10,000. Secondly, computer records will often show failed 
login attempts  and there werent any here in a way that Id expect if someone had been 
trying to access the account without authority. So whoever made the disputed withdrawals 
didnt try to withdraw more and find they couldnt.
 
Ive also looked at timescales.  All logins are recorded. The last time W Ltds account was 
logged into, before the disputed transactions on 22 December, was 15 November. Mr A 
logged in on 22 December just three minutes after the log off for the disputed transactions, 
and then reported the transactions as fraudulent. Mr As own security credentials were used 
for the disputed payments, and I think its much more likely that Mr A carried out the 
transactions himself, rather than that a third party fraudster carried them out and Mr A then 
just happened to log on and see them just three minutes later. 
Taking all these factors into account, I consider its more likely than not that Mr A carried out 
the disputed withdrawals on W Ltds account. So I dont require HSBC to refund W Ltd.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W and W to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 November 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman