DRN-3226068
The complaint
Mr P complains about the suitability of the advice provided by an appointed representative of 
Prism EBC Limited (Prism) in April 2021 to maintain his safeguarded benefit in his former 
employers defined benefits pension scheme (DB scheme) rather than transfer to a private 
pension plan. He also complains about the information provided by Prism in connection with 
the estimated annual scheme pension payable by the DB scheme.
An appointed representative is a firm or person who runs regulated activities and acts as an 
agent for a principal business. Since Prism is the principal business, it remains responsible 
for any acts/or omissions of its appointed representative. To make this final decision easier 
to follow, Ive referred to Prism throughout.
What happened
Mr P was a member of a DB scheme between August 1986 and May 2004. The scheme 
pension provided was a safeguarded benefit defined by reference to Mr Ps pensionable 
salary, pensionable service and benefit accrual rate  as at the date of leaving the DB 
scheme in May 2004, Mr Ps annual scheme pension was £8,694.36. It comprised several 
elements, each part of which would be revalued by a prescribed amount over the term to the 
scheme normal retirement age of 60 and, once in payment, would escalate annually by a 
prescribed amount. There was also the potential for discretionary increases.
On 18 March 2021, the DB scheme administrator produced a statement that confirmed the 
transfer value of Mr Ps safeguarded benefit was £527,844.00. This was guaranteed until             
18 June 2021.
Mr P was interested in transferring to a private pension plan. Prism recorded information 
about Mr Ps circumstances which can be summarised as follows:
He was 57 and single;
He had been diagnosed with Stage 1 Parkinsons disease in 2019 and had last 
experienced symptoms in January 2021;
Due his Parkinsons disease he had recently retired on the grounds of ill-health;
In addition to the value of his safeguarded benefit which is the subject of this 
complaint, his assets comprised his residential home, £35,000 in cash deposits, 
£16,000 in National Savings and Investments products, £15,000 in shares and 
£100,000 in a workplace defined contribution (DC) pension scheme;
He didnt have a mortgage, debt or liabilities; 
His monthly expenditure was about £1,125.00;
He had a son aged 13 who was financially dependant on him which was expected to 
be the case for another six years;
He had a Balanced Growth investment risk profile; and
He was concerned the scheme pension provided by the DB scheme wouldnt cover 
his expenditure in retirement. He didnt anticipate requiring large cash lump sums 
during retirement or wish to leave a lump sum on death. He wanted to have access 
to the transfer value of £527,844.00 so that he could enjoy it and have the flexibility 
to draw varying levels of income.
The DB scheme administrator calculated that Mr P could draw an immediate annual scheme 
pension of £12,492.96 from 57. Prism calculated that the estimated annual scheme pension 
payable at the normal retirement age of 60 was £21,054.52. Prism also calculated that the 
average annual investment return required by a personal pension to provide benefits of 
equal value to the DB scheme at 60 was 24.8% (on the basis Mr P took a full scheme 
pension) or 20.62% (on the basis Mr P took the maximum tax-free cash lump sum and 
reduced scheme pension).
On 29 April 2021, Prism issued a suitability report to Mr P. It recommended that he maintain 
his safeguarded benefit and instead draw the scheme pension from the DB scheme. It said 
that by taking the scheme pension, either immediately at 57 or from the normal retirement 
age of 60, Mr P could secure his retirement income needs within a risk and cost free 
environment. Prism concluded that compared to the alternative options available, the DB 
scheme was almost certain to provide the highest level of guaranteed income to Mr P and so 
it didnt think a pension transfer was a suitable outcome for him.
This complaint
Mr P was unhappy about Prisms recommendation to maintain his safeguarded benefit in the 
DB scheme. He felt that the recommendation didnt take into account his single or 
employment status, state of health, priorities or goals. He said that it wasnt important to 
leave a capital sum on death because his son would inherit his residential home which he 
deemed adequate. He was also unhappy that Prism didnt adequately explain how it had 
calculated the estimated annual scheme pension of £21,054.52 payable from the normal 
retirement age of 60 and why this was substantially different to the annual scheme pension 
of £12,492.96 payable from 57, as calculated by the DB scheme administrator.
Prism didnt uphold this complaint. It told Mr P that it was satisfied its recommendation that 
he maintain his safeguarded benefit in the DB scheme was suitable for him and that it 
wouldnt change its opinion. It also explained that the estimated annual scheme pension of 
£21,054.52 was based on the information provided by the DB scheme administrator and 
assumptions specified by the regulator, the FCA. It said it wasnt privy to the information 
used by the DB scheme administrator when it calculated the figure of £12,492.96. It was 
satisfied that it had attempted, on several occasions, both in writing and verbally, to help             
Mr P to understand how it calculated the figure of £21,054.52 and that it couldnt do anything 
further.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. This was because
she was satisfied Prisms recommendation that Mr P maintain his safeguarded benefit in the 
DB scheme was in his best interests and therefore suitable. She explained that she had 
seen evidence which proved Prism had carefully considered Mr Ps state of health and 
single status when formulating its recommendation. She was also satisfied that Prism had 
made reasonable attempts to explain the estimated scheme pension figure to Mr P. In summary, she didnt think Prism had made an error or treated Mr P unfairly so said that she 
wouldnt be asking it to do anything further.
Mr P didnt accept our investigators opinion and provided additional comments. He said he 
still didnt understand how the estimated pension figure of £21,054.52 stated in Prisms 
suitability report had been calculated and wanted an explanation.
Our investigator considered the additional comments but was satisfied she had done all that 
she could to explain how the figure had been calculated. Since Mr Ps complaint couldnt be 
resolved, this complaint has been referred to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, and in accordance with the Financial Services
and Markets Act 2000 and the Dispute Resolution section in the FCAs handbook, I need to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards,
and codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the time.
Id like to clarify that the purpose of this final decision isnt to repeat or address every single 
point raised by the parties. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome. Ive considered all the evidence afresh 
including Mr Ps comments in response to our investigators assessment. Based on this, it 
seems to me that theres two questions I need to answer to decide this complaint about 
Prism, as follows:
1. Could Prisms recommendation in April 2021 that Mr P maintain his safeguarded 
benefit in the DB scheme be regarded as suitable in the circumstances? 
2. Did Prism do all that could reasonably be expected of it in explaining to Mr P how it 
calculated the estimated annual scheme pension of £21,054.52 payable from the 
normal retirement age of 60?
Ive considered these questions below.
Suitability of Prisms recommendation
The FCA sets the rules and guidance that businesses must follow when advising clients on 
pension transfers. Businesses, like Prism, are required to adhere to these rules and 
guidance because the FCA considers safeguarded benefits to be valuable. The overarching 
requirement, as set out in the FCAs rules, is that a business must take the necessary steps 
to establish suitability and make a recommendation in the clients best interests. Further, 
based on its regulatory guidance, businesses advising on pension transfers must start by 
assuming that the existing DB scheme is suitable and only to recommend a transfer, which 
converts safeguarded benefits into flexible benefits, if it can clearly demonstrate its in their 
clients best interests. The FCAs default starting position means that businesses have a 
high hurdle to overcome to show that a pension transfer is clearly in their clients best 
interests.
Ive considered Mr Ps circumstances at the time. He said he didnt anticipate requiring large 
cash lump sums during retirement or have a wish to leave a lump sum on death. This 
supports the case for taking the scheme pension.Although Mr P said he wanted the flexibility to draw varying levels of income, it seems his 
overarching concern was to ensure that he received sufficient income during retirement to 
cover his annual expenditure, which at that time was about £13,500. So, Im not convinced 
that he required flexible income. Rather, it seems he required a minimum level of income to 
cover his expenditure so that he could maintain, as far as possible, his standard of living in 
retirement. The requirement for a minimum level of secure income supports the case for 
taking the scheme pension.
Clearly, Mr Ps state of health, having recently been diagnosed with Parkinsons disease, 
was a key factor. The value of his safeguarded benefit, the capitalised value of which was 
£527,844.00, represented the significant proportion of his retirement provision. Since he had 
retired due to ill-health, he had no capacity to build up further retirement provision. I 
understand why Mr P wanted unlimited access to this money. But, in my view, the priority 
was to ensure that he had sufficient retirement income to meet his needs during his lifetime. 
The evidence shows that Mr P would likely be heavily reliant on the value of his safeguarded 
benefit to provide secure income in retirement. I think his income need could be achieved by 
maintaining his safeguarded benefit, in line with Prisms recommendation. The DB scheme 
administrator calculated that Mr P could receive an immediate annual scheme pension of 
£12,492.96 from 57. I acknowledge that this is about £1,000 less than Mr Ps annual 
expenditure which was then about £13,500. But it seems Mr P didnt necessarily need to 
draw the scheme pension before the normal retirement age of 60. I say this because he had 
access to about £166,000 in other liquid savings, investment and a DC pension fund that he 
couldve used to cover the any income shortfall between 57 and 60. Then from 67 hed start 
to receive his State pension. The scheme pension and State pensions are guaranteed and 
increase in payment so would offer some protection against inflation and increases in Mr Ps 
expenditure.
So I think its fair to say that the combination of the Mr Ps scheme pension, whether taken at 
57 or at any point up to 60, State pension from 67 and use of his liquid savings, investment 
and DC pension fund wouldve comfortably covered his living costs and expenditure from 57 
onwards. Its my view that transferring wouldve exposed Mr Ps significant pension provision 
to unnecessary risks and costs to achieve the same outcome.
I recognise that Mr P had been diagnosed with Parkinsons disease which he said was a key 
factor in why he wanted to transfer. He says his life expectancy was significantly reduced. 
But Ive not seen sufficient evidence, such as a medical report, that persuades me his state 
of health and life expectancy was significantly reduced such that it was clearly in his best 
interests to relinquish his safeguarded benefit at that time.
The critical yield figures of 24.8% (on the basis Mr P took a full scheme pension at 60) or 
20.62% (on the basis Mr P took the maximum tax-free cash lump sum and reduced scheme 
pension at 60) indicated that hed likely be financially worse off by transferring. This supports 
the case for taking the scheme pension.
I can see evidence that Prism took into account Mr Ps state of health and considered 
transferring with a view to securing an enhanced annuity on the open market. But the 
estimated enhanced annuity income was less than the immediate scheme pension offered 
by the DB administrator. This supports the case for taking the scheme pension.
Taking into account all of the above, its my view that Prisms recommendation that Mr P 
maintain his safeguarded benefit and to draw the scheme pension from the DB scheme was 
suitable in the circumstances.Calculation of annual scheme pension figure
Mr P is unhappy that Prism didnt adequately explain how it calculated the estimated annual 
scheme pension figure of £21,054.52 payable from the normal retirement age of 60 and why 
this was substantially different to the reduced annual scheme pension figure of £12,492.96 
payable from 57, as calculated by the DB scheme administrator.
I can see that both Prism and our investigator have attempted to explain to Mr P how those 
figures were calculated but he remains dissatisfied. 
Firstly, Ill deal with the figure of £12,492.96. This was calculated by the DB scheme 
administrator after Prism asked it what level of scheme pension it would be prepared to pay 
if Mr P took immediate early retirement. At that time, he was 57 which was three years 
before the scheme normal retirement age of 60. Prism wasnt involved in calculating the 
early retirement figure of £12,492.96 produced by the DB scheme administrator. And Prism 
didnt have access to the information used in calculating the figure including the application 
of any early retirement reduction. Mr P will, I hope, agree that this means Prism isnt 
responsible for explaining to him how the figure produced by a third party was calculated. 
Any query Mr P has about this should be directed to the DB scheme administrator.
Ill now deal with the figure of £21,054.52. This was calculated by Prism. It was a regulatory 
requirement for Prism to do this. The FCAs rules required Prism to prepare an appropriate 
transfer analysis and in doing so assess the benefits likely to be paid and options available 
under the DB scheme. Prism achieved this by using transfer analysis software created by a 
third party. The process involved Prism inputting various pieces of data into the software. 
This included information provided to it by the DB scheme administrator relating to Mr Ps 
preserved annual scheme pension of £8,694.36 as at May 2004, revaluation rates and 
previous discretionary increases applied. The software would then use this information in 
conjunction with various underlying assumptions specified by the FCA. There were no 
manual calculations that Prism carried out. 
Prisms role here was simply to input information into the software which would then 
calculate the estimated pension at the scheme normal retirement age of 60. In my view, so 
long as Prism input the correct information, then it was reasonable for it to rely on the 
estimated pension figure of £21,054.52 which was then generated. Its important to note that 
the estimate is just that. The figure of £21,054.52 wasnt guaranteed but based on various 
underlying assumptions which may not be borne out over the three-year timeframe to 2024 
when Mr P reaches his 60th birthday. This means the actual scheme pension payable at 60 
could be higher or lower than the estimated figure of £21,054.52.
Ive reviewed the Pension Transfer Report which is the output produced by the analysis 
software. This document shows the data inputs by Prism. As far as I can see, the inputs that 
impact the estimated scheme pension were correct. I note that Prism sent Mr P a copy of the 
Pension transfer Report. It also attempted to explain to him in several emails and calls how 
the figure was calculated. I havent seen any evidence Prism provided incorrect information 
to Mr P in this regard. Overall, I think the figure of £21,054.52 was accurate and that Prism 
did all that could reasonably be expected of it in explaining to Mr P how it was calculated.
Conclusion
I dont think Prism did anything wrong or treated Mr P unfairly. Because of this, I dont 
consider it would be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require Prism to pay 
compensation to Mr P  or to take any further action in response to this complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2022. 
Clint Penfold
Ombudsman