DRN-3874612
The complaint
Miss P has complained about the investment advice she received from Tavistock Partners 
Limited (Tavistock). As a result of the advice she has lost out financially and wants her 
losses returned to her plus interest. Miss P is also concerned about the cost of the advice.
What happened
Since August 2016 Miss P invested £174,927.26 on the advice of Tavistock. Over the years 
investment switches were made as a result of Miss Ps concerns but the investments 
suffered losses. 
Miss P received an annual report in February 2022 which showed she had lost around 
£22,000. She raised a complaint with Tavistock about the advice she had been given and 
the investments that were made as she didnt feel her attitude to risk and her circumstances 
had been properly assessed. 
Tavistock rejected Miss Ps complaint. It said;
Her risk profile had been accurately assessed and the recommendations given were 
appropriate for that level of risk. There was always the risk that investments could fall 
in value and unforeseeable circumstances had given risk to significant volatility.
There was no record that Miss P had ever wanted no risk.
Miss P had only ever been charged an annual adviser charge of 1%. There were no 
additional charges for any changes or initial charges. Miss P had been made aware 
of the charges.
When Miss P completed the risk profile in 2016 the resulting score was 6. But that 
was reduced to 4 because of Miss Ps concerns about risk. 
Miss P wasnt happy with the outcome so brought her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman. Our investigator who considered the complaint didnt think it should be upheld. 
He said;
The advice given took account of Miss Ps attitude to risk.
The investments in both the General Investment Account (GIA) and the ISA were 
not outside of her attitude to risk. 
Miss P was made aware of the ongoing charges.
Miss P hadnt been mis-sold the investments.
Miss P was disappointed with the conclusion reached by the investigator and asked that her 
complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman, so it has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After doing so, I have reached the same outcome as the investigator, and broadly for the 
same reasons. I will explain why.
Tavistock has provided a submission including all of the documentation available since the 
inception of the Miss Ps account in 2016. I have reviewed the whole submission but only 
refer to the documents that I consider relevant to my decision. Ive also reviewed everything 
that Miss P has said. 
Miss Ps circumstances
Miss P has said that her circumstances werent sufficiently taken into account, so Ive 
reviewed the first fact find from July 2016 when Miss Ps details were recorded. 
At the time Miss P was 50 years of age, single without any dependents and in full time 
employment. Her annual income was just under £37,000 but she was potentially looking to 
take redundancy around a year later for which she would a lump sum of £36,000. Miss Ps 
future employment or early retirement options were recorded as being discussed. Miss Ps 
planned retirement age was 55 years and she had an employee pension which had accrued 
over 30 years.
Miss P owned her own home which was valued at £180,000 and received a rental income of 
£3,360 per year. After outgoings she had a monthly disposable income of £570. Miss P had 
other total assets valued at £183,368 split between bank and building society accounts, cash 
ISAs and a stocks and shares ISA. Miss P wanted to keep a cash reserve of around £31,000 
so had capital available for investment of £152,368. 
The above recorded information suggests to me that the adviser had a good understanding 
of Miss Ps circumstances at the time of the initial investment advice. There are cashflow 
forecasts for Miss Ps potential future intentions and the outgoings that would incur. Ive seen 
nothing to suggest that the adviser didnt have a good grasp of Miss Ps circumstances and 
requirements and its clear from the file that Miss Ps circumstances were regularly reviewed.  
I cant agree that her circumstances werent sufficiently understood or taken into account. 
Miss Ps attitude to risk and investment objectives
Miss P has said her attitude to risk wasnt correctly assessed. Ive borne in mind that Miss P 
was a relatively inexperienced investor who was seeking advice because she didnt have the 
knowledge or experience to make such investment decisions unaided and potentially taking 
early retirement was a significant change in lifestyle. So, Tavistock needs to demonstrate 
that it gave suitable advice taking into account Miss Ps circumstances, understanding and 
knowledge after ascertaining her attitude to risk. 
Clearly I cant know for sure what was discussed at the meetings Miss P had with 
Tavistocks representative, but from the documentary evidence that is available Im satisfied 
that Tavistock has been able to show us how it established her attitude to risk. 
I say this because amongst other documents there is an attitude to risk section of the 2016 
fact find. As a result of the risk questionnaire completed the risk rating for Miss P was 
recorded as Cautious to Moderate and the risk rating that was selected by Miss P was also 
Cautious to Moderate. In the attitude to risk description the Risk Boundary Scores were 38 
 42 and it said;You are prepared to take a limited investment risk in order to increase the chances 
of achieving a positive return but you only want to risk a small part of your capital to 
achieve this. A typical Cautious to Moderate portfolio will have up to half invested in 
fixed interest products which are low risk but have low returns. The larger part of the 
portfolio will be invested in equities and property which can boost longer term returns 
but are associated with more risk. The range of assets provides diversification 
benefits which can also help reduce the overall risk. 
There is further commentary in the notes section which says;
Client agreed with outcome of the evaluate questionnaire as Cautious to Moderate, 
and selected and chose a risk profile of Cautious to Moderate as concerned at 
market volatility and due to lack of experience wanted to keep volatility range to a 
minimum at this stage in her life. The recommended profile 6 was not suited to her 
concerns surrounding volatility.
Miss Ps attitude to risk was therefore rated at the lower level of a rating of four out of ten, 
one being the lowest risk and ten the highest. Miss Ps Capacity for Loss notes say, Client 
expressed their capacity for loss as 10% of their investment wealth which equates to 
£18,300.
The resulting Financial Overview Report from 2016 records the following;
I explained that losses could be made as well as growth to the capital invested and 
we discussed your capacity for loss, which you indicated to be around 10% of the 
capital invested. The original outcome of the profile questionnaire was Cautious to 
Moderate and you selected and chose a risk profile description of Cautious to 
Moderate as you want to keep volatility on the cautious side at this stage in your life 
and due to your inexperience. For the term indicated of 11-15 years a profile of 6 was 
recommended by the system as appropriate for a Cautious to moderate investor, 
however due to your cautious nature, inexperience and wish to keep volatility on a 
cautious footing I recommended a Profile 4. We agreed this was an appropriate 
rating and the description for your objectives at this time in your life. Further to this 
we discussed the available investments products and it was agreed to utilise a model 
within the Centralised Investment Proposition (CIP) via the Novia platform as this will 
provide the opportunity for growth whilst ensuring the risk is continually monitored to 
remain in line with that of your expressed attitude to risk.
Miss P also wanted some growth on her investment  desire to enhance returns above 
deposit based investments and management of volatility. So, Miss Ps requirement for some 
growth was to be balanced with the level of risk she was prepared to take.
Im satisfied that the above detailed commentary indicates there was discussion and 
subsequent agreement about the level of risk Miss P was prepared to take in order to 
achieve the hoped-for returns. After analysis of Miss Ps long-term goals, the adviser 
explained that it was unlikely that keeping Miss Ps assets in a deposit based scenario would 
last sufficiently for a comfortable retirement and would curtail Miss Ps goals. 
I note from the file that Miss Ps attitude to risk was regularly revisited so I cant agree it 
wasnt assessed and Im satisfied that the risk rating was sufficiently explained to Miss P and 
was reached in agreement with her. 
Im satisfied that taking into account Miss Ps circumstances and investment objectives I 
dont think it was unsuitable for her to take some risk with her money. But I have gone on to 
consider whether what she was advised to invest into was right for her.The advice
In 2016 Miss P was advised to transfer out of her existing investments and invest £68,760 
into a General Investment Account (GIA) under a discretionary managed mandate. It was to 
be invested into the Acumen 4 Profile fund which had a cautious to moderate attitude to risk 
and was 100% passively managed. 
The report said that by being passively managed, this suited Miss Ps needs for low volatility 
and low cost. The factsheet for the Profile 4 features says that it was actively managed, 
globally allocated, multi-asset portfolio, comprised of low-cost ETFs [exchange traded funds] 
with diversified holdings in equity, bond, commodity and property markets [and] is 
statistically more likely to outperform a traditional active manager almost all of the time. 
Miss P was to top up her 2016/17 ISA with £15,240 into the same investment as well as an 
ISA transfer totalling £70,927.26. In total £154,927.26 was invested into the Acumen 4 
Profile. The funds within the 4 Profile were likely to include a mix of low to medium risk 
investment including cash, cash-type assets, bonds, UK commercial property and higher risk 
investment such as UK and overseas shares. The underlying funds chosen included various 
fund portfolios  income, equity, bond, conservative, progressive, strategic, and 
adventurous. All the investments were managed on a discretionary basis. 
Both the ISA and the GIA attracted an ongoing service adviser fee of 1% per annum. There 
were other charges which were outlined in the Financial Overview report. 
In November 2018 Miss P was concerned about the falling value of her investments and said 
she was considering reinvestment into a long-term bond. She was advised by Tavistock that 
there was an alternative fund, the Acumen Capital Protected Portfolio which offered that 
90% of Miss Ps funds could never be less than 90% of the initial investment and 
subsequent growth. The switch was made at the end of November with Miss Ps attitude to 
risk remaining at 4.
A further £40,000 was transferred from the GIA to the ISA in 2019 to take advantage of the 
ISA allowances for 2018/2019 and 2019/2020. And in 2020 an additional £20,000 was 
transferred to use the 2020/2021 ISA allowance. 
In March 2021 Miss P was advised that remaining within the Acumen Capital Protected 
Portfolio may have been overly cautious and it was recommended to switch 19% to the 
Acumen ESG Protection fund, 19% to Acumen Income Protection fund and 60% to the 
Acumen Portfolio 4. 
This was actioned in March 2021 and the remaining funds held within the GIA were 
transferred to the ISA later that year. 
The portfolio provided offered diversification via underlying funds which in turn were invested 
into a wide range of assets which would have potentially lowered the risk. And some of those 
assets would have provided the growth that Miss P was looking for. Overall, I dont think the 
advice to invest via the funds was unsuitable for Miss P. 
The investment
Tavistock said the Novia platform was chosen for Miss P because of its competitive charging 
structure and wide range of underlying portfolio models and management styles. Novia 
would also provide the administration and had proved to be a reliable service with clear 
reporting. Miss P had agreed that 100% passive methodology suited her needs for low volatility and 
cost. The ongoing charging fee of 1.02% was inclusive of variable expenses such as trading 
costs. The investment platform offered Miss P access to multi assets via the various sub 
funds. 
While the investment selections might not have proved as successful as hoped for, that 
doesnt necessarily mean the decision to invest in them in the first instance was wrong. That 
is provided the investments made matches the investors investment objectives and attitude 
to risk they were willing to take. And Ive seen nothing to show that the investments werent 
in line with Miss Ps objectives and risk rating. 
Miss P has explained that prior to her investments with Tavistock she had invested with 
another adviser and suffered significant losses. It had taken her seven years to recoup those 
losses, and that experience had understandably made her anxious about incurring any 
further losses. She told us that when she met with her Tavistock adviser, she was assured 
that this would not and could not happen again as there had been a tightening up on the 
rules. 
While Miss Ps portfolio was invested with a cautious to moderate attitude to risk  with the 
emphasis on cautious  the underlying investments were still exposed to the risk implicit in 
stock market investment. In order to achieve capital growth some risk would need to be 
taken. And its clear from the file that this was discussed in great detail and all the relevant 
risk warnings were given. The investments made werent guaranteed to perform and would 
always be exposed to the vagaries of stock market investment despite the low volatility of 
the portfolios. 
Tavistock recommended in November 2018 that Miss P switch to the protected portfolio 
because of her  understandable  nervousness about the stock market volatility. Tavistock 
later said that this may have proved to be overly cautious  I assume because Miss P may 
have missed out on any market rebound. But again, that doesnt necessarily mean that the 
advice was wrong. That can only be measured with the benefit of hindsight. 
Miss P has said that the risk he was exposed to was too high for her. But Ive seen nothing 
to conclude that this was the case. As mentioned above, I dont think it was unreasonable for 
Miss P to have cautiously invested for the potential for capital growth so it seems likely that 
Miss P did want to explore the opportunity to make her money grow more than it would do in 
a deposit account. I consider Miss P was willing to take some risk over the medium to long 
term.
However, I do appreciate that there were probably lower risk options available to Miss P at 
the time that could have potentially offered her better returns than deposit based accounts. 
But my role isnt to re-visit the advice that she was given and what other options were 
potentially available to her. Rather its to consider whether the advice that was given to   
Miss P was suitable for her at the time and as identified prior to the investment and I am 
satisfied that it was.
I have sympathy for the position that Miss P is now in. She has made a capital loss on her 
money that she has worked hard for. But I dont agree that the investment made for her were 
unsuitable after taking into account her circumstances, recorded attitude to risk and 
investment objective for some growth.  
Overall, I dont agree that Tavistock has done anything wrong. It invested Miss Ps assets in 
line with the agreed attitude to risk after assessing her circumstances and investment objectives. And while its clearly an unfortunate outcome for Miss P and she has lost money, I 
cant agree that Tavistock has done anything wrong. 
I appreciate Miss P feels very strongly about her complaint and no doubt will be disappointed 
with the outcome. But I hope I have been able to explain how and why I have reached the 
decision that I have. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Miss Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 July 2023.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman