DRN-4249973
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs B complain that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) has unfairly rejected a claim 
made under their Travel Insurance policy. 
For ease of reading, I will only refer to Mr B in my decision.
What happened
Mr B had planned a short break to Europe for around five days. He arrived at the airport and 
boarded his flight, but after a four and half hour delay the flight was cancelled. Mr B decided 
to abandon his holiday as the next available flight wasnt until around three days later. This 
meant he would have had only a couple of days left of his holiday.
Mr B said the airline reimbursed the cost of the flight, and he received a refund for some of 
his accommodation costs, but this left him out of pocket for around £500. Mr B claimed 
against his travel insurance for his remaining outlay. 
UKI said the abandonment terms of his policy would only apply if there were a delay of 12 
hours, as Mr Bs holiday was for five days or more.  They said Mr Bs fight was only delayed 
by four and a half hours prior to its cancellation, so the claim was declined fairly.
Mr B didnt agree he said hed had to abandon his holiday as there wasnt a flight until over 
72 hours later than he expected to take off. He referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said that Mr Bs flight effectively was delayed by more than 12 hours and so 
the abandonment policy terms had been met. He said UKI should reconsider Mr Bs claim in 
line with the abandonment terms of the policy as his flight had been delayed by over 12 
hours. 
UKI didnt agree they said there was a specific term in the policy that said an abandonment 
claim wouldnt be covered where the flight was cancelled by the operator. They asked for an 
ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When reaching a decision, I will consider the relevant legislation and guidance as well as the 
terms and conditions of the insurance policy. Our role when considering complaints is to 
reach an outcome that is fair and reasonable. So, although Id have the relevant rules and 
terms and conditions in mind, my decision can depart from these where I think this provides 
for a fair and reasonable outcome. 
The terms of the policy set out cover for a number of insurable risks, cancellation, 
curtailment, missed flight, delay and abandonment. Mr Bs claim was made as hed had to 
abandon his trip, after it had started  hed arrived at the departure point. The policy provides 
cover where theres a delay or a trip is abandoned after six hours or 12 hours of delay, so 
there is an entitlement to the policy benefit. Abandon is defined in the policy terms and 
conditions as  cutting short and not recommencing your trip"
The policy terms are:
Abandoned International Departure (outbound only)
We will cover you for your:
 unused deposits:
 accommodation and travel costs (including car hire, excursions and activities): and
 unused kennel, cattery, professional pet sitter or car parking charges
that you have paid or legally have to pay if you choose to abandon your trip because your 
prebooked aircraft, ship or train is delayed beyond the time shown on your travel itinerary at 
the point of international departure from the UK by more than:
 six hours if your trip is scheduled to lost four nights or less: or
 12 hours if your trip is scheduled to last five nights or more.
The policy under this section also says whats not covered  any claim where the aircraft, 
ship or train on which you are booked to travel is cancelled by the operator
And UKI are relying on the terms that Mr Bs flight hadnt been delayed for 12 hours, and that 
the flight had been cancelled in declining his claim. Although UKI seems to have technically 
applied their terms correctly, Ive considered whether it should have settled the claim on a 
fair and reasonable basis. And I dont think they have. Ill explain why.
I think travel delay and abandonment cover applies where the consumer has already started 
their insured journey and has arrived at the airport, and checked in, in good time for their 
journey. Which is the case here. Cancellation cover only applies when the trip is cancelled 
before the trip has started. 
Mr B had planned to be away for five days, he arrived at the departure airport for his flight, 
and although his original flight was cancelled, a flight was arranged for several days later, so 
in effective his trip was delayed. And as this cut into most of his holiday Mr B abandoned his 
trip. I dont think Mr B could have reasonably taken any further steps to try and mitigate his 
losses. Accordingly, I think hed little choice but to decide to abandon his trip. So, Im 
satisfied that this claim can be considered as valid under this part of the policy. 
UKI has applied the policy term that Mr Bs flight was only delayed by four and a half hours 
as it was cancelled after that time. But as Mr B couldnt get another flight until three days 
later. Based on the specific facts of this complaint, I dont think its fair or reasonable for 
UKI to have declined Mr Bs claim. Im persuaded that there was in effect a delay of more 
than 12 hours. And this led to Mr B having no choice but to abandon his trip. 
UKI said that the cancellation of the flight meant that they could decline Mr Bs claim. But Id 
consider that such a strict application of the policy terms isnt fair. While a flight was 
cancelled another flight was arranged. Unfortunately, as outlined above Mr B couldnt take 
advantage of this due to the unrealistic contraction of his holiday plans. 
The airline would have its own obligations to compensate the consumer for costs caused by 
their action in cancelling a flight. And Id consider this term would apply where it would be the 
responsibility of the airline to indemnify the consumer for any claim made for the cost of the 
cancelled flight. I can see that the airline has indemnified Mr B for his cancelled flight. So, he 
isnt making a claim to cover the cost of the cancelled flight. I can also see that Mr B has taken reasonable steps to recover his other losses. But this still 
leaves a shortfall of £549.12. 
I consider UKI unfairly relied on their terms to decline this claim, even though the flight was 
technically cancelled instead of being delayed, the result of the cancellation is the same,    
Mr B was delayed from making the trip until it was too late for him to carry on, which I 
consider is an outright abandonment of the trip. So, I think UKI should settle the claim as 
such.
Putting things right
So, I think its fair and reasonable for UKI to consider the financial impact the abandonment 
of his holiday had on Mr B. And for UKI to settle his claim in line with the policy terms 
covered under Abandonment where there has been a delay of 12 hours or more. As Mr B 
isnt claiming for the cancelled flight itself, I dont think UKI can rely on the exclusion theyve 
used to decline Mr Bs abandonment claim.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And ask UK Insurance Limited to put things right as outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 September 2023.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman