DRN-3255054
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Sterling ISA Managers Limited (Sterling) took too long to act on her 
instructions to sell her funds. She wants it to reimburse her for what she would have 
received if the funds had been sold on the day after she emailed her instructions. The 
complaint is brought on her behalf by her husband.
What happened
Mrs W held a stocks and shares ISA with Sterling. The ISA was managed by an adviser who 
had authority to give instructions. On 21 October 2020, Mrs W gave instructions to Sterling 
to sell 12 funds. She completed Sterlings Making changes to your investment form, and its 
Appropriateness test form and emailed them to Sterling. She expected her instructions to 
be carried out the next day.
Sterling said it did not deal with requests received directly from individuals, except where an 
adviser isnt linked to the account. In Mrs Ws case, there was an adviser linked to the 
account so Sterling forwarded her request to that adviser so that they could give the 
instruction. It said it treated the forms received by Mrs W as a general enquiry, and its 
internal timescale for responding to general enquiries is five working days. It contacted 
Mrs Ws adviser on 28 October, so it said it had acted within its internal timescale. The 
investments were then sold on 29 October.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mrs W didnt agree 
and asked for her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman.
My provisional decision
I thought the complaint should be upheld and I explained why. I said:
Mrs Ws ISA was set up so that her financial adviser could give instructions to 
Sterling. The terms and conditions make it clear that, where an adviser is being used, 
they are responsible for managing and administering the account. And that Sterling 
will accept instructions from the adviser. I think its reasonably clear from the terms 
and conditions that Sterling expects all instructions to be given by the adviser  the 
terms say:
Your adviser will be responsible for providing your instructions to us. (A2.4.1)
Mrs W hadnt told Sterling that she had, or planned to, end her agreement with her 
adviser.
But, after careful consideration, I dont think Sterling treated Mrs W fairly or 
reasonably. Ill explain why.
Mrs W completed Sterlings instruction form which clearly showed she wanted to sell 
12 funds. She also completed its Appropriateness test form. Its reasonably clear 
that this form is to cover circumstances where a consumer wants to give instructions 
without taking financial advice. The form says:
Well only ask you to complete this form if you want to buy or sell a complex asset 
without financial advice.
And that, if the answers to the questions on the form suggest the consumer doesnt 
have the appropriate knowledge or experience to understand the consequences of 
their instructions:
We wont prevent you completing the transaction but will strongly recommend that 
you get advice from an authorised financial adviser.
I think that, in completing this form, Mrs W reasonably expected Sterling to act on her 
instructions to sell the 12 funds. Im aware Sterling says this only applies where an 
adviser is not attached to the account. But the Appropriateness test form does not 
say this. It says it will act on Mrs Ws instructions.
Even if Sterling felt it needed to contact Mrs Ws adviser, it should have treated her 
instructions as dealing instructions, not a general enquiry. Had it done so, it would 
more likely than not have contacted her adviser on the same day the forms were 
received.
The terms and conditions say (A11.3):
Where we receive an instruction to sell an asset, together with any other information 
that we reasonably request, we will transmit the instructions to the appropriate fund 
manager or our nominated stockbrokers as soon as is reasonably practicable and in 
line with our order execution policy.
Mrs W emailed her instructions on the evening of 21 October 2020, so I think Sterling 
could, and should, have acted on those instructions on 22 October 2020.
And I set out how I thought Sterling should put things right. I said:
Sterling should pay Mrs W the difference between what she would have received if 
the funds were sold on 22 October 2020 and what she actually received. To this sum 
should be added 8% per annum simple interest (less tax if properly deductible) from 
22 October 2020 to the date this redress is paid.
Sterlings mistake has caused Mrs W some distress and inconvenience as her 
instructions were not carried out when she expected. I think Sterling should pay 
Mrs W £100 compensation.
Mrs W had nothing further to add and Sterling replied to say it would pay the compensation 
that Id set out in the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im pleased Sterling has agreed to settle this complaint as Id proposed. And, as neither 
party has any further information or evidence to provide, I see no reason to depart from the 
conclusion set out in my provisional decision. My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Sterling ISA Managers Limited should:
1. Pay Mrs W the difference between what she would have received if the funds were sold 
on 22 October 2020 and what she actually received. 
2. Add 8% per annum simple interest (less tax if properly deductible) from 22 October 2020 
to the date this redress is paid. *
3. Pay Mrs W £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
* HM Revenue & Customs may require Sterling to take off tax from this interest. Sterling 
must give Mrs W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman