DRN-1097686
The complaint
Mrs G complained that MBNA Limited (MBNA) wrote to her telling her that it was going to 
start charging her interest on her outstanding credit card balance.  She says MBNA had 
previously agreed that it would not charge interest for the life of the balance. 
What happened
Mrs G had a credit card with MBNA with a large outstanding balance.  Most of what she 
owed were balance and money transfers benefiting from a promotional 0% interest rate.  
This was due to end in mid 2018.  
Mrs G contacted MBNA because she would struggle to pay off the debt when the 
promotional rate ended.  MBNA said it would give her breathing space and waive fees and 
interest for 30 days. But it couldnt agree anything more permanent until Mrs G gave them 
information about her income and expenditure.  MBNA gave Mrs G another couple of 
periods of breathing space, which she used to look at her finances herself to see if she could 
make any savings.
About three months later, Mrs G completed an income and expenditure questionnaire.  This 
showed she couldnt afford her minimum payment.  MBNA said this meant she was in 
financial difficulty, so it would stop applying interest to the account.  
MBNA explained to Mrs G that it would reduce her monthly direct debit to the amount its 
questionnaire showed she could afford, but the minimum payment was still due.  So Mrs Gs 
account could fall into arrears and might default after a few months.  Mrs G didnt want this 
because she didnt want anything negative on her credit file.  She asked MBNA if she could 
pay extra on top of the direct debit.  MBNA said she could, but it had to be an extra payment 
as its system couldnt change the direct debit to more than the questionnaire showed she 
could afford.  MBNA also said she shouldnt do this if it left her short of money to pay for 
essentials.
In the following months, MBNA took a direct debit payment for the amount it said Mrs G 
could afford and Mrs G made an extra payment to make this up to the minimum amount 
due.  MBNA wasnt charging interest, so all the money paid went towards reducing Mrs Gs 
debt.
In March 2019, MBNA reduced Mrs Gs minimum payment.  This made it lower than the 
amount MBNA had worked out she could afford to pay.  Mrs G phoned MBNA to check the 
figures were right.  She was told they were.  
After two months, MBNA wrote to Mrs G.  It said that, as she had made two monthly 
payments required by the terms and conditions, it was confident she could meet future 
payments.  So in two months time, it would start charging interest again.
Mrs G complained to MBNA about this.  She said that she contacted MBNA about her 
financial difficulties because she wanted to sort them out and pay off what she owed as soon 
as possible.  She had asked the MBNA staff she spoke to how long interest would be suspended, and says she was told it would be for the life of the balance.  She had relied on 
this when organising her finances and it was unfair of MBNA to now change its position.
MBNA considered Mrs Gs complaint.  It said that it cant waive interest and charges 
indefinitely when an account is up to date and that it had given Mrs G two months notice of 
the change; this would give her time to decide what to do.
Mrs G wasnt happy with MBNAs response so she complained to us.  Our investigator 
looked at the evidence and decided that MBNA could have been clearer when it spoke and 
wrote to Mrs G.  But it had given her the benefit of interest-free payments.  And MBNA had 
treated her fairly, taking steps that were positive and sympathetic when she contacted it 
about her financial difficulties.  So she didnt think MBNA needed to do anything else.
Mrs G wasnt satisfied with the investigators view.  So the complaints been passed to me to 
make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear to me that Mrs G wanted to deal with her debts and work with MBNA to do that.  
Thats why she contacted it when she realised she was going to struggle to make payments.  
Under the relevant regulations (CONC 7.3), when theyre contacted, businesses like MBNA 
should deal fairly with customers in financial difficulty.
Ive listened to a number of the calls and I think that MBNA did treat Mrs G fairly.  It listened 
to what was worrying her, told her what it could do, explained how that would affect her and 
provided details of other bodies which could help her.  MBNA stopped charging the interest it 
was usually entitled to because she was in financial difficulty.
Mrs G says she was told MBNA wouldnt charge interest for the lifetime of the balance.  I 
havent found that phrase in any of the calls or letters, although some balance transfer offers 
use such language.  Mrs G was told that the arrangement would be in place for as long as 
she needed it.  I can understand why Mrs G felt it would assist her for the arrangement to 
stay in place; she wanted to reduce her debt and not paying interest was helping her do 
that.  I havent seen anything that shows MBNA expressly told her that it might decide she 
wasnt in financial difficulty any more, or what it may do if it made that decision. 
MBNAs letter setting out the arrangement includes the following wording:
We are pleased to let you know that while you are in financial difficulties, although the 
amount shown on your statement will continue to be due, you may make the payment 
amount of £266.00 per month, in line with the amount you've demonstrated you can afford to 
pay. In addition, we have reduced your interest rate to 0% per annumand will waive all 
future late, overlimit and returned payment charges (where applicable) during this time.
That doesnt give a specific term for the arrangement. But it does indicate that the 
concession would apply only during the period that Mrs G was in financial difficulty, rather 
than for as long as it took her to repay the balance.  
Its clear MBNA was monitoring Mrs Gs financial position because it wrote to her in April 
2019.  The letter tells Mrs G that MBNA thinks her financial difficulty is over and how its 
decided that.  And it says that itll look at the position again if Mrs G thinks its decision (to start charging interest again) will put her back into financial difficulty.  It gave her two months 
to notice, so she had time to contact MBNA.  I think thats fair.
Mrs G called MBNA after she got the letter.  But, when MBNA said that it could look at the 
matter again if its decision was going to put her back into financial difficulty, she didnt say it 
would.  She was upset that a large part of her new payment would be for interest and not 
used to reduce her debt.
My decision has to be fair to both sides.  So I need to balance what MBNA did wrong  it 
didnt expressly say it would review her financial situation and that might lead to a change in 
how her payments were used - against what it has done to help and support Mrs G.
Mrs G wants to repay her loan without any interest being added to what she owes.  But I 
dont think this is a fair outcome.  When she used the card, Mrs G would have known she 
would pay interest if she didnt pay the balance in full every month.  
Mrs Gs financial difficulties started at a very traumatic time in her life; I can only begin to 
understand the impact that had on her and her family.  But MBNA did help her when she told 
it about this. MBNA waived interest, explained to her what triggers entries on her credit file 
and how to avoid this.  It also made clear to her that it wouldnt make her cut back on other 
expenses (even if Mrs G chose to do that).
When MBNA started to charge interest again, Mrs G didnt say she couldnt afford to pay the 
higher amount; she was upset that not all her payment would go towards reducing her 
balance.  So it will take longer to pay off the debt.  I can understand thats frustrating.  But its 
how borrowing on a credit card generally works.  
MBNA gave Mrs G several periods of breathing space when she paid no interest, agreed 
with her to use all of her payment to reduce the debt when she was in financial difficulties, 
gave her two months notice that it was going to start charging interest again when she was 
back on track and explained again it would look at this again if this would put her back into 
financial difficulties.  I know Mrs G will be disappointed but, taking all of this into account, I 
dont think MBNA needs to do anything else to compensate her.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given I dont uphold Mrs Gs complaint about MBNA Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2020.
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman