DRN-3916387
The complaint
Miss E complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited unfairly declined a claim for 
storm damage to her roof and home under her home insurance.
What happened
Miss E had an Admiral home insurance policy. In November 2021, her roof was damaged 
during storm Arwen. Miss E made a claim on her insurance. 
Admiral appointed a surveyor to inspect the damage. The surveyor identified dislodged roof 
tiles as well as recent repairs to some of the ridge tiles. He also found that water had come 
into the house through the dislodged tiles. He concluded that age related deterioration of 
the roof prior to storm Arwen was the reason for the damage. 
Admiral told Miss E the maximum wind speed was 47mph on the date her roof was 
damaged. This didnt meet the policy definition of a storm. This, plus the surveyors findings, 
led Admiral to decline Miss Es claim. 
Miss E didnt accept this and brought her complaint to this service. She said she bought her 
house just a few months before the storm and had repaired the roof as a condition of her 
mortgage approval. She wants Admiral to settle her claim. 
Our investigator recommended that Miss Es complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied 
that there were storm conditions when Miss Es roof was damaged, and the storm was the 
main cause of damage. She thought Admiral should settle Miss Es claim. 
Admiral disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Es policy booklet shows shes covered for loss or damage caused by a storm. But, like 
all policies, it has exclusions and limitations to the cover provided. Admiral highlighted two 
policy terms when it declined her claim:
Definition of a storm (page 5): Wind with gusts of at least 48 knots (55mph), heavy 
rainfall at a rate of at least 25mm per hour, snow to a depth of at least 30cm in 24 
hours, or hail that causes damage to hard surfaces or breaks glass. 
General exclusions to cover (page 34): Any loss or damage caused by anything 
that happens gradually, including wear and tear.
Admiral said the weather conditions when Miss Es roof was damaged didnt meet the policy 
definition of a storm, and the damage was due to wear and tear. I need to decide whether 
Admirals reliance on these terms to decline the claim was reasonable.
When this service looks at complaints about storm damage we ask three questions: 
1. Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim? 
2. Is the damage consistent with storm damage? 
3. Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
If the answer to any of these questions is no the claim wont succeed. Ive considered each 
of these questions below.
1. Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim? 
Local weather records show wind speeds of up to 77mph near Miss Es home on both 26 
and 27 November 2021. The Met Offices information for the 2021/22 storm season shows 
that this was storm Arwen, which hit the UK on those two days. The Met Office issued what it 
described as a rare red warning in the area of the country where Miss E lives.
These winds meet the policy definition of a storm. I dont understand why Admiral continues 
to dispute this, especially as its own internal note on 5 February 2022 referred to 77mph 
winds. 
2. Is the damage consistent with storm damage? 
I think dislodged roof tiles and water damage to the inside of a home is the sort of damage 
any reasonable person might expect to happen during a storm. Also, our investigator 
highlighted stories from Miss Es local newspaper showing severe damage caused by storm 
Arwen, including damage to roofs. Im satisfied that the damage to Miss Es roof is 
consistent with storm damage.
3. Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
Admirals surveyor said he found age related deterioration of the roof. However, Miss E has 
provided evidence that shed had major repairs done to her roof following a mortgage 
valuation report in September 2020. The report advised her to instruct a roofing contractor 
to inspect roof coverings and carry out any necessary repair/renewal. 
Miss E has sent us copies of invoices from the contractors who carried out repair work in 
January/February 2021. This work included repointing all ridge tiles, replacing damaged roof 
tiles, and damp proofing the roof. The damp proof course came with a ten year guarantee.
Admirals surveyor highlighted these repairs in his report. He also noted: the insured will 
understandably feel they had taken necessary measures to ensure the roof was in a good 
state of repair and that they would therefore feel they had taken necessary steps to mitigate 
themselves from liability 
I agree with him. The evidence shows Miss E had done major repair work in early 2021. I 
find it extremely unlikely that shed have skimped on these repairs given they were a 
condition of mortgage approval. And given her mortgage was approved, I think its fair to 
conclude that the repairs were done to her lenders satisfaction. So Im satisfied that Miss E 
had taken necessary measures to make sure her roof was in good condition. 
This means Miss Es roof was in a good state of repair just nine months before storm Arwen. 
It follows that I find the storm was the main cause of damage to Miss Es home.
For the reasons above, I think Admirals decision to decline Miss Es claim was unfair. It 
should settle Miss Es claim in full. This should include the repairs to her roof as well as the cost of repairing and redecorating any water damage inside Miss Es home. Given Miss Es 
personal circumstances, Admiral should arrange for this to be done as soon as possible.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and require Admiral Insurance Company 
Limited to settle Miss Es claim in full.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman