DRN-2228778
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that ReAssure Limited sent documentation about their investment 
trust to the trustees despite promising not to when the investment was set up.
What happened
In January 2008 Mr and Mrs W were advised to invest £100,000 in an investment portfolio 
bond to be written under an Inheritance Loan Trust Plan on behalf of a business now known 
as ReAssure. For ease of reference, I will refer to ReAssure going forwards.
The Inheritance Loan Trust Plan was recommended to ensure inheritance tax would be 
mitigated on Mr and Mrs Ws death. Mr and Mrs W were named trustees, along with their 
son and daughter.
Mr and Mrs W say they specified at the time the trust was set up that documentation should 
only be sent to their address and not their children. They say ReAssure agreed to this and 
when the trust documents were mistakenly sent to their children in 2008, ReAssure 
apologised and said it wouldnt happen again.
Mr and Mrs W made a complaint in June 2019 after their daughter was contacted by 
ReAssure about the investment.
ReAssure didnt uphold the complaint as it had no record of any agreement to stop any 
correspondence from being sent to Mr and Mrs Ws children. It said as they were trustees, it 
would need to send them information from time to time.
Mr and Mrs W referred their complaint to our service. They included a letter they had 
received in February 2008 confirming no further correspondence would be sent to their 
children. They added that since the final response had been issued they had found out that if 
they wanted to surrender the investment they would need all four trustees to sign 
documents. Mr and Mrs W were unhappy with this because they didnt think their children 
should have a say in what happened to their investment. They thought the Inheritance Loan 
Trust Plan had been mis-sold.
When ReAssure provided its file for our service to consider, it said Mr and Mrs Ws complaint 
about the sale of the Inheritance Loan Trust Plan was new and it hadnt yet had a chance to 
consider it. However, after seeing a copy of the letter from February 2008 it offered £250 to 
Mr and Mrs W for what it had said previously about not having promised them that their 
children wouldnt receive further correspondence.
Our investigator informed Mr and Mrs W that their complaint about the sale of the 
Inheritance Loan Trust Plan would have to be considered as a new complaint. She also 
explained that she thought the £250 offered was reasonable for the mistake ReAssure had 
made.
Although Mr and Mrs W thought that their complaint should be considered as a whole, they 
asked the investigator to take forward their complaint about the mis-sale. Mr and Mrs W 
didnt think the compensation offered by ReAssure was enough to recognise how it had 
made them feel when they first complained. So, the complaint was passed to me to make a 
final decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think the compensation offered by ReAssure is reasonable in the 
circumstances. Ill explain why.
I should make it clear that I havent considered Mr and Mrs Ws complaint about the sale of 
the Inheritance Loan Trust Plan. This is because ReAssure hadnt yet had the opportunity to 
consider this part of the complaint when Mr and Mrs W brought the complaint to our service. 
I understand that the complaint about the mis-sale is now being considered separately.
Mr and Mrs W complained in June 2019 after their daughter had been contacted about the 
investment. They were unhappy because they had made a similar complaint in 2008 shortly 
after the investment and trust had been set up, and ReAssure had said it wouldnt happen 
again.
Mr and Mrs W have provided a copy of a letter dated 12 February 2008 which shows they 
were in fact told that any and all correspondence would be sent to their home address. And 
Im pleased to see that when presented with this evidence, ReAssure offered Mr and Mrs W 
£250 by way of an apology. It said it could understand why they wouldve been upset that 
information had been sent to their daughter when they had previously been assured that it 
wouldnt be.
Overall, I think the compensation offered to Mr and Mrs W is fair in the circumstances. 
I know Mrs W doesnt feel that this compensates her enough for the way she says she was 
spoken to on the phone  she says she was made to feel like a liar.
 
Unfortunately the call Mrs W had with ReAssures representative wasnt recorded. As 
I understand it, ReAssure didnt have any record of the complaint Mr and Mrs W had made 
in 2008 at the time the call took place. Mr and Mrs W have suggested this is due to poor 
record-keeping. But I dont think it is unusual for records of this nature not to have been kept, 
particularly as over 11 years had passed since that complaint was made. So, whilst 
I understand Mrs Ws frustration that ReAssure didnt accept what she said on face value, 
I can understand why ReAssure didnt uphold the complaint in the first instance when it 
didnt have any other evidence to support what Mrs W had said. Im also mindful that it is 
ReAssures view that it couldnt have guaranteed Mr and Mrs W that their son and daughter 
wouldnt receive any information relating to the trust or investment. This is because they are 
legally entitled to such information as trustees. So, this added to its belief at the time that 
Mr and Mrs W wouldnt have been given such a guarantee.
As I havent been able to listen to the call, I cant comment on the tone of the conversation 
Mrs W had with the representative of ReAssure. But given that ReAssure now accepts that 
Mr and Mrs W were told in 2008 that correspondence would only be sent to them, and it has 
offered compensation for the way it responded to the complaint initially, I think it has done 
enough to put things right here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im upholding this complaint.ReAssure Limited should pay Mr and Mrs W £250 for the trouble and upset caused by their 
mistake.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 November 2020.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman