DRN-3096986
The complaint
Mr S complains that after agreeing to provide cover for a claim on his legal expenses 
insurance policy, Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) later withdrew it. He says the 
decision to withdraw cover was unlawful, as it was in breach of the terms of his contract of 
insurance with RSA.
Where I refer to RSA this includes its agents and claims handlers acting on its behalf. 
Mr S is bringing this complaint with the help of his solicitors.  
What happened
Mr S was being supported financially by a relative. When his relative decided to cut off 
financial support for him, Mr S made a claim on his policy to cover the cost of taking legal 
action against him. He said his relatives decision had exacerbated his existing medical 
conditions and caused a new condition of post-traumatic stress disorder.
Mr S brought legal proceedings for financial relief. RSA didnt accept the claim on the policy, 
saying the legal advice was that his case didnt have reasonable prospects of success and 
wasnt covered by the policy in any event. RSA had obtained legal advice in May 2020 that 
said:
the event in question could not be said to have caused death or bodily injury;
the illness wasnt caused by a sudden or specific accident as required by the policy 
wording  it wasnt an accident but a deliberate act by Mr S relative;
the claim Mr S was pursuing was for financial relief; it wasnt a claim for personal 
injury.
Mr S pursued the legal case himself, but when it was heard by the court he wasnt 
successful.
Mr S obtained legal advice that he had good prospects of successfully appealing the 
decision and so on 6 October 2020 he lodged an appeal. In December he made a claim on 
his policy for funding for the appeal. RSA accepted that the appeal did have reasonable 
prospects of success and on 9 December it agreed to provide cover.
Mr S continued with his appeal and permission was granted for a combined permission and 
appeal hearing.
In January 2021 RSA said it had reviewed Mr S claim and decided to withdraw funding 
because it didnt believe the claim was covered under the policy terms. The decision was set 
out in an email to Mr S on 19 January where RSA said:
Following further requests for funding from Mr S, it had reviewed the whole file and 
having done so, concluded the claim did not fall within the personal injury section of 
cover.
Referring back to the legal advice it had obtained in May 2020 (referred to above), 
RSA said this was not a claim for personal injury. So it wasnt covered under that 
section, and there was no other section of cover that would apply.
On this basis, cover was withdrawn with immediate effect. 
This decision was based on legal advice RSA obtained on 19 January 2021 that said:
I refer you further to Counsel's earlier advice which confirms as follows:
an adjustment disorder cannot be said to constitute "death or bodily injury". Whether 
or not a psychiatric condition could be identified in terms of physical alterations to the 
brain, this has been debated between neurologists and neuropsychiatrists and whilst 
there is some evidence of structural alteration with some conditions, she commented 
that you have been given no indication of any evidence in relation to this adjustment 
disorder. Accordingly, her view was that the event cannot be said to have caused 
[Mr S] "death or bodily injury";
further, that the illness was not caused by a sudden or specific accident as required 
under the policy wording. It was not an accident but a deliberate act by to end his 
financial support. It would not appear that this was a sudden occurrence either as 
[Mr S] indicates that he and [his relative] had been in a dispute over [Mr S'] financial 
dependence on [his relative] for some considerable time. We would not consider 
therefore that the event in question was an accident or was sudden, and indeed it 
may not have caused the illness.
The solicitors said they had reviewed the further legal advice obtained by Mr S but this made 
it clear he was seeking financial relief and this was not a claim for personal injury. On this 
basis they advised RSA that further cover should be declined.
RSA said it would pay all reasonably incurred costs and disbursements that had already 
been agreed, together with reasonable costs to complete and lodge the skeleton argument 
required by the appeal court, but wouldnt provide any further cover for the claim.
In late January the appeal court agreed, in view of the ongoing risks to Mr S health, to 
expedite the hearing, and a hearing took place in early March. Mr S is awaiting the 
judgment.
Mr S complained about the decision to withdraw cover. He said he had only gone ahead with 
the appeal because he thought his legal costs were covered and RSAs decision left him at 
risk of paying all the costs himself.
RSA wouldnt change its decision and when the complaint came to this service our  
investigator didnt think it should be upheld. The investigator said:
the proposed claim was considered under the personal injury section of the policy, 
which has a specific exemption for an illness or injury which is not caused by a 
sudden or specific accident. The investigator concluded that what had happened to 
Mr S did not meet the definition of a sudden or specific accident, because the illness 
or injury in this instance resulted from a deliberate action by the relative;
RSA was wrong to agree cover in December 2020 but, where a business made a 
mistake like this, the usual approach was to consider what the impact of that error 
was and whether Mr S had acted to his detriment as a result;
he didnt think Mr S only went ahead with the appeal because RSA said it would 
cover the claim, or that the issue of whether he would obtain insurance funding was a 
driver behind his decision to appeal  Mr S had already started the appeal before 
cover was granted and continued with it after RSA decided to withdraw cover, and 
the main reason he wanted matters to be progressed quickly was because of the 
impact on his mental health;so he didnt think RSA had to provide cover, but the decision to withdraw cover would 
have been very upsetting and RSA should pay compensation of £500 for the distress 
and inconvenience caused by this.
Mr S disagreed with the investigators view and requested an ombudsmans decision. 
Amongst other things, he said:
the legal definition of an accident is a happening resulting in injury that is in no way 
the fault of the injured person for which compensation or indemnity is legally sought 
and that definition is met in his case;
the law is clear that the word accident must be interpreted from the perspective of 
the injured person (him), not the person who caused the injury (his relative);
RSA agreed he was entitled to cover and then withdrew that cover in breach of the 
policy terms  his counsels advice is clear that as a matter of contract law, RSA 
wasnt able to withdraw support;
the investigators view doesnt explain how the relevant law of contract has been 
taken into account or why he hasnt followed it;
it cant be right to say RSAs decision to withdraw cover was fair and reasonable 
when it is not lawful, nor is it fair to apply an approach that leaves him in a worse 
position than he would have been in, if the complaint were decided on a strictly legal 
basis.
I have issued two provisional decisions on the complaint. 
In the first provisional decision I said I intended to uphold the complaint to the limited extent 
that, although I thought RSA was entitled to withdraw cover, its decision would have been 
upsetting for Mr S and he should be paid compensation of £500 to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience caused to him.
I set out my reasons in detail to allow both parties the chance to consider them and provide 
comments so I wont repeat them all here, but the key points were:
Cover for personal injury
The policy included cover for The cost of you taking legal proceedings against another 
person or organisation as a result of an event which causes your death or bodily injury. This 
wording doesnt state that the claim must be a claim for damages for personal injury  whats 
covered is wider than that and includes any claim started as a result of an event that caused 
bodily injury. And Mr S is taking legal action against someone (his relative) as a result of an 
event (the withdrawal of financial support) that he says caused him injury.
The medical evidence confirms that Mr S was diagnosed with a psychiatric disorder (post 
traumatic stress disorder), which the expert says was caused directly by his relatives 
decision to withdraw support. I considered in detail whether this amounted to not just 
personal injury but bodily injury as required by the policy term, taking into account the legal 
advice obtained by both sides and my own review of the relevant law, and concluded that it 
was possible to read the terms as including psychiatric injury. On that basis I thought the 
proceedings were as a result of an event that caused Mr S bodily injury, which meets the 
definition set out in the policy terms. So on the face of it, the claim would be covered  
unless any exclusion applied.
Exclusion for Any illness or injury which  is not caused by a sudden or specific accident.
The policy doesnt define accident so it should be given its ordinary meaning and reflect the 
intention of the parties and the commercial sense of the agreement. Whichever definition is preferred, they each describe circumstances where some sort of mishap or unfortunate 
incident happens unexpectedly.
I considered the legal advice given by Mr S counsel, which said whilst there was a 
deliberate decision to withdraw financial support, theres no suggestion the relative intended 
this to cause injury in the form of psychiatric damage. So there was an event that caused 
Mr S injury and that injury was accidental. And the courts have held that this must be 
considered from the perspective of the injured party. Mr S said this was a "sudden and 
specific" event. But I said in my experience, family disputes are rarely sudden or unforeseen 
and though I didnt know all the evidence in Mr S case, I thought it likely he would have had 
warnings about his financial support being removed.
I referred to a comment indicating that, on Mr S own account, he had long been in dispute 
with his relative about his financial dependency, and the relationship between them had 
deteriorated over a long period. So I didnt think it would have been entirely unexpected.
I thought the removal of support was a deliberate act and the culmination of a longstanding 
issue. An injury may have occurred, but I didnt think it was due to an accidental event. And it 
wasnt unforeseen, it was the result of the breakdown of family relations. For these reasons, 
my view was that Mr S wasnt entitled to cover for his claim.
Withdrawing cover after it was granted
Mr S referred to legal advice that confirmation of cover was clear and unequivocal and this 
meant he was entitled to continuing cover unless the policy provided for it to be withdrawn  
and it didnt, since the only contractual basis for withdrawing cover was very limited and 
didnt apply in his case. So he said RSA was contractually bound to continue providing cover 
and couldnt change its decision - whether the correct legal analysis is election, affirmation, 
estoppel, breach of contract or all of these, once cover was provided RSA was not entitled to 
withdraw it.
I considered these points carefully but concluded that Mr S decided to pursue the appeal 
knowing the risks associated with that and knowing he didnt have any cover under the 
policy  it wasnt RSAs incorrect decision to provide cover that led him to pursue the appeal. 
So I didnt think Mr S acted differently as a result of RSAs error and on that basis, it wouldnt 
be fair for him to have the benefit of cover that he wasnt entitled to.
For these reasons, I didnt think it would be fair and reasonable to require RSA to provide 
cover for Mr S legal costs (other than those costs it had agreed to cover). But being told he 
was no longer covered would have been unpleasant for him.
The overall stress of this situation has impacted his health. Taking legal proceedings would 
have been stressful in any event and RSAs withdrawal of cover made this worse. So I 
agreed with our investigator that a payment of £500 would be a fair amount to recognise the 
additional distress that RSAs error caused.
Replies to the first provisional decision
RSA didnt provide any further comments in reply to the first provisional decision.
Mr S provided further detailed comments. He explained that:
Events had been overtaken by a legally binding agreement between him and RSA.
He agreed with RSA to jointly instruct a barrister to provide an opinion on whether 
hes entitled to cover and to be bound by that opinion.The barrister (Queens Counsel) provided an opinion which confirms that hes entitled 
to cover and, having agreed to provide cover, RSA could not then withdraw it.
While the ombudsman has to decide whats fair and reasonable, it cannot be fair or 
reasonable for an insurer to act contrary to the law.
RSAs position had been based on a misrepresentation of fact, which found its way 
into my provisional decision  namely that he had by his own account been in dispute 
with his relative since 2019. Thats not correct. The evidence from both him and his 
doctor confirms that the withdrawal of support was sudden and unexpected, and 
caused his PTSD.
The barristers legally binding opinion confirms that even if the events were 
foreseeable, they would still amount to an accident.
For these reasons, he is entitled to cover. And having agreed to be bound by the 
barristers opinion RSA is now wrongfully refusing to comply with it.
After considering Mr S comments I issued a second provisional decision, explaining that I no 
longer thought it would be fair for RSA not to cover the claim. I set out my reasons for 
coming to this view as follows:
In my first provisional decision I concluded that the claim Mr S wanted to bring was, on the 
face of it, covered unless an exclusion applied. The recent barristers advice has provided a 
more detailed consideration of the relevant law about what constitutes a bodily injury. RSA 
has seen the advice in its entirety and so I dont intend to rehearse it in any detail here.
I thought the exclusion for Any illness or injury which  is not caused by a sudden or 
specific accident did apply. This meant that his claim wasnt covered. Having reviewed the 
further comments and evidence I have received, I have now come to the view that this 
exclusion shouldnt apply to the claim. Ill explain why.
My previous view was that what happened to Mr S wasnt an accident because, on his own 
account, he had been in a dispute with his relative about his financial dependency, and their 
relationship had deteriorated over a long period. So rather than being unexpected, I thought 
it was both a deliberate act and the culmination of a longstanding issue. Although he 
suffered an injury, I didnt think it was due to an accidental event. And it wasnt unforeseen, it 
was the result of the breakdown of family relations.
Mr S says this conclusion was based on an inaccurate comment that he had been in dispute 
with his relative since 2019. As I explained in my first provisional decision, I make my 
decisions based on what I think is most likely to have happened, taking into account the 
evidence I have. Mr S had declined to provide further details of his court case, such as the 
pleadings that would have set out the basis of his claim. And the evidence I had indicated 
there was a series of events leading up to the withdrawal of support, so I didnt think this was 
a sudden and unforeseen event.
Having looked at the further information now provided, it does seem that the withdrawal of 
support was unexpected. The recent barristers opinion has provided further comment on the 
relevant points to consider in relation to this. He advises (as did the previous advice) that the 
question of whether there was an accident is to be looked at from the victims point of view. 
But this advice is more detailed and refers to a number of authorities on the point.
My provisional conclusion was that, even looking at things from Mr S point of view, this 
wasnt an unexpected event. Importantly for my consideration, this advice refers in more 
detail to authority for the view that, provided what happened was unintentional from the 
victims point of view (an un-looked for or untoward event) then even if it was foreseeable, it 
would still be an accident for these purposes. So even if the withdrawal of support was foreseeable it was, as far as Mr S was concerned, unintentional. And he refers to medical 
evidence confirming the PTSD did result from a sudden and specific event.
Having considered these additional points carefully, Im now of the view that what happened 
to Mr S ought to be considered an accident and so the exclusion wouldnt apply. And as I 
have already concluded that his claim would be covered if the exclusion didnt apply, then it 
follows logically that this means his claim should be covered. So RSA should not have 
withdrawn cover when it did.
RSA agreed to give joint instructions with Mr S solicitors for this barrister to give an opinion, 
and to be bound by his findings. The advice sets out in detail why Mr S is entitled to cover for 
his claim. This was agreed outside of this complaint process and Im not bound by it. Its for 
me to decide what I think is fair and reasonable. If RSA disagrees with that advice, Mr S may 
need to take legal action if he wishes to enforce the agreement.
But I make my decision based on all the circumstances of the case. Mr S believed a process 
had been agreed to resolve the dispute and agreed to be bound by that, as did RSA. I 
understand RSA has some concerns about the information provided to the barrister and the 
basis for his opinion. But it hasnt replied to my first provisional decision or provided 
comments for me to consider. The only additional submissions I have are from Mr S.
Taking all of these circumstances into account I dont think it would be fair and reasonable 
for RSA to maintain the view that the claim is not covered. RSA should therefore provide 
cover for the claim.
Mr S has continued with his appeal since cover was withdrawn and may have incurred costs 
during this period. If these costs are at different rates from those provided under the policy 
then, even if cover is reinstated, he is potentially out of pocket. Since these are not costs he 
would have incurred had cover been in place, I dont think it would be fair for him to suffer a 
loss in respect of this. So RSA should pay any reasonable costs hes been charged since 
January. And if hes already paid any of those costs, interest should be added.
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above I intend to uphold the complaint and direct Royal & Sun 
Alliance Insurance Plc
not to apply the exclusion for Any illness or injury which  is not caused by a 
sudden or specific accident;
to provide cover for the claim subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy;
to reimburse any reasonable costs incurred since cover was withdrawn that would 
have been covered by the policy and, if Mr S has already paid any of these costs, to  
add simple interest at the rate of 8% per year from the date he paid them to the date 
he is reimbursed.
Replies to the second provisional decision
Both parties replied to the second provisional decision. Mr S provided a number of further 
comments. I wont set them out in detail but in summary, they included:
The QC provided a further opinion in which he was very critical of RSAs actions and 
confirmed even more strongly his view that the claim should be covered.
This makes it even more clear that the second provisional decision reached the 
correct outcome and that RSA should compensate him for the severe distress and 
anxiety caused to him.He has incurred substantial legal costs obtaining advice to resolve the issue created 
by RSAs unlawful decision to withdraw cover  as the decision now is that he should 
not be out of pocket for his legal costs arising from that decision, this should include 
the costs of obtaining this advice.
This payment should be made outside the indemnity limit of his policy.
Any decision for his legal invoices to be paid should state that the costs should be 
paid to him since the costs have already been incurred.
A medical opinion from his consultant confirms the extent of the distress, which falls 
within the extreme band, justifying an award of at least £5,000 based on the 
ombudsmans guidance that awards should be at this level where the issue has had 
an extreme and long term affect. Other guidance (for Vento awards given in legal 
proceedings) gives a good guide and based on that, an award at the mid-point of 
£18,250 would be reasonable, when taking into account that RSAs behaviour has 
been particularly egregious and unfair.
RSA said: 
It did not reply to the first provisional decision because it did not disagree with the 
conclusion. It subsequently received the most recent barrister's opinion and before it 
had an opportunity to review the barrister's advice, Mr S contacted this service and 
advised it wasnt honouring the advice. 
Whilst disappointed by the barristers recent opinion, it has accepted the advice and 
covered the costs as required.
Its understanding is that Mr S hasnt had to pay any costs himself, in which case 
there will be no need to pay the 8% interest.
In essence, due to the change in circumstances it doesnt disagree with the second 
provisional decision.
It has nothing further to add on the issue of compensation for distress and 
inconvenience and if the final decision is that its appropriate to pay £500 
compensation, it will abide by this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RSA has confirmed it accepts the findings in the barristers advice and has agreed to cover 
the costs of the claim. In view of this, theres no need for me to add to my comments set out 
in my second provisional decision on this point; RSA should provide cover for the claim in 
line with the policy terms.
Although RSA says it has covered the costs, its understanding is that Mr S hasnt had to pay 
any costs himself, so theres no need to add interest. Mr S says he has incurred costs  and 
he should be reimbursed for all the costs, not just those relating to the legal proceedings but 
also the additional costs he incurred in contesting RSAs decision. So I need to decide what 
should happen in relation to these costs.
I appreciate Mr S has incurred legal costs since January, and hes provided evidence of this. 
But it seems these costs were primarily in relation to challenging RSAs decision, including 
the costs incurred in relation to the jointly instructed barrister. Its not generally necessary for 
legal costs to be incurred in bringing a complaint to us. Our service is free to use and doesnt 
require legal representation. A complainant simply needs to set out their concerns and our 
inquisitorial approach allows us to gather the information we need to consider the complaint. 
As mentioned in the second provisional decision, Mr S had declined to provide some 
information such as further details of his court case, which may have assisted my consideration. It was Mr S decision to pursue a separate process with RSA; this was done 
outside the process of this complaint and at his own risk. He agreed to be bound by that 
process. The agreement was that if counsels advice was in favour of Mr S then RSA would 
pay the fee for that advice, but if it was in RSAs favour then Mr S would pay. Otherwise, 
each party would pay their own costs. As Ive explained above, Im not bound by that 
agreement but it is a relevant circumstance for me to take into account. And in these 
circumstances I dont consider it fair to direct RSA to cover all of these costs. It remains my 
view that RSA should cover any costs relating to the legal proceedings that would otherwise 
have been covered, but not any additional costs Mr S has chosen to incur. 
If Mr S has already paid any of the costs relating to the legal proceedings, these should be 
reimbursed to him along with interest from the date he paid those costs, on receipt of 
evidence confirming the amount and date of payment.
Mr S has said these costs should not come out of the indemnity limit. If cover had been in 
place, the costs would have been paid at the hourly rate agreed. I understand that to be 
£229 per hour, whereas the usual rate charged by Mr S solicitor is £360. If theres a loss to 
him which goes beyond what the policy would have covered, because he had to pay the 
higher rate, I dont think it would be fair for those additional costs to count against the 
indemnity limit. So if Mr S had to pay an hourly rate higher than RSA would have agreed 
because it wrongly declined cover, then costs over that rate shouldnt count against the limit. 
But the normal costs should  as they would have, if cover had been in place.
 
Finally, Mr S has raised the issue of compensation for the distress caused to him. In my first 
provisional decision I acknowledged that having cover withdrawn would have been very 
upsetting and thought a payment of £500 was fair to acknowledge this. Having then reached 
the view that the claim should be covered, my second provisional decision dealt with the way 
to compensate Mr S for his losses following the withdrawal of cover, but omitted to award 
any compensation for distress. Having thought about this again I do think a payment would 
be fair.
Mr S says this should not be £500 but a much more substantial payment of well over £5,000. 
Ive considered his comments carefully, including the medical evidence he has provided. I 
accept that having his cover withdrawn would have been very distressing. And I note what 
the consultant says about the effect of this. Hes given his view on the appropriate level of 
compensation. But while the consultant is able to give an opinion on the effect on Mr S, 
ultimately its for me to decide how to reflect that in any award I make, taking into account all 
the circumstances. 
Its clear that Mr S has had a range of serious medical conditions for some time. The 
evidence confirms the impact of RSAs decision exacerbated the situation, but it wasnt the 
cause of all of his medical conditions. The impact of the relatives decision had already 
exacerbated his existing medical conditions and caused his post-traumatic stress disorder. 
And the stress of going through the court process would already have been severe. I note, 
for example, the courts decision to prioritise the appeal hearing due to Mr S health. And 
since March hes had the worry of waiting to find out what the outcome would be. So I dont 
think it would be fair to say the impact of RSAs decision alone should lead to a substantial 
payment.
In reaching this view, Ive also considered Mr S comments about RSAs behaviour. Its not 
my role to punish a business; Im only considering the impact on Mr S. And while I dont 
doubt there was an impact of RSAs decision to withdraw cover, my view is that this 
exacerbated an already very difficult situation, which would have been very distressing for 
Mr S in any event and had already had a severe impact.For these reasons my view is that the payment of £500 proposed in the first provisional 
decision remains a fair sum to acknowledge the additional distress caused to Mr S at what 
was already an extremely difficult time.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint in part and direct Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Plc:
not to apply the exclusion for Any illness or injury which  is not caused by a 
sudden or specific accident;
to provide cover for the claim subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy;
to reimburse any reasonable costs incurred since cover was withdrawn that would 
have been covered by the policy and, if Mr S has already paid any of these costs, to  
add simple interest at the rate of 8% per year from the date he paid them to the date 
he is reimbursed; 
to apply the indemnity limit in such a way that if Mr S had to pay costs at an hourly 
rate higher than RSA would have agreed, costs over that rate do not count against 
the indemnity limit, but costs at the normal rate do; and
to pay compensation of £500 to Mr S for the additional distress and inconvenience 
caused to him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2021.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman