DRN-2692818
The complaint
Mr J believes that staff at Nationwide Building Society breached his data protection rights by 
allowing other customers to hear his name without his consent even though he had asked 
staff to stop. He is embarrassed by the breach of confidentiality and concerned about 
possible fraudulent use of his information.
What happened
Mr J is unhappy that on a number of occasions staff have addressed him by name in front of 
other customers. This has happened not just inside the branch but also when he was in the 
street queueing to get in the branch.
When Mr J complained to Nationwide it explained why it might have used Mr Js name  for 
fraud prevention and to greet him. It said that in future Mr J can respond to any validation 
questions in writing. It also said that it had asked the branch not to refer to Mr J by name in 
future, although it said that as this is not a common practice there may be occasions where 
Mr Js name is used perhaps by staff members in from other branches to cover at any given 
time.
The investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. The investigator felt Nationwide 
was being fair and proportionate.
Mr J disagrees. He says that his name is the most important and personal of the data that 
Nationwide holds on him in its computer. The basic and most important premise of the Data 
Protection Act is that any organisation must not disclose any of the personal data of its 
customers to any unauthorised third party without specific permission from the customer to 
do so. That law is there for a purpose and to protect the customer. He therefore thinks what 
the investigator has said amounts to saying the Data Protection Act is not fair and 
reasonable. He suggests that if staff feel the need to welcome him within the earshot of other 
customers, they should address him as sir. He thinks the investigator should contact the 
Information Commissioners Office for confirmation that what Nationwide is doing is a breach 
of the Data Protection Act and cannot be allowed to continue.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At this service we are here to determine individual disputes. We are not a regulator. Our role 
is not to decide whether a law has been broken  although we do consider the law when 
deciding how to determine the complaint.
I think it is reasonable for Nationwide to take steps to validate a customers account. I also 
think it is reasonable that if Mr J wants Nationwide not to say his name within the hearing of 
other people that it takes steps to accommodate this. Nationwide has told Mr J he can 
answer its questions by writing things down so other customers cant know what he has said. 
It has also given guidance to the branch Mr J uses to ask its staff members not to refer to 
Mr Js name. I think this is fair and reasonable. And I wont be asking it to do anymore.
My final decision
I do not uphold this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June  2021.
 
Nicola Wood
Ombudsman