DRN-4311742
The complaint
Mr A complains about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limiteds (Admiral) valuation of his car 
following a claim under his car insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr A says, following the theft of his car, Admiral offered him £12,097.50 to settle his claim. 
Mr A complained as he says he searched the market but couldnt find a similar car for this 
price. Admiral responded and explained they valued Mr As car at £12,097.50 and, after 
deducting the excess of £150, the amount payable to him was £11,947.50. Admiral 
explained theyve offered Mr A the market value of his car. They said they used two motor 
trade guides to value Mr As car  and the offer made to Mr A reflected the average of these 
two guides.  
Our investigator looked into things for Mr A. She thought Admiral hadnt offered a fair 
valuation and recommended they pay an additional £402.50 together with 8% simple interest 
on this additional settlement amount. Admiral disagreed so the matter has come to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. And, I think the investigators 
recommendation here is a fair way to resolve matters. Ill explain why I have made this 
decision. 
 
My starting point is Mr As car insurance policy document. This sets out the terms and 
conditions and says, if Admiral decide to pay a cash sum to replace a car, the most theyll 
pay is the market value of the car. The policy defines market value as The cost of replacing 
your vehicle, with one of a similar make, model, year, mileage and condition based on 
market prices immediately before the loss happenedThis value is based on research from 
industry recognised motor trade guides. The dispute here relates to the valuation, so the 
next point Ive considered is whether Admiral acted fairly when carrying out their valuation.  
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second-hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research of 
likely selling prices. 
The guides refer to advertised and auction prices to work out what the likely selling price for 
the same vehicle would be. This takes into account all the specifications of the vehicle as 
well as any extras and the mileage.  
Mr A is unhappy with Admirals valuation of his car as he thinks its worth more  particularly 
as he says he couldnt find a similar car for less than £16,000. Ive seen that Admiral 
reached their figure by using two industry recognised tools to find out the market value of the 
car. I can see they used CAPs to arrive at a valuation of £12,395 and Glasss which gave a 
valuation of £11,800. Admiral used the average to settle the claim. 
I can see our investigator also obtained a valuation of £11,800 from Glasss. They also 
considered two additional motor guides to get their valuation for Mr As car at the time of the 
incident. But I can see our investigator has only used a CAPs valuation of £12,500 when 
considering a fair settlement in this case. 
The information shows Admiral also took into account the CAPs valuation when arriving at 
their settlement offer. And, the difference between Admirals settlement amount and our 
investigators view of a reasonable settlement is £402.50. But, I dont believe, in the 
circumstances of this case, Mr A received a fair settlement. I say this because Mr A has 
provided evidence which shows his car included factory fitted optional extras. 
Optional extras are additional specifications which can be added to a car when it is in the 
factory. These usually come with an additional cost which is paid by the purchaser. While 
some optional extras can increase the resale value of a car, some wont increase the price 
but may make the car more desirable to buy. As with cars generally, optional extras will 
depreciate over time. Out of the four motor trade guides, the additional two obtained by our 
investigator didnt allow her to include any optional extras. Glasss did allow some optional 
extras to be included but didnt add any value to Mr As car. The CAPs valuation was the 
only one which applied an additional amount for the optional extras. The valuation process 
allowed the investigator to enter the precise optional extras purchased by Mr A and the 
search result confirms these have been included in the valuation produced.  
Admiral only used two motor-trade guides  and while one of these was CAPs, I cant see 
their search of this motor trade guide took into account the optional extras. Its not the role of 
this service to put an exact value on a car. When looking into these types of complaints we 
check the relevant trade guides and consider whether the insurer has made a reasonable 
offer in line with them. Its our role to make sure Admiral is giving Mr A a fair price using a 
fair and recognised approach. 
In this case, I cant say that has happened here as Admirals valuation didnt take into 
account the optional extras. And given that there was a motor trade guide which allowed this 
to be factored in, I think this shouldve been used to arrive at a fair valuation. Admiral say the 
CAPs valuation obtained by our investigator is only £105 more than their own valuation  
which they say is an acceptable difference. I agree the difference is relatively small, but its 
not the difference between these amounts which is material in the circumstances of this case 
 its the fact that Mr As car had optional extras, and one motor trade guide includes a fair 
value for these. And while I accept Admiral used this trade guide, they didnt include the 
optional extras. So I think its fair and reasonable for our investigators CAPs valuation to be 
used to determine a fair settlement. And, that being the case, the difference between what 
Admiral have paid and what I think represents a fair settlement is £402.50.  
 
I can see our investigator obtained a valuation from Glasss and this allowed her to select 
optional extras  but the result of the search showed the optional extras didnt add any 
value. And the Glasss valuation obtained by our investigator matched the valuation Admiral 
obtained. 
I can see Admiral say its unfair for our investigator not to take this valuation into account. I 
do acknowledge Admirals point here, but Im persuaded, in the circumstances of this case, it 
wouldnt be fair to apply this valuation. I say this for two reasons. Firstly, given the specific 
optional extras chosen by Mr A and the fact theyre factory fitted, I think its reasonable to 
conclude they would add value. Secondly, the valuation our investigator has received from 
CAPs contains notes which says CAPs researched Mr As particular car and it sets out the 
total value of the optional extras from new. Given that the optional extras will have depreciated in value over time, I dont think the additional value applied by CAPs for the 
optional extras is unreasonable. So, in the circumstances of this case, I think the CAPs 
valuation, with the optional extras included, provides the most accurate valuation for Mr As 
car  and it would be fair to use this valuation to work out a fair settlement amount.  
Given that Ive seen no evidence Admirals CAPs valuation applied the optional extras, and 
this has then led to a reduction in the amount paid to Mr A, I dont think Mr A has received a 
fair price. Based on the information provided about Mr As car and using the most accurate 
trade guide, I dont think Admiral have carried out a fair valuation. After making deductions 
from the settlement amount, Admiral have already paid £11,947.50, so they should pay Mr A 
£402.50 together with 8% simple interest from the date they paid their settlement amount to 
the date of settlement. 
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that Admiral havent carried out a fair valuation of Mr As car. So, Admiral 
should pay Mr A £402.50 together with 8% simple interest from the date they paid their 
settlement amount to the date of settlement. Admiral should provide Mr A with a certificate 
showing any taxation deducted.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited must 
take the steps in accordance with what Ive said under Putting things right above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman