DRN-3029271
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1999. Mr B says Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold him PPI.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr Bs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr Bs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Bs. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Bs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
I think Barclays made it clear that Mr B didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to 
take it out. I say this because Barclays has provided a copy of the paperwork available 
from the time of the sale. The mortgage application had a separate section for PPI where 
the option to take the policy was taken. The application was also signed by Mr B in 
acceptance of the selections that were made.
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mr B - so it didnt have to check that the PPI was 
right or suitable for him. But it did have to give Mr B enough clear and timely information 
so he could decide for himself if it was right for him.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this 
type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr B. Although Mr B says he 
had a medical condition some time before the policy was taken out, I dont think better 
information about the existing medical condition exclusion wouldve caused him to 
change his mind about taking out the policy. I say this because I havent seen enough to 
show this condition continued to cause Mr B ongoing problems that he would have 
thought he would need to claim for. There were also no additional restrictions on cover 
for mental health or back problems. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it 
would have been useful for him if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mr 
B would have declined the cover had Barclays done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mr B would have still taken out PPI. The policy was sufficiently close 
to what its likely he thought he was getting, and I think the policy could provide a useful 
benefit in a difficult time, given his circumstances at the time. And in those circumstances, I 
think that he would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr Bs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good faith meant Barclays should have disclosed the poor value and explained the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making 
a claim.
But Mr Bs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Bs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Bs particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
This means Barclays doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman