DRN-3261172
The complaint
Mr G complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited trading as Moneybarn irresponsibly granted 
him a conditional sale agreement he couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
In August 2017, Mr G acquired a used car financed by a conditional sale agreement from 
Moneybarn. Mr G paid a £400 deposit and was required to make 59 monthly repayments of 
just over £500. The total repayable under the agreement was just over £30,000.
Mr G says that Moneybarn didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it had, it 
would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable and that his credit file showed he had 
several defaults and wasnt maintaining payments on his other credit commitments. He says 
he had recently changed jobs before the agreement was provided and that he then lost his 
job a few weeks later.
Moneybarn didnt agree. It says that it carried out a thorough assessment which included a 
credit check to assess Mr Gs creditworthiness and indebtedness. It says that although Mr G 
said he had over £30,000 of defaulted debt at the time, its search showed defaulted debts of 
£8,000 and other commitments of £8,000 which was within its criteria. It says it certified 
Mr Gs income through a payslip and his bank statement.
Mr G also says that the correspondence and documents were all sent by email including the 
Standard European Consumer Credit Information (SECCI) which he says wasnt provided in 
advance. He says there was little emphasis on taking time to read the details before signing 
and had he been given more time he may have discussed the agreement with his family and 
the issue of affordability may have been realised at that time. Moneybarn says Mr G was 
provided with all the documentation he needed and had time to consider this. It says while 
the documents were emailed it also noted that Mr G also had telephone calls with the sales 
team.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Moneybarn didnt 
act unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Mr G didnt agree and reiterated the debt he had at the time and the number of defaults that 
were recorded on his credit file. He also noted the cost of the repayments under this 
agreement was around 25% of his income which added to his other credit costs meant he 
was spending around 50% of his income on these commitments and that was before he had 
to pay his housing and other living costs.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
Before granting the finance, Moneybarn verified Mr Gs income using payslips and 
had sight of bank statements. Mr G had recently changed jobs, but I didnt think this 
meant the evidence provided couldnt be relied on. 
Moneybarn didnt provide a copy of the credit check it completed but said its checks 
showed Mr G had around £8,000 of defaulted debts and a further £8,000 of active 
credit commitments and that he had missed payments on other credit commitments 
at the time. Without the credit check results from Moneybarn I relied on a copy of the 
credit file supplied by Mr G to assess in more detail what would have been seen. 
Based on Mr Gs 2021 credit report, at the time of the application Mr G had 10 
defaulted accounts. The defaulted amounts totalled over £9,000 but as some 
payments may have been made before August 2017, I thought Moneybarns 
comments of defaulted accounts of around £8,000 not unreasonable. Mr G said that 
on the credit report provided certain defaulted accounts had been removed due to 
companies going into administration.
I thought the number of defaults and the timing of the most recent defaults raised 
concerns. This combined with the evidence that Mr G had missed payments on other 
active credit commitments; had over £30,000 of debt in a debt management plan; 
and had returned direct debit payments showed that Mr G had been struggling to 
manage his money for an extended period and his situation wasnt improving.
The agreement with Moneybarn was for five years with repayments of around £500 a 
month. I thought that Mr Gs credit file showed that it was unlikely he would be able to 
afford the repayments towards the new agreement without financial difficulty or 
having to borrow further. I noted Moneybarns comments about subsequent income 
and expenditure assessments, but this complaint was about the provision of the 
agreement in August 2017 and in this case I didnt think Moneybarn acted fairly by 
approving the finance.
Mr G accepted my provisional decision. Moneybarn didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Moneybarn will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
As I set out in my provisional decision I think Moneybarn gathered adequate information 
about Mr Gs income. It also carried out a credit check and it was the information contained 
within Mr Gs credit report that should have raised concerns that he was struggling to 
manage his money and had been struggling for an extended period of time.
I think the number and timing of Mr Gs defaults combined with evidence that he was missing 
payments on active credit commitments at the time, had returned direct debits showing on 
his bank account and had over £30,000 of debt in a debt management plan, meant that 
providing further credit to him at this time wasnt responsible. 
The agreement with Moneybarn was for five years with repayments of around £500 a month. 
I think that Mr Gs credit file showed that it was unlikely he would be able to afford the 
repayments towards the new agreement without financial difficulty or having to borrow 
further. Because of this I dont think Moneybarn acted fairly by approving the finance.
Putting things rightAs I dont think Moneybarn ought to have approved the lending, it should therefore refund all 
the payments Mr G has made, including any deposit. However, Mr G has had use of the car 
from August 2017 and continues to do so and has said he wishes to keep the car. So, I think 
its fair he pays for that use. In this case I think the fair resolution is for Mr G to pay for the 
original cost of the car but no more, that is £14,495 and then keep the car. I note the April 
statement of account showed Mr G had already paid in excess of this figure.
To settle Mr Gs complaint Moneybarn should do the following:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay.
Refund any payments Mr G has made in excess of £14,495, representing the original 
cash price of the car. It should add 8% simple interest per year* from the date of 
each overpayment to the date of settlement.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Gs credit file regarding the 
agreement.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Moneybarn to take off tax from this interest. Moneybarn 
must give Mr G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if Mr G asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Moneybarn No. 1 Limited trading as 
Moneybarn should take the actions set out above in resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman