DRN-4393886
The complaint
Mrs S and the estate of Mr S complain that GE Money Consumer Lending Limited (GEM) 
unfairly declined their claim under sections 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(CCA) in relation to timeshare products they purchased with loans they provided to them
What happened
The complaint being considered here is in the name of Mrs S and the estate of Mr S. With a 
view to clarity and brevity, throughout my decision I may refer instead to Mr and Mrs S.
In 2005, Mr and Mrs S received a letter offering them a free holiday on condition they 
attended a presentation. Following the presentation, Mr and Mrs S purchased a trial 
membership in a timeshare membership scheme presented to them by a company who Ill 
refer to as C. Mr and Mrs S booked their free holiday for September 2005. It included a 
condition to attend a further meeting and presentation while they were away.
During that holiday, Mr and Mrs S agreed to upgrade their trial membership to a full 
membership and purchased points to be used in exchange for holiday accommodation and 
bookings. Over the course of the next two years, they attended further meetings with C while 
holidaying and agreed to upgrade their points holding on two further occasions. 
Its claimed each purchase was funded with fixed sum loans introduced by C and provided 
by GEM. Each new loan included repayment and consolidation of the previous loan. In 
summary, the purchases and loans were as follows:
15 September 2005 Purchase 1 - Trial membership costing £3,595 providing 5 
weeks of holidays over 34 months funded by a loan over 36 months;
25 April 2006 Purchase 2  Trade in of trial membership and upgrade to full 
membership and 751 points costing £12,194 funded by a loan of £10,898.78* from 
GEM over 120 months;
1 May 2007 Purchase 3  Trade in of 751 points and upgrade to 1,161 points costing 
£17,399 funded by a loan of £17,157.85* from GEM over 180 months; and
7 October 2007 Purchase 4  Purchase of additional 340 points costing £4,839 
funded by a loan of £23,887.94* from GEM over 180 months.
(*Includes an amount of credit for purchase of a Protected Payments Plan.)
In May 2017, using a professional representative (the PR), Mr and Mrs S submitted a claim 
to GEM under sections 75 and 140A of the CCA. 
The PR said that C had misrepresented certain aspects of the products purchased. And it 
was these misrepresentations that had induced Mr and Mrs S to proceed with the 
purchases. They held GEM jointly liable for any misrepresentation under section 56 of the 
CCA (S56) and believed there was grounds for a claim under section 75 of the CCA 
(S75). In particular, the PR said C misrepresented the product(s) by telling Mr and Mrs S:
they would be making an investment which would always go up in value; and
they could always get their money back by selling it and make a profit;
The PR also highlighted reasons why they believe an unfair relationship existed under 
section 140A of the CCA (S140A). In particular:
payment was taken on the day of the first sale in the form of the trade in value of the 
trial membership;
Mr and Mrs S werent made aware of management charges;
Mr and Mrs S werent made aware of the duration of the scheme;
the duration of the full points membership and/or the obligation to pay management 
charges were unfair terms under Regulation 5 of The Unfair Terms in Consumer 
Contracts Regulations 1999 (the UCCRs);
the interest rate on each loan was significantly higher than that being provided by 
other lenders;
Mr and Mrs S were pressured to complete each sale and constantly badgered to 
attend further presentations; and
Mr and Mrs S were encouraged to add their children to the membership but not told 
they would become part owners, and liable under the agreement.
In response, GEM didnt think Mr and Mrs S were able to make a claim under S75 as the 
required debtor-creditor-supplier relationship1 didnt exist. GEM also thought the claim(s) for 
misrepresentation had been brought too late under section 5 and/or section 9 of the 
Limitation Act 1980 (the LA). GEM said that because they werent present at the sales 
meetings referred to, they werent able to comment on the various other points raised and 
didnt think there was any other reason to uphold their claim or any related complaint.
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree with GEMs findings. So, they asked the PR to refer their 
complaint to this service. In doing so, the PR referred to borrowing taken out in [2013] to 
finance the acquisition of a holiday timeshare product in respect of [Cs] Fractional Property 
Owners Club. They included extensive commentary and observations relating to the sale 
and purchase of timeshare products and fractional timeshare schemes.
Having considered all the information and evidence provided, one of our investigators didnt 
think Mr and Mrs Ss complaint should be upheld (the First View). In particular, our 
investigator thought Mr and Mrs Ss claim for misrepresentation under S75 had been raised 
too late under the LA.
The PR didnt agree with our investigators findings. They thought the action (being the claim 
of unfairness under S140A) is a speciality for the purposes of section 8 of the LA. And under 
that provision the limitation period is 12 years rather than six. They also said limitation didnt 
begin until the point that the relationship (with GEM) ended. And that didnt occur until the 
borrowing with them had been repaid. The PR said the relationship was, therefore, still 
ongoing in December 2012. Because of this, they thought Mr and Mrs Ss claims should still 
have been considered under S140A.
Following a period of illness, Mr S sadly passed away in 2019. However, the claim (and the 
resultant complaint against GEM) remains in the names of Mrs S and the estate of Mr S.
Another of this services investigators considered Mr and Mrs Ss complaint again together 
with the comments submitted by the PR and issued their findings (the Second View). That 
investigator also didnt think Mr and Mrs Ss complaint should be upheld for broadly similar 
reasons to the first investigator. Specifically, they thought the first three purchases were out 
of time under the LA. But they did think the claim under S140A for the fourth purchase could 
be considered. Having done so, the investigator didnt think the evidence showed it likely 
1 Under section 187 of the CCA as defined by section 184that a court would find the relationship unfair. So didnt think GEMs response was 
unreasonable.
The PR didnt agree with our investigators findings in the Second View. They thought the 
investigator had failed to consider the alleged breaches of various regulations and legislation 
relevant to the S140A claim. In particular in relation to unfair contract terms and the provision 
of information. The PR also provided a 46-page document containing Generic submissions 
on behalf of complainants to be considered. This document relates specifically to the sale of 
timeshare products by C.
As an informal resolution couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to 
consider further and reach a final decision. Having done that, while I was inclined to reach 
the same outcome as our investigator, Id considered a number of issues which I didnt feel 
had previously been fully addressed. So, I issued a provisional decision on 13 September 
2023 giving both sides the chance to respond before I issue my final decision.
In my provisional decision I said:
Relevant Considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, DISP 3.6.4R of the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) Handbook means Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider was good industry practice at the 
relevant time.
S75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. Mrs 
S says they paid for the timeshare products under restricted use fixed sum loan 
agreements. So, it isnt in dispute that S75 may apply here subject to any restrictions 
and limitations. This means that Mr and Mrs S would be afforded the protection 
offered to borrowers under those provisions. And as a result, Ive taken this section 
into account when deciding whats fair in the circumstances of this case.
S140A looks at the fairness of the relationship between Mr S, Mrs S and GEM arising 
out of the credit agreements (taken together with any related agreement). And where 
the product points purchased were funded under the credit agreements, theyre 
deemed to be related agreements. Only a court has the power to make a 
determination under S140A. But as its relevant law, Ive considered it when deciding 
what I believe is fair and reasonable. 
Given the facts of Mr and Mrs Ss complaint, relevant law also includes the LA. This 
is because the transactions - the purchases funded by loans with GEM - took place in 
2005, 2006 and 2007. Only a court is able to make a ruling under the LA, but as its 
relevant law, Ive considered the effect this might also have.
Its important to stress that this services role as an Alternative Dispute Resolution 
Service (ADR) is to provide mediation in the event of a dispute. The complaint being 
considered here specifically relates to whether I believe GEMs treatment of Mr and 
Mrs Ss claim was fair and reasonable given all the evidence and information 
available to me. While the decision of an ombudsman can be legally binding, if 
accepted by the consumer, we do not provide a legal service. And as Ive already 
said, this service isnt able to make legal findings  that is the role of the courts. 
Where a consumer doesnt accept the findings of an ombudsman, this doesnt 
prejudice their right to pursue any claim in other ways.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, my 
decision is made on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive 
based it on what I think is more likely than not to have happened given the evidence 
thats available from the time and the wider circumstances. In doing so, my role isnt 
necessarily to address every single point thats been made in my decision. And for that reason, Im only going to refer to what I believe are the most salient points 
having considered everything thats been said and provided.
The trial membership purchase
At the outset, while the PR suggest that the first purchase  that being of the trial 
membership in 2005  was funded under a loan agreement provided by a company 
within the same group as GEM, Ive seen no evidence to support that assertion. And 
GEM havent been able to recover any record of such a loan. Furthermore, Ive not 
been provided with any product documentation from the time of the sale. I can 
certainly see that a trade in value was attributed to Mr and Mrs Ss trial membership 
in April 2006. But in the absence of any other information or evidence, I dont think 
this purchase can be considered further as part of any claim.
Was the claim of misrepresentation under S75 made in time?
The PR says C misrepresented the nature of the purchase agreements and benefits 
to Mr and Mrs S when they agreed to purchase the products. And they believe this 
brings cause for a claim under S75.
But a section 75 claim is an action [that is, court action] to recover any sum by virtue 
of any enactment under section 9 of the LA. And the limitation period under that 
provision is six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued. So here, 
Mr and Mrs S had to make a claim within six years of when they entered into each 
purchase contract and credit agreement. The PR confirm this took place in 2006 and 
2007. Thats because this is when they say Mr and Mrs S lost out having relied upon 
the alleged false statements of fact at that time.
The claim was first submitted by the PR in May 2017  almost ten years after the 
date of the fourth and final purchase. So, as this was more than six years after the 
purchases were completed and Mr and Mrs S first say they lost out; I believe a court 
is likely to find that their claim for misrepresentation under S75 falls outside of the 
time limit permitted in the LA.
Was the unfair relationship claim under S140A made in time?
A claim under Section 140A is a claim for a sum recoverable by statute  which is 
also governed by Section 9 of the LA. As a result, the time limit for making such a 
claim is also six years from the date on which the cause for action accrued. 
However, in determining whether or not the relationship complained of was unfair, 
the High Courts decision in Patel v Patel (2009) decided this could only be 
determined by having regard to the entirety of the relationship and all potentially 
relevant matters up to the time of making the determination. In that case, it was the 
date of the trial or otherwise the date the relationship ended.
So, having considered this, I believe the trigger point here is slightly different. Any 
relationship between Mr S, Mrs S and GEM continued while the finance agreements 
remained live. So, that relationship only ended once the agreements ended and any 
borrowing under them was repaid.
At this services request, GEM have confirmed the final repayment and closure date 
for each of the loans. As Ive already said, Ive seen no evidence supporting the initial 
(trial membership) loan. However, GEM say that the first loan (in respect of Purchase 
2) was repaid and closed in their records on 31 July 2007 and the second (in respect 
of Purchase 3) was repaid and closed on 18 January 2008. It appears clear the claim 
was raised more than six years after these closure dates. So, I believe its likely a 
court would find any S140A claim also falls outside of the limit permitted in the LA.
The PR contend that where a claimant seeks to re-open a credit bargain on the 
grounds that the relationship between the lender (GEM) and the creditor (Mr and Mrs S) is unfair within S140A and invoke relief under section 140B, the action is a 
speciality for the purposes of section 8 of the LA and the limitation period is 12 years. 
But I dont agree thats the case here. The loan agreement was a simple contract 
under the CCA. And as far as I can see, it ran its course  according to the 
agreement  until it was repaid early by Mr and Mrs S in 2013. Theres no suggestion 
that Mr and Mrs S are seeking to re-open the credit bargain here. So, I dont think 
section 8 of the LA applies. And because of that, I think the usual six-year limitation 
applies.
As regards the third loan (in respect of Purchase 4), I believe the circumstances are 
different. This loan continued until its closure in December 2013. And because this 
was less than three years before the claim was submitted, I do think a court is likely 
to find that claim was made in time.
The claim under S140A
The court may make an order under S140B in connection with a credit agreement if it 
determines that the relationship between the creditor (GEM) and the debtor (Mr and 
Mrs S) is unfair to the debtor because of one or more of the following (from S140A):
a) any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
b) the way in which the creditor has exercised or enforced any of the rights 
under the agreement or any related agreement;
c) any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, the creditor (either 
before or after the making of the agreement or any related agreement).
I think the alleged misrepresentations for Purchase 4 are, therefore, relevant here. 
Even though I dont think the misrepresentation claim can be considered under S75 
due to limitation. So, Ive considered this together with the other allegations of 
unfairness under S140A.
Misrepresentation
For me to conclude there was a misrepresentation by C in the way that has been 
alleged, generally speaking, I would need to be satisfied, based on the available 
evidence, that C made false statements of fact when selling the timeshare product in 
2007. In other words, that they told Mr and Mrs S something that wasnt true in 
relation to one or more of any points raised. I would also need to be satisfied that 
these misrepresentations were material in inducing Mr and Mrs S to enter the 
contract. This means I would need to be persuaded that they reasonably relied on 
these false statements when deciding to buy the additional product points.
Allegations have been made specifically relating to the product sales referenced 
above. The difficulty I have is identifying what was actually said at the time of the 
sale. Particularly as it appears Mr and Mrs S arent able to recall the circumstances 
of Purchase 4 at all. The allegations made by the PR appear to relate to the previous 
sales. Although its suggested Mr and Mrs S also relied upon those when completing 
Purchase 4. 
The PR have provided limited details and evidence to support the misrepresentations 
Mr and Mrs S say C made, although I acknowledge they did say they were told these 
things. So, Ive thought about this alongside the limited evidence thats available from 
the time of their purchase.
Although not determinative of the matter, Ive not seen any specific evidence from the 
time of the sales, such as marketing material or any of the wider purchase 
documentation. Ive only seen the front page of the Acquisition Agreement for each 
purchase together with a copy of the Members Declaration for Purchases 2 and 3 
only (The Declaration). It appears these were all signed by Mr and Mrs S. Having considered these carefully, I cant see that they support what Mrs S says they was 
told or that what was said amounted to misrepresentation. Specifically, that the 
products were sold as an investment that would increase in value and could be sold 
at a profit.
Its particularly relevant that each Declaration, signed by Mr and Mrs S, includes 
specific confirmations:
oWe understand that the purchase of our Membership in [C] is for the 
primary purpose of holiday and is not an investment in real estate;
oWe understand that [C] does not and will not run any resale or rental 
programmes
In the absence of any other corroborating evidence from the time, I cant say with any 
certainty that C did make the alleged misrepresentations.
The allegations of pressure
The claim alleges that Mr and Mrs S were pressured into entering the purchases and 
loan agreements. However, against the straightforward measure of pressure as its 
commonly understood, I find it hard to argue that they agreed to the purchase at the 
time of the sale when they simply didnt want to. I havent seen any evidence to 
demonstrate that they went on to say something to C, after the purchase, to suggest 
theyd agreed to them when they didnt want to. Mrs S hasnt explained why she and 
her husband didnt subsequently seek to cancel the purchase within the 14-day 
cooling off period permitted. So, if they only agreed to the purchase because they 
were pressured, I find this aspect difficult to reconcile with the allegation in question. 
I havent seen anything substantive to suggest they were obviously harassed or 
coerced into the purchase.  And because of that, Im not persuaded that theres 
sufficient evidence to demonstrate that Mr and Mrs S made the decision to proceed 
because their ability to exercise choice was  or was likely to have been  
significantly impaired contrary to Regulation 7 of the CPUT2 Regulations.
Time to consider the agreement(s)
Mrs S doesnt seem to recall whether they received all the required documentation 
and disclosures at the time of the sale. But suggests that even if they did, they 
werent given time to consider and understand them. 
As Ive said, Ive seen very limited documentation from the time of the sale. But 
having previously seen similar documents relating to Cs product sales, Im aware 
they include a period of 14 days from the date of agreeing to the purchase within 
which to cancel the agreement without giving any reason  as required under the 
Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange Contracts Regulations 2010 
(the TRs). 
So, even if I were to find that Mr and Mrs S werent given adequate opportunity to 
read, consider and understand the purchase documentation at the time of the sale - 
and I make no such finding - I would expect them to have had sufficient time in which 
to consider their decision within the subsequent 14 days. And, where appropriate, 
raise any questions or concerns before any loan was drawn and the purchase 
completed. The Acquisition Agreements explain this in bold typeface immediately 
above where Mr and Mrs S signed. Theres no suggestion or evidence that Mr and 
Mrs S did raise any questions or concerns prior to the sale(s) being completed. Or 
that they had any intention of cancelling the agreement(s).
Management charges
2 The Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading Regulations 2008The PR argues that the associated obligation to pay management charges for the 
duration was unfair under the UTCCRs. Its important to consider how the 
membership operated in practice, including how Mr and Mrs S could exit the contract 
beyond the initial 14-day cooling off period. 
As Ive said, the PR havent provided all the relevant documentation that governs the 
points membership held by Mr and Mrs S. But this service has seen various 
membership associated documents. Although not necessarily from the time of the 
sale, they ultimately apply to the membership Mr and Mrs S held. In particular, 
documentation from October 2010, and where subsequently updated in December 
2015. So, Ive considered if these couldve led to unfairness.
Article 123, October 2010 details what happens if a member fails to pay the due 
charge. They include extensive powers for C to make such debts immediately 
payable. C could also remove a members points or membership. I cannot see any 
de minimis debt clause.
In December 2015, article 12.2.7 introduced the concept of membership suspension, 
rather than removal. And the scheme regulations were also amended. I believe this 
meant that members fees didnt continue to accrue during suspension. And based 
upon this, I think its unlikely a court would consider the suspension terms created an 
unfair debtor-creditor relationship. 
I also note that the courts previously held that a clause within the acquisition 
agreement created an unfair debtor-creditor relationship. But its important to 
consider each case on its own merits. The presence of an unfair, or potentially unfair 
term alone wont, in my view, mean a court would automatically deem the 
relationship unfair. And in Mr and Mrs Ss case, I havent seen (and it hasnt been 
alleged) that terms have actually been applied or operated unfairly against them.
Under article 7.2, a member could give notice to terminate. When read in conjunction 
with article 7.5, I believe a member wasnt obliged to pay outstanding fees before 
being able to give notice to terminate. Any outstanding fees and charges that would 
still be payable - including in the current year - could be paid after giving termination 
notice. So, I dont believe they would continue to accrue, and membership would, 
therefore, be suspended. I understand Mr and Mrs Ss membership was relinquished 
in 2019 on the grounds of Mr Ss ill health and Ive seen no suggestion that further 
fees accrued thereafter.
Either way, Mr and Mrs S had options, including termination or suspension with 
possible reinstatement. The latter may have been more favourable. So, I think its 
unlikely a court would say this created an unfair relationship.
Ive also considered article 12.5. Specifically in relation to liability for interest and 
legal costs. I havent found any suggestion that any of these have been incurred. So, 
in this instance, I cant see that this is likely to have created an unfair relationship 
either.
Regulatory breaches
One of the main aims of the various regulations that applied here was to enable 
consumers to understand the financial implications of their purchase so that they are 
put in a position to make an informed decision. If Cs disclosure and/or the terms of 
the purchase didnt recognise and reflect that aim, and Mr and Mrs S ultimately lost 
out or almost certainly stand to lose out from having entered into a contracts, the 
financial implications of which they didnt fully understand at the time of contracting, 
that may amount to unfairness under S140A.
3 of Cs articles of associationHowever, given the limited documentation provided, I havent seen any evidence to 
support the breaches alleged here. And as the Supreme Court decision in Plevin4 
makes clear, it doesnt automatically follow that regulatory breaches create 
unfairness for the purpose of S140A. Such breaches and their consequences (if 
there are any) must be looked at in the round, rather than in a narrow or technical 
way. In other words, if I were to find thered been regulatory breaches  and I make 
no such finding - they are only likely to lead to unfairness where theres evidence Mr 
and Mrs S suffered loss as a consequence.
The interest rate on the loan
Ive carefully considered the rate that applied in this case and whether it feels fair in 
all the circumstances. Mr and Mrs S accepted the loan, and the loan agreement 
clearly sets out the annual rate of interest (and the APR). Immediately above the 
signature section Mr and Mrs Ss right to cancel the agreement within 14 days is 
clearly highlighted in bold typeface. 
Theres no evidence that Mr and Mrs S raised any concerns or questions about the 
rate at the time, or subsequently. And as far as Im aware, they were under no 
obligation to accept the finance offer and could, if they desired, seek to fund the 
purchase through alternative means. So, Im not persuaded that the interest rate 
payable for the loan demonstrates sufficient cause that a court is likely to find the 
relationship unfair under S140A.
Was the right arrangement in place
GEM suggest that as payment was made to a company other than C, the required 
relationship didnt exist to permit a claim under S75. 
Under Section 75 of the CCA, a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement is a 
precondition to a claim under that provision. And given the facts of this complaint, 
thats also the case when claiming under Section 140A of the CCA. 
As the purchase agreements indicate that payments under those agreements had to 
be made to a different company rather than the supplier directly, its now possible 
that there was no such agreement in place following the High Courts judgment in the 
case of Steiner v National Westminster Bank PLC [2022].
However, given the facts and circumstances of this complaint and my overall 
outcome with those in mind, I dont think its necessary to make a formal finding on 
the debtor-creditor-supplier arrangement for the purpose of this decision. Thats 
because I think GEM had and has a defence to the CCA claims for Purchases 2 and 
3 under the Limitation Act 1980. And I dont think the complaint relating to Purchase 
4 should succeed on its merits anyway.  
Other considerations
Following our investigators view, the PR asked that I consider the contents of a 
document headed Generic submissions on behalf of complainants. However, given 
the generic nature of its contents, I dont think its helpful in establishing the facts of 
what happened in Mr and Mrs Ss specific case. 
Summary
Having carefully considered everything thats been said and provided, I havent found 
anything that persuades me that C did misrepresent Purchase 4 to Mr and Mrs S. Or 
that a court is likely to find anything to suggest an unfair relationship existed under 
S140A. And because of that, I cant reasonably conclude that GEMs treatment of 
their claim was unfair or unreasonable.
4 Plevin vs Paragon Personal Finance Ltd [2014] (Plevin)What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
.Despite further follow up from this service, none of the parties have provided any new 
comments or information in response to my provisional findings. So, Ive no reason to vary 
from those findings in issuing my final decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold the complaint of Mrs S and the estate of Mr S.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and the 
estate of Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 14 November 2023.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman