DRN-3227110
The complaint
Mr M has complained about the charges that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) applied to his 
account. He says they are excessive and causing him financial difficulty. 
What happened
Mr M complained to Lloyds about the charges applied to his account.  Lloyds issued a final 
response letter on 10 October 2017. This letter outlined the time limits Mr M had to bring his 
complaint to this service. 
Mr M brought a further complaint to Lloyds in late February 2020. Lloyds didnt uphold Mr 
Ms complaint and issued another final response letter on 26 February 2020 following which 
Mr M brought his complaint to this service
Our adjudicator looked at all of this and found that because Mr M hadnt brought his initial 
complaint to us within six months of Lloyds final response letter, we could only look at the 
charges applied to his account from October 2017. On review of Mr Ms account our 
adjudicator thought that Lloyds should refund all interest and charges added to Mr Ms 
account from 10 October 2017.
Lloyds disagreed, it says all charges were applied in line with the terms and conditions of the 
account. It says Mr Ms account statements show Mr M has been able to repay his overdraft 
on more than one occasion.
Why I cant look at charges applied before 11 October 2017
I cant look at all the complaints referred to me. The rules applying to this service say that 
where a business doesnt agree  I cant look into a complaint if its been referred to us more
than six months after the business sends the consumer its final response letter, telling them
they can refer their complaint to us. This is Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R(1)  and it can be
found online in the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook.
Lloyds issued its final response on 10 October 2017. Ive seen a copy of this and Im
satisfied it fits the meaning for a final response as defined in the DISP rules - including the
referral rights setting out the six month time limit. This means Mr M had until 10 April 2018 to 
refer the matter to the service. But he didnt do so until 2020, so I conclude the complaint 
was referred to us out of time under the rules that I have to apply and I can only look at what 
has happened from 11 October 2017.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen that Mr M has in some of his correspondence referred to the proportionality of the 
charges applied to his account. But before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I 
havent considered whether the various amounts Lloyds charged over the years were fair 
and reasonable, or proportionate in comparison to the costs of the service provided. 
Ultimately, how much a bank charges for services, what services it provides and to who is a 
commercial decision. And it isnt something for me to get involved with.
That said, while Im not looking at Lloydss various charging structures or processes per se, 
it wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr M if it applied any interest, fees and 
charges to Mr Ms account in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to have been aware Mr M was experiencing financial difficulty. And where this is 
the case, Id expect Lloyds to put Mr M in the position hed be in now if he hadnt paid any 
further interest and charges on that credit. 
This means Id normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added to any 
credit from the point the lender ought to have realised it was unsustainable.
I can see from Mr Ms statements that from 11 October 2017 Mr M had already complained 
to Lloyds about his financial position and was heavily into his overdraft. I accept that in 
November 2017 he had a large credit come into his account which cleared his overdraft, but 
almost immediately by the end of December 2017 he once again found himself back in 
overdraft. 
From here on in each month Mr M went further and further into his overdraft so that within 
months he was back where he started and didnt maintain or see a credit balance for an 
extended period of time. Overdrafts arent intended to be a long-term lending facility. So I 
think that Mr Ms overdraft usage should have prompted Lloyds to have realised that Mr M 
wasnt using his overdraft as intended and shouldnt have continued offering it on the same 
terms. As Lloyds didnt react to Mr Ms overdraft usage and instead continued charging in 
the same way, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably. 
Mr M ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on his overdraft and this ended 
up exacerbating difficulties he already had in trying to clear it. So I think that Lloyds didnt 
treat Mr M fairly and he lost out because of what Lloyds did wrong. And this means that it 
should put things right.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Ms complaint for Lloyds to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Ms current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from 11 October 2017 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Lloyds should contact Mr M to arrange a suitable repayment plan, Mr 
M is encouraged to get in contact with and cooperate with Lloyds to reach a 
suitable agreement. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on 
Mr Ms credit file, Lloyds should reflect what would have been recorded had it 
started the process of taking corrective action on the overdraft from 11 October 
2017. Lloyds can also reduce overdraft limit by the amount of refund if it 
considers it appropriate to do so, as long as doing so wouldnt leave Mr M over 
his limit.
ORIf the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr M along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then Lloyds 
should remove any adverse information from Mr Ms credit file. Lloyds can also 
reduce Mr Ms overdraft limit by the amount of refund if it considers it appropriate 
to do so.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give 
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what Lloyds Bank PLC has already agreed 
to do to put things right for Mr M is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case. So 
Im not requiring it to do anything more.    
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman