DRN-3782503
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd unfairly declined 
a claim she made on her pet insurance policy.
What happened
In December 2021, Mrs Ms dog was diagnosed with Cushings disease. She made several 
claims on the policy for the cost of tests and treatments. Casualty & General declined the 
claims as it said symptoms of the disease would have been noticed by Mrs M prior to taking 
the policy out on 6 April 2021. Casualty and General also included an endorsement on the 
policy to exclude cover for Cushings disease.
Mrs M has complained about Casualty & Generals decision to decline her claims. She says 
that she took her dog for a routine check and had no idea at that time, that she was suffering 
from Cushings disease. 
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Ms complaint and recommended that the complaint 
be upheld. She said that Casualty & General had unfairly declined the claim as Mrs M wasnt 
aware that there was anything wrong with her dog prior to taking out the policy. Because 
Casualty & General disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is inconclusive, incomplete, or contradictory, Ive reached my decision 
on the basis of what I think is more likely to have happened, taking account of all the 
evidence and the circumstances of the complaint. 
Section 1 of the policy terms and conditions, under the heading, What is insured? says:  
This section of Your Policy covers Treatment carried out by a Vet for treating an Illness or 
Accidental Injury suffered by Your pet whilst insured with us.
However, Mrs Ms pet insurance policy does not cover pre-existing conditions, or an illness 
that showed clinical signs or symptoms before the policy start date or the waiting period. 
Under the heading, What is not covered, it says:
any claim for Illness or Accidental Injury that relates to a Pre-existing Condition; or
any claim for Illness or Accidental Injury that showed Clinical Signs or Symptoms before 
your Policy Start Date or within the Waiting Period; 
Section 11 which includes the General Exclusions says Casualty and General wont pay 
claims for the following reason:
If We are made aware of any Pre-existing Conditions at the time of the claim, these Pre-
Existing Conditions will not be covered and we reserve the right [to] add a relevant 
endorsement(s) to Your Policy in respect of these Pre-Existing Conditions.
The following definitions are also relevant to this complaint:
Clinical signs: any observable changes in Your pets normal healthy state; condition; 
appearance; bodily functions and observed by You or Your Vet either visually; diagnostically; 
or otherwise.
Illness: any disease, sickness, infection or any change to Your pets normal healthy state, 
which is not caused by an Accidental Injury. 
Pre-existing condition: any diagnosed or undiagnosed Condition and/or Associated 
Condition which has happened or has shown Clinical Signs or Symptoms of existing in any 
form before the Policy Start Date or within the Waiting Period. 
Symptom(s): any change in Your pets normal healthy state, conduct or appearance. 
Waiting Period: a period of 14 days from the Policy Start Date for an Illness that occurs or 
shows Clinical Signs; or Symptoms. or 14 days from the Policy Start Date
As the policy started on 6 April 2021, to fall within cover the symptoms or changes in health 
would have to be first known to Mrs M on or after 20 April 2021 (i.e. 14 days after the policy 
started). 
This is where Casualty and General and Mrs M disagree. Mrs M says she wasnt aware of 
her dogs symptoms prior to the check-up with her local vet on 28 April 2022. However, 
Casualty and General say that given the nature of the clinical signs and symptoms relevant 
to this claim, Mrs M must have noticed them either prior to the start date of the policy or at 
the latest, during the waiting period. 
Where an insurer seeks to decline a claim based on a policy exclusion, it needs to 
demonstrate that the exclusion applies. So, Ive next considered the vets records to see 
whether or not Casualty and General have fairly applied the exclusions detailed above. 
Casualty and General declined Mrs Ms claims on the basis that there would be no cover 
under the policy for any condition that was pre-existing or had shown clinical signs of 
existence in any form prior to the policy inception. Causalty and General have said that as 
Mrs Ms dog was obsese, showed symptoms of panting and had a blackhead removed, at a 
consultation with their vet eight days after the waiting period had expired, she must have 
noticed the symptoms during the waiting period or prior to taking the policy out. 
In addition, in response to our investigators view upholding Mrs Ms complaint, Casualty and 
General observed that Mrs Ms dog was prescribed obesity management food during the 
April 2021 consultation, and had a body condition score of 8/9, meaning she was obsese. 
Casualty and General expressed the view that this was likely due to her dog being 
excessively hungry which is another symptom of Cushings disease.
Mrs M, on the other hand, has provided a letter from the vet who said there was no mention 
of clinical illness at the April 2021 appointment. When he saw Mrs Ms dog the following 
November (more than six months into the policy term) an obession with food was mentioned, 
but that wasnt mentioned when she was seen in the previous April. And she wasnt weighed 
during the April appointment either. Mrs Ms dog was diagnosed with Cushings disease in December 2021. However, during the 
April 2021 appointment, although a few observations were made about a black head being 
removed, the weight of the dog and the evidence of noticeable panting, at that stage no 
testing was undertaken to investigate a possible illness. So, I think it unlikley that Mrs Ms 
dog had a pre-existing condition at this time. 
Ive next gone on to consider whether the exclusion for clinical signs and symptoms being 
present, has been fairly applied. In otherwords, Ive considered whether or not the evidence 
shows that there were observable changes in Mrs Ms dogs normal healthy state, condition, 
appearance, or bodily functions, observed by Mrs M or the vet. 
In doing so, Ive had regard to both the medical records for Mrs Ms dog and information 
from a pet charitys website which sets out the symptoms of Cushings disease.
While I accept that blackheads and panting are symptoms of Cushings disease, Im not 
persuaded they are two of the most notable symptoms. I also dont think that the presence of 
a blackhead on a dogs skin, or increased panting by a dog, would normally indicate to an 
owner that their pet had Cushings disease.
However, what is less clear is whether Mrs Ms dogs weight gain could be considered an 
observable change in her dogs normal healthy state or condition. I think the evidence on this 
point is finely balanced.
There is nothing in the medical records to suggest the vet had observed clinical signs or 
symptoms in Mrs Ms dogs state of health. And Mrs M told us that she also had no idea that 
her dog was unwell.
But Casualty and General say that the dogs significant weight gain (almost a third of her 
body weight) would meet the definition of a clinical sign or symptom. And that is the key 
point Ive considered in making my decision on this complaint. 
The medical records for Mrs Ms dog show that from February 2017 to August 2019 her 
weight moved between 11 kgs and 13.5 kgs, settling at 12.45 kgs the last time she was 
weighed in August 2019.  
Mrs Ms dogs weight wasnt recorded again until November 2021  more than two years 
later. However, in the medical notes for the 28 April 2021 appointment, it was recorded that 
she was overweight and had a body condition score of 8/9  which was the same score she 
had at the November 2021 appointment, when her weight was recorded as 19.2 kgs. The 
November 2021 appointment additionally recorded that Mrs Ms dog was hungry all the time 
and crazy for food, which suggests that some additional weight may have been gained 
between April and November 2021.
So, over a 20 month period, Mrs Ms dog likely gained around six kgs, around one-third of 
her weight. Either, the weight was gradually put on, for example at around 300g per month, 
or it was suddenly gained. On balance, as Mrs M had regularly taken her dog to the vet prior 
to the April 2021 appointment, I would have thought that if shed noticed sudden weight gain, 
she would have likely taken her dog to be checked by the vet. 
In any event, taking all of the evidence into account, I think Mrs M more likely than not, 
hadnt observed any clinical signs or symptoms in her dog when she took out the policy or 
during the waiting period. Ive come to this conclusion taking the following factors into 
account: Mrs Ms dog was a medium sized dog (in which case the weight gain may have 
been harder to observe, than say, for a small dog); there was an absence of any indication in 
the vets notes, prior to the November 2021 appointment, of a suggestion that Mrs Ms dog might be suffering from an illness; and Mrs M took her dog for a regular check-up in 
April 2021, not to have any symptoms investigated. 
While there were some symptoms of Cushings disease apparent in her dogs health at that 
time, including the blackhead, panting and increased weight, Im not persuaded that Mrs M 
saw any reason to believe there was a problem with her dogs health at that time. So, I dont 
think Casualty and General fairly declined Mrs Ms claims. I therefore uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Casualty & General Insurance 
Company (Europe) Ltd to:
Pay Mrs Ms claims subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy;
Where Mrs M has already discharged her vet fees, it should add interest of 8% simple* 
per year from the date Mrs M paid the fee to the date it refunds her;  
(*If Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd  considers that its required by 
HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest it should tell Mrs M how 
much its taken off. It should also give Mrs M a certificate showing this if she asks for 
one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate); and 
Remove the exclusion regarding Cushings disease that was imposed on Mrs Ms policy 
for the 2021/2022 policy year.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Casualty & General 
Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd to put things right for Mrs M as detailed in the section 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Carolyn Harwood
Ombudsman