DRN-3150366
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F are unhappy with the questions Nationwide Building Society asked when 
making a withdrawal.
What happened
Mrs F visited a branch to withdraw £5,000 in cash which shed arranged in advance. 
Nationwide asked her questions around the purpose of the transaction. Mr and Mrs F feel 
these questions were intrusive and belittling. 
They want Nationwide to let them withdraw funds from the account without any questions. 
They gave some alternatives, such as, to use a flag on their account with a note to not 
question them, set up a safe password or allow them to opt out of having security checks.
Nationwide said they couldnt agree to Mr and Mrs Fs suggestions. They explained they 
asked questions as they have an obligation to protect their customers money. They also said 
they had a right to refuse a transaction if they felt it may not be genuine.
Mr and Mrs F referred their complaint to us. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. 
She said that Nationwide hadnt done anything wrong, as they asked questions as part of a 
routine security check. Mr and Mrs F disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review their 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide are required to take reasonable steps to prevent their customers from fraud and 
scams. They might be held liable for any foreseeable losses, if they breach their duty of 
care. 
I dont doubt the branch visit was an unpleasant experience for Mrs F. The nature of security 
procedures means genuine consumers, like Mr and Mrs F, may be caused distress and 
inconvenience. But this doesnt mean Nationwide are at fault or that they shouldnt complete 
any additional checks.
Given that Mrs F was withdrawing a large sum of money in cash, I dont think Nationwide 
have acted unreasonably in asking questions as per their process. By asking questions, 
Nationwide may have been alerted to potential financial crime. So, I cant agree Nationwide 
have treated Mr and Mrs F unfairly.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs F feel that how they spend their money is a private matter. Whilst I 
agree with them, I cant fairly say Nationwide have acted unreasonably for following a 
procedure thats in place to protect the customer and the building society.
Mr and Mrs F have said theyre willing to take full responsibility for their own actions and 
dont want Nationwide to question them. But Nationwide dont have to agree to alternative 
suggested by them.
Nationwide are entitled to make commercial decisions on how they carry out their day-to-day 
business. This includes deciding whether to allow Mr and Mrs F to have their own individual 
security process.
As an informal service, we cant tell banks or building societies, like Nationwide, how to 
operate their business more broadly or interfere with their policy decision, such as their 
security process. This is the role of the financial service regulator, The Financial Conduct 
Authority.
Focusing on Mr and Mrs Fs complaint specifically, Im satisfied that Nationwide treated them 
fairly by considering the options put forward and explaining why they couldnt agree to those 
suggestions  even if the reasons given werent acceptable to Mr and Mrs F.
Mr and Mrs F have mentioned their human rights might be affected if Nationwide force them 
to answer questions when making withdrawals in the future. In reaching this decision, I cant 
consider something that hasnt happened yet. 
Ultimately, its up to Mr and Mrs F to decide if they want to answer questions asked by 
Nationwide when making future withdrawals. Generally speaking, Nationwide equally can 
exercise their rights under the terms and conditions of the account, to refuse a transaction if 
they have legitimate reasons for doing so. For example, if they reasonably suspect illegal or 
fraudulent activity.
I know Mr and Mrs F feel very strongly about their complaint and will be disappointed with 
my decision. But I cant conclude that Nationwide have acted unfairly or unreasonably here.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Fs 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 December 2021.
 
Ash Weedon
Ombudsman