DRN-3042822
The complaint
Mrs B complains about Toyota Financial Services (UK) Plcs (Toyota) decision to provide
her with a hire purchase agreement. She says that they didnt carry out due diligence and
didnt carry out any checks on affordability.
Mrs Bs husband represents Mrs B in her complaint. But for ease of reading I refer to all
submissions as if they came from Mrs B even if it was him who made them on her behalf.
What happened
In September 2014, Mrs B acquired a new car from a dealership using a hire purchase
agreement from Toyota. The cash price of the car was around £11,000. According to the
documentation from the time, Mrs B paid a deposit of £500 and a finance deposit allowance
of £1,000 was included. Mrs B was required to make 35 monthly repayments of £196.40,
with a final optional payment of around £3,700 if she wanted to buy the car at the end of the
agreement.
Shortly before the hire purchase agreement was due to end, Mrs B and Toyota agreed to
refinance the final optional payment into a new agreement over five years as this wasnt
affordable and Mrs B wanted to keep the car.
Mrs B complained to Toyota in early 2019 saying that she has a diagnosed problem of a
spending addiction and no longer had any form of personal income. She said that Toyota
didnt ask her any questions about affordability when it agreed to provide finance to her.
Toyota didnt think they had done anything wrong. They said they had no reason to doubt
the affordability of the finance in 2014 and noted that Mrs B had paid every payment on time.
And they said that Mrs B was entitled to return the car if she could no longer afford the
payments.
Mrs B didnt agree with Toyotas response and referred her complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Bs complaint but didnt uphold it. She said, in
summary, that she felt that Toyotas affordability checks were sufficient and that theyd acted
fairly by suggesting that Mrs B could return the car if she could no longer afford the monthly
payments.
Mrs B didnt agree and so her case has been passed to me for a decision.
I issued my provisional decision to both parties in July 2021, in which I said the following.
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law, I think
there are two overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. These questions are:
1. Did Toyota complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs B
would be able to repay her agreement in a sustainable way?
a. If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
b. If not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mrs B
    would have been able to sustainably repay the agreement?
2. Did Toyota act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did Toyota complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs B would
be able to repay her agreement in a sustainable way?
Before granting credit, Toyota were required to carry out a reasonable and proportionate
assessment of Mrs Bs ability to sustainably repay the debt. This is often referred to as an
affordability check. This check had to be borrower-focussed. This means it needed to be
concerned with whether Mrs B could sustainably afford the borrowing (considering her
specific circumstances), rather than how statistically likely she was to repay. The latter is the
risk posed to Toyota as the lender, or its credit risk but this is not necessarily the same as
an assessment of affordability.
Whats considered reasonable and proportionate will vary depending on a number of factors
such as, but not limited to:
The amount of credit;
The total repayable and the size of the regular repayments;
The duration of the agreement;
The cost of the credit; and
The consumers individual circumstances.
What this means is that there isnt a one-size-fits-all approach to what is considered
proportionate as any of these factors (or others) might influence what a reasonable and
proportionate check ought to be.
The total amount repayable on the credit agreement was just over £12,000 over 36 months.
This was not an insignificant financial commitment over a three-year period. So, I think any
reasonable and proportionate assessment of affordability ought to have been reasonably
thorough.
Given the size of the borrowing and what Toyota was told about Mrs Bs circumstances I
think they ought to have tried to at least verify her income and sought to find out more about
her committed expenditure, including her existing credit commitments.
Toyota says that they asked Mrs B for her employment details to which she confirmed that
she was working as a manager and in full-time employment. Toyota also says that they
carried out a credit check and that Mrs B signed the finance agreement confirming the
agreed repayments. So, in effect, they are saying that Mrs B confirmed that the repayments
were affordable.
Its not clear what information Toyota obtained for the credit check as the results that have
been shared with us doesnt actually show much in the way of actual information about Mrs
Bs circumstances. It seems what information Toyota did obtain went into a credit score and
rating which led to the finance being automatically approved without the need for any more
checks or supporting documentation from Mrs B.
It seems possible, although its not clear, that Toyota may have tried to determine Mrs Bs
income from the credit check they did. Theyve said that the check showed regular income.
However, I do not find that the credit check was sufficient as this would not have verified MrsBs income, at least not from what it has shared with us about the check it carried out. And
the credit check likely would have shown Toyota how Mrs B had managed her existing and
past credit commitments. Toyota would therefore have gathered some idea of what other
expenses Mrs B had, but they wouldnt have known what she spent on the majority of her
living costs.
So I dont see how Toyota could have satisfied itself that Mrs B had sufficient disposable
income to cover the cost of the financial arrangement with them. I think Toyota should have
established this at least to determine whether Mrs B could have taken on this financial
commitment with them sustainably. Im not satisfied therefore that Toyota carried out
reasonable and proportionate affordability checks.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mrs B would have been able
to sustainably repay the agreement?
I cant be sure what information and evidence Toyota would have asked for or received had
they carried out a reasonable and proportionate affordability assessment. However, as I
have said above, I do think Toyota ought to have verified Mrs Bs income and asked her
more about her expenditure, so Ive considered what I think they would likely have
discovered had they done so.
Mrs B has provided us with her bank statements which gives me a reasonable
approximation of her income and her committed monthly expenditure. I can see that income
totalling just under £2,700 went into Mrs Bs account in the month before she entered into
the finance with Toyota. So, it seems likely that this was the figure that would have been
disclosed to Toyota had they asked Mrs B to declare her income and had they asked her to
verify this.
Ive gone on to assess from the bank statements what Mrs B would have likely told Toyota
had they asked her for details about her committed monthly expenditure. I appreciate this
has an element of theory because I cant be sure what would have been disclosed at the
time. However, looking at Mrs Bs regular committed monthly expenditure for the three
months leading up to the finance, including mortgage, utilities, phone/broadband costs and
food, Mrs Bs monthly expenditure was around £1,100. I can also see that Mrs B had about
five ongoing existing credit commitments and that she was paying on average around £250
a month for these.
So, had Toyota asked Mrs B for details of her income and expenditure, I think Mrs B would
have disclosed these details. And this would likely have shown them that Mrs B had around
£1,000 spare to meet the monthly repayments of the finance agreement, the ongoing costs
of using the car and any unexpected costs.
Ive thought about whether Toyota should have done further checks, perhaps by verifying
her expenditure, because of the number existing credit commitments Mrs B had. In other
words, to determine whether she was overcommitting by taking out further credit. I dont
think though that Mrs B having five existing credit commitments should have concerned
Toyota in that way. Its not uncommon for people to have existing credit commitments and I
dont think the number of these should have alerted Toyota. It also seems that Mrs B wasnt
struggling to meet these commitments at the time.
I think that, had Toyota completed reasonable and proportionate affordability checks, its
likely they would still have concluded the agreement was affordable. I appreciate that Mrs B
has said she has a spending addiction, but I dont think that would have been apparent toToyota had they carried out the appropriate check. I therefore dont think Toyota needs to do
anything to put things right.
Did Toyota act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Mrs B contacted Toyota about her financial difficulties in late 2018. I understand that a third
party debt management company asked Toyota to accept lower monthly payments because
of Mrs Bs circumstances. According to Toyotas notes, they said they werent able to accept
lower payments as the finance was secured against the car.
Toyota has an obligation to treat customers who are experiencing financial difficulties
positively and sympathetically. I agree that the finance was secured against the car, and that
the car was Toyotas asset, however that doesnt negate this obligation. I can see though
that Toyota has explained to Mrs B that she can return the car without further cost (aside
from any arrears due) as she has reached the 50% threshold to do so if the agreement was
to be voluntarily terminated. I think this is a fair suggestion and I understand that option is
still available for Mrs B. Overall, I dont think Toyota acted unfairly or unreasonably here.
My provisional decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
I asked Mrs B and Toyota to send me any further submissions or evidence for me to 
consider and gave them a certain period of time to do so. Neither Mrs B nor Toyota replied. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I have received no further submissions or evidence to consider since my provisional
decision was issued, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings and decision.
So, for the reasons given in my provisional decision which I have outlined above, I do not
uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
Daniel Picken
Ombudsman