DRN-1744465
 
The complaint
Mr B says Capital One Europe plc (Capital One) mis-sold him a regular premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy to cover his credit card repayments. 
What happened
Mr B applied for a credit card over the internet in 2004. At the same time he took out a PPI 
policy to cover his credit card payments. The policy cost £0.79 per £100 of the balance on 
Mr Bs credit card. A successful claim on the policy wouldve paid 10% of the outstanding 
balance for up to 12 months per claim if Mr B was unable to work due to accident or 
sickness or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr Bs complaint should be upheld because he thought Mr B 
wouldve understood he had a choice in taking the policy and thought it wouldve provided a 
useful benefit.
Mr B disagrees. He says he wouldnt have opted to take PPI.  
So the complaint has come to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Bs complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Although Mr B thinks he took out his credit card and PPI over the phone Capital Ones 
records show that the PPI was applied for over the internet in 2004 when Mr B completed a 
internet application for a credit card  though I accept that Mr B may well have discussed the 
credit card application with Capital One prior to applying. 
Capital One have given us a sample of the screen shots Mr B wouldve seen and completed 
when he applied for his credit card. 
Theres a separate section that deals with PPI. It gives the option to enrol in PPI by selecting 
Yes or to decline PPI by selecting No. So I think it is likely Mr B had PPI because he 
selected the yes option. If Mr B didnt want PPI he could have selected to decline cover 
instead. 
So I think Mr B wouldve understood he had a choice in taking the policy and wanted the 
cover. Because the PPI was taken out over the internet I dont think Capital One advised Mr B to 
take PPI. What this means is that Capital One didnt recommend PPI to Mr B, it just gave 
him information about PPI (it was up to Mr B to assess his circumstances and decide if the 
product was needed). This information needed to be given in a way that was clear, fair and 
not misleading so he could make an informed choice about buying PPI.
I dont know if Capital One did give all the proper information that was needed. But even if 
Capital One did give all the information Mr B needed to make an informed choice on taking 
out the policy, I think he wouldve still taken the policy because at the time of sale from what 
we know about Capital One policies:
He was eligible for the PPI.
 
It doesnt look like he wouldve been caught by any of the main exclusions in the 
terms and conditions of the policy which couldve made it difficult to make a 
successful claim.
 
At the time of the sale Mr B says he was entitled to some sick pay and his family 
wouldve helped make his credit card payments if he couldnt work due to accident or 
sickness or if he lost his job. But there is no guarantee his family could help and the 
policy wouldve paid out on top of any sick pay and helped him in these situations. So 
I cant see how knowing this information wouldve put him off buying it.
 
Theres nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable to Mr B and he could cancel 
the policy if he no longer wanted it. 
 
So I dont think it wouldve made a difference in how the information was given to Mr B on 
the PPI. I think he wouldve still taken out the PPI policy as it was of value to him.
Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because: 
 
When the policy was sold, Capital One expected to get a high level of commission 
and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr B 
about that. Because Capital One didnt tell Mr B, that was unfair. 
 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.But Capital One Europe plc does have to pay back to Mr B any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 May 2020.
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman