DRN-1148323
 
The complaint
Mr W complains that Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk 
("MoneyBoat") didnt carry out appropriate affordability checks before lending to him. He 
says the loans provided were unaffordable.
What happened
This complaint is about two loans MoneyBoat provided to Mr W. 
Loan Date Repaid Instalments Amount
1 1 Jun 2016 21 Oct 2016 6 £200
2 27 Oct 2016 9 Mar 2018 6 £400
 
Mr W says that had appropriate checks taken place before the loans were provided 
MoneyBoat would have seen that he had a number of other short term loans outstanding 
and that he had late payments on his credit file. 
MoneyBoat says that before lending to Mr W it carried out a credit check and gathered 
information about his income and expenses. It says he had sufficient disposable income to 
repay the loan instalments. It also says that Mr W made seven applications between 
September 2015 and December 2018 and it only approved his applications when he met its 
internal lending criteria. 
Our adjudicator upheld this complaint. He said that MoneyBoat did carry out proportionate 
checks but the information received wasnt responded to properly. He said the information 
gathered before the loans were provided showed that Mr W was having problems managing 
his money. He noted that Mr W had three outstanding short term loans when the first loan 
was provided. Given this he thought MoneyBoat ought to have realised that it was unlikely 
Mr W would be able to sustainably repay this and any subsequent loans. 
MoneyBoat didnt agree with our adjudicators view. It said that early in a lending relationship 
decisions are mostly automated and that its checks were proportionate.  
What I've decided - and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We've set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.MoneyBoat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that Mr 
W could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that MoneyBoat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MoneyBoat was required to establish 
whether Mr W could sustainably repay his loans - not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesn't automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ws complaint.
In this case Mr W took out two loans with MoneyBoat in 2016. Both were repayable over six 
monthly instalments. The first loan was repaid early but Mr W then took out a larger loan (the 
second loan was for £400) a few days later. Although Mr W has said that adequate checks 
weren't carried out before the loans were provided, having looked through the information 
provided I find that the checks were proportionate. I say this because these were the first two 
loans in the lending chain and so early in the lending relationship. Credit searches were 
undertaken and income and expenses information gathered. I note Mr Ws comments about 
the verification of the information he provided but I also agree that MoneyBoat should be 
able to rely on the information provided to it and I have nothing to suggest it should have 
reasonably believed this to be incorrect.
However, while I accept that proportionate checks were undertaken, MoneyBoat is also 
required to act on the information it receives. In this case the income and expenditure 
information gathered suggested the loan repayments were affordable. However the credit 
search carried out before the first loan was provided should have raised concerns. This credit search showed Mr W had made use of short term loans over an extended period 
of time and that at the time of the report he had three short term loans outstanding. 
MoneyBoat has said it shouldnt be required to go through every line of the credit report 
noting these were loans at the start of a lending relationship. However, I find it reasonable  
that MoneyBoat would use the information it gathers to make its lending decision. In this 
case I think the credit search showed that Mr W was struggling to manage his money and 
was potentially reliant on short term borrowing. Given this I think MoneyBoat should have 
been concerned that lending to him wasnt sustainable.
Mr W repaid the first loan early but a few days later took out another loan for twice the 
amount. At this stage there is nothing to show that his situation had changed and having 
looked at the credit search carried out before this loan (dated 27 October 2016) I note his 
indebtedness had increased to around £9,800 from the £6,200 (recorded in the first credit 
search (dated 1June 2016). And his total balance for loans and instalment credit had 
increased from around £1,600 (June 2016) to over £6,000 (October 2016).
Overall, although I accept that the checks carried out were proportionate, I find that the 
information received through the credit checks showed that Mr W was struggling to manage 
his money. I do not find that it was reasonable, given this, to consider lending to Mr W as 
sustainably affordable. Therefore I do not think that either loan should have been provided.
Putting things right 
refund all interest and charges that Mr W paid on loans one and two;
 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement*;
 
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ws credit file in regard to the loans. 
 
* HM Revenue & Customs requires MoneyBoat to take off tax from this interest. MoneyBoat 
must give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint.  Evergreen Finance London Limited (trading 
as MoneyBoat) should put things right for Mr W as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2020.
Jane Archer
Ombudsman