DRN-2310663
The complaint
Miss D complains that the compensation awarded by National Westminster Bank Plc 
(NatWest) for its administration error doesnt reflect the impact the mistake had on her.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again in 
detail here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
In summary Miss D arranged with NatWest to defer her loan repayments for three months 
from April 2020. In July 2020 it was established that the process hadnt been correctly 
completed on NatWests system, so it had reported missed payments on Miss Ds credit file. 
NatWest paid her £100 in compensation for the error and said her credit file would be 
updated by the end of August 2020.
Miss D complained about the error as she was about to apply for a mortgage and a loan at 
this time (July and August 2020). She was advised by her broker not to formally apply for the 
mortgage until NatWest had removed the two missed payments from her credit file. And she 
applied for, but was declined, for the loan. Miss D then found a new mortgage broker, but he 
also raised concerns over her credit file as the missed payments markers led to a decrease 
in her credit score. Miss D believes this prevented her from getting the borrowing she 
wanted and says she lost out on her dream home due to the error.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
While I accept that NatWests error will have impacted Miss Ds credit file, I havent 
seen any evidence this is the only reason she didnt get the mortgage (and so 
property) she wanted. Miss D had a mortgage in principle, which isnt the same as a 
mortgage offer. This provides a rough indicator of what someone could borrow, not a 
guarantee. The amount offered following a mortgage application will be based on 
additional factors and can be lower than the mortgage in principle amount, even 
when someone has a good credit score. For example, while the payment deferral 
shouldnt have impacted Miss Ds credit score, on application for a mortgage (or also 
a loan) a lender would be able to see shed arranged not to make payments on this 
borrowing for a number of months, which could impact its decision.
I can see Miss Ds second broker advised that she could still try and apply for the 
mortgage she wanted despite the markers from NatWest. He said if she didnt pass 
this, she should then resolve her complaint with NatWest and this would give her a 
cleaner route to a mortgage. Miss D says by this the broker confirmed the NatWest 
issue is what prevented her getting the mortgage, but I cant agree. I accept he 
identified the missed payments as a potential barrier, but this isnt the same as him 
saying this was the only thing preventing her getting the mortgage she wanted. I 
accept that her brokers could be confident that with the missed payments she was 
unlikely to get the borrowing. But I dont agree either broker could guarantee she 
would get the amount she wanted without the markers  or that the emails provided 
say this.
Following her complaint in July 2020, NatWest updated Miss Ds credit file within a 
few days  however it explained to her this may not show until the end of August 
2020 with credit reference agencies. I can see that she applied for the loan before 
this date. While I appreciate Miss Ds reasons for applying when she did, she was 
aware through conversations with her mortgage brokers about how lenders may view 
her credit file. And that her score hadnt yet been updated. I understand Miss D has 
since been able to take out this loan and Im satisfied that NatWest updated the 
information quickly, so it rectified the issue in a timely manner.
While I appreciate the rejection of the loan and Miss Ds house purchase falling 
through caused her a great deal of distress, I can only award her compensation for 
the distress thats a direct result of NatWests actions. As Ive set out above, I cant 
be satisfied that it was only this error that led to the house purchase not going ahead. 
So while I accept it made this situation more difficult, it doesnt need to compensate 
her for the loss of the house. And I consider Miss D shouldve been aware the loan 
may be rejected, as she applied a week before NatWest had said her credit file would 
update. This error shouldnt have happened and I agree compensation is due, but I 
believe the compensation NatWest has paid Miss D is sufficient to account for the 
distress and inconvenience I can attribute to its mistake.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 January 2021.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman