DRN-3209871
The complaint
 Mr B complains that One Insurance Limited hasnt reconsidered his legal expenses claim 
fairly. He says hes had to continue with legal proceedings at his own expense. And he 
thinks One Insurance should cover these costs.
What happened
 Both parties are familiar with the circumstances of this complaint, so Ive summarised 
what happened.
Mr B has a legal insurance policy which is underwritten by One Insurance Limited.
In 2019, Mr B tried to claim on his policy for the costs of taking legal action 
against a third party - who he said was in breach of contract for failing to carry 
out works at his property.
One Insurance declined Mr Bs claim  it relied on an exclusion which said the 
legal expenses policy didnt cover claims regarding property disputes. It 
accepted thered been poor service and offered £200 compensation.
Mr B disagreed  he said the dispute was about the contract, not his property. 
So, he brought a complaint to this service.
In July 2020, an ombudsman considered it and decided the exclusion didnt 
apply. He told One Insurance to reconsider the claim subject to the remaining 
terms and conditions.
One Insurance said there wasnt a claim to reconsider as in the interim Mr B 
had pursued legal proceedings on his own accord and the matter had been 
settled by way of a drop hands agreement.
One Insurance said its initial error - where it declined the claim - shouldnt 
make it responsible for the legal costs Mr B went on to incur, because he did 
so on his own accord.
Mr B didnt agree and brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered it and said One Insurance should complete a 
retrospective prospects of success assessment to determine whether - at the 
point the third party provided a defence - cover would have been provided.
She said if there were prospects of success, and cover would have been 
provided, One Insurance should pay reasonable legal costs incurred by Mr B. 
But that if cover wouldnt have been provided, Mr B should provide his own 
legal assessment for One Insurance to consider.
Mr B disagreed. He said One Insurance: took away his chance of getting his 
money back from the third party; told him to pursue the matter himself; and 
treated him poorly as a customer. He considers they should pay his legal costs 
and a proportion of his claim against the third party.
The complaint was passed to me and I issued a provisional decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive also taken in to account the 
requirements set by the Regulator, which include that insurers must deal with claims 
promptly and fairly and must not unreasonably reject a claim. Having done so, Im 
inclined to uphold this complaint. But because my thoughts as to what One Insurance 
needs to do next, differ to those of the investigator, Ive set them out in this provisional 
decision for the parties consideration.
But, before I do, I need to clarify that this decision is only considering whether One 
Insurance fairly reconsidered Mr Bs claim. I cant comment on matters that were dealt 
with in the previous complaint and can only look at whats happened since One 
Insurance looked at the claim again. The previous ombudsman directed One Insurance 
to reconsider the claim. While One Insurance says it looked at the claim again, Im not 
satisfied its properly done so. I say this because its effectively said theres no claim to 
consider now that Mr B has settled the legal matter  but that decision is flawed, and Ill 
explain why.
One Insurance should have instead reconsidered the claim by assessing it against the 
remaining policy terms and conditions. Unless another exclusion applied, it should have 
arranged for its panel solicitors to complete a prospects of success assessment based 
on the evidence provided at the time the claim was made. If there were prospects of 
success, Mr Bs legal costs would have been covered. Conversely, if there werent 
prospects of success, Mr B wouldnt have been entitled to cover and any costs would 
be incurred by him. But, One Insurances action stop far short of this.
I dont consider it fair that Mr B potentially loses out on his legal costs being reimbursed 
because One Insurance failed to properly reconsider his claim. And so, it needs to 
correctly assess the claim  as set out above - as it should have done when it was first 
made. In doing so, if its found that Mr B had prospects of success, he should be 
reimbursed for the legal costs hes incurred.
Compensation
The previous ombudsman said £200 compensation was fair and reflected the 
difficulties Mr B had experienced in bringing a claim to One Insurance. Its important to 
explain that Im not reconsidering these events  Im instead looking at whether One 
Insurances failure to properly reconsider the claim caused Mr B difficulties which could 
have been avoided or minimised.
Understandably, pursuing legal action is stressful. Because this is unfortunately part 
and parcel of the process, it wouldnt be fair to ask One Insurance to compensate 
Mr B for distress and inconvenience which is to be reasonably expected. But I think 
One Insurances actions caused Mr B to experience difficulties which went beyond 
that.
I say this because its apparent from Mr Bs testimony that the uncertainty of not 
knowing if his legal costs are to be covered is causing him great angst  and had One 
Insurance reconsidered his claim properly, Mr B would have, by now, known where 
he stood. So, Im satisfied One Insurance has caused avoidable distress which should 
be recognised by paying Mr B a further £200.Mr B has asked that One Insurance pay a proportion of the money he sought to recover 
from the third party. Mr B feels that but for One Insurances actions  namely declining 
his claim and failing to reconsider it - he would have been able to pursue legal action 
and recover his losses.
I appreciate One Insurance says what happened was a result of Mr Bs decision to start 
legal action and then settle it. But the point here is that if hed had cover under the 
policy, he would have had solicitors representing him. So, he may well have got a better 
outcome  he would have been in a stronger position to negotiate, knowing he was 
covered. Without cover, he may have felt the risk of continuing was too great. And he 
was put in the position of pursuing it himself because of their decision not to provide 
cover. If it turns out that decision was wrong  because the claim did have prospects 
and therefore, he should have been covered  he shouldnt now suffer a loss as a result 
of One Insurances wrong decision to reject the claim. If its found that Mr B would have 
received a monetary settlement, One Insurance should pay him that sum.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this complaint and direct One 
Insurance Limited to:
-Consider if the claim would have been covered if it had been assessed 
without reference to the exclusion previously applied - which will involve 
obtaining a prospects of success assessment from its panel solicitors 
based on the information that was available at the time.
-If there are prospects of success, One Insurances panel solicitors then 
need to advise on what a reasonable settlement would have been  and if 
Mr B would have achieved a settlement which involved a payment of 
money, One Insurance should now pay him that sum.
-If the claim would have had prospects of success, it must reimburse Mr 
B the legal costs hes incurred as a result of pursuing legal action 
(subject to proof).
-Pay Mr B £200 compensation. One Insurance Limited must pay the 
compensation with 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr B accepts my 
final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of the payment 
at 8% a year simple.
Both parties responded to my provisional decision. One Insurance disagreed with it and said 
the terms of the additional legal service cover stipulate that it is not a legal insurance policy 
and instead only provides legal advice. And so, Mr B isnt covered.
One Insurance included wording which it says shows Mr B was made aware of this at the 
time of taking out the policy. It added that Mr B was also told by its appointed solicitor that 
his policy didnt cover the type of dispute he had and that he was therefore, only entitled to 
free legal advice. 
One Insurance added that regardless of the exclusions stipulated in its previous final 
response, the claim would not have been covered as Mr B was only entitled to legal advice 
under this particular cover. 
Its position remains that because Mr B commenced and discontinued proceedings against 
the third party on his own accord, there is no claim to consider. Mr B responded to my provisional decision and said that whilst he accepts my initial findings, 
hes concerned that his claim and prospects of success wont be considered fairly because 
of the close connection between the insurer and panel firm of solicitors  namely, that the 
solicitor whos dealt with his claim is also director at both the insurer and panel firm of 
solicitors. Mr B is concerned theres a conflict of interest as hes been told that the only 
solicitor available to consider his legal claim is the director. 
Mr B also provided a letter dated 28 February 2019 which shows he upgraded to family legal 
cover with effect from 11 February 2019. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered One Insurances response to my provisional decision, but Im not persuaded 
by its argument that Mr B didnt have legal cover and that it was limited to legal advice only. 
First, Im satisfied the wording makes it clear Mr B was taking out a legal expenses policy. I 
note it says under the heading What is covered?
If we accept the claim and appoint an advisor to act on your behalf, we will 
discharge the legal costs which they incur on your behalf subject to the level of 
cover. 
The inclusion of act your behalf satisfies me that the policy was not limited to receiving 
legal advice. Ive also had sight of the policy schedule and accompanying cover letter which 
refers to legal cover up to £50,000. Again, making it clear to Mr B that he had taken out a 
policy which provided him with cover beyond advice. 
One Insurance has provided an extract of wording  which says: 
This is cover provided by One insurance Limited and not a Legal Expenses Policy.  
Our Personal Injury Assistance service will help you to ensure that if you are injured 
[] The Family Legal Service includes the Personal Injury Assistance advice and 
referral service noted above but also enables you to obtain initial legal advice.
I asked One Insurance to provide the full document so I could see where this extract was 
taken from, but I havent been provided with it. This paragraph appears to specifically relate 
to cover in respect of personal injury - but Mr Bs legal dispute isnt about that. So, its 
unclear why One Insurance considers this to be relevant. In any event, without the rest of the 
document for context - and having not been able to find this extract in the policy wording 
weve been provided - Im not persuaded it demonstrates Mr Bs policy didnt provide legal 
cover; particularly when the policy documents I have seen show he did have legal expenses 
cover.
It seems One Insurances alternative argument is that the type of legal dispute Mr B wanted 
cover for wasnt provided under the policy, but I dont think that argument stands up and Ill 
explain why. First, an ombudsman decided the exclusion One Insurance sought to originally 
rely on to decline Mr Bs claim, didnt apply. So, it wouldnt be fair for One Insurance to 
continue to rely on this exclusion when an ombudsman has said it doesnt. 
Second, my decision is directing One Insurance to consider if the claim would have been 
covered if it had been assessed without reference to the exclusion previously applied  
which involves obtaining a prospects of success assessment. As thats not yet happened, 
One Insurance isnt in a position to determine if cover does or doesnt apply.Turning to Mr Bs concerns about the prospects of success being completed by         One 
Insurances panel firm of solicitors. Its worth explaining that its not uncommon for an insurer 
to use one specific firm of solicitors, rather than a selection from which a policy holder can 
choose. When assessing prospects of success, the solicitors are giving advice to the insurer, 
to help it decide whether the claim is covered; theyre not at this stage acting for the 
customer. Its also important to keep in mind that a qualified solicitor will have to act in 
accordance with their respective professional standards. However, given the close 
connection between the insurer and panel firm of solicitors, and the potential for a perception 
of a conflict of interest, Im persuaded that it would be fairer for the prospects of success 
assessment to be dealt with by an independent solicitor. 
For these reasons and those set out in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct One Insurance Limited to:
- Consider if the claim would have been covered if it had been assessed 
without reference to the exclusion previously applied - which will involve 
obtaining a prospects of success assessment from an independent 
solicitors based on the information that was available at the time.
- If there are prospects of success, the same independent solicitors  then 
need to advise on what a reasonable settlement would have been  and if 
Mr B would have achieved a settlement which involved a payment of 
money, One Insurance should now pay him that sum.
- If the claim would have had prospects of success, it must reimburse Mr 
B the legal costs hes incurred because of pursuing legal action (subject 
to proof).
- Pay Mr B £200 compensation. One Insurance Limited must pay the 
compensation with 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr B accepts my 
final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of the payment 
at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 January 2022.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman