DRN-2931473
The complaint
Mr A is seeking to recover around £3,000 from Santander UK Plc (Santander) which he lost 
from his account as a result of a third-party scam.
Santander says it is not liable for the loss because Mr A unwittingly authorised the 
payment himself, and it could not reasonably have prevented the losses, or done more 
to recover them.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont go into every detail of 
what happened here. But in summary, Mr A has been the victim of a scam. In December 
2018 he was tricked into sending £2,774.91 to invest through what he believed to be a 
genuine investment broker. After deciding he wished to make some investments, he had 
searched online where he found a company. He researched the company further, and 
impressed with what he saw online, he decided he would like to invest with them. He didnt 
invest straight away but waited a few months. He then went on their website and created an 
account, completed the vetting process, and made the payment to them. However, 
unbeknownst to Mr A, he had actually been dealing with a scammer who was operating a 
scam investment broker firm. 
Mr A said he was told his investment had failed and he had lost his money, but just thought 
he had made a poor investment decision. He didnt realise it was a scam until 2020 when he 
decided to search for information about the investment company online. He said he found 
information notifying him of the scam, which is when he got in touch with Santander. 
Mr A accepts he made the payment himself but feels Santander should have done more to 
protect him from the scam. Mr A has provided comprehensive statements, which I wont 
repeat in full here. So, in summary, he felt Santander: 
should have suspended the payment in the first instance as the payment represented 
suspicious activity on his account; 
should have made reasonable enquiries to establish if the transaction was the result 
of fraud, namely sought more information or documentation from him prior to 
processing his payment instruction; 
should have recognised that the investment shared many characteristics with 
common scams;
should have been aware that the Financial Conduct Authority had published a 
warning about the company prior to him sending the payment, which said that they 
were not regulated so should be treated with caution; 
should have therefore been able to recognise that he was likely falling victim to a 
scam and so prevent him from making the payment; and
had breached their duty of care owed to him (citing case law in this area). 
So, he thought Santander should be liable to refund his losses as a result. 
Santander said that they were not liable to refund his losses because Mr A unwittingly 
authorised the payment to the scammer himself. They had simply followed his payment 
instruction. And they said there was nothing about the payment that ought reasonably to 
have alerted them to the fact that Mr A was at risk of fraud of financial harm. Santander said 
they did attempt to recall the payment, but as it was an international payment there were no 
timescales for the receiving banks to respond in  or indeed no guarantee they would at all. 
Mr A remained unhappy, so he complained to this service. One of our investigators reviewed 
what had happened and didnt recommend that Mr As complaint be upheld. They said that 
Santander had acted correctly as they did not think there was anything sufficiently unusual 
or out of character about the payment, such that it should have allowed Santander to identify 
or prevent the scam. They also thought that Santander had done all that may be expected of 
them once Mr A notified them he had fallen victim to a scam. 
Mr A didnt agree, so the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to assess Santanders actions against what they should have done  and 
having done so I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to hold Santander liable 
for Mr As loss. So, having considered everything, Im not going to uphold Mr As complaint. I 
do appreciate how disappointing this will be for Mr A, but I dont think I can fairly say that 
Santander should reimburse him with the money that was unfortunately lost to the 
scammers. Ill explain why. 
There is no dispute that the transactions were authorised payments even though Mr A was 
the victim of a sophisticated scam. He made the payments himself and under the relevant 
regulations, and the terms and conditions of his account, Mr A is presumed liable for the loss 
in the first instance. 
But Ive also taken into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. As such I think 
Santander should fairly and reasonably: 
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams. 
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer. 
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
So, I consider that as a matter of good practice, Santander should have been on the look-out 
for unusual and out of character transactions. And I am sorry as I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr A, but I agree with our investigator that the transaction to the 
scammers was not sufficiently unusual and out of character for the account, such that it 
should have flagged on Santanders fraud monitoring systems. Whilst I appreciate the value 
of the payment is not insignificant here, I dont consider that the total value of the payment in 
itself enough to be an indicator of fraud, warranting further action from Santander. I think it is 
also worth noting that Mr A still had a significant available balance on his account after this 
transaction was made. Mr A had also made numerous other comparable payments and 
larger payments in the weeks and months prior to falling victim to the scam. And so I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to say there was anything about this payment 
that wouldve stood out and given Santander a reasonable basis for suspecting that Mr A 
was being defrauded or that he was at risk of financial harm. For this reason, I dont think it 
would be fair for me to say that Santander ought reasonably to have stopped this payment or 
intervened in any way  and so by extension it would not be fair and reasonable to hold 
Santander liable for Mr As loss  the fault here lies with the fraudsters themselves. 
I have also considered Santanders actions after they found out Mr A had fallen victim to a 
scam. Unfortunately, due to the nature of the scam, Mr A didnt realise he had fallen victim to 
scammers until quite some time later  and so he didnt report it to Santander until 
November 2020. Santander acted upon this the same day by sending a request to the 
receiving bank asking for the funds to be returned. Unfortunately, they did not receive any 
response from the receiving bank. Because the funds were sent to an international account, 
the receiving bank was not bound by the same rules and so unfortunately there was not 
more Santander could reasonably have done to recall Mr As funds. So, contacting the 
beneficiary bank to try and retrieve the money was all Santander could do to help Mr A at 
that stage. And so, I dont think Santander has treated Mr A unfairly here either. 
While I appreciate Mr A has been the unfortunate victim of a scam, I think Santanders 
decision to not to refund him the losses, in the particular circumstances of this complaint, is 
fair and reasonable. They followed Mr As instruction to make the payment and I havent 
seen any reason why they should not have done this. And I think they did all they could to 
try and recover Mr As funds when notified of the scam. 
I want to stress that I feel considerable sympathy for what Mr A has been through here. But 
unfortunately, whilst Im sorry to have to disappoint him, Im not persuaded that this was a 
consequence of any specific failing on the part of Santander.
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint is not upheld, and Santander UK Plc do not need to 
refund Mr As losses.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2022.
 
Katherine Jones
Ombudsman