DRN-2480618
The complaint
Ms G is unhappy with Allianz Insurance Plcs (Allianz) decision to decline cover for her pet 
insurance claim. Ms G also complains about communication issues with Allianz. She wants 
Allianz to cover the treatment costs and a written apology for incorrect advice she received. 
All references to Allianz include agents appointed to act on Allianzs behalf.
What happened
Ms G took her pet kitten to the vet in January 2020 for a routine check and to plan 
vaccinations. Ms G says her kitten wasnt showing much interest in food at the time and also 
had loose stools. Ms G says the vet didnt recommend any investigations but did, as a 
precaution, prescribe some medication. The veterinary practice arranged a four-week 
insurance policy  this was activated on 24 January and provided cover until 20 February.   
Ms G says the day after the policy was activated, her kitten developed diarrhoea which 
required treatment. Ms G says her kitten then suffered a cardiac arrest on 6 February and 
was admitted for emergency veterinary care and was later discharged on 13 February. Ms G 
was then in the process of arranging a continuing policy but her kitten unexpectedly passed 
away on 17 February before the continuing policy commenced.  
  
Ms G made claims to Allianz for the cost of the care provided to her kitten following the 
cardiac arrest and for her kittens death but her claims were declined. Ms G complained to 
Allianz and they responded to say the claims were declined as the care costs Ms G was 
claiming for related to a pre-existing condition her kitten had prior to the policy starting.   
Our investigator looked into things for Ms G. She thought that Allianz hadnt acted unfairly in 
declining Ms Gs claim. Ms G disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Ms G will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
The claim
My starting point is Ms Gs pet insurance policy. Under a heading Exclusions and clauses it 
says: 
Your insurance does not cover any pre-existing conditions. If your pet was ill or 
injured at any time before your insurance policy started we will not cover the costs 
relating to that illness or injury.  
I can see three separate claims were made. Ms G says the first claim was incorrect as it 
claimed for items Ms G wasnt looking to claim for. Another claim form was submitted and 
this claimed for the costs of the veterinary care between 6 February and 10 February. Ms G 
also submitted a claim form for her kittens death. Allianz declined to cover all three claims 
on the basis they related to a pre-existing condition her kitten had before the policy started. 
So, Ive looked into whether Allianzs decision is fair and reasonable. 
Insurers often appoint experts experienced in this type of work to look at the claim, and thats 
what Allianz did. I think its a fair thing to do  and its reasonable for Allianz to rely on the 
experts comments when deciding how to deal with the claim. Allianz say they originally 
sought the opinion of their internal vet by phone at the time Ms G made a complaint. And, 
the vet agreed the claims had been assessed and declined correctly. Allianz have provided a 
written opinion from the vet which says: 
There was no evidence provided of another unrelated cause of death on either 
occasion the cat suffered cardiac arrest other than the severe result of chronic 
diarrhoea which is enough to lead to the death
The written opinion from the vet shows they took into account the clinical notes relating to 
Ms Gs kitten and they noted the symptoms, which led to the death, had been present from 
21 January to 17 February. So, taking this into account, I cant say Allianz have acted 
unfairly in declining Ms Gs claims. Theyve relied on an experts opinion which has taken 
into consideration all material and relevant information to arrive at a view. And, the view the 
expert has formed is that Ms Gs kitten had a pre-existing condition before the policy started. 
I note Ms G says her kitten wasnt suffering diarrhoea at the time of the cardiac arrest but 
nothing I have seen challenges, or otherwise leads me to doubt, the opinion of the expert 
provided by Allianz. 
I do understand Ms Gs point that no diagnosis of diarrhoea was made or treatment 
recommended by the vet who saw her kitten on 21 January. The opinion of the expert 
provided by Allianz has noted symptoms, identified by the vet during this visit, which they 
feel are relevant to the clinical history. My role is to decide whether Allianz have acted fairly 
and reasonably. I think Allianz have taken fair and reasonable steps to consider Ms Gs 
claims and reached a decision based on expert opinion. And, given that I havent seen any 
evidence to persuade me there has been an error by Allianz, I dont uphold this part of the 
complaint. 
Communication     
Ms G says she was encouraged by call handlers at Allianz to submit a claim for her kittens 
death and they also told her that her claims would be successful. 
Ive listened to a recording of a call Ms G had with Allianz on 3 February where she explains 
the vet had noticed her kitten had loose stools before the policy started. Ms G explains her 
kitten then had diarrhoea a day after the policy started. She asks the call handler whether 
she could claim for this or whether Allianz are likely to take the view the condition is pre-
existing. The call handler explains it was likely to be treated as pre-existing. During the call, 
Ms G provides a timeline of events and the call handler again says the condition is likely to 
be treated as pre-existing as loose stools had been noted by the vet before the policy 
started. The call handler says the claim is likely to be declined. 
Ms G thanks the call handler for the information and explains she just wanted to check to 
avoid having to complete a claim form if it was likely to be declined. The call handler explains 
that anything related to the diarrhoea wouldnt be covered but Ms G could still claim for other 
events. The conversation continues around when Ms Gs kittens symptoms became worse. And the 
call handler explains Ms G could put in a claim if she feels the condition became serious a 
few days after being seen by the vet. The call handler says she cant give any guarantees 
about the outcome over the phone. The call handler says, based on the account given by Ms 
G, she can see arguments for both sides about whether the condition was pre-existing so 
she suggests Ms G can put in a claim if she wants to. The call handler does say again that if 
the loose stools noted by the vet are seen as pre-existing then the claim is likely to be 
declined.    
Over the next six weeks, there are further calls between Ms G and Allianz. During these 
calls, Allianz discuss the position in relation to the three claims. I have listened to these calls 
and note there are further occasions when call handlers explain to Ms G the clinical records 
show a pre-existing condition. And, Ms G explains her kittens cause of death wasnt related 
to the diarrhoea. I havent heard any occasion where a call handler gives any guarantee that 
Ms Gs claims will be successful. 
The discussions mention that the information in the first claim was incorrect and the second 
claim relates to the emergency treatment Ms Gs kitten received between 6 to 13 February. 
Theres a call during which the call handler explains the claim for the emergency treatment 
will be dealt with as a separate claim to the first claim. And, during another call, Ms G is told 
Allianz have a query about the invoices received from the vet who carried out the emergency 
treatment. The call handler explains they had tried to get in contact with the vet and had sent 
an email. The call handler says there appears to be a discrepancy between the amount they 
have calculated and the total on the vets invoice. The call handler says they need to clarify 
this to decide how much to pay, if the claim is successful. The call handler does say she isnt 
a claim assessor so she cant give any guarantee of a successful claim over the phone. 
So, having listened to the calls, I cant say Allianz have given any guarantees about Ms Gs 
claims being successful. There was an occasion where a call handler discusses the vets 
invoice and I can see why Ms G feels this suggested her claim might be successful. But, the 
call handler did say any payment was dependent on the claim being accepted.  
I note Ms G says she was encouraged to make claims which were then declined. During one 
call, the call handler says to Ms G that, under her policy, she could make a claim for her 
kittens death and look to recover the purchase price she paid for her kitten. The call handler 
explains she will send the claim form to Ms G. In a later call, the call handler discusses the 
claim for death and explains that Ms Gs policy does have a death benefit so its worth trying 
to claim. Ms G explains shes already submitted this claim and the call handler then says the 
system shows its been declined. They discuss that Ms G had used the renewal policy 
number on the claim and the call handler says she will submit it for reassessment but with 
the original four-week policy number. The claim was again declined. 
I do understand why this has been frustrating for Ms G but I cant say Allianz have made an 
error here. I think the call handlers were trying to be helpful in informing Ms G about potential 
claims covered under her policy. And, I dont think its unreasonable for an insurer to help 
guide a consumer on other claims covered under their policy.   
I can see Ms G is concerned about occasions where she was being asked by Allianz to get 
clarification from the vet. Ms G feels Allianz shouldve been making these enquiries directly. 
There is an occasion where a call handler discusses with Ms G the reason her claim has 
been declined. There is then a discussion about the claim submitted by the vet and the call 
handler explains the information they will need to reassess the claim. The call handler 
explains Ms G will need to return to the vet to get this confirmation. I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Allianz to ask Ms G to get information from the vet. Ms G will have been in a better position to know what incorrect information the vet had provided. And, I can see 
there was another separate occasion where Allianz did make enquiries directly with the vet.   
       
Ms G has my sympathy as I can see from her correspondence, and also from the phone 
calls, this has been a very upsetting event for her. My role is to decide whether Allianz have 
acted fairly and reasonably. And, for the reasons I have set out, I think they have so I dont 
uphold the complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman