DRN-3220980
The complaint
Mr R complains about Ageas Insurance Limiteds handling of his car insurance claim.
What happened
Mr R made a claim after his vehicle was damaged. Ageas concluded that the car was 
beyond economic repair, and offered Mr R a settlement figure. Mr R was unhappy with 
this.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought Ageas handling 
of the matter had been fair, and its settlement figure correct.
I issued a provisional decision on 8 December 2021. Heres what I said:
The policy defines market value as the cost of replacing the car with a car of the same 
make, model, specification, age, mileage and condition that the car was immediately in 
before the loss of damage happened.
The policy terms say that if the car is a total loss, then Ageas will make an offer of 
payment once its engineer has inspected and assessed the market value of the car.
Given the cars age and mileage, Ageas valued it as £2,219. This was based on the 
average of two industry valuation guides. Ive checked this information, and Im satisfied 
this was a fair valuation. However, the engineer said the car was in a very poor condition 
due to pre- incident damage, and thought the market value of the car was therefore just 
under £700.
The engineer estimated the repair costs to be £1,992.58, and so concluded the vehicle 
was beyond economic repair. Im satisfied it was reasonable for Ageas to therefore treat 
the car as a total loss.
The next point for me to consider is whether Ageas settlement was fair.
Ageas said its engineer had concluded the pre-incident damage would cost £3,044 to put 
right. It deducted half of this amount (£1,522) from the settlement to recognise this.
When a car has pre-incident damage, the usual approach of this service is to deduct half 
of this figure from the settlement. Im satisfied it was therefore appropriate for Ageas to do 
this, however I dont agree with the figures it has used.
The engineers report makes it clear that the pre-incident damage was estimated to be 
£1,522. That means Ageas should have only deducted half of this (£761) from the 
settlement.
Therefore, the settlement would be £2,219 minus £761. This equals £1,458. However, as 
Mr R wanted to keep the car, Ageas was entitled to deduct the salvage value from the 
settlement. Ageas has confirmed the salvage amount was £120. Mr R also had a £100 
excess to pay. This reduces the settlement to £1,238.
As Ageas had wrongly calculated the settlement to be £477 (because of the error with 
the pre-incident damage amount), I intend to require it to pay Mr R an additional £761. 
As Ageas mistake has caused Mr R inconvenience, I also intend to require it to pay him 
£100 compensation.
Mr R thinks Ageas ought to have known that his car couldnt be repaired. However, I 
wouldnt have expected Ageas to have known this until an engineer had looked at it. 
Im satisfied it was therefore reasonable for Ageas to deal with the matter as a claim.
I asked both parties to provide me with any further comments before I reached a final 
decision. 
Ageas responded to confirm that it accepted my provisional decision. 
Mr R responded to say he thought Ageas calculation mistake was intentional 
harassment. He also thought Ageas error caused him inconvenience and further 
costs.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst Mr R thinks Ageas mistake in the calculation of his settlement was intentional, I 
disagree. Ageas had sought confirmation from the engineer that the deductions were half of 
what it would cost to repair, and the engineer confirmed that was the case. It seems there 
was some confusion here, which is what led to Ageas mistake. But I dont think this was 
intentional.  
Mr R says that Ageas error caused him inconvenience and further costs  but the costs hes 
referred to would have always been incurred by him, as he wanted the car back.
I do accept that Mr R has been caused inconvenience and unnecessary confusion by the 
matter. But Im satisfied that £100 is fair compensation for this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Ageas Insurance Limited to 
pay Mr R an additional £761. Interest should be added at the rate of 8% simple per 
annum from the date of claim to the date of settlement*.
I further require Ageas to pay Mr R £100 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience.
*If Ageas considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr R how much its taken off. It should also give Mr R a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman