DRN-1639453
 
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mrs M applied for a credit card through a postal application in June 2000. She was sold the 
PPI at the same time in connection with this card.
The policy cost 89p per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance. It couldve paid 10% of the 
monthly outstanding balance for up to 12 months if Mrs M was off work sick or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mrs Ms complaint. Mrs M disagreed so the complaint comes to 
me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ms case. Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint and Ill explain 
why.
Im satisfied that Mrs M was eligible for the policy based on her age, work and where she 
lived at the time of the sale.
Ive looked at the application form to see how the policy was presented to Mrs M at the time 
of the sale. But I cant see anything on the application form which I think would cause Mrs M 
to think she had to take the policy. And as this was a postal application with no 
representative involved, Mrs M couldnt have felt pressured into taking out the policy. 
Ive noted Mrs M was given an option to either take or refuse PPI. It appears she ticked the 
box to take PPI. I also note that there were two other optional features just above the PPI 
and Mrs M chose not to take advantage of these. So based on what Ive seen, I think Mrs M 
knew she had a choice about whether or not to take the policy and I think she chose to take 
it in June 2000.
As this was a postal application with no involvement from a representative, Capital One 
didnt advise Mrs M to take the policy. This means Capital One didnt have to take adequate 
steps to ensure the policy was suitable for her. But they still had to give Mrs M information in 
a clear, fair and non-misleading way so that she could make a proper choice about whether 
or not to take the policy out.
I dont think Capital One gave Mrs M all the information it shouldve. So Ive thought about 
whether better information wouldve put Mrs M off taking the policy. But I dont think it 
wouldve done because: 
Mrs M told us she wouldve received some sick pay from her employer if she wasnt 
working  but this policy wouldve paid out in addition to any occupational sick pay, 
and for longer. So I think she mightve found some value in the benefit this policy 
provided.
 
Mrs M told us she was employed and in good health  so she doesnt appear to have 
been affected by the more restrictive terms in the policy such as those relating to 
preexisting medical conditions and unusual working arrangements.
 
As Mrs M was paying for this policy on a monthly basis, she couldve cancelled it at 
any time without losing out financially.
 
So based on what Ive seen, I dont think Mrs M was mis-sold PPI.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Ms complaint against Capital One (Europe) plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman