DRN-1351097
 
The complaint
Mr H complains, through a claims management company (CMC), that he was mis-sold two 
life policies by Lloyds Bank PLC because:
He had existing cover in place.
The policies were too costly for the benefit provided.
He wasnt provided with the full terms and conditions, and the exclusions werent 
explained.
He was advised he would be entitled to a guaranteed pay-out and wasnt advised the 
amount paid out would be dependent on the success of the investment element of 
the cover.
What happened
In June 1994 Mr H was sold a Level Term Assurance (LTA) policy providing cover of 
£50,000 with a three year term that named his then fiance as the beneficiary if he died. 
Premiums stopped after January 1997.
In October 1994 he was sold a Businesslife Term Assurance (BTA) policy that provided 
£75,000 of cover over 25 years. His fiance was also the beneficiary under that policy as 
well. The last premium paid on the policy, according to Lloyds, was again January 1997. 
At the time he took out the policies Mr Hs fiance was employed by Lloyds and the policies 
were arranged through her.
Lloyds didnt uphold the complaint. It said the policies were suitable recommendations based 
on Mr Hs needs and there was no record of any existing cover. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. In short he made the 
following points:
There is no record that Mr H had any existing cover so its reasonable to say these 
were his first applications for life cover.
He signed and agreed to the applications.
Mr H has said the policies only benefitted his fiance and not him, but that is normal.
Given Mr H was due to marry his fiance the following year it wasnt unreasonable 
for him to take out the cover and he wouldve understood they were for the benefit of 
his fiance.
It wasnt unreasonable to take out cover by way of the BTA, which was for the same 
amount as the loan for his business.
There isnt any evidence the lender required life cover for the loan but this wouldve 
been normal at the time so this was likely to be the case.
The loan or the business would suggest it was expanding and it wasnt unreasonable 
to take out the three year LTA to cover potential initial increased costs.
The CMC didnt agree with the investigator. In short it made the following points:The policies were sold by Mr Hs then fiance who was the sole beneficiary and the 
investigator hasnt commented on her having a vested interest in taking out the 
policy.
This benefit mainly arose from the commission which wouldve been received which 
would not have been in Mr Hs interest.
Mr H wasnt married to the adviser and no account was taken of the potential for a 
change in circumstances.
The adviser wasnt impartial and as a result of the relationship it cannot accept Mr H 
wouldve refused a policy from an adviser with a personal connection and thereby the 
policies werent suitable for his needs.
The investigator has said there was no additional cover recorded on the paperwork 
but this couldve been omitted by the adviser due to their interest in the client taking 
out the policies.
Lloyds should have ensured the adviser didnt have a personal relationship with Mr H 
as there was a conflict of interest.
The sale of the policies didnt cover any lending and as such were not required.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My findings and decision are made on a balance of probabilities  what is more likely than 
not  based on the evidence that has been provided by the parties. So I am not saying what 
definitely did or didnt happen.
The LTA wasnt taken out to cover a loan or other liability. It was simply to provide personal 
protection for a period of three years. There is nothing wrong in life cover being provided for 
personal protection rather than a specific liability as the CMC seems to suggest.
The fact find completed by the adviser at the time recorded that Mr H has specifically 
requested a LTA of £50,000 for the benefit of his fiance. It also states that this would:
Ensure there was the desired capital required to ensure (his fiance) life was not disrupted 
in any way and will help her to keep the running costs of the house and business
There is also reference to Mr H and his fiance getting married the following year. I 
acknowledge that his fiance was the adviser and this raises the potential for a conflict of 
interest. But Im not satisfied this means the information in the fact find is wrong and it 
doesnt make the policy automatically unsuitable, as the CMC seems to suggest.
In the circumstances I think it is more likely than not that Mr H did want the policy so his 
fiance would receive a lump sum on his death. There isnt any evidence that shows the LTA 
wasnt something he wanted at the time. And given he was due to marry his fiance the 
following year it isnt particularly surprising or unusual for him to have wanted to make sure 
she would have the benefit of life cover taken out in his name. 
I note the CMC has said no account was taken of the potential for a change in 
circumstances. But if there are changes after an LTA is taken out then premiums can simply 
be stopped  as happened in January 1997. So this didnt make the sale unsuitable.
I note the CMC has stated Mr H had existing cover but it has provided no evidence of this 
and there is no record of such cover in the documents that Lloyds has provided from the 
time of sale. The CMC has suggested the adviser could have omitted this information as she 
had a vested interest in selling the policy.The CMCs argument comes down to the sale of the policy being driven by the commission 
she would earn rather than what Mr H wanted or needed. There is no evidence to support 
this, and given the relationship between adviser and Mr H at the time I think it is very unlikely 
that she wouldve sold a policy Mr H didnt want or need simply to get commission - or have 
deliberately omitted reference to existing life cover.
In its original complaint letter the CMC said the policy was too costly. The premium was only 
£6 each month so I dont think it cost too much. The CMC also said Mr H wasnt advised that 
the amount paid out depended on the investment element of the policy. But there was no 
investment element and if he had died the amount paid out would always have been the sum 
assured of £50,000.
On the information I have seen the BTA was sold to cover the business loan Mr H had taken 
out  so the policy was cover for lending contrary to what the CMC said in response to the 
investigator. As the investigator pointed out, there isnt evidence the life cover was a 
condition of the loan. Lloyds has said this wouldve been normal at the time. But even if it 
wasnt a condition I think the policy was suitable for him.
Given his pending marriage to his fiance it is understandable that he might want to ensure 
that the loan was paid off if he died. The fact find records that this would allow her to 
continue to hold his business together. And in any event it would be reasonable for Mr H to 
want to ensure his fiance didnt have to worry about an outstanding business loan if he 
died. I can see no basis for finding that this isnt something he wouldve wanted to do at the 
time.
The premium for the BTA was £14.25 and again I dont think this made the policy too costly. 
The amount paid out on his death wouldve been £75,000 and again wasnt dependent on 
investment. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 March 2020.
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman