DRN-4085305
The complaint
Mrs H complains about the service she received from HSBC UK Bank Plc in connection with 
her current account. 
I know Mrs Hs current account is with First Direct. HSBC is responsible for complaints about 
First Direct. Thats why Ive mentioned HSBC above. To keep things simple, Ill refer mainly 
to First Direct for the rest of this decision. 
What happened
 On 12 October 2022, Mrs H called First Direct because her card had been declined even 
though there was money in her account. Mrs H said she needed access to her money to put 
some gas on her meter. She said when she called HSBC, it locked her out of her account 
without giving her any warning. That meant she didnt have any gas until she called First 
Direct back later that day. Mrs H said she has autism, which can leave her highly stressed 
and she needs adjustment time. 
First Direct said when Mrs H called, she didnt know her telephone banking password. It told 
us it couldnt give her any information about her account until she had passed the security 
checks. It said its representative offered to take Mrs H through security in a different way to 
the password, but Mrs H had said she didnt have time to do that. First Direct said Mrs H 
passed the security checks when she called back later that day and so First Direct then 
removed the restrictions on her account. First Direct said it didnt know Mrs H had autism 
when she called.
Mrs H complained to this service. She says that First Direct should have told her in advance 
that the account could be blocked if she didnt know the telephone password. 
Our investigator looked at all of this but didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mrs H 
didnt agree, so the complaint was passed to me for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided First Direct doesnt have to take any more action about this complaint. Ill 
explain why. 
Mrs H told us that she thought First Direct needed to change its process. She said its 
process leaves people with a disability at a disadvantage. The ombudsman service doesnt 
regulate financial businesses. That means I cant tell First Direct what its internal processes 
should be or that they should be changed. But I can look at whether First Direct was fair to 
Mrs H when she called it on 12 October 2022. 
Mrs H said that she thought First Direct was ableist when it blocked her account. With this in 
mind, Ive taken account of the Equality Act . Thats because its relevant law. But Ive 
ultimately decided this complaint based on whats fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances here.  
Ive listened to a recording of the calls between Mrs H and First Direct from 12 October 
2022. Having done that, I know First Direct asked Mrs H for a letter from her telephone 
password. Mrs H said she didnt know what her password was. She tried to answer, but then 
gave two incorrect answers. The First Direct agent then said she would try and take Mrs H 
through security another way, but Mrs H wouldnt have access to her online banking until this 
had been done.  
In the call, Mrs H said that First Direct should have told her in advance that access to her 
account would be restricted if she didnt get the password right. She said that First Direct 
was just following procedures without thinking about the person involved. 
Looking at all of this, I can see why Mrs H would have been stressed when she was trying to 
get her money so she could put gas on her meter. And I can also see why she would have 
been frustrated when the call with First Direct didnt go to plan. 
But I think when Mrs H couldnt give the right answer for her password, it was fair for First 
Direct to try and take her through security in a different way. Thats because it needed to 
protect her account and keep her money safe. It couldnt give her any information about the 
account until it could be sure who she was. 
I know Mrs H feels strongly that First Direct was just following procedure. She was also 
upset that First Direct didnt tell her shed have no access to her online account if she didnt 
know the password. 
I wouldnt expect First Direct to tell Mrs H about this before she answered the questions 
about her password. Thats because she could have quickly passed security in another way. 
Mrs H said that she didnt have time to do this. But First Direct didnt know that. And when 
Mrs H called back later that day, it only took a few minutes for her to clear security and reset 
her password. Full access to her account was restored then. 
I can see why it would have been inconvenient for Mrs H not to have access to her account 
for a few hours  especially when the reason for her call was so she could put gas on her 
meter. But it was fair for First Direct to restrict the account for a few hours until it was sure of 
her identity. Thats because it was protecting her account from fraud. 
Mrs H told us she has autism. I can understand why that would have made it harder when 
things didnt go to plan when Mrs H spoke to First Direct on the phone. At that point, First 
Direct didnt know Mrs H has autism. Thats no-ones fault. But it means First Direct didnt 
know it could be helpful to adjust the way it communicated with Mrs H on the phone. 
Ive also thought about whether it would have been clear to First Direct during the call that 
Mrs H has autism and that it should have handled the call differently. But having listened to 
the call, I dont think First Direct would have been alerted to this. 
First Direct told us that it has a Customer Care Team to help with situations like this. It 
suggested a message could be added to Mrs Hs account letting First Direct staff know they 
need to give more time to Mrs H on the phone. First Direct said Mrs H can contact its 
Customer Care Team to set this up if she thinks adjustments would help First Direct 
communicate better with her in future.
My final decision
I dont need to tell HSBC UK Bank Plc to take any further action about Mrs Hs complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2023.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman