DRN-2267884
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E say that the early repayment charge (ERC) they paid to redeem their 
mortgage with Santander UK Plc satisfied the requirements to be labelled a penalty in law 
and didnt constitute a reasonable pre-estimate of loss.
What happened
In late 2016 Mr and Mrs E applied for a fixed rate mortgage with Santander to buy a second 
home. The mortgage offer was issued in December 2016 and explained that if the mortgage 
was repaid before 2 March 2022 an ERC would be applied, to a maximum of £9,174.75. The 
mortgage completed in January 2017.
In June 2019 Mr and Mrs E sold the property and repaid their mortgage. They then 
complained about the ERC theyd incurred.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, saying the ERC was set out in the paperwork 
and Santander had calculated it fairly. She said ERCs werent calculated on an individual 
basis and she was satisfied with the information Santander provided about it. 
Mr and Mrs E didnt agree, saying they wanted all their questions answered, and so its been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I trust Mr and Mrs E wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed their complaint in the 
way that I have. Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to 
what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not 
considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right 
outcome. This service is impartial between, and independent from, consumers and 
businesses. What this means is that we dont represent either party, and I dont act under 
eithers instructions or take directions on how a complaint will be looked at or what questions 
should be asked or answered.
Ive carefully considered the legal arguments Mr and Mrs E have made. But the Financial 
Ombudsman Service is an informal alternative to the courts. It may be the courts would look at this 
matter differently, but were not bound by what a court may - or may not - do. If Mr and Mrs E feel 
their claim the ERC satisfies the requirements to be labelled a penalty in law has merit, then they 
can test that in court if they wish. However I would urge them to get good independent legal advice 
first.
Were not the regulator, and Ive no power under our terms of reference to comment on, or 
otherwise determine, how financial businesses operate in general terms. I have to consider 
this complaint by reference to Mr and Mrs Es particular situation. When I do that, Im 
satisfied the terms of the ERC were set out in the mortgage offer in a way that should have 
been readily understandable to Mr and Mrs E; certainly, the information about the ERC was 
set out in a manner that met the regulators requirements. So Im persuaded Mr and Mrs E 
knew  or at least should have known  how much theyd have to pay if they repaid the 
mortgage before 2 March 2022.
The rules of mortgage regulation include provisions about ERCs. In summary, they say that 
an ERC must be able to be expressed as a cash value, and must be a reasonable 
pre-estimate of the costs resulting from early termination of the mortgage. But a lender can 
choose how it calculates an ERC, and can calculate the same level of ERC across a group 
of mortgages of similar type, rather than for individual loans. Santander is entitled to set an 
ERC based not on the actual cost to it of Mr and Mrs E ending their own mortgage early, but 
on a reasonable pre-estimate of the costs of early termination of a group of mortgages of 
similar type.
Lenders generally raise money to offer preferential rates for their mortgage customers on the 
wholesale money markets. Theres a cost to that, and its generally fixed in advance. But the 
lender expects to receive a return to outweigh those costs. If a mortgage ends early, it 
doesnt get back all the returns it expected, and so doesnt make back the costs in raising 
the funds to offer that preferential rate.
Its complex and onerous for lenders to calculate individual losses as and when individual 
customers decide to terminate their contracts early. And it isnt possible to estimate, for any 
given individual, when or if they might do so. So Santander is allowed to project how many 
customers, on average, are likely to terminate early and, on average, at what point theyre 
likely to do so, and to apportion that cost across the mortgages in the group. For some 
individual mortgages that will end up being an over-calculation, and for others it will be an 
under-calculation. But thats allowed; Santander doesnt have to refund the difference, but 
equally it doesnt tell a consumer to pay the difference if it goes the other way.
Ive carefully considered the calculations Santander has provided to us for this tranche of 
mortgages and Im satisfied they demonstrate that the ERC Santander set out in the contract 
met the regulators requirements for ERCs and was a reasonable pre-estimate of the costs. 
Those calculations cant be disclosed to Mr and Mrs E as they are commercially sensitive.
In the circumstances, Im satisfied:
Santander was entitled to charge Mr and Mrs E the ERC set out in their mortgage 
contract when they repaid their mortgage early.
There was no requirement for Santander to only charge an amount worked out based 
on Mr and Mrs Es individual loan and date of redemption, instead it was allowed to 
charge an amount based on its pre-estimate of the costs of early termination of a 
group of mortgages of similar type.
The calculations provided to us by Santander demonstrate the ERC set out in the 
contract was a reasonable pre-estimate of the costs for that tranche of mortgages.
Mr and Mrs E dont have to accept my conclusions, and if they dont, then neither they nor 
Santander will be bound by my final decision. Subject to any time limits or other restrictions a 
court might impose, Mr and Mrs Es right to take legal action against Santander over the 
subject matter of this complaint wont have been prejudiced by our consideration of it.
My final decisionI dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of the 
complaint, which means well not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of 
the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 February 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman