DRN-3540779
The complaint
Mr C and Miss G complain that Hastings Insurance Services Limited (Hastings) gave Miss G 
incorrect documents and information when she made an amendment to Mr Cs car insurance 
policy.
While Mr C is the policyholder, Miss G is a named driver on the policy and dealt with the 
amendment, so Ill mostly refer to Miss G in this decision.
What happened
Mr C had a car insurance policy through Hastings. Part way through the policy term, he and 
Miss G wanted to change the car on the policy. So Miss G phoned Hastings to get a quote.
The initial quotes Hastings gave Miss G were high. Miss G asked what the refund would be if 
she cancelled the policy instead. Hastings agent gave Miss G a figure. But then the agent 
realised he wasnt using Mr Cs correct address, so he amended it. This generated updated 
insurance documents, which were uploaded to Hastings online portal. These documents, 
which included the certificate of insurance, referred to Mr C and Miss Gs old car, because 
the car details on the policy hadnt yet been changed.
Once Hastings had amended the address, its quote for putting the new car on the policy was 
much lower. The agent told Miss G an amendment fee of £20 would also be payable if she 
went ahead. Miss G agreed to this and went ahead with the change of car. This generated 
another set of updated insurance documents, including the certificate of insurance. These 
referred to Mr C and Miss Gs new car. Again, these documents were available via Hastings 
online portal.
On the same day, Miss G says she went by taxi to the Post Office to tax the new car. But 
she says the insurance certificate she showed the Post Office was for the old car, meaning 
she couldnt tax the new one. So Miss G phoned Hastings again, saying she needed the 
insurance certificate for the new car to be issued (she told the agent the old one had been 
issued in error), because she needed to tax the new car that day. The agent she spoke to 
said she could re-issue the insurance documents but it could take up to 24 hours for them to  
upload to Hastings portal. Because Miss G needed to tax the new car that day, she decided 
to cancel the policy. She was given a refund (which included the additional premium shed 
paid earlier in the day but not the £20 amendment fee).
Miss G complained to Hastings about being given a document with the wrong information, 
about being given an incorrect refund amount (because the refund figure she was given in 
her second call to Hastings differed from the figure she was given in the first call) and about 
Hastings failure to give her a promised call-back.
Hastings accepted Miss G didnt get a promised call-back and apologised for this. But it 
didnt uphold the other parts of the complaint. So Mr C and Miss G brought their complaint to 
us. After theyd done this, Hastings looked at its file again and offered to refund                  
Mr C and Miss G the £20 amendment fee Miss G had paid.
The investigator who looked at Mr C and Miss Gs complaint didnt uphold it. He thought 
Hastings had made the correct insurance documents available, hadnt given inconsistent 
refund figures and had acted fairly in refunding Mr C and Miss Gs £20 amendment fee.
Mr C and Miss M disagree with our investigators findings. They say they were misled by 
Hastings and they dont think the investigator has addressed their complaint points. 
So Mr C and Miss Gs complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr C and Miss Gs complaint. While I understand 
it was frustrating for Miss G not to be able to tax the new car when she wanted to, from what 
Ive seen, I dont think Hastings has treated her unfairly or unreasonably. Ill explain why.
Hastings has given us evidence showing that the first set of documents generated that day  
following the update to Mr Cs address and showing the old car on the certificate of 
insurance  were created at 09:58 and were available for Mr C and Miss G to view on the 
portal from 10:00. And Hastings has given us evidence showing the second set of 
documents generated that day  following the change of car and showing the new car on the 
certificate of insurance  were created at  10:02 and were available for Mr C and Miss G to 
view at 12:49.
Ive looked at copies of both sets of documents and I think both of them are correct. So I 
dont think Hastings gave Mr C and Miss G incorrect documents.
In the second call Miss G made to Hastings, when she cancelled the policy, she said shed 
told the agent shed spoken to earlier she needed the car taxed and insured on the same 
day. And when Miss G brought this complaint to us, she also said shed been told by 
Hastings to tax the car at the Post Office. 
Ive listened to the recording of the first call Miss G had with Hastings. While I understand 
Miss G will have had a lot going through her mind at the time, she didnt actually say 
anything to Hastings about needing the car insured and taxed on the same day. So there 
was nothing to alert the first agent to this being a priority for her. And neither does the agent 
say Miss G should tax the car at the Post Office.
When Miss G made her first call to Hastings, she was given a refund figure should she want 
to cancel the policy. When Miss G made her second call, she was given a different refund 
figure. But this figure included the additional premium shed paid earlier in the day, but with a 
deduction for the £20 amendment fee shed also paid. As Ive mentioned, Hastings has 
subsequently offered to refund Miss G this fee.
Having looked at the figures, I dont think Hastings gave Miss G inconsistent information on 
the amount of the refund she was due. But I think its fair and reasonable, since the new car 
had no time on cover before the policy was cancelled, that Hastings offered to refund the 
amendment fee. Hastings has recently told us a cheque for £20 it had previously issued has 
been cancelled and it has made a bank transfer instead to Mr Cs account. So I dont think 
Hastings needs to do anything more here.
Hastings has accepted Miss G didnt get a promised call-back. I think it was right for 
Hastings to apologise for this to Miss G as it has.I understand Miss Gs second call with Hastings left her feeling frustrated and ultimately led 
her to cancel the policy. But, again, I dont think Hastings has done anything wrong here. 
Hastings says its agent wouldnt have been able to see when the two sets of insurance 
documents were available for Mr C and Miss G to view online and I accept what it says. 
Having listened to the second call, I think the agent accepted without question Miss Gs 
explanation that incorrect documents had been issued (which, as Ive said, I dont think they 
were). So all the agent was saying to Miss G was that, if she re-issued them, she couldnt 
guarantee Mr C and Miss G would be able to view them on the same day, because 
documents can take up to 24 hours to upload to Hastings portal (although they can be 
available to view sooner). From what Hastings says, that information is correct. So I dont 
think Hastings agent said anything wrong in the call.
I should also mention that, following our investigators view, Mr C and Miss G asked some 
specific questions about things that happened in the course of their complaint. Our 
investigator gave his thoughts on them. Ive looked at everything hes said and agree with 
the points hes made. None of Mr C and Miss Gs comments here change my conclusions on 
this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr C and Miss Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Miss G 
to accept or reject my decision before 21 July 2022.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman