DRN-2645124
The complaint
Miss B says Hamsard 3225 Limited (Hamsard) lent to her irresponsibly. She said that 
proper affordability checks were not completed. She also says that the sheer amount of 
times that she needed to go back for more lending should have raised alarm bells and 
Hamsard shouldnt have continued to lend to her. She said she had up to four loans at 
one time.
 
What happened
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be partially upheld. Hamsard disagreed with 
the adjudicators opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. I issued my provisional 
decision saying that Miss Bs complaint should be upheld in part. Ive included a copy of the 
background and findings of my provisional decision below: 
This complaint is about 38 home collected loans Hamsard provided to Miss B between 
August 2012 and November 2019. Ive attached a table below that has some of the 
information I have been provided about this lending. 
loan 
numberdate 
startedamount 
borroweddate endedloan 
numberdate 
startedamount 
borroweddate ended
1 10/08/2012 £60 07/12/2012 20 17/06/2016 £264 21/10/2016
2 19/10/2012 £60 18/01/2013 21 21/10/2016 £264 17/02/2017
3 29/03/2013 £120 21/06/2013 22 21/10/2016 £264 17/02/2017
4 21/06/2013 £160 27/09/2013 23 16/12/2016 £150 30/06/2017
5 26/07/2013 £120 17/01/2014 24 17/02/2017 £264 30/06/2017
6 27/09/2013 £200 28/03/2014 25 17/02/2017 £264 30/06/2017
7 29/11/2013 £100 13/06/2014 26 30/06/2017 £275 22/12/2017
8 28/03/2014 £240 24/10/2014 27 30/06/2017 £275 22/12/2017
9 13/06/2014 £140 14/11/2014 28 30/06/2017 £175 22/12/2017
10 14/11/2014 £200 15/05/2015 29 22/12/2017 £275 15/06/2018
11 14/11/2014 £200 15/05/2015 30 22/12/2017 £275 15/06/2018
12 19/12/2014 £100 03/07/2015 31 22/12/2017 £175 15/06/2018
13 03/07/2015 £80 11/12/2015 32 15/06/2018 £275 14/12/2018
14 03/07/2015 £200 11/12/2015 33 15/06/2018 £275 14/12/2018
15 03/07/2015 £240 11/12/2015 34 15/06/2018 £175 14/12/2018
16 11/12/2015 £176 17/06/2016 35 18/01/2019 £250 26/07/2019
17 11/12/2015 £176 17/06/2016 36 08/02/2019 £250 23/08/2019
18 11/12/2015 £176 17/06/2016 37 30/08/2019 £200 06/03/2020
19 17/06/2016 £264 21/10/2016 38 29/11/2019 £250 outstanding
The first few loans had terms of 14 to 15 weeks, but the majority of the loans were scheduled 
to be repaid over 26 weeks.
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. He thought that Hamsard shouldnt have 
approved any lending form loan 6 onwards as the pattern of lending demonstrated that it 
was harmful to the consumer. Hamsard disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. It said 
that:
the lending is different from payday loans, Hamsard is primarily a relationship 
lender
its affordably checks were rigorous and Miss B confirmed the information she 
provided was accurate. This showed she could afford the lending
she said that she could afford the loans
the Hamsard agent wouldve built up good relationship with Miss B and would 
have been able to see if she was in difficulty
there was no indication from the local agent, or Miss B, that she was in financial 
difficulty
Miss B had a very good repayment history
the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) has given no 
indication that Hamsard was not acting in accordance with the rules and 
regulations of the time
it says if the FCA was unhappy with the way it lent then it should have been 
informed and it thinks we are retrospectively changing the rules around re-lending
if they were unable to lend to Miss B she would have been forced to lend 
elsewhere and the may have increased her indebtedness
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
the legal and regulatory framework and other publications
Regulation by the Office of Fair Trading (up to 31 March 2014)
Hamsard gave Miss B her first nine loans in the period up to the end of March 2014. 
During this time, it needed a standard licence from the Office of Fair Trading (OFT), in 
order to carry out consumer credit activities.
Section 25(2) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 set out the factors the OFT had to 
consider when deciding whether to grant a consumer credit licence to a lender. It said:
(1) In determining whether an applicant for a licence is a fit person for the 
purposes of this section the OFT shall have regard to any matters appearing to 
it to be relevant including (amongst other things)
(a)the applicant's skills, knowledge and experience in relation to 
consumer credit businesses, consumer hire businesses or ancillary 
credit businesses;
(b)such skills, knowledge and experience of other persons who the 
applicant proposes will participate in any business that would be carried 
on by him under the licence;
(c)practices and procedures that the applicant proposes to 
implement in connection with any such business;
(d)evidence of the kind mentioned in subsection (2A)
(2A) That evidence is evidence tending to show that the applicant, or any of the 
applicant's employees, agents or associates (whether past or present) or, 
where the applicant is a body corporate, any person appearing to the OFT to 
be a controller of the body corporate or an associate of any such person, has
(a)committed any offence involving fraud or other dishonesty or violence;
(b)contravened any provision made by or under
(i)this Act;(ii)Part 16 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 so far 
as it relates to the consumer credit jurisdiction under that Part;
(iii)any other enactment regulating the provision 
of credit to individuals or other transactions with 
individuals;
(c)contravened any provision in force in an EEA State which corresponds 
to a provision of the kind mentioned in paragraph (b);
(d)practised discrimination on grounds of sex, colour, race or ethnic or 
national origins in, or in connection with, the carrying on of any 
business; or
(e)engaged in business practices appearing to the OFT to be 
deceitful or oppressive or otherwise unfair or improper (whether 
unlawful or not) [my emphasis].
Section 25(2B) set out a direct example of the type of practice referred to in 
Section 25(2A(e)) and said:
For the purposes of subsection (2A)(e), the business practices which the OFT 
may consider to be deceitful or oppressive or otherwise unfair or improper 
include practices in the carrying on of a consumer credit business that appear 
to the OFT to involve irresponsible lending [my emphasis].
In March 2010, as required by s.25A, the OFT produced guidance on the test for 
irresponsible lending for the purposes of section 25(2B) of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. And so it issued its irresponsible lending guidance (ILG).
So I consider the ILG to be of central importance in reaching a fair and reasonable 
outcome in Miss Bs case. The foreword to the guidance set out its purpose and it said:
The primary purpose in producing this guidance is to provide greater clarity for 
businesses and consumer representatives as to the business practices that the 
Office of Fair Trading (OFT) considers may constitute irresponsible lending 
practices for the purposes of section 25(2B) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. It 
indicates types of deceitful or oppressive or otherwise unfair or improper 
business practices which, if engaged in by a consumer credit business, could 
call into consideration its fitness to hold a consumer credit licence.
Whilst this guidance represents the OFT's view on irresponsible lending, it 
is not meant to represent an exhaustive list of behaviours and practices 
which might constitute irresponsible lending.
Section two of the guidance sets out the general principles of fair business 
practice. Section 2.1 says:
In the OFT's view there are a number of overarching principles of 
consumer protection and fair business practice which apply to all 
consumer credit lending.
Section 2.2 of the guidance says:
In general terms, creditors should:
not use misleading or oppressive behaviour when advertising, selling, or 
seeking to enforce a credit agreement
make a reasonable assessment of whether a borrower can afford 
to meet repayments in a sustainable manner
explain the key features of the credit agreement to enable the borrower to 
make an informed choicemonitor the borrower's repayment record during the course of the 
agreement, offering assistance where borrowers appear to be experiencing 
difficulty and treat borrowers fairly and with forbearance if they experience 
difficulties
Section 2.3 lists other expectations of lenders. Amongst other things, it says:
In addition to the above there should be:
fair treatment of borrowers. Borrowers should not be targeted with credit 
products that are clearly unsuitable for them, subjected to high pressure 
selling, aggressive or oppressive behaviour or inappropriate coercion, or 
conduct which is deceitful, oppressive, unfair or improper, whether unlawful 
or not
Borrowers who may be particularly vulnerable by virtue of their current 
indebtedness, poor credit history, or by reason of age or health, or 
disability, or for any other reason, should, in particular, not be targeted or 
exploited.
Section four of the guidance is concerned with the assessment of affordability that 
lenders were required to carry out before granting credit. Section 4.1 says:
In the OFT's view, all assessments of affordability should involve a 
consideration of the potential for the credit commitment to adversely impact on 
the borrower's financial situation, taking account of information that the creditor 
is aware of at the time the credit is granted. The extent and scope of any 
assessment of affordability, in any particular circumstance, should be dependent 
upon  and proportionate to  a number of factors (see paragraph 4.10 of this 
guidance document).
'Assessing affordability', in the context of this guidance, is a 'borrower-focussed 
test' which involves a creditor assessing a borrower's ability to undertake a 
specific credit commitment, or specific additional credit commitment, in a 
sustainable manner, without the borrower incurring (further) financial difficulties 
and/or experiencing adverse consequences.
Section 4.2 of the OFT guidance says:
Whatever means and sources of information creditors employ as part of an 
assessment of affordability should be sufficient to make an assessment of the 
risk of the credit sought being unsustainable for the borrower in question. In our 
view this is likely to involve more than solely assessing the likelihood of the 
borrower being able to repay the credit in question.
We consider that before granting credit, significantly increasing the amount of 
credit, or significantly increasing the credit limit under an agreement for running 
account credit, creditors should take reasonable steps to assess a borrower's 
likely ability to be able to meet repayments under the credit agreement in a 
sustainable manner.
In a sustainable manner is defined in Section 4.3 of the OFT guidance. And Section 
4.3 says:
The OFT regards 'in a sustainable manner' in this context as meaning credit 
that can be repaid by the borrower:
without undue difficulty  in particular without incurring or increasing 
problem indebtedness
over the life of the credit agreement or, in the case of open-end agreements, within a reasonable period of time
out of income and/or available savings, without having to realise 
security or assets.
Section 4.4 goes on to describe undue difficulty and says:
The OFT would regard 'without undue difficulty' in this context as meaning the 
borrower being able to make repayments (in the absence of changes in personal 
circumstances that were not reasonably foreseeable at the time the credit was 
granted):
while also meeting other debt repayments and other 
normal/reasonable outgoings and;
without having to borrow further to meet these repayments.
Building on the proportionality principle set out in section 4.1, section 4.10 deals with the 
issues that might influence how detailed the affordability assessment should be. It 
includes factors such as:
the type of credit product;
the amount of credit to be provided and the associated cost and risk 
to the borrower;
the borrowers financial situation at the time the credit is sought;
the borrowers credit history, including any indications of the 
borrower experiencing (or having experienced) financial 
difficulty
the vulnerability of the borrower 
Section 4.12 is a non-exhaustive list of the types and sources of information that a 
lender might use to assess affordability, including:
evidence of income
evidence of expenditure
records of previous dealings with the borrower
a credit score
a credit report from a credit reference agency
information obtained from the borrower through a form or a meeting
Section 4.15 concerns the verification of income and expenditure for the purposes of 
making an appropriate assessment of affordability. It states:
In our view, creditors who do not require documentary evidence of income 
and/or expenditure as part of their assessment of affordability, but rather accept 
information provided by the borrower without any supporting evidence or, in the 
alternative, do not seek any information on income and/or expenditure at all as 
part of their assessment, should ensure that whatever means and sources of 
information they employ are sufficient to make an appropriate assessment. We 
do not consider that self-certification of income would generally be sufficient in 
respect of significant long- term credit agreements, particularly those secured 
on property.
Section 4.16 specifically touches on the issue of proportionality in the context of short-
term credit. It says:
Whilst the OFT accepts, as a general principle from a proportionality 
perspective, that the level of scrutiny required for small sum and/or short-term 
credit may be somewhat less than for large sum and/or long term credit, we 
consider that creditors should also take account of the fact that the risk of the credit being unsustainable would be directly related to the amount of credit 
granted (and associated interest / charges etc.) relative to the borrowers 
financial situation
Sections 4.18 to 4.33 of the ILG set out some examples of specific irresponsible 
lending practices relating to how businesses assess affordability. Section 4.20 says 
this would include where a lender is:
Failing to undertake a reasonable assessment of affordability in an individual 
case or cases
Section 4.21 gives another example:
Failing to consider sufficient information to be able to reasonably assess 
affordability, prior to granting credit, significantly increasing the total amount of 
credit provided, or significantly increasing the credit limit (in the case of a 
running account credit agreement)
This could (but not necessarily) include for example:

Where applicable, appropriate and proportionate, failing to verify details of 
current income and/or expenditure by, for example, checking hard copies of 
payslip/contract of employment (when a borrower is in employment), 
accountants letters (where a borrower is self-employed) or benefit statements 
(where a borrower is not in employment).
And Section 4.26 says a business would be acting irresponsibly if:
Granting an application for credit when, on the basis of an affordability 
assessment, it is known, or reasonably ought to be suspected, that the credit is 
likely to be unsustainable.
Sections 4.29 and 4.31 deal with a lenders treatment of information disclosed by 
the customer. 4.29 says it would be an unsatisfactory business practice where a 
lender:
fail[s] to take adequate steps, so far as is reasonable and practicable, to 
ensure that information on a credit application relevant to an assessment of 
affordability is complete and correct.
And section 4.31 says it would be unsatisfactory for a lender to:
[Accept] an application for credit under circumstances in which it is known, or 
reasonably ought to be suspected, that the borrower has not been truthful in 
completing the application for credit with regards to the information supplied 
relevant to inform an assessment of affordability
Section 6 of the ILG sets out other specific irresponsible lending practices relating to 
lender behaviour once loan(s) have been agreed. Section 6.2 says it would be an 
unsatisfactory practice where a business is:
Failing to monitor a borrowers repayment record
Section 6.2 goes on to say:
The OFT considers that creditors should take appropriate actionwhen/if 
there are signs of apparent / possible repayment difficulties.
Section 55B of the Consumer Credit Act 1974On 1 February 2011 the majority of the legislation implementing the provisions of the 
Consumer Credit Directive 2008 came into force. At this point the ILG was amended 
to reflect any changes required by the Consumer Credit Directive and an additional 
requirement on a lender to carry out an Assessment of creditworthiness was set out 
in section 55B of the Consumer Credit Act.
Its important to note that both section 25 and section 55 remained in force until regulation 
of Consumer Credit providers passed to the FCA in April 2014.
Section 55B said:
Assessment of creditworthiness 55B
(1) Before making a regulated consumer credit agreement, other than an 
excluded agreement, the creditor must undertake an assessment of the 
creditworthiness of the debtor.
(2) Before significantly increasing
(a) the amount of credit to be provided under a regulated consumer 
credit agreement, other than an excluded agreement, or
(b) a credit limit for running-account credit under a regulated consumer 
credit agreement, other than an excluded agreement, the creditor 
must undertake an assessment of the debtors creditworthiness.
(3) A creditworthiness assessment must be based on sufficient 
information obtained from
(a) the debtor, where appropriate, and
(b) a credit reference agency, where necessary.
(4) For the purposes of this section an agreement is an excluded 
agreement if it is
(a) an agreement secured on land, or
(b) an agreement under which a person takes an article in pawn.
By the time of loan 9, and for all of Miss Bs subsequent loans (1 April 2014 
onwards) this requirement to assess creditworthiness moved from S55B of the 
Consumer Credit Act to the rules of the new regulator the Financial Conduct 
Authority.
Regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority (from 1 April 2014)
Hamsard gave Miss B the majority of these agreements after the regulation of Consumer 
Credit Licensees had transferred from the OFT to the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
on 1 April 2014. I understand that Hamsard initially obtained interim permission to provide 
consumer credit before it went on to successfully apply for authorisation. Hamsards interim 
permission to provide consumer credit and its eventual authorisation to do so meant that it 
was subject to the FCA rules and regulations from 1 April 2014.
The FCAs Principles for Business set out the overarching requirements which all 
authorised firms are required to comply with. The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 
2.1.1R. And the most relevant principle here is PRIN 2.1.1 R (6) which says:
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
The FCAs Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC) is the specialist sourcebook for credit- 
related regulated activities. It sets out the rules and guidance specific to consumer credit 
providers, such as Hamsard. CONC 5 sets out a firms obligations in relation to responsible lending. And CONC 6 sets out a firms obligations after a consumer has 
entered into a regulated agreement.
The starting point for the relevant rules is Section 5.2.1R(2) of CONC which sets out what 
a lender needs to do before agreeing to give a consumer credit of this type. It says a firm 
must consider:
(a) the potential for the commitments under the regulated credit agreement to 
adversely impact the customers financial situation, taking into account the 
information of which the firm is aware at the time the regulated credit agreement 
is to be made; and
(b) the ability of the customer to make repayments as they fall due over the life 
of the regulated credit agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-
end agreement, to make repayments within a reasonable period.
CONC also includes guidance about proportionality of assessments. CONC 5.2.4G(2) says:
A firm should consider what is appropriate in any particular circumstances 
dependent on, for example, the type and amount of credit being sought and the 
potential risks to the customer. The risk of credit not being sustainable directly 
relates to the amount of credit granted and the total charge for credit relative to 
the customers financial situation.
CONC 5.3 contains further guidance on what a lender should bear in mind when 
thinking about affordability. And CONC 5.3.1G(1) says:
In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by 
CONC 5.2.2R
(1), a firm should take into account more than assessing the customers 
ability to repay the credit.
CONC 5.3.1G(2) then says:
The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 
5.2.2R (1) should include the firm taking reasonable steps to assess the 
customers ability to meet repayments under a regulated credit agreement in a 
sustainable manner without the customer incurring financial difficulties or 
experiencing significant adverse consequences.
In respect of the need to double-check information disclosed by applicants, CONC 
5.3.1G(4) states:
(b) it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of 
the customers income and expenditure on a statement of those matters 
made by the customer.
And CONC 5.3.7R says that:
A firm must not accept an application for credit under a regulated credit 
agreement where the firm knows or ought reasonably to suspect that the 
customer has not been truthful in completing the application in relation to 
information supplied by the customer relevant to the creditworthiness 
assessment or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1).
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including 
all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
These loans are considered to be high cost credit by the industry regulator FCA. And I 
agree with this. There are many instances where the FCA has confirmed this, for example 
its High Cost Credit Review (CP 18/43) contained a section about home collected credit 
and the home collected credit market. So Hamsard is a high cost credit provider and the 
rules regarding high cost credit apply to it.
Of course, I accept there are differences between products in the high cost credit market. 
And the cost of a Hamsard loan may be lower than some alternatives, particularly shorter- 
term high cost products. But it is still high cost credit and is typically taken by consumers 
who do not have access to mainstream credit due to their financially precarious situation. 
And so, similar to short term high cost credit, this is a higher cost and a higher risk option 
for Miss B.
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance and law, I think the overarching 
questions I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
of this complaint are:
Did Hamsard, each time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate checks to 
satisfy itself that Miss B would be able to repay in a sustainable way? If not, 
would those checks have shown that Miss B wouldve been able to do so?
Bearing in mind the circumstances, at the time of each application, was there a 
point where Hamsard ought reasonably to have realised it was increasing Miss 
Bs indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so 
shouldnt have provided further credit?
Did Hamsard act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
If I determine that Hamsard did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Miss B 
and that she has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
Ive decided to uphold Miss Bs complaint in part and have explained why below.
Did Hamsard, each time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate checks to 
satisfy itself that Miss B would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
It is important to note that the FCA didnt, and doesnt, specify exactly how an assessment 
of affordability is to be carried out. But the extent and scope and the types and sources 
of information to use needed to be enough to be able to reasonably assess the 
sustainability of the arrangement for the consumer.
In other words, the assessment needs to be consumer-focussed. It is not an assessment 
of the risk to the lender of not recovering the credit but of the risk to the consumer of 
incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequence as a result 
of the decision to lend.
As set out in the ILG and CONC, the risk to the consumer directly relates to the particulars 
of the lending and the circumstances of the consumer. Therefore, a lenders assessment of 
creditworthiness would likely need to be flexible. That is to say, what is sufficient for one 
consumer might not be for another, or indeed what might be sufficient for a consumer in 
one circumstance might not be so for the same consumer in other circumstances.
Bearing the above in mind, I would expect an assessment of creditworthiness to vary 
with circumstance. In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance, the 
greater the potential risk to the consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a 
sustainable way.Certain factors might point to the fact that Hamsard should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include, but are not limited to:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to repay a 
given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the agreement (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the 
credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an 
extended period); and
the greater the number and frequency of credit agreements, and the longer the 
period of time during which a customer has been given the credit (reflecting the 
risk that ongoing use of these agreements may signal that the borrowing had 
become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Hamsard has said that its checks were rigorous throughout the lending relationship. But for 
the earlier loans, there really hasnt been enough information provided by either side to 
allow me to say if this was reasonable. Hamsard has only been able to provide basic 
information about the earlier lending and Miss B hasnt provided any detail about her 
circumstances at this time which would allow me to say the lending wasnt sustainable. So, 
I cant comment extensively on the checks Hamsard did for loans 1 to 5.
And in any event Miss B didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion about loans 1 to 5. 
Because of this I dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. So I 
wont comment further on them, or the level of individual checks Hamsard did before 
approving these loans. But they were part of the borrowing relationship Miss B had with 
Hamsard. So they are something I will take into account when considering the other loans 
she took.
Bearing in mind the circumstances, at the time of each application, was there a point 
where Hamsard ought reasonably to have realised it was increasing Miss Bs 
indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so shouldnt have 
provided further loans?
I also think its fair and reasonable to look at the overall pattern of lending and what 
unfolded during the course of Miss Bs lending history with Hamsard. This is because there 
may come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself demonstrates that 
the lending was unsustainable.
Looking at the relevant rules and guidance as summarised in the earlier part of my 
decision, Hamsard was required to establish whether Miss B could sustainably repay her 
loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation.
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer 
could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the 
case. This is because the ILG defines sustainable as being without undue difficulties and 
in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments.
It follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able 
to make their repayments without borrowing further. I think that the point where this 
should have been clear to Hamsard was reached by loan 6. I say this because:At this point Hamsard ought to have realised Miss B was not managing to repay 
her loans sustainably. Miss B had taken out 6 loans in just over a year. Both the 
length of time she had now borrowed for, and the number of loans she had taken, 
suggest to me that at this point Ms B had become reliant on this type of lending to 
meet her day to day needs and this would cause long term financial problems.
Miss Bs first loan was for £60 and loan 6 was for £200. So, Miss Bs need for 
money was increasing during this early time of borrowing from Hamsard. And 
related to the above, this suggests to me that this reliance was not decreasing, 
but it would either continue to be a problem for Miss B or that her situation would 
worsen over time.
Hamsard ought to have realised it was more likely than not Miss Bs 
indebtedness was unsustainable. This is because it was evident that Miss B was 
incurring or increasing problem indebtedness. And the guidance (Section 4.3 of 
the OFT guidance) says a business would be lending irresponsibly where this is 
the case.
Right from the start Miss B was provided with a new loan before she had fully 
settled her previous lending. She would often have more than one loan running at 
the same time which again indicates an increasing need for, and/or a reliance on 
this credit. Loans 1 to 3 all ran at the same time and this set the tone for a pattern 
that would continue throughout this lending relationship.
Miss B wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed Hamsard over 
loans 1 to 6. As Ive explained above this pattern suggests to me that Miss B was 
reliant on this credit and this would continue. So, Miss H had financial problems 
that she couldnt easily resolve.
Miss B had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Hamsard 
over an extended period. This is a very long time to be using high cost credit.
I appreciate that Miss B may not have communicated that she was in difficulty 
over this time, and the agent may not have realised this. But I think this lending 
pattern itself, particularly over the first year, demonstrates that she was in 
difficulty. And Hamsard shouldve noticed this, rather than relying on Miss Bs 
silence.
I think that Miss B lost out because Hamsard continued to provide borrowing from loan 
6 onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Bs indebtedness by 
allowing her to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an 
extended period of time; and
the number of loans and the length of time over which Miss B borrowed 
was likely to have had negative implications on Miss Bs ability to access 
mainstream credit and so kept her in the market for these high-cost loans.
One of the main areas of Hamsards response to the adjudicators opinion concerns our 
approach to repeat lending. It says that the FCA hasnt said this was wrong and that Miss 
B showed no discernible signs of financial difficulty. Her close relationship with the 
representative wouldve highlighted any difficulty she was having with her finances. It has 
said that its contact with the regulator, and its publications, have not said that longer term 
borrowing is harmful in the home credit sector and this service is departing from the 
regulators guidance if we say that repeat lending in home credit is harmful.
I dont agree that this is the case and Ive set out why below:
On 6 March 2019, The FCA wrote a Dear CEO letter to the Chief Executive Officer of all 
firms allocated to the High Cost Lenders portfolio, which Hamsard is part of. This letter 
was published after Miss Bs agreements were entered into. But given that this letter didnt 
include any new rules and deals with how firms ought to be handling complaints about 
whether their previous lending was unaffordable, I do think that it offers some insight on 
the FCAs perspective on the rules. So, I do consider it to be of some relevance in this 
case.The letter set out the FCAs view of the key risks that High Cost Lenders pose to 
consumers and the markets they operate in. On page two of this letter, the FCA sets out 
its view of the key causes of harm. It says:
Following our analysis, we see two key ways that consumers may be harmed 
across the High Cost Lenders portfolio:
a high volume of relending, which may be symptomatic of unsustainable 
lending patterns
firms affordability checks may be insufficient, leading to loans that 
customers may not be able to afford.
The FCA sets out its areas of focus for all firms in the portfolio on page three of the 
letter. The section entitled Relending says:
Relending: We have seen a high volume of relending across all credit products in 
the portfolio. We aim to carry out diagnostic work across the portfolio so that we 
can better understand the motivation for, and impact of, relending on both 
consumers and firms. This work will examine aspects of relending such as 
customers borrowing journeys, firms marketing strategies for offering additional 
credit and the costs of relending for consumers. We want to understand what 
harm, if any, relending may cause consumers. As part of this work, we will 
proactively engage with home- collected credit firms to ensure they understand our 
expectations. We will also discuss any changes to their processes as a result of 
the new rules and guidance on relending which we issued in our December 2018 
Policy Statemen ton high-cost credit.
Turning to the Dear CEO letter issued by the FCA on 15 October 2018, the third 
paragraph of this letter said:
We note that the Ombudsman has recently published four examples of 
determinations of individual complaints about payday loans to illustrate its 
approach to the issues raised in those complaints (see: https://www.financial-
ombudsman.org.uk/publications/technical.htm). If relevant, firms should take 
these examples of determinations into account as part of establishing their 
own effective procedures for complaints handling (see DISP 1.3.1R).
The FCAs High-Cost Credit Review (CP 18/43) said that those who use home credit over 
longer periods do not appear to suffer significant harm in the same way as other parts of 
the high cost credit markets, it does not mean that they do not suffer harm at all, and in 
fact is worded in such a way that leaves open the possibility that harm can be suffered.
Indeed, the high cost credit review also highlights says that: there are existing controls 
that reduce the risk of unaffordable debt and financial distress. In brief these are 
assessing creditworthiness, monitoring repayment patterns, and not encouraging 
unsustainable lending. As Ive explained, Ive seen little to no evidence of Hamsard 
deploying these controls in how it managed its lending relationship with Miss B.
And the FCAs consultation paper (CP 18/12) section 3.14 says that:
we are concerned that there is a small core of customers who are using 
home- collected credit over an extended period and that some customers are 
being unduly influenced by firms representatives to keep borrowing.
By the time she applied for loan 6, Miss B had owed Hamsard money for an unbroken 
period of around a year. And more importantly the increasing size and number of loans 
suggested that this would continue. So I think its eminently possible that the regulator had 
customers such as Miss B in mind with the above statement concerning the small core. 
And looking at the overall time period of this lending relationship, I certainly think it is entirely reasonable to describe seven years as an extended period. As Ive said I think the 
history of borrowing itself showed that the lending had become unsustainable and Miss B 
could reasonably be considered within that cohort.
To be clear, Im not finding that the loans should be upheld as Miss Bs circumstances are 
similar to market concerns the FCA has about this lending. Im highlighting this similarity to 
shows that the regulator, is now, and has been in the past, concerned with repeat lending 
in the home credit market.
The FCA published a paper on 6 August 2020 aimed at the whole high cost credit 
market about repeat lending, and home-collected credit was again included. And, again, 
it covers the FCAs view of past events and so it isnt a retrospective application of the 
rules. It said that:
We are concerned in some instances to see levels of debt and repayments 
increase significantly. We saw levels of relending often double within a 2 to 3 
year period.
And
At some point, rising levels of overall debt and repayments will become 
unsustainable for customers. From our consumer research, we are 
concerned that firms are lending to customers beyond levels which they can 
sensibly manage and causing customer harm as a result.
While I acknowledge that the FCA has said that repeat lending wont always lead to an 
unfair outcome for consumers, the FCAs publications dont state that repeat lending 
(where home- collected credit is concerned) will always be fair reasonable and 
proportionate in all circumstances. And I dont think the repeat lending here was 
reasonable.
It is worth adding that, while I dont consider that my findings are inconsistent with the 
content of the FCAs publications, I am, in any event, required by statute to decide 
what I think is fair and reasonable in the particular circumstances of Miss Bs case.
So, Im upholding the complaint about loans 6 to 38 and Hamsard should put things right.
Did Hamsard act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ive thought about everything provided. Having done so, Ive not seen anything here that 
leads me to conclude Hamsard acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss B in some 
other way.
Putting things right  what I currently think Hamsard should do
In deciding what redress Hamsard should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it stopped lending to Miss B from loan 6, as Im satisfied it 
ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Miss B may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between her and this particular lender which she may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, she may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would 
(or ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Miss B in a compliant way at this time.
And I dont think its reasonable to say that Miss B would have necessarily borrowed from 
a more expensive, or unregulated lender, if she didnt borrow from Hamsard. As Ive said 
above, we have no reasonable way of knowing what Miss B wouldve done if she didnt 
borrow from Hamsard. And its just as reasonable to assume she may have, for example, 
seen a debt management organisation and improved her finances as it is to assume she 
would use an unregulated lender.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Miss B would more likely than not have taken up any one 
of these options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Hamsards liability in this case for 
what Im satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Final Decision continued
Hamsard, and Miss B, received my provisional decision. Miss B accepted my findings
Hamsard didnt agree with my provisional decision. Ive read all of the documentation it has 
provided, but in brief it said that:
Miss B didnt raise any issues about her circumstances, or with the loans themselves, 
before making her complaint. So, its not reasonable to say she was struggling 
financially. 
The creditworthiness assessments were thorough and included looking at her bank 
statements online. These consistently showed that Miss B was not in financial 
difficulty. As earlier, Miss B didnt suggest at any point that this was the case, and her 
situation seems to have improved by the later loans. 
The agent would have checked if Miss B was taking out a loan for subsistence, a 
one-off purchase or for another reason. Miss B didnt say she was taking out the 
loans for subsistence, she was borrowing for one-off purchases or events. This is 
what these loans are for. 
Hamsard included a report by a third party into various aspects of high cost credit. 
This was mainly focussed on a cost cap in this market. Hamsard has noted that this 
report confirms that home credit is often used for significant purchases rather than 
subsistence.
Repeat lending is considered as a factor in all of Hamsards creditworthiness 
assessments. 
The FCA has not raised any concerns with how Hamsard considers repeat lending.
Miss B has started loan contracts with other providers since making the complaint. 
These loans were for much greater amounts than Hamsard ordinarily lent to her. So, 
its not credible to say the Hamsard loans made her feel trapped when she was 
borrowing larger amounts elsewhere. 
Miss B would more likely have gone to another lender. This is because she has 
received two items of further credit after she stopped borrowing from Hamsard. And it 
is unlikely that she would have had access to the mainstream credit market. So, any 
award needs to reflect the costs she would have incurred in doing this. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Hamsard has said that Miss B didnt complain about the lending, or say it was unaffordable, 
until after the lending relationship had ended. This shows that she may not have been 
concerned about the lending at the time. 
Whilst I have taken on board what Hamsard has said, I dont think this shows that Miss B 
wasnt struggling financially or reliant on the loans. Its just as reasonable to say that if she 
was reliant on the credit then she wouldnt have alerted Hamsard to this, as it may not have 
lent to her again. In any event Hamsard had a responsibility to fully find out about her 
circumstances and lend responsibly each time it gave a loan. Ive reconsidered if it did this 
below. 
Hamsard has said that it conducted adequate checks throughout the period of lending. And it 
says these checks showed that Miss B wasnt in difficulty. It said that its representative 
wouldve looked at online bank statements before lending, and the point of sale documents 
showed that she used the loans for one off purchases, rather than subsistence. These 
checks were proportionate and showed it was reasonable to lend to Miss B. 
As I said in my provisional decision I havent relied on the checks Hamsard did for loan 6 
onwards, and what these showed about Miss Bs circumstances, in order to uphold this 
complaint. I still think the checks it did for loans 1 to 5 were likely to be proportionate. And 
after this I think the lending pattern itself was harmful, and so I dont think there is a need to 
look at Miss Bs circumstances surrounding these loans in detail. But Hamsard has 
essentially said that the checks it did showed that Miss B wasnt reliant on the lending and 
she could afford the loan repayments. So, Ive looked to see if this is reasonable. 
The application forms that Hamsard has provided show that Miss B lived with her partner 
and she had two dependents. Her income was shown as originating from benefits and I think 
its reasonable to describe it as modest. 
The forms also show that Miss B confirmed that the loans were for a one off purchase each 
time. Although there were only three options to choose from (there were three boxes to tick) 
the other two being subsistence and other. And there isnt any detail about what the loans 
were for. These are very broad categories that I think, without further detail, dont add much 
to why the loans were taken. 
And in any event it doesnt mean that the loans were sustainably lent. Any lending must 
ultimately be for some kind of purchase. So even if Miss B did used the money for discrete 
purchases, the fact that she did this 38 times over a protracted period still would be an 
indication of financial problems. 
And Miss B has provided some details about her circumstances. This includes some bank 
statements, some communications from her bank, and some excerpts from her credit report. 
These arent complete, particularly during the early part of the lending. Hamsard said it 
wouldve seen her bank statements at the time of sale. 
What the information shows is that Miss B was significantly overdrawn at an early point in 
the lending. And later on she was using other short term and high cost credit providers and it 
looks to me like she was making regular payments to a debt management organisation. All 
of this to suggests that Miss B was having problems managing her money. So, I dont think 
its reasonable to say that Miss B was in good financial shape. Indeed, it seems likely she 
was reliant on this type of credit to make ends meet. 
So, I dont think its reasonable to say that Hamsard conducted an in-depth consideration of Ms Bs circumstances and the checks it did do showed that she wasnt in financial difficulty. I 
dont think the point of sale information Hamsard has supplied shows that Miss B wasnt 
reliant on this lending. 
But as Ive said, this isnt a material reason why I have upheld this complaint. I dont think 
what I said in my provisional decision is unreasonable about the pattern of lending. I still 
think the amount, frequency and overall timeframe shows that this lending was likely to be 
unsustainable by loan 6. Hamsard shouldve seen this and not lent to Miss B. That she was 
also likely to be in financial difficulty supports this. 
Hamsard hasnt commented further on what I said about repeat lending (save to say it 
disagrees). So, I wont reiterate my earlier findings. I will say that the essence of what I said 
was that Miss B borrowed a significant amount over a very long time. There were 38 loans in 
total over a roughly eight-year period. This is expensive credit intended for shorter 
timeframes than mainstream credit. So, borrowing for this length of time, and for these 
amounts, I think makes it reasonable to say that Miss B was reliant on this type of credit. 
I have read the report that Hamsard has provided that was prepared by the University of 
Bristol. This relates to a review of the high cost credit market before the FCA decided to 
impose a cost-cap in 2015. But since that report there have been many others reports, 
guidance changes and consultations made by a large number of organisations. The market 
is in a very different place now than it was in 2013. It does provide some interesting 
background and commentary on the market as a whole at the time but it doesnt provide 
evidence to persuade me to change my decision about Miss Bs case. Crucially, an 
academic report does not form the basis of how a financially regulated, responsible, 
business should operate. That basis comes from the regulations published by the regulator, 
the FCA, as I discussed at length in my provisional decision.
Hamsard has said that it thinks no compensation is due. This is because it is evident that Ms 
B was borrowing from other lenders. And so, she would have done this anyway had 
Hamsard stopped lending to her. It has noted that she has taken two loans after she stopped 
borrowing from Hamsard that it says evidences this. These were two credit agreements with 
telecommunications providers started in June and August 2020. The credit amounts were 
£732 and £269 respectively. 
Hamsard has referred to a recent court case, Kerrigan v Elevate Credit International Limited 
(t/a Sunny) [2020] EWHC. In this the judge commented that where it has been demonstrated 
that a loan was mis-sold than if it can be shown that the consumer may have compliantly 
borrowed elsewhere (under the guidelines and rules given in CONC) then the compensation 
could be reduced proportionately to reflect this. 
Ive carefully thought about this, but I dont think Hamsards submissions change anything 
here. The two credit agreements that Hamsard has referred to were started shortly outside 
of the time Miss B took the loans with Hamsard. And they seem to be a very different type of 
credit. I can accept that there is some proximity with this lending to some of the later 
Hamsard loans, and Miss B would have (presumably) been making repayments to this credit 
as well as the Hamsard loans. So, its not necessarily reasonable to say that they were a 
suitable replacement for any of the Hamsard loans. And it doesnt follow that because she 
was granted credit elsewhere after she stopped lending from Hamsard that she could have 
taken other lending earlier, whilst she was borrowing from Hamsard. 
But most importantly the judge in the Kerrigan case said that in order for it be reasonable to 
reduce any compensation it had to be shown that any other lending could have been given 
compliantly, that is, within the rules applicable at the time. And this should be considered on 
a case by case basis. I dont think this is likely here. Ive found enough evidence to say that Miss Bs lending had 
become unsustainable far earlier than 2020. In fact, over six years earlier. She continued to 
take unsustainable loans, on a non-compliant basis, from between 2013 and 2019. Which 
was just before she took the other credit that Hamsard refers to. 
So, given all the evidence Ive seen, I dont think its likely that another business would have 
been able to lend compliantly over this period. I dont think the further evidence that 
Hamsard has provided shows this. So even if these loans were broadly interchangeable, and 
made over the same time period, I dont think this would alter my findings on this issue. 
Overall, I still think Miss Bs complaint should be upheld for loans 6 to 38 and for broadly the 
same reasons that I gave in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
Hamsard shouldnt have given Miss B loans 6 to 38.
If Hamsard has sold the outstanding debts Hamsard should buy these back if it is able to 
do so and then take the following steps. If Hamsard is not able to buy the debts back then 
Hamsard should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) Hamsard should add together the total of the repayments made by Miss B towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not 
including anything it has already refunded.
B) Hamsard should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Miss B 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss B originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Hamsard should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Miss B as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Miss B having made 
overpayments then Hamsard should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to 
the date the complaint is settled. Hamsard should then refund the amounts calculated in 
A and B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in a 
surplus then the surplus should be paid to Miss B. However if there is still an 
outstanding balance then Hamsard should try to agree an affordable repayment plan 
with Miss B. Hamsard shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up of principal 
Hamsard has already written off.
E) The overall pattern of Miss Bs borrowing for loans 6 to 38 means any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so it should remove these loans entirely from Miss Bs 
credit file. Hamsard does not have to remove loan 38 from Miss Bs credit file until it has 
been repaid, but Hamsard should still remove any adverse information recorded about 
these loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Hamsard to deduct tax from this interest. Hamsard 
should give Miss B a certificate showing how much tax Hamsard has deducted, if they 
ask for one.My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Miss Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 July 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman