DRN-3632817
The complaint
The estate of Mr C has complained that that AIG Life Limited unfairly declined a claim and 
voided Mr Cs policy. The estate has also complained about the handling of the claim.
What happened
Mr C applied for a term assurance policy with critical illness cover in through a financial 
adviser in 2018. The application was accepted and cover commenced on policy on 12 July 
2018.
In March 2021 Mr C submitted a claim following a diagnosis of cancer. Very sadly Mr C died 
in April 2022.
Having assessed the claim AIG said that Mr C hadnt answered the questions correctly and if 
he had done, he would not have been offered a policy. AIG voided the policy and refunded 
Mr C the premiums he had paid. However it accepted that the service Mr C had received fell 
below its usual standards and that this had caused delays. It offered Mr C £200 in 
compensation.
Our investigator didnt think that AIG had been wrong to decline Mr Cs claim, but she felt the 
service provided to Mr C merited compensation of £450. AIG agreed to this. The 
representative of Mr Cs estate didnt. He said that AIG should be responsible for the agent, 
as the agent was aware of Mr Cs medical history. He felt that the offer of £450 was not 
enough for the poor service received.
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I would like to offer my sincere condolences to Mr Cs family. Its clear that this has 
been a very traumatic time both for Mr C before he died and for the family.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
AIG has said that Mr C failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. It 
has relied on the answers he gave to questions about his medical history on the application 
form. He answered no to the following questions:
Have  you received  or been  advised  to have  any medical  investigations,  scans  
or blood  tests  in the last 5 years?  (You  do not need  to tell us about  common  
colds,  contraception  prescriptions,  cold sores,  ear syringing  , hayfever,  holiday  
jabs,  ingrowing  toenails,  influenza,  tonsillitis,  wisdom  teeth  or regular  well-
man/wman  checks  where  the results  were all normal.  You also do not need  to 
tell us about  normal  pregnancies  and childbirth,  but must  let us know  about  
pregnancies  with complications  including  but not limited  to high blood  pressure  
and sugar  and/or  protein  in your urine.)
Have  you been  referred  to, or been  to see, any medical  practitioner  other  than 
your GP in the last 5 years?  (Examples  can include  but are not limited  to all 
visits  to a hospital  doctor,  consultant,  psychiatrist,  therapist  or other  visit to a 
clinic  or Accident  and Emergency.)
Have  you had any disorder  of the digestive  system,  including  bowel,  
stomach,  liver (including  fatty liver or hepatitis),  pancreas  or recurrent  
indigestion  or heartburn  in the last 5 years?  Please  include  ulcers,  Crohn's  
disease  , ulcerative  colitis  and bowel  polyps.  (Examples  can include,  but 
are not limited  to, gastric  or duodenal  ulcers,  hepatitis  and Crohn's  
disease)
When assessing Mr Cs claim AIG received his medical notes from his GP and treating 
specialist. It became aware that he had suffered from a small bowel obstruction in June 2015 
and again in September 2017 and had been admitted to hospital. This was confirmed as 
having been close to the site of a previous anastomosis, said to have been performed in 
2000 due to Crohns disease. Mr C was under the hospital for this condition.
I find that the questions asked were clear and in the light of the medical evidence it was 
reasonable of AIG to conclude that Mr C failed to answer the questions correctly and to treat  
the misrepresentations as qualifying ones under CIDRA.
Further questions were asked, including:
Have  you had any kidney,  bladder  or other  urinary  disorders  in the last 5 
years?  This includes  blood  or protein  in the urine  and urinary  tract 
infections  (Examples  can include,  but are not limited,  to difficulty  passing  
urine,  kidney  stones,  kidney  infections  and nephropathy)
When  was your blood  pressure  last checked  by a medical  professional?  Options  
- Within  the last 12 months  13 to 18 months  ago, More  than 18 months  ago
Mr C answered that his blood pressure check by a medical professional was within the last 
12 months. He did disclose that he had high blood pressure but the medical evidence shows the last check was in fact in September 2016  more than 18 months previous to the 
application being completed. At this time Mr Cs blood pressure was raised and an 
echocardiogram of his heart revealed he had left ventricular hypertrophy. He also underwent 
other investigations due to having blood and protein the urine. 
AIG concluded that both the above two questions had been answered incorrectly. I find that 
was a fair conclusion based on the medical evidence. AIG has shown that had the correct 
answers been given to the medical questions asked, Mr C wouldnt have been offered a 
policy. 
Mr Cs representative argues that Mr C disclosed his full medical history to the financial 
adviser who sold him the policy. He says that he was advised to answer no to the questions 
asked. However, in this decision I am looking only at the actions of AIG. AIG isnt 
responsible for the actions of the financial adviser  he wasnt AIGs agent. 
What is not in dispute is the answers given to the questions above on the application form 
were incorrect. AIG sent Mr C a copy of the answers given and asked him to make sure that 
the information given was accurate and complete. He did not advise AIG that there were any 
inaccuracies. In all the circumstances I dont find AIG was wrong to conclude that Mr C had 
made a careless misrepresentation. It has shown that this did make a difference  that is if it 
had been aware of Mr Cs full medical history it wouldnt have offered a policy. 
I understand there is some dispute as to the entry of Crohns disease in the medical records. 
For completeness I would say that having seen the underwriting guidance it is apparent that 
AIG would have declined cover for the history of bowel issues (whether Crohns disease, 
ulcerative colitis or bowel obstruction). In line with CIDRA it was entitled to void the policy 
and refund the premiums paid, which it did. Whilst I can understand how disappointing this 
was, Im satisfied that AIG has acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances by avoiding 
the policy and declining the claim. 
 Service
AIG agree that the service it offered fell below the standards that Mr C could have expected. 
Although I can see that AIG needed to wait for medical information, I agree that the claims 
process could have been more efficient. In total it took five months to give Mr C a claims 
decision, and I accept that this would have been an extremely worrying time for him. Mr C 
and Mrs C called on numerous occasions explaining the difficulties that they were facing, 
however Mr C wasnt regularly updated. In August 2021 Mr C asked for his representative to 
deal with the matter and AIG agreed to this. Nevertheless a call declining the claim was 
made directly to Mr C, ignoring this instruction. 
Ive carefully looked at what happened here and agree that compensation is merited for the 
distress caused to Mr C. I find the original offer of £200 was low, but Im satisfied that £450 
is fair in all the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. 
For the reasons given above AIG Life Limited should pay the estate of Mr C a total of £450.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr C 
to accept or reject my decision before 8 November 2022.
 Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman