DRN-1111484
complaint
Mr H says Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly lent to him.
background
Sunny provided Mr H with seven loans between May 2016 and December 2016. Mr Hs 
borrowing history was as follows:
 
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments AmountHighest 
Repayment
1 02/05/2016 29/07/2016 6 £500.00 £146.31
2 23/08/2016 25/10/2016 6 £400.00 £104.39
3 07/09/2016 25/10/2016 6 £500.00 £246.98
4 02/10/2016 25/10/2016 6 £200.00 £305.73
5 05/11/2016 28/04/2017 6 £400.00 £114.95
6 23/11/2016 01/06/2017 6 £100.00 £145.63
7 03/12/2016 31/05/2017 6 £200.00 £203.82
 
An adjudicator assessed Mr Hs complaint and thought that loan 7 shouldnt have been given 
to Mr H. He thought this because Mr Hs pattern of borrowing indicated that he had become 
persistently reliant on short term lending. Sunny disagreed with this view, explaining that it 
carried out proportionate checks and Mr Hs borrowing pattern did not suggest he was reliant 
on short term lending.
As no agreement could be reached the case was passed to me  on ombudsman  for 
a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach 
to complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and 
good industry practice - on our website.Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a 
lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult 
to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of 
time during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that 
repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming,unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to 
establish whether Mr H could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication 
a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow 
this is the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly 
and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments 
sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in 
this context and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint.
Our adjudicator didnt think Sunny needed to more when it approved loans 1 to 6. Mr H didnt 
disagree with the adjudicators opinion about these loans so I wont be making 
further findings on them although I will consider them when looking at Mr Hs overall 
financial situation.
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr H, with a view to seeing 
if there was a point at which Sunny should reasonably have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans.
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Hs case, I think that this point was reached by 
loan 7. I say this because:
At this point Sunny ought to have realised Mr H was not managing to repay his loans 
sustainably. Mr H had taken out 7 loans in around 7 months. Mr H had also borrowed multiple times in quick succession  all of the previous loans were taken out with a 3-
4 week gap between them. Some of the loans were also running concurrently  for 
example when Mr H applied for loan 7 he had loans 5 and 6 still in place. This and 
the number of loans Mr H had taken in such a short period of time means Sunny 
ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mr H was having to borrow further 
to cover the hole repaying his previous loan was leaving in his finances. This in turn 
meant that Mr Hs indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
 
Mr Hs first loan was for £500 and loan 7 was for £200. The amounts in-between 
varied and some of Mr Hs debts were also overlapping. At this point Sunny ought to 
have known that Mr H was not likely borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall in his 
income but to meet an ongoing need.
 
Sunny says it allows customers to have a maximum of four loans up to a certain 
credit limit. However, I dont think this means Mr Hs borrowing was sustainable as it 
means Mr H was increasing his borrowing to supplement his income and there was 
no indication his reliance on short term credit was coming to an end.
 
Sunny also says Mr H has no outstanding balance on any of his loans and they were 
all repaid within their contractual timeframes. It also says Mr Hs declared disposable 
income meant the loans were affordable. It says this means Mr H wasnt in financial 
hardship. But I dont think this means Mr H was managing his finances effectively, 
and the fact he managed to meet the repayments doesnt mean this was done in a 
sustainable way. Keeping up with these repayments couldve had a negative impact 
on other areas of Mr H's financial situation. 
 
I think that Mr H lost out because Sunny provided loan 7 because:
this loan had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Hs indebtedness by allowing him to 
take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the number of loans and the length of time over which Mr H borrowed was likely 
to have had negative implications on Mr Hs ability to access mainstream credit and 
so kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
 
So Im upholding the complaint about loan 7 and Sunny should put things right.
putting things right  what Sunny needs to do
Sunny shouldnt have given Mr H loan 7.
A.) Sunny should add together the total of the repayments made by towards interest, fees 
and charges on this loan, including payments made to a third party where applicable, but not 
including anything it has already refunded.
B.) Sunny should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr H 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date originally Mr H made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C.) Sunny should pay the total of A plus B.D.) The overall pattern of Mr Hs borrowing for loan 7 means any information recorded about 
it is adverse, so Sunny should remove this loan entirely from Mr Hs credit file. 
HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to deduct tax from this interest. Sunny should 
give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr Hs complaint. Elevate Credit 
International Limited should put things right for Mr H as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 July 2020.
Chandni Green
Ombudsman