DRN-4124147
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain C D Fairfield Capital Limited (CD) didnt give them good advice when 
they asked for debt counselling services  leading to a significant shortfall of unsecured debt 
owing.
Mrs S is the person who raised the complaint, so Ive largely referred to her in this decision 
for simplicity.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision setting out whatd happened, and what I thought about that. 
Ive copied the relevant elements below, and they form part of this final decision.
Mrs S said she had three problematic buy to let properties and asked CD to give her advice. 
She was concerned about a potential shortfall of debt when disposing of them and CD 
advertised themselves as negotiators of shortfall debt. Mrs S said when engaging CD that 
bankruptcy wasnt an option because her type of work depended on never having been 
made bankrupt. Mrs S said she was very clear in telling CD that she suffered from physical 
and mental health issues  and that the two outcomes she couldnt cope with were being left 
with a large debt, or potentially losing her own home and being made homeless.
Mrs S says she was advised to hand over the keys to the properties for mortgage companies 
to sell them  as the valuations at the time suggested there wouldnt be any shortfall. This 
was for two properties at the time, as a third still had tenants in it so couldnt be sold 
immediately. She was concerned about a potential shortfall if the mortgage companies sold 
the properties at less than market value  as her health couldnt cope with a large 
outstanding debt. Mrs S says additional valuations were carried out, and says she was told 
this was to protect her against mortgage lenders selling below market value. And, CD 
agreed that if there was a shortfall debt, which Mrs S says CD didnt think there would be, 
then they would act for her.
Following CDs advice, Mrs S says she handed over the keys, the two properties were sold, 
and she ended up with £86,000 worth of shortfall debt. Mrs S says over the course of 
several years she asked CD to put offers forward to the lenders to settle the debt based on 
the maximum she could afford, but shes not sure this ever happened. She later asked about 
selling the third property and wanted to know if any surplus could be used towards the offer 
 and says CD told her the lender couldnt take the money as this was now an unsecured 
debt but says this was incorrect advice as the lender did take the surplus of around £6,000.
In August 2021 Mrs S says CD approached her to review things, and the agent she spoke to 
was quite aggressive  giving her three options to move things forward. The first was to 
negotiate a monthly payment, the second was to offer a lump sum to the lenders, and the 
last was to enter into an Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA). Mrs S says none of these 
options were suitable, and that shed never have asked CD to advise her if she knew these 
were the only options available. Mrs S raised concerns over these options, to which CD said 
they were the only ones available, and she needed to take one or theyd close her file. As 
Mrs S didnt take one of the options available, they closed their file. Following this, Mrs S 
complained.
CD said they felt theyd acted fairly in their response to Mrs S, saying theyd told her it was 
possible there would be a shortfall debt that needed to be repaid in monthly instalments. 
They also said Mrs S had told them she couldnt sell the properties herself  and in relation 
to the last contact theyd been acting for Mrs S outside of the terms of the agreement. They 
said theyd simply agreed to act for Mrs S in disposing of the properties, but then things 
became more complicated and protracted as Mrs S wanted them to keep making offers to 
lenders for repayment of the debt they knew the lenders wouldnt accept. Its for these 
reasons they ended the relationship with Mrs S.
Unhappy with this, Mrs S asked us to look into things. One of our Investigators did so, but 
ultimately found CD had acted fairly, so didnt require them to do anything further.
Mrs S strongly disagreed with this. In summary, she said:
Shes not satisfied CD provided the service which was discussed with them before 
she engaged them to act for her.
She believed from the start she would have a shortfall, but it was difficult convincing 
CD of this  she added having had some conversations when she was trying to sell 
the property she expected an absolute worst case scenario of owing around £30,000.
In a call with CD she reiterated she didnt under any circumstances want a huge 
unpaid debt, wasnt concerned about keeping any of the properties if it would help to 
resolve the issue by getting rid of all of them, and that one particular property was the 
real problem as the outgoings were huge.
She asked about Assisted Voluntary Sale as shed have preferred to sell the 
properties herself to avoid any risk of a big shortfall  but she was advised by CD this 
would be difficult, cumbersome and lengthy and she accepted this professional 
opinion.
She was advised by CD shed be protected from any big shortfall by handing back 
the keys and paying for the extra valuations with their partners.
The primary concerns for Mrs S were that she wasnt left in a position where she had a huge 
debt, or that the lenders could go after her personal residence as she didnt want to be made 
homeless.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I think its important to firstly explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information 
provided by both parties, in reaching my decision. I say this as Im aware Ive summarised 
Mr and Mrs Ss complaint in considerably less detail than they have. If Ive not reflected 
something thats been said its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it 
relevant to the crux of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but 
merely to reflect my informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This 
also means I dont think its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every 
question raised unless I think its relevant to the crux of the complaint.
The crux of this complaint is whether CD have given suitable advice during the course of 
their relationship with Mrs S which has led to her being in a worse position than shed 
otherwise be in.
I have also noted CDs concerns about some of the issues Mrs S is complaining about. 
Theyve explained shes raising concerns about things not part of the original contract, or 
that theyve not charged her for. Regardless though of whether certain bits of advice formed 
part of the initial contract, or whether they were paid for, CD have still given advice on a 
large number of issues. I do understand this came from a place of wanting to help Mrs S 
who was in a vulnerable place. So, I recognise CD have done this for the right reasons  but 
that cant be a defence against giving poor or incorrect advice based on the information 
available to them. Ultimately, Mrs S is entitled to rely on the advice of CD as the 
professional.
All of that said, for the reasons Ill go on to explain, I dont currently intend to uphold this 
complaint.
The initial shortfall
I think its important we start here because fundamentally Mrs S concern about CDs advice 
is that shes ended up owing around £86,000.
CD werent responsible for disposing of the properties, or for how much the properties would 
sell for when they were disposed of. So, I cant legitimately say they initially caused this 
deficit. If Mrs S has concerns about the amounts obtained for her properties and / or the 
amount of the deficit, then shed need to take them up with the lender directly  if she hasnt 
already.
CDs advice to hand back the keys
As I understand it part of the reason Mrs S is holding CD responsible for the shortfall, is 
because of the advice given when she initially got in touch with them to discuss disposing of 
the properties.
In her response to our Investigators opinion, shes explained shed have preferred to sell the 
properties herself and negotiate with the bank on any shortfall. Mrs S says she was advised 
an Assisted Voluntary Sale would likely be more difficult, cumbersome and lengthy  but 
says she fails to see how thatd be the case and was never comfortable with this advice. She 
adds though, itd be ridiculous not to follow that advice after paying for it.
While I understand Mrs S viewpoint, this is what shes told us in January 2023. But emails 
from the time the advice was given show she felt differently.In an email sent to CD dated 23 October 2017 Mrs S writes:
Thanks for this. Youre absolutely right, normally I would be more than capable of dealing 
with this; but after two years of tenant threats and vandalism, a sea of unexpected costs, the 
properties not selling and now the fear of having no income, I am not at the top of my 
game.I worry that I would make a mistake or crack under pressure. I am nowhere near as 
together as I appear to be, Im just used to hiding it.
I believe that the correct way forward would be lender sale following voluntary surrender. I 
agree that the assisted voluntary sale sounds cumbersome, and I have already found that I 
cannot sell myself.
Its clear from reading this Mrs S was in a really difficult position, and she has my genuine 
sympathy for the position she found herself in at this time and since. But I also think its 
reasonable for me to draw the conclusions from this email that Mrs S was happy for the keys 
to be handed back to the lender for the three properties. And although Mrs S is now saying 
shed have sold the properties herself, her October 2017 email has explained she couldnt 
sell them at the time.
I have noted her comments that, following these email exchanges, shes had lots of phone 
calls with CD  and expressed different opinions on the phone.
Mrs S may well be telling the truth on this point, but CD cant provide these calls. As they 
date from 2017 to 2018 I dont find this particularly surprising. So, where evidence is 
incomplete or contradictory, as it is here, then I need to decide what I think is more likely 
than not, taking into account the information I do have.
Here, Mrs S is emphatic she would have acted differently. But the most persuasive evidence 
about where Mrs S was at during this time is her own words, in that email, which make it 
clear shes not able to sell the properties. And Id find it surprising such a clear and definitive 
position would alter when speaking to CD on the phone. So, although I understand what 
Mrs S has said, I think she was happy to abide by CDs advice to hand the keys back.
In thinking about the advice CD gave her, Ive seen nothing to suggest it was wrong factoring 
in the information shed given them. Mrs S was clear that she wasnt in a position to try and 
sell the properties and she said shed already tried but found she couldnt do it herself.
So, I dont think CD have done anything wrong regarding the advice about the sale of the 
properties.
Selling properties which then couldnt be negotiated on
Mrs S has said two of the three properties she handed back the keys for were with a lender 
who has ultimately said they wont negotiate on the outstanding debt. Thats because this 
lender holds another one of Mrs S properties. She says she didnt need to sell these two 
properties and CD shouldnt have advised her to hand the keys back on them when 
settlement couldnt be reached.
While I understand Mrs S point, I think this argument is perhaps made with the benefit of 
hindsight. 
At the time she approached CD I can see from the emails in 2017 there were discussions 
about the three properties that she handed the keys back on. I can see CD explained in an 
email Mrs S had told them these were the three she was concerned about  which included 
the two properties Mrs S now says CD shouldnt have advised her to hand the keys back.But, its clear from the emails Mrs S wanted to get rid of these properties  she talks about 
all of the money on these three properties being dead money.
In the circumstances of Mrs S not being able to sell the properties herself (as per the email 
Ive quoted above) along with her saying these are dead money, its difficult to say that their 
advice for her to sell the two properties with the same lender wasnt reasonable advice. 
Mrs Ss email persuades me she clearly wanted to sell them, and that the properties were 
costing her money she didnt want to pay out. So, I dont think CD gave incorrect advice.
Importantly, at the time of this advice the properties hadnt been sold. This means CD 
couldnt have known if there would be a shortfall, and if so, how much that would be. So, CD 
couldnt also couldnt have known if any negotiation with that lender would be needed.
Valuations  and whether there would be a shortfall
During these initial conversations I can see CD suggest Mrs S pay for valuations on her 
properties to guard against unreasonably low prices being obtained by the lenders. 
Mrs S questions whether the prices the lenders got has ever been challenged by CD. So, we 
put this to them.
Although its unclear to me exactly if CD have raised concerns about the prices obtained, I 
think this is relative to the actual valuation. If for example the valuations and prices obtained 
were fairly similar, it might not be necessary for CD to challenge the lenders  because the 
prices obtained were broadly what was expected.
In response to the query, CD said:
Property 1  valuation £90,000, sold for £80,000
Property 2  valuation £120,000, sold for £140,321
Property 3  valuation £30,000, sold for £17,500
In total then, the properties were valued at £240,000, and sold for £237,821.
I think the first property was probably sold within a reasonable price for the valuation  the 
second property sold for more, so no legitimate reason I can see to challenge it. The third 
property though sold for nearly half the valuation. CD have explained this is because 
although the first two properties had an offer, the third one didnt so it got sold at auction.  
So, Id expect this to have been challenged.
CD have said theyve been unable to challenge the price of the third property because the 
lender still holds one property for Mrs S  so the lender isnt prepared to negotiate while 
there is an existing property in place. This isnt a decision CD can influence  so, I cant say 
theyve done anything wrong.
I have also seen Mrs S concerns about trying to get CD to believe there would be a shortfall. 
While I appreciate why she would have found this frustrating, I dont consider this has made 
any difference to the position shes in. At the time of the conversations where CD said there 
might not be a shortfall, the properties hadnt been sold. So, they didnt know whether there 
would or wouldnt be a shortfall. While I acknowledge Mrs Ss strength of feeling on the 
matter, I cant though agree CD not believing there would be a shortfall led to her receiving 
incorrect advice. The properties, as a whole, sold for close to the valuation amounts. So, at 
the time of getting the valuations I think CD probably did expect there to be a shortfall. But, 
even if they didnt, I cant see how Mrs S would be in a different situation.As Ive explained above, Mrs S was clear in that she couldnt sell the properties herself, and 
when they were sold it was for broadly the amount expected. So, regardless of whether 
Mrs S sold the properties herself (which she said she couldnt) or they were sold by 
someone else, they have achieved the value broadly expected overall. And, as Ive set out 
earlier, I cant reasonably expect CD to do anything further regarding the property prices 
achieved.
CDs actions in making offers to the lenders to resolve the debt
Mrs S has raised concerns about CD not going as high as she said she could when trying to 
negotiate the amount of debt to be repaid. Shes also said every offer made, was made by 
them and shes had to continually chase them to try and resolve matters.
CD say Mrs S repeatedly wanted to make offers that they knew the lenders wouldnt accept, 
and they told her so.
I need to make it clear CD cant require a lender to accept an offer, they can only put one 
forward for the lender to consider.
This matter has been going on for a long time, so Ive looked at all the evidence Ive got, but 
not listed out everything Ive seen. Instead, Ill summarise by explaining I dont think CDs 
approach initially is inappropriate, incorrect or otherwise not in Mrs S best interests.
If a lender were to accept a lower offer than Mrs S might be prepared to make, thatd be a 
positive for her  because then shes spent less than she was prepared to in order for the 
debt to be settled.
Its extremely unfortunate for Mrs S that the lender hasnt accepted any of CDs offers. But I 
dont think that means by default CD have done anything wrong. Ive seen evidence of them 
increasing the offer for settlement of the debt once an offer had been rejected. And, 
ultimately, as none of the offers CD made have been accepted I cant reasonably say Mrs S 
was in a position to make an offer earlier that the lender would have accepted  because 
every attempted offer has been turned down.
Phone call on 13 August 2021
Mrs S has said this phone call was challenging, unexpected and not handled appropriately. 
She questions whether it was right for CD to have handled the call the way they did, given 
her history of mental and physical health which theyre well aware of.
CD say there was no real opportunity to position the call differently, but they dont accept it 
was handled inappropriately.
Our service asked CD for a copy of this call, so I could listen to it and make up my own mind 
in terms of what I thought. Unfortunately, their phone call provider has confirmed they dont 
have this call. So, as before, I need to decide what I think is more likely than not based on 
what I do have.
Its clear from the email exchange (that took place on the same day as the call) that Mrs S is 
taken aback by what CD told her  which was to present her with three options to move 
forward (Ill talk about these options in the next section). 
As this happened close to four years after Mrs S originally contracted CD to act for her, Im 
not surprised she was quite taken aback by this situation. But I also cant ignore what the 
original contract was for, what CD have done in the meantime, and whether it was wrong for 
CD to do what they did.The original contract required:
Lender mediation 
Carriage of sale negotiations  advice about any shortfall debt / voluntarily 
surrendering the properties
Post-sale shortfall negotiations
Based on everything Ive reviewed so far, Im satisfied CD met their obligations under the 
contract agreed with Mrs S. 
The contract goes on to say; We may at some time consider that we ought to stop acting for 
you, for example, if you did not respond to any requests for information or did not abide by or 
accept any advice given.
So, at the point of ending the contract, the three properties have been sold, CD had 
negotiated with the lenders to try and get them to accept a lesser amount for the debt and 
had offered advice which Mrs S didnt accept.
I cant know if the call was handled exactly as Mrs S has said. But, given up to this point itd 
been a cordial relationship (as Mrs S herself says) and because CD knew about her 
circumstances, it does seem unlikely to me CD would intentionally handle the call so badly 
as to cause Mrs S concerns. And, although Mrs S email afterwards makes it clear shes 
unhappy with the content of the call, there is nothing to suggest shes unhappy with how 
things were discussed. So, overall, I dont uphold this element of her complaint.
Options for repayment of the debt
To address these points I need to firstly set out what Mrs S said she didnt want when getting 
in touch with CD back in 2017. 
When contacting CD she explained she didnt want the opportunity of the lenders 
repossessing her house, having to make monthly payments, or being made bankrupt. She 
said what absolutely must not happen, is that shes left with a large debt.
CD explained at the time, that the lenders wouldnt make her bankrupt at worst they may add 
a floating charge. Regarding a monthly payment if there was a net shortfall theyd ask if this 
is repaid by a minimum payment plan  although this isnt guaranteed. 
In the phone call on 13 August 2021, which was then followed up by email, the three options 
were:
Fulfil the original agreement by offering a payment of £50 per month towards the 
debts
Following the sale of another property, offer an informal settlement for around 40% of 
the overall remaining debt, or
Enter into a lump sum Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA) for the remaining debt
Mrs S has said none of these options are suitable.
Regarding the monthly payment shes said shes not prepared to pay the £50 per month and 
doesnt acknowledge the debt. CD say this was covered in the original agreement as a 
possibility.Having reviewed the original agreement, it was mentioned as a possibility. Ive seen Mrs S 
further concerns that she asked about this proposal, and CD didnt reply properly to it 
leading her to think she could potentially lose her home. But, she did already have the 
information confirming her home wasnt at risk. That said, I can see CD took over two 
months to reply to her which is extremely disappointing. I think they could have replied 
quicker, but, again, Im not sure thatd have meant Mrs S would be in a different situation  
and, as I mentioned, Mrs S had already been told by CD previously she couldnt lose her 
home.
Ive noted the offers above, and its difficult to know at this stage if a 40% offer for the 
remaining debt might have any benefit. Ive seen Mrs S concerns that this should have been 
mentioned earlier. But, as I said about the previous offers, I dont think it was wrong of CD to 
start low to try and help Mrs S pay less of her debt than required.
As for the IVA, again, Mrs S thinks this should have been mentioned earlier. Given the 
length of time matters have gone on for it perhaps could have been. But, Mrs S has also 
made her position clear in that shed never want to enter into an IVA in case it harmed her 
employment prospects. So, even if CD had mentioned it earlier, I dont think Mrs S would be 
in a different situation.
I know Mrs S non-negotiable outcome was not to be left with a large debt. But, Ive found 
nothing to suggest if CD had acted differently then shed be in a different position.
Other issues
Information provided to Mrs S by CD  I understand Mrs S doesnt believe CD have 
provided her with all the information theyre required to. CD say they did send her the 
Subject Access Request (SAR) she asked for. Based on what Ive seen, it seems like 
they have sent her the SAR. Whether this contains everything expected I cant know. 
The correct entity for Mrs S to raise this with would be the Information 
Commissioners Office (ICO). 
Ive seen Mrs S concerns with CDs advice about selling a property with a £6,000 
surplus. She was told by CD the lender couldnt take this, but they ended up doing 
so. I do think this is an example of poor advice because the mortgage terms with that 
lender said what would happen. But, given the level of outstanding debt I cant agree 
with Mrs S that this amount would be the difference between the lender accepting an 
offer or not. So, although I do think they made a mistake, I dont require CD to do 
anything further on this point.
Summary
At the time Mrs S approached CD, she was clearly in a bad place in terms of her finances, 
health and options. I can see how strongly she feels that CD are responsible for the situation 
she finds herself in  and she has my significant sympathy for all of those issues. 
I can though only hold CD responsible for these issues if I think they caused them. 
Unfortunately, it appears to me that decisions Mrs S made at the time havent left her in the 
position she wants to be in now. And while she really does have my sympathy for that, Ive 
seen nothing to say CDs actions or advice have caused Mrs S any losses.Responses to my provisional decision
CD didnt reply by the deadline.
Mrs S provided a detailed response, and Ive summarised the relevant key points here:
If CD said she couldnt sell the properties herself, then theyre lying. She said she 
couldnt sell the properties herself and pay off the mortgages in full. She says shed 
had offers, which is how she calculated her debt might be £30,000, but their advice to 
hand back the keys turned this into an £80,000+ debt which they were meant to 
negotiate down but never did.
For selling properties that couldnt be negotiated on, she explained CD told her to sell 
three properties, and it was the third of those that was costing a lot. She says they 
should have told her she couldnt get a full and final settlement on them as they had 
copies of the mortgage details at this time and should have known this. She also said 
the lenders not being prepared to negotiate with an existing property in place isnt 
under CDs influence  so, she says they should have advised her to hand back the 
keys to a fourth property at the same time, or not hand back the keys to properties 
one and two while she still had property four. She says they had all the information, 
did the negotiation with the lender, and they were engaged to know this.
In respect of the valuations, she felt CD were being ingenious here and said their 
partner company provide three valuations for each of the properties  competitive, 
target and baseline. She said CD had only provided the baseline figures for each of 
the properties and said she had evidence of this.
In response to CD negotiating with the lenders to make an offer, shed never implied 
CD should be able to make the lender accept an offer. But they started making low 
offers, and that an offer of 15% would likely be accepted  so she questions how 
theyre allowed to tell her she has to offer 40% or theyll close her account with them.
As for the phone call, she finds it unfair that CD dont have a copy of it and thinks it 
should be mandatory all calls are recorded and the evidence is made available. She 
maintains the call was handled badly and says this can be picked up from the 
resulting emails.
Shes also not comfortable her home isnt at risk, and says shes still not received her 
SAR.
We asked Mrs S to provide evidence of everything she thought relevant to the complaint 
before I finalised matters  and she provided the three valuation reports from CD, along with 
two reports it seems shed had done prior to engaging CD.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted Mrs S said if CD said she couldnt sell the properties herself then theyre lying. But 
it wasnt CD that said this  it was her own email 23 October 2017 which Ive already quoted 
above. Shes explicitly said and I have already found out that I cannot sell myself. I 
appreciate Mrs S may now think she meant something else, but thats what she said, and I 
think its reasonable for me to take this at face value  otherwise she wouldnt have asked 
someone else to arrange for the sale of the properties.In respect of selling the properties Ive noted what Mrs S said, but Ive seen nothing to 
suggest CD would have known the lender wouldnt negotiate on the debt when Mrs S still 
had another property. If they had known this, then they wouldnt have told Mrs S the lender 
couldnt keep the £6,000. So, although I understand Mrs S thinks they should have known 
this, Ive seen no evidence to demonstrate that.
Ive noted Mrs S comments about CD being ingenious in only providing the lowest of the 
valuation figures. But CD told our service these were the baseline figures  and explained 
why each of the properties obtained the value they did. Ive previously explained about 
properties two and three, and property one is noted as needing updating. CD explained no 
offers were received by the lender because of the condition (which is mentioned in the report 
Mrs S has now provided) but once the price was dropped it was then sold. Collectively, the 
properties still sold for roughly the valuation amounts  and overall I still dont think CD 
needed to do anything further to challenge the prices obtained by the lenders.
In respect of the offers I do take Mrs S point that they started low and are now telling her 
that an offer of 40% needs to be made otherwise theyll close her account. Ultimately this is 
their advice at this point  which is in order to settle the debt shell need to pay 40%. Given 
the issues have been going on for many years, I can see why CD would want to bring 
matters to a close  and I also dont think its unreasonable for them to do so. To date, the 
lenders havent accepted the offers put forward, so its natural that a higher offer would need 
to be made. Thats best judged by CD, and its Mrs S choice about whether to accept it or 
not. As shes clearly not going to accept it, and given shes regularly expressed remorse for 
getting CD involved this does now leave her free to resolve matters with the lenders directly.
In respect of the phone call where Mrs S was told this I do understand her frustration. Often 
though calls are only kept for a year. I have seen the email CD sent to their phone provider 
who said they didnt have a copy of the call. Its not uncommon for financial businesses to 
not keep calls beyond a year. So, thats why I cant draw any automatic negative inferences 
from CD not having the call. And Ive carefully read back through the emails exchanged 
following the phone call. Although clearly Mrs S isnt happy, my reading of those emails is 
due to the options presented to her, rather than the tone of the phone call. So, I remain of 
the opinion its more likely than not the call was handled appropriately.
In respect of the two issues raised in the last bullet point:
If Mrs S wants more reassurance than what CD have told her, she may wish to speak 
to her lenders to find out the current situation and their intentions
I understand Mrs S will approach the Information Commissioners Office about the 
SAR, as she says shes still not had it
Overall Mrs S does genuinely still have my sympathy. But, despite her additional comments 
and evidence Ive found nothing to suggest CD have made errors leading to the losses shes 
claiming for.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 June 2023.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman