DRN-3300350
The complaint
Ms P is unhappy that Sainsburys Bank Plc refused to waive an early repayment charge 
(ERC) when she redeemed her mortgage. And she is also unhappy with the poor service 
she received.
What happened
Ms P and her late husband Mr P re-mortgaged their property with Sainsburys Bank in June 
2018 in order to buy a second property. They took out a five year fixed rate mortgage.
Unfortunately, Mr P died shortly afterwards. And Ms P subsequently decided to sell the 
mortgaged property.
Ms Ps solicitor contacted Sainsburys Bank to ask for a redemption statement, and also 
requested it to waive the early repayment charge (ERC). But there were delays in receiving 
the redemption statement, and Sainsburys Bank refused to waive the ERC. Ms P also 
received a letter after redeeming the mortgage asking for payment.
Ms P was unhappy with the way Sainsburys Bank had dealt with the redemption, and that it 
hadnt explained why it wouldnt agree to waive the ERC. She complained to Sainsburys 
Bank. And it responded. It said, in summary:
the ERC was a valid charge, but it agreed that there had been delays in considering 
her request to waive the ERC and in communicating its decision;
it also agreed that there had been delays in providing the redemption statement;
the letter Ms P had received asking for payment after the mortgage had been 
redeemed had been sent in error.
In recognition of the poor service provided it offered Ms P £175 compensation. But Ms P 
didnt accept the offer, and brought her complaint to this service.
 
Our investigator didnt think that Sainsburys Bank needed to take any further action. He 
said, in summary, that the ERC had been applied in line with the mortgage contract. And, 
while he agreed that Sainsburys Bank had caused delays, he felt that £175 compensation 
that it had offered was reasonable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms P has raised a number of issues but although Ive read and considered everything she 
has to say Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant to the crux of her complaint. So if 
I dont comment on any specific point it is not because I havent considered it but because I 
dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
As our investigator has explained, when a lender offers a fixed rate mortgage product both 
the lender and the borrower are tied into the fixed rate for the duration of the term. There is a 
cost to the lender in raising the funds to lend, which it recovers with the interest payments. If 
the borrower repays the mortgage during the fixed rate term the lender will stop receiving 
income in the form of monthly interest, and there is a risk that the lender will not recover its 
own costs incurred. This is why mortgage agreements usually include a clause requiring an 
ERC to be paid where a borrower exists a fixed rate mortgage product early. It is important 
to note that the ERC is not designed to be a penalty for the borrower. 
Ive seen a copy of the mortgage illustration that was part of the mortgage offer made to 
Ms P and Mr P in 2018. Im satisfied that this made it clear that an ERC would be payable if 
the mortgage was redeemed before June 2023. So Im satisfied that Ms P would have been 
aware of the ERC when she took out the mortgage.
I fully appreciate that when she took out the mortgage Ms P had no intention of redeeming it 
within the fixed rate period, and that this was a purely a result of her changed position. But, 
although I sympathise with Ms P, Sainsburys Bank was contractually entitled to charge the 
ERC. So I am not persuaded that it made an error when it decided not to waive the ERC. 
And, while I note that Ms P is unhappy that Sainsburys Bank hasnt explained its decision 
further, I am not persuaded that it is under any obligation to do so. 
Sainsburys Bank has accepted that there were delays in it responding to Ms Ps request for 
a redemption certificate and to waive the ERC. It has also accepted that it wrote to her in 
error after the redemption asking for payment. In recognition of the poor service provided, it 
offered her £175 compensation.
I appreciate that Ms P feels that the compensation offered is not sufficient. And she also 
says that Sainsburys Bank should pay for the additional solicitors fees she incurred as a 
result of the delays. But it was Ms Ps decision to instruct a solicitor. And, having looked at 
the breakdown of the solicitors costs as well as Sainsburys Banks contact notes, Im 
satisfied that the communication between Sainsburys Bank and the solicitors is broadly in 
line with what I would expect to see in the circumstances. So Im not persuaded it would be 
reasonable for me to ask Sainsburys Bank to compensate Ms P for her solicitors fees.
Having carefully considered the circumstances of this complaint I find the compensation that 
Sainsburys Bank has offered to be fair and reasonable. So I dont require it to do anything 
further. If Ms P now wishes to accept the compensation it offered she should contact 
Sainsburys Bank. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
Alison Cribbs
Ombudsman