DRN-3012798
The complaint
Mr G complains that Nationwide Building Society incorrectly recorded a late payment marker 
on his credit file. He would like it removed.  
What happened
In February 2021 Mr G added £1,500 to an existing loan he held with Nationwide. At the time 
he didn't realise that by adding to the loan the payment date changed from the first of each 
month to the 19th of each month. Mr G said he gets paid monthly on the 24th of the month 
and had originally set up the direct debit to take the payment shortly after. Mr G said when 
Nationwide tried to take the first payment after he added to his loan his bank account didn't 
have enough money in it. He said once this was flagged to him he immediately called the 
collections team to change the date of his direct debit from the revised payment date of 19th 
to the 26th of each month.
Mr G then said he received another letter following this which said he was two months in 
arrears and he needed to arrange to pay this off urgently. Mr G called Nationwide and 
explained that he only had one month outstanding as he set up a direct debit for the 26th of 
each month. Mr G said he also agreed to pay the outstanding loan payment in two 
instalments, half on the phone call and half the next month, when he got paid again. Mr G 
said the payment for half the missing month was taken and then on 26 May the normal 
payment came out but he still had the late payment marker. He complained to Nationwide.
In its final response Nationwide said it had reviewed the documents Mr G signed and sent 
back when topping up the loan. It said the document states that his monthly payment would 
be exactly a month after the funds were released from his account. It said it hadnt made any 
error. Mr G also complained Nationwide hadnt contacted him as it said it would when he 
complained. He brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator concluded that Nationwide hadnt made an error and the payment had been 
missed. She said that it was important for lenders to accurately represent credit data on Mr 
Gs file. Mr G was unhappy with this view and asked for a decision from an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise this will come as a disappointment to Mr G but having done so I wont be asking 
Nationwide to do anything further. 
In Mr Gs fixed sum loan agreement, which was issued when he topped up the loan, the 
payment is due one month after Nationwide sent the funds to Mr G. This made the new 
payment date the 19th of the month.  
Mr G was confused when Nationwide tried to take the payment on 19 April and called the 
Collections team. 
Ive listened to this call from 19 April. In it the operator explained the situation clearly, that 
the 19th is when the payment is due but the system would allow for a direct debit a few days 
later. He said that even if a direct debit is returned, if Mr G makes the payment within one 
month of the arrears it would have no impact on his credit file. The operator went on to say 
that it would be recorded on the system that Mr G would be paying a little later than 
expected so he would never be chased for this. Im satisfied the agent was clear that the 
payments were due on the 19th of the month as per the loan agreement. 
The operator then said he would set up the direct debit for the 26th of the month but that Mr 
G would have to make a manual payment for April. Mr G agreed to this. And he specifically 
told the operator he was making a note in his calendar to remind him to make the payment 
on 26 April. So Im satisfied Mr G was aware the payments were actually due on the 19th of 
the month and that he agreed to make the April payment manually on 26 April. For reasons 
unknown to me and despite making a reminder for himself, Mr G did not make the manual 
payment on 26 April and 19 May came and went. This meant that the payment due on 19 
April wasnt paid, the grace period finished, and the arrears tipped over into month two. 
Nationwide told this service it won't report on a loan account which is one month in arrears, 
however if its system recognised no payment had been made on the 19th of two consecutive 
months it would report the account as being in arrears at this point. Im satisfied Mr G had 
between 26 April, when he made a note in his calendar to pay and 18 May when the grace 
period would finish during which to make the payment and he didnt. On that basis 
Nationwide hasnt done anything wrong by recording a late payment marker on Mr Gs credit 
file. 
Mr G has said the real issue is that he was actually only one month in arrears. He said he 
paid everything that was due but because the date moved to the 26th this made it look like 
he was two months in arrears when it was only one. He said some common sense should be 
applied here as he got confused with the dates. I do understand Mr Gs frustration and 
having listened to the phone call on 19 April I think he was genuinely trying to rectify the 
mistake. But it is the case that he failed to make the manual payment on 26 April and Im 
satisfied he was aware he needed to.  The loan payment date was the 19th of the month, and 
despite setting up the direct debit for the 26th, the loan payment date would always be the 
19th. So when 19 April and then 19 May passed with no payments the account was two 
payments in arrears, although the second month would be due to be paid on 26 May by the 
new direct debit.  
Mr G said he made instalments for the missing payment. But the first payment was offered 
after 19 May, during the phone call he made on 24 May, triggered by the arrears letter he 
had received. So this instalment was late. So for the reasons set out above Im satisfied 
Nationwide hasnt done anything wrong. 
Mr G may be able to put a Notice of Correction on his credit file. This is a short explanation 
on the credit file which explains why certain information, for example, a one-off late payment 
marker has been recorded.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaintUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2022.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman