DRN-3062111
The complaint
Miss F complains that AvantCredit of UK LLCs loan information lacked transparency in 
terms of how it charged interest. And she feels its been inconsistent in the way it assigns 
payments towards the capital and interest components of her loan.
What happened
Miss F took out a fixed-sum loan in January 2019 for £25,000 (including administrative 
charges of £1,250), which she was due to repay at £520 a month (with a final payment of 
£520.68). Avant noted the following in the loan agreement :
The loan duration - 60 months; 
The amount of credit - £23,750;
administrative charges - £1,250;
a fixed interest rate of 9% and an APR of 11.8%, which Avant said was calculated on 
the assumption that all repayments were made in full on the repayment dates listed;
The number and amount of repayments;
The total amount repayable over the term of the loan - £31,200.68, which included  
interest of £7,450.68 (interest was charged on the amount borrowed and the 
administrative fee) if Miss F repaid the loan when expected to.
Miss F made regular payments of £520 from February 2019.
On 26 September 2019, she made a lump sum payment of £5,000 (as well as her regular 
monthly instalment of £520 for that month). Avant allocated the £5,000 payment as follows:
Amount Capital Interest
£5,000 £4,848.99 £151.01
Following the September payments, Miss Fs loan balance had reduced to £17,317.36.
After that, Miss F didnt make any further repayments until July 2020 when she paid £200. 
Once the £200 payment was made, the balance on the loan was £18,432.54. Miss F then 
made a regular monthly payment of £520 in August 2020 (all of which went towards 
interest), but the balance overall reduced to £18,032.10.
In September 2020, rather than paying her regular monthly instalment of £520, Miss F paid 
£5,000. Avant apportioned this as follows:
Amount Capital Interest
£5,000 £4,195.59 £804.41
From October 2020,  Miss F made fairly regular monthly payments albeit not for the full 
amount of £520 (no payments were made in January or May 2021). And in November 2020 
she made three separate payments totalling £1,150. In July 2021 Miss F paid £9,000 which 
was allocated as follows:
Month Amount Capital Interest
July 2021 £9,000 £8,893.11 £106.89
After shed made that payment, Miss Fs loan balance had reduced to £958.69 She didnt 
then make a regular monthly payment in August 2021, but made two payments totalling 
£400 in September 2021.
Miss F didnt think Avant had been clear or consistent when it came to interest payments 
and particularly when assigning the lump sum payments shed made. So, she complained to 
Avant.  
In its response, Avant said that when regular payments are made, theyre split between 
capital and interest, with most of the payment typically being applied to the interest  as 
interest is technically paid before the capital. It said that when it comes to additional 
payments, these are applied to future instalments and means theyre being paid early rather 
than monthly when due. And, if additional payments are made as well as the regular monthly 
instalments, it would have the effect of clearing the balance early and would reduce the 
overall interest that would accrue throughout the loan term. It added that the amount of 
interest charged depends on a number of factors  these include the number of days in the 
month (as interest is calculated daily); the number of days by which an instalment is paid 
early; and the amount of payments made (which reduces the overall amount). Avant said 
that would explain why Miss F had seen fluctuations in the amounts of interest. It added that 
by making larger payments in certain months as she had, Miss F had been able to reduce 
her loan term by 9 months as a larger part of the capital had been paid off, which in turn 
reduced the amount of interest owed. It told Miss F that if she wanted to reduce the loan 
term further, she could continue to pay her regular instalments whilst paying additional 
payments alongside. Avant didnt uphold Miss Fs complaint. 
Miss F wasnt happy with Avants response, so she complained to our service. Amongst 
other things, she said shed paid two lump sum payments of £5,000 in addition to the 
regular instalments, the first of which was made in September 2019 followed by another 
about a year later. In terms of the first £5,000 payment, only £151.01 was allocated to 
interest. And when she resumed her monthly instalments around July 2020, much of the first 
payment was used towards interest (Miss F says this was the interest that hadnt been 
applied after month 1). Yet in the case of the second £5,000 payment around September 
2020, Miss F says the interest, which amounted to over £800, appeared to have been 
applied upfront. She added that by doing it this way, less is allocated towards capital and 
assumes she wouldnt be making further payments, which she had. So, she thinks Avants 
been inconsistent in the methodologies its used when assigning lump sum payments 
towards her loan balance. 
One of our investigators looked into things and didnt think Avant had done anything wrong 
or acted unreasonably. In particular, he referred to the specific terms within the loan  
agreement which said that payments will be split between interest and capital. And when 
early repayments are made for an amount less than the full outstanding balance, your 
repayments schedule will remain the same in that you will pay the same instalment amount 
each month, however the duration of the loan agreement will be reduced and/or the final 
repayment dateif you make an early repayment in full or part, you will be charged interest 
which has accrued on a daily basis up to the date at which the early repayment is received 
by us. The investigator didnt think Avant needed to do anything more. 
Miss F didnt agree with the investigators assessment, so she asked an Ombudsman to 
consider the matter afresh. Its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, I dont think Avant has done anything wrong. So, I wont be upholding 
this complaint. 
Miss F says Avant wasnt clear about how it would apply interest to her loan. And she says 
that she wants this service to address the excessive front-loading that took place  
particularly as she thinks it was mis-leading for Avant to advertise an APR of 11.8% when it 
was front-loading interest. She also feels its been inconsistent in the way its assigned  
payments towards the capital and interest when shes made lump sum payments. And the 
upshot is Miss F feels that, despite trying to pay her loan off early (which was always her 
intention), shes been penalised by Avant.
I appreciate Miss Fs strength of feeling about this matter. I do think its worthwhile saying 
here though that were not the industry regulator, so its not for us to say how a business like 
Avant should charge interest, or to punish it if somethings gone wrong. My role in relation to 
a complaint like this is to say whether Avant  acted fairly and reasonably in Miss Fs 
particular case. And, as Ive indicated, whilst Miss F might disagree, from the evidence Ive 
seen, I dont think Avant did anything wrong. Ill now explain why.
The terms of Miss Fs loan clearly show that interest would be added to the loan upfront. 
by adding it to the amount borrowed and the associated administrative fees. And having 
done that, Avant was able to tell Miss F exactly what each of her monthly payments over 
the 60-month loan term would be. As the interest rate was fixed, it was also able to say 
how much interest Miss F would repay over the term of the loan  assuming that she made 
all repayments in full on the repayment dates listed. So, given all of this, I dont agree that 
Avant was unclear about the way it would charge interest. 
Miss F thinks structuring loans in this way penalises the borrower. The way Avant set up 
Miss Fs loan didnt seem particularly unusual and many other loans are structured in this 
way. Also, it tends to be the case that a greater proportion of the payment will go towards 
paying off the interest in the earlier days of the loan with the balance shifting as the amount 
of the loan reduces. When making overpayments, it may mean that the loan can be fully 
repaid early, assuming the regular payments are also maintained as expected. As Im 
satisfied Avant made the terms of the loan clear and those terms didnt seem unusual, it 
wouldnt be fair of me to say that Avant penalised Miss F.
Miss F also thinks Avants been inconsistent in the way it assigned her lump sum 
payments towards interest and capital. But, I dont agree. Not least because I dont think 
the circumstances surrounding the payments were exactly the same. I can see that when 
Miss F made a payment of £5,000 in September 2019, it followed many months of her 
having made her regular monthly payments of £520. Plus, she made a similar monthly 
payment alongside the extra £5,000. So, to all intents and purposes, it looked from Miss 
Fs account statement like she was making a significant overpayment likely to lead to the 
balance being repaid more quickly. As I indicated earlier, its not unusual that as the 
balance reduces, a greater proportion of the payments goes towards paying off the loan 
itself as opposed to the interest charged. So, I think that would account for why the majority 
of the £5,000 payment (£4848.99) went towards paying off the capital and the remainder 
towards interest.
However, rather than the £5,000 being extra what actually happened was that Miss F 
didnt then make any regular payments between October 2019 and June 2020. So, shed 
essentially made an advance payment rather than an overpayment. And when she did 
make a payment in July 2020 it was for £200 rather than the £520 expected. Bearing in 
mind Avant had structured the loan on the basis that it would receive 60 equal payments of 
£520 at specific dates  and had worked out how much interest it would charge on a loan 
that would be repaid in that way, I think Avant would have needed to rework the account to take account of the payment amounts and when they were actually made. And, as the next 
payment in July 2020 wasnt for the full amount, thats also likely to have affected the 
amount of interest due and the outstanding balance overall. And I can see from the 
statements that after the July 2020 payment was made, the overall loan balance had 
increased compared to September 2019. I think this (amongst the other factors mentioned) 
helps to explain why a much greater proportion of the £5,000 that was then made in 
September 2020 went towards interest than was the case previously. And whilst I 
appreciate that Miss F thinks its a sign of inconsistency, I think its simply a case of the 
circumstances being different and Avant having recalculated things to reflect that. 
Ultimately, this service is unable to audit accounts fully. Thats not our role. But based on 
what Ive seen, and explained above, I dont think that Avant has made mistakes in the 
administration of Miss Fs loan. Furthermore, loans like this are designed so that fixed 
monthly payments are made throughout the life of the loan. When lump sum payments are 
made, and then no payments made for a number of months (like in Miss Fs case), it will 
affect the amount of interest charged and can therefore be confusing when looking at 
statements. 
Miss Fs also suggested that Avant acted in an inconsistent way when she made a further 
payment of £9,000 in July 2021 because it only charged interest on the days that had 
passed since her previous payment, rather than charging it in advance for future payments. 
I asked Avant for up to date account statements. And, amongst other things, these show 
that, Miss F made fairly regular payments from September 2020 onwards (albeit not for the 
full £520 originally expected and not every month) and that her account balance continued 
to reduce. So, in these circumstances, Miss F wasnt making an advance payment in 
exactly the same way as she had before, because this payment was made alongside a 
number of fairly regular monthly payments. So, it seems to me that Avant would have 
treated some of the £9,000 payment as a partial early repayment. And, according to the 
account terms, where such a payment is made, Avant will charge interest for the days that 
have passed since the previous payment was made. I think the amount of interest charged 
is also reflective of the significantly reduced outstanding balance once the £9,000 payment 
was made. So, I think these factors combined likely account for why Avant calculated the 
interest in the way it did. But I dont agree that means it did something wrong. And, Im not 
persuaded that its a sign of inconsistency either. Rather, I think it reflects the particular 
circumstances and position of the account overall. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined, I dont think AvantCredit of UK LLC did anything wrong. So, I 
wont be upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2021.
 
Amanda Scott
Ombudsman