DRN-3054983
The complaint
Mrs Y is the administrator of the estate of Mr W. She complains that Equiniti Financial 
Services Limited began paying dividends on some of her late fathers shares to her brother in 
2016. And she complains Equiniti transferred the shares to her brother after Mr W passed 
away in 2018.
What happened
In 2016, Equiniti received a request to re-direct future dividends on shares Mr W held in a 
company I will call B. Equiniti accepted the request and future dividends were sent to a 
different bank account. 
Mr W passed away in January 2018 without making a will. Shortly after, in March and April 
2018, Mr Ws son submitted small estate declaration forms to Equiniti in respect of shares 
Mr W held at the time of his death, along with proof that Mr W had died. Equiniti accepted 
the small estates declarations and transferred the shares into the name of Mr Ws son. In 
early 2020, Mrs Y obtained letters of administration for Mr Ws estate and sent this to 
Equiniti, who confirmed the shares had been transferred to her brother in 2018. 
Mrs Y complained to Equiniti and they provided a final response in February 2020. In their 
response they said the shares were transferred to Mr Ws son based on his declaration that 
he was the only next of kin. They said they were unable to reverse the transfer. Equiniti 
explained theyd correctly dealt with the re-direction of dividends to another of Mr Ws bank 
accounts.
Mrs Y wasnt happy with Equinitis final response. She brought her complaint to our service 
where one of our investigators looked into things for her. Our investigator explained other 
certificated shares held by Mr W before he passed had been administered by another 
business. He explained we couldnt consider what happened to these shares as the other 
business was acting as a registrar and wasnt carrying out a regulated activity.
Our investigator said we could consider what Equiniti did in respect of shares in company I 
and company B. These shares were held electronically, and the action Equiniti took is a 
regulated activity. In respect of these shares, our investigator thought Equiniti acted 
reasonably when they dealt with the request for dividends to be paid to another account in 
2016. Our investigator said that in respect of the shares transferred to Mr Ws son in 2018, it 
was unreasonable for Equiniti to accept he represented the estate without carrying out 
further checks. He thought that Equiniti should either re-instate the shares as they were at 
the time they transferred them to Mr Ws son or pay the estate of Mr W the cash value of the 
shares as they stand at present. Our investigator also thought Equiniti should pay the estate 
of Mr W £250.00 for the inconvenience theyd caused.
Equiniti didnt agree with our investigator. They say they accepted the declaration made by 
Mr Ws son in good faith, and they had no evidence to show he acted fraudulently, or that 
hed acted incorrectly in claiming the shares. Equiniti asked for an ombudsman to decide the 
complaint.
Mrs Y asked if Mr Ws shares in the other companies had been certificated at the time of the 
transfer, or at the time they were later sold. Our investigator re-affirmed that these shares 
were with another business that acted as a registrar and werent something we could 
consider as there was no regulated activity.
As Id reached a significantly different outcome to our investigator I issued a provisional 
decision. I asked for any further comments or evidence from Mrs Y, as the administrator of 
Mr Ws estate, and Equiniti. In my provisional decision I said:
Its not disputed that Mr Ws son submitted a small estate declaration and indemnity form 
for the shareholdings in company I and company B. Neither is it disputed that Equiniti 
transferred the shares into the name of Mr Ws son in 2018. So, the crux of this complaint 
is whether having received a claim from the legal representative of the estate of Mr W, its 
fair and reasonable for them to decline to pay this claim.
Equiniti allow a claim without a grant of representation to be made if the value of the 
shares is less than £10,000 and Im satisfied they followed their process in this regard. In 
this case, Mr Ws son confirmed he was the only legal claimant. I dont consider that 
Equiniti has indemnified the estate of Mr W against any fraudulent claim. Instead, I intend 
saying it was Mr Ws son who indemnified Equiniti against any claim. This means I cant 
reasonably ask Equiniti to pay the estate of Mr W the value of the shares, or to cover any 
losses to the estate. This is really a matter between the estate of Mr W and Mr Ws son.
However, I can consider if Equiniti acted reasonably when they accepted the small estate 
claim form from Mr Ws son. So, Ive looked at the forms he submitted, and the copy of the 
death certificate provided, along with any other dealings Equiniti had with Mr W and his 
son. Mr Ws son declared there were no other brothers or sisters, and that he wasnt 
aware of any other claim or that anyone else intended to claim. Im satisfied that Equiniti 
acted fairly and reasonably in applying their small estates process at the time as they 
wouldnt have known there were other brothers and sisters. 
It wasnt until Mrs Y submitted a claim two years later, as the legal representative of the 
estate of Mr W, that Equiniti became aware there were other brothers and sisters who had 
a valid claim.  When Equiniti became aware of this claim I consider it was reasonable for 
them to tell the estate of Mr W to report the matter to the police as it was a civil matter. So, 
I intend saying Equiniti didnt do anything wrong here.
Ive looked into how Equiniti dealt with request to pay dividends from the shares in 
company B into another bank account in 2016. But, for very much the same reasons as 
our investigator, Im satisfied Equiniti acted reasonably in this regard. I will now explain 
why.
Mrs Y has provided a handwriting report and questioned whether her father signed the 
dividend transfer form for the shares in question. I can assure Mrs Y that Ive seen and 
read the handwriting report she has provided, but it doesnt comment on the dividend 
transfer forms completed in 2016. Instead, it focusses on documents signed between 
2008 and 2014 that relate to activities not in our jurisdiction. Ive considered the dividend 
transfer form for the shares in company B and Ive seen that they are signed by Mr W. Our 
investigator also obtained confirmation from the bank where the new account is held that 
the account was in the sole name of Mr W. So, Im persuaded its likely the dividends were 
re-directed to another account in the name of Mr W, and not his son. I intend saying that 
Equiniti acted reasonably when they processed the redirection of the dividends to this 
account.Mrs Y says that it took her a long time to obtain letters of administration on her fathers 
estate and the estate shouldve been shared between all the siblings. She says her brother 
hasnt distributed any of the estate to the siblings. She says that Equiniti didnt help her and 
refused to send her copies of documents said to have been signed by Mr W, so that she 
could have them analysed by a handwriting expert. She says she only found out from our 
investigator that we couldnt look into activities surrounding the certificated shares, and that 
Equiniti hadnt told her this.
Equiniti accepted my provisional decision without further comment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive addressed the issues Mrs Y raises on behalf of the estate of Mr W in my provisional 
decision, but I will explain further. The shares held in companies other than company I and 
company B, were certificated. Although Ive explained why we cant look into the other 
shares, that didnt stop the registrar company looking into things for Mrs Y and Ive seen that 
Equiniti did provide a response to Mrs Ys complaint about these shares in January 2020. I 
can understand Mrs Y is disappointed Equiniti hadnt made it clear which complaints we 
were able to consider, but we made it clear to Mrs Y we couldnt look into the other shares 
when we began our investigation. We explained that as they were certified shares, even 
though Mrs Y received a response from Equiniti, it was another company that was the 
registrar for these shares. This meant we couldnt investigate a complaint about these 
particular shares as the registrar wasnt carrying out a regulated activity. Our investigator 
confirmed this several months ago to Mrs Y, but I hope this adds some clarity.
I can see that Mrs Y was able to obtain the documents she required in respect of the shares 
and she sent them onto a handwriting expert. But, as I said in my provisional decision, the 
handwriting report didnt include reference to the transfer of Mr Ws bank account to another 
bank in 2016. And the report doesnt attempt to deal with the shares in company I and 
company B that are part of the complaint we can consider. So, I dont consider the 
handwriting report carries any weight in my conclusions about what happened when the 
small estates claim forms were submitted to Equiniti in March and April 2020. 
Mrs Y has also asked me to consider a medical report she submitted to our office, dated 
October 2020. This is a retrospective review of Mr Ws health conditions from his medical 
records. I have already considered this, but for the same reason Ive given above, Equiniti 
werent aware of Mr Ws medical history, nor would I reasonably expect them to be.
Ive carefully considered whether Equiniti wouldve had any awareness that there were any 
other siblings. But based on the evidence Ive seen I consider its unlikely they wouldve 
been aware. They obtained the small estates form from Mr Ws son, along with proof of 
death, and in my opinion I consider they were reasonably entitled to rely on the declarations 
signed by Mr Ws son, and they acted in good faith at the time. It wasnt until two years later 
that another claim was made by the estate, by which time the shares had long since been 
transferred. I appreciate the estate hasnt received the benefit of these shares, but Im 
persuaded Equiniti didnt do anything significantly wrong at the time. I consider it would be 
unfair and unreasonable for me to tell Equiniti to repay the value of the shares to the estate 
when they acted in good faith.
In respect of the dividends being re-directed in 2016, Im satisfied that Equiniti facilitated the 
re-direction of the funds. And, based on the evidence Ive seen Im persuaded the dividends were re-directed to an account in Mr Ws name. So, in this respect I dont consider Equiniti 
did anything wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman