DRN-2533828
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as L have complained that Zenith Insurance Plc unfairly turned
down their business interruption insurance claim, after they were forced to close due to the
Covid-19 pandemic. Mr M, director of L, has complained on Ls behalf. 
What happened
L holds a business interruption insurance policy with Zenith. Mr M claimed on Ls policy after
they were required to close due to the Governments actions in response to the pandemic.
Zenith said that, under the disease extension in Ls policy, L would only be covered
if there was an outbreak of Covid-19 at their premises. Zenith said the policy wouldnt 
provide cover for Ls business interruption if it was due to the coronavirus crisis, rather than 
an outbreak at the premises. As Mr M hadnt identified a case at Ls premises, Zenith turned 
down Ls claim.
As Mr M was unhappy with Zeniths response, he brought Ls complaint to our service. He
felt Zenith should pay their claim because theyd been required to close. 
Our investigator looked into Ls complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He thought
Zenith had turned down the claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. He
thought the policy would only cover closure due to Covid-19 if there had been a case at the
premises. And Mr M had indicated that the closure was due to the Governments actions in 
response to the pandemic, rather than because of a case of Covid-19 at the premises.
Mr M didnt think it was fair for Zenith to turn down the claim. He asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact on 
L. But for the same reasons the investigator set out, I wont be upholding Ls complaint. Ill 
explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if Zenith has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Ls claim.
The most relevant part of the policy covers business interruption loss as a consequence of:
A) closure or restrictions placed on the Premises on the advice or with the approval of the
Medical Officer of Health of the Public Authority as a result of a notifiable human disease 
manifesting itself at the Premises
Covid-19 is a notifiable disease, but I dont think this extension covers Ls claim. I say that 
because the policy requires the closure or restrictions to Ls premises to have been because 
there was a case of the notifiable disease manifesting itself at the premises. Mr M has 
indicated that he closed the premises as a result of the Government Act, rather than 
because there was a case of Covid-19 at Ls premises. 
While I recognise that the closure of the business may have prevented a case occurring at 
the premises later, unfortunately this doesnt satisfy the requirements of the terms of the 
policy for cover to be provided. 
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr M. But having considered this matter
very carefully, I dont think I can fairly ask Zenith to pay Ls claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman