DRN-1959605
The complaint
Miss D is unhappy with the way Aviva Insurance Limited is dealing with a subsidence claim 
she made on her home insurance policy.
What happened
Miss D made a claim to Aviva after noticing crack damage throughout her house and 
particularly to the rear. She took advice from a surveyor, who Ill refer to as T. They said the 
damage was due to structural movement and recommended further investigations.
Aviva appointed a loss adjuster who inspected the damage and arranged for some 
investigations to be carried out. This included surveying the drains and nearby trees, as well 
as carrying out soil tests to the rear of the house and setting up crack monitoring.
The loss adjuster accepted the damage was caused by subsidence and covered by the 
policy. It thought the problem had been caused by two nearby trees drying out the clay soil. 
It said the trees should be removed in order to stabilise the building. One of the trees 
belonged to Miss D whilst the other was the responsibility of the local authority.
Miss D wasnt sure this approach would resolve the subsidence problem. She took further 
advice from T, who said the proposal to remove trees was illogical and incorrect. T thought 
the ground wasnt strong enough to sufficiently support the property and said additional 
investigations should be carried out.
An agreement on how to progress the claim wasnt reached and Aviva registered a 
complaint. It said removal of the trees would allow the ground to recover and then repairs to 
the property could be carried out. And underpinning would only be considered if removing 
the trees wasnt possible.
Miss D referred her complaint to this service and provided further comments from T, who 
said increasing the foundation depth would reduce the risk of further movement. One of our 
investigators considered it. He was satisfied Aviva had identified the cause of the 
subsidence problem and removing the trees was a logical solution. He didnt think Aviva 
needed to underpin the house.
Miss D disagreed. In summary, she was concerned the trees werent the cause of the 
subsidence problem  and the tree removal approach wouldnt provide a long-term solution. 
In part this was because of where her tree is planted in relation to the house. An agreement 
couldnt be reached, so the complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Aviva has acted fairly, so I wont be asking it to do anything further. 
Ill explain why.
Aviva has accepted Miss Ds house has been damaged by subsidence and the claim is 
covered by the policy. This complaint is essentially about whether Avivas approach to 
dealing with the claim by removing trees is a reasonable one.
I understand Miss Ds main concern is ensuring the subsidence problem is dealt with once 
and for all. She discussed the tree removal approach with the loss adjuster. They said they 
couldnt guarantee this approach would prevent the subsidence problem from returning. 
Theyve used phrases such as we anticipate when talking about the likelihood of their 
approach stabilising the house. It seems this has made Miss D question whether the tree 
removal approach is the right one to safeguard her house.
T carried out an assessment of the loss of value to Miss Ds property whilst its suffering 
subsidence damage and the estimated figure is significant. And shes described how 
distressing the damage to her home has been. So its understandable shes seeking a 
permanent solution to the subsidence problem.
When Aviva deals with a subsidence claim, it should ensure a lasting and effective repair of 
the damage. That means stabilising the house before repairs are carried out.
The nature of subsidence means its rarely possible to be absolutely certain an approach will 
achieve stability. But I would expect Aviva to gather expert opinion and evidence about 
whats likely, on the balance of probabilities, to achieve stability in the particular 
circumstances of a claim before suggesting and carrying out an approach.
The policy only covers the cost of repairing the subsidence damage. It doesnt cover the cost 
of improving the foundations, which is what underpinning is. But if I thought the evidence 
showed that was the only way for Aviva to stabilise the house, I may find it fair for Aviva to 
pay for it to ensure a lasting and effective solution.
So Ive considered the information provided by Aviva and Miss D about the cause of 
subsidence and how to stabilise the house to decide if Avivas approach is fair in this case.
Ive watched the video Miss D sent us, which shows the position of her tree relative to her 
house very clearly. I can see the point shes making. The tree is planted in ground thats 
around 2m higher than the level of her house. The tree survey the loss adjuster arranged 
measured this tree at 5.5m away from her house. So for the roots to cause a problem, they 
would have to grow downwards and outwards extensively.
The loss adjuster considered the investigations carried out showed Miss Ds tree was 
contributing to the subsidence problem. One of the investigations looked at the soil at 
various depths below the rear of the house. The loss adjuster noted this showed the soil was 
primarily clay and significantly dried out far below ground level. Several roots of the same 
species of Miss Ds tree were found in the soil below the foundations of the house.
Im satisfied the investigation shows the tree roots have grown below the house foundation. 
And their moisture demand has dried out the clay soil, causing subsidence. In the loss 
adjusters expert opinion, removing the tree will help to stabilise the house.
Miss D has noted that removing trees can cause heave. The loss adjuster has carried out a 
heave potential calculation and concluded its within acceptable tolerance. I havent seen 
any expert evidence to challenge that conclusion. Based on this it seems unlikely that 
removing Miss Ds tree will cause a heave problem. But if it does, I would expect Aviva to 
deal with that as part of the claim. Im satisfied the loss adjuster has acted reasonably by 
checking the risk of heave before proceeding with tree removal.Ive considered the reports written by T. They say the loss adjusters approach is illogical, in 
part because of the results of the crack monitoring. In winter they showed the cracks closing. 
Thats consistent with subsidence as a result of clay shrinkage, where the soil tends to 
rehydrate during the wetter months and reverse the subsidence problem to an extent.
Through soil testing the loss adjuster has provided evidence to show Miss Ds tree is 
contributing to the subsidence problem. The loss adjuster proposes to remove that tree to 
reduce the subsidence movement. Im satisfied this is a logical and reasonable approach.
T has suggested the cause of the subsidence problem is a weakness in the ground beneath 
the house, mentioning a low, weak bearing capacity. This conclusion doesnt appear to be 
supported by soil testing. The loss adjusters conclusion about the cause of subsidence is. 
So whilst Ts suggestion cant be conclusively ruled out as a possibility, Im more persuaded 
by the expert evidence provided by Aviva.
In their comments about improving the foundation, T said this would mitigate the risk of 
further movement. I accept that. Underpinning is a method by which to stabilise a building 
and reduce the chances of further subsidence. Aviva said underpinning would be considered 
where tree removal wasnt possible, and Im satisfied thats a fair position to take here. I 
havent seen any evidence to persuade me that tree removal wont, in all likelihood, stabilise 
Miss Ds house. So I think its reasonable for Aviva to take the tree removal approach.
I recognise it doesnt come with a guarantee of success and that means its possible tree 
removal wont achieve stability. But based on the evidence and expert opinion available, Im 
satisfied Aviva has shown its likely to stabilise Miss Ds house. If it doesnt, Aviva will still be 
required to find an effective and lasting solution to the subsidence problem  and its agreed 
to consider underpinning in these circumstances.
I understand the loss adjuster has recently visited Miss D to inspect the current damage and 
discuss the next steps for the claim if she were to agree to remove her tree.
The scope of this complaint is limited to the events that occurred from the beginning of the 
claim until Avivas final response in January 2020. If Miss D is unhappy with events after that 
date, shes entitled to raise a new complaint with Aviva.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 November 2020. 
James Neville
Ombudsman