DRN-2159561
The complaint
Mr W has complained that UK Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line (UKI) hasnt paid
enough in settlement of his claim under his car insurance policy after his car was written-off
in an accident.
What happened
Mr Cs car was damaged in an accident and he made a claim under his policy. UKIs 
engineer initially valued his car at £1,131. But after Mr W challenged this, UKI revised its 
valuation to £1,250 and paid him this less the salvage value of his car on the basis he kept 
it. Mr W still wasnt happy and complained, but UKI refused to increased its valuation, so he 
complained to us.
Our investigator explained that she felt UKIs valuation was fair, as it was based on guide 
values less a deduction for the fact Mr Ws car had been a previous write-off and was 
imported and so a left-hand drive.
Mr W didnt agree with our investigator and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 2 September 2020. In this I provisionally decided the 
following:
I have checked UKIs engineers report and the table it provided in its final response letter 
to try and understand how it actually reached its valuation, including where it got its starting 
point from. But I cant really understand how it got to a valuation of £1,250. Its started at a 
value of £1,635 and then added something for the low mileage to get to £1,825. This 
seems odd, as the guides usually allow for mileage and dont show a separate adjustment 
for it. It has then deducted around 44% for what its described as Condition description. 
Its then added £219 on for Other factors. When we asked UKI to explain the adjustments 
it told us it had deducted 10% as Mr Ws car was a left-hand drive and 20% because it was 
a previous write-off. But this explanation doesnt tie in with its table showing how it 
calculated the valuation.
When I consider this type of case I look at the guides, along with any other supporting 
evidence to see whether I think the insurers valuation is reasonable. So, Ive checked the 
guides I can use in this case and one gives a valuation of £1,905 and the other gives one 
of £2,214. And I can see Mr W provided a guide valuation at £2,568, which looks fine to 
me. Its not possible to use the other guide we normally use, as the figure this gives seems 
unrealistically high, which could be due to the fact the car was re-registered in 2011.
So the average of the three relevant guides is £2,229. But this would be for a car that is 
a right-hand drive and not a previous total loss. And I agree with UKI, based on our 
experience, that these factors would reduce the likely cost of buying the same make and 
model which is also a left-hand drive and previous write-off  even allowing for all the 
optional extras  by 10% and 20% respectively. This means I think a reasonable 
valuation for Mr Ws car is £1,560, ie £2,229 less a 30% deduction. And this means I 
think UKI has paid Mr W £310 less than it should have done.
So, I think the fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint is for UKI to pay Mr W a further
£310, plus interest. The interest is because Mr W has been without this money for a long 
period of time one way or another.
I gave both parties a month to provide further representations and theyve both now said 
they agree with my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have accepted my provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from it.  
Putting things right
It follows that I still think UKI should pay Mr W a further £310, plus interest. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ws complaint and order UK Insurance Limited 
to pay him a further £310 in settlement of his claim, plus interest at eight percent simple per 
annum from the date it made the first payment on his claim to the date it pays him this 
amount1.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2020.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman
1 If UKI considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
this interest, it should tell Mr W how much it has taken off. It should also give him a 
certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate. 