DRN-3218794
The complaint
Mrs C complains about the settlement offered by The National Farmers' Union Mutual 
Insurance Society Limited trading as NFU Mutual (NFU) following a claim on her property 
insurance.
What happened
Mrs C had a property insurance policy with NFU for a building she owns and rents out. The 
property consists of a commercial unit with residential flats above. In January 2018 there 
was a fire at the property which caused extensive damage. 
Due to the damage sustained, building control advised Mrs C that the building would need to 
be supported by scaffolding to ensure the safety of passers by. Mrs C arranged for this to be 
erected to support the front elevation.
She also made a claim on her insurance. NFU accepted the claim and appointed a loss 
adjuster to attend the site and inspect the damage. 
Over the months and years that followed, the claim progressed slowly. This was in part due 
to Mrs Cs husband, who was helping with the claim, being busy with work as part of his 
construction business. But also due to delays caused by NFU. It wasnt until November 2020 
that a final settlement was agreed. 
NFU confirmed the amount required would exceed the sum insured by the policy, so it would 
only pay up to the limit of around £104,000. But it said this included the cost of the 
scaffolding that had been in place since the fire. This was charged at £190 a week which 
amounted to nearly £10,000 for each year.
Mrs C didnt think this was fair. She said it wasnt part of the repairs so shouldnt be included 
in the sum insured. She also didnt think NFU had dealt with the claim promptly which had 
caused the costs to increase further. She made a complaint.
NFU didnt uphold her complaint. It said that the cost of the scaffolding was required in order 
for the property to be reinstated, so it was right it was included in the sum insured. And it 
didnt agree it had caused any major delays in the handling of the claim.
Mrs C didnt agree. She said NFU should have made her aware much earlier on in the claim 
that the cost of the scaffolding would be included in the sum insured. She brought her 
complaint to this service.
Our investigator initially agreed with NFUs stance. However on a second review she 
recommended the complaint be upheld. She said that she thought NFU had caused a 
number of avoidable delays throughout the claim that had caused the cost of the scaffolding 
to increase, due to the increased time it needed to be in place for. And she thought NFU 
should have informed Mrs C earlier in the claim that the costs would be included in the sum 
insured. She therefore recommended NFU pay for the scaffolding costs outside of the sum 
insured. And settle the rest of the claim based on the remaining sum. She also said it should 
pay 8% interest on any costs Mrs C had already paid.
Mrs C accepted our investigators opinion, however NFU didnt. It said it didnt agree it had 
caused delays, but instead that Mrs C and her husband werent treating the claim as a 
priority due to other work commitments. And it said it had been requesting invoices for the 
scaffolding since January 2019, so Mrs C should have known this would be included in the 
sum insured. It asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs C is unhappy that NFU has included the cost of scaffolding in the sum insured. So I 
need to decide if it has acted fairly by doing so. 
The sum insured is the amount it would cost to reinstate the property. And NFU has said that 
while erecting the scaffolding was done to ensure the safety of passers-by, it was required in 
order for the building to be reinstated. I think this is a fair assessment, so I dont think it was 
unreasonable for NFU to say the costs would be included in this sum.
However, as the cost of the scaffolding was charged at a weekly rate, this meant the cost 
was directly linked to how long the claim took to settle. So essentially for every extra week 
the claim continued, the available funds for the repairs within the sum insured reduced due 
to the increased scaffolding costs. And while this isnt unreasonable, it did mean that any 
delays to the settlement had a direct impact on the final settlement. 
And having reviewed the correspondence on file, I think there were times when delays were 
caused by both NFU and Mrs C. 
Mrs C didnt always provide information that was requested by NFU promptly and there were 
a number of occasions where it had to chase her for reports and invoices that were needed 
to progress the claim. 
However I have also identified times when NFU could have done more to progress the claim. 
For example between the first instruction in January 2018 and January 2019 there was very 
little progress. And Mrs C had to contact NFU regularly for updates. NFU has said that it took 
a number of months to validate the claim and that it was waiting for extra information from 
Mrs C. However from reading the internal emails provided, I think NFU could have done 
more to ensure the claim was moved along promptly in this time.
So from everything Ive seen, I think the claim could have been progressed more promptly 
but that there were delays caused by both sides.
However most critically, I think NFU should have done more to make Mrs C aware that 
scaffolding costs would be included as part of the sum insured at a much earlier date. 
While I agree NFU acted fairly by including the costs in the sum insured, I dont think this 
would have been clear to Mrs C from the information she had. When the sum insured was 
set at the inception of the policy, Mrs C would have reasonably known that this would include 
all reinstatement costs. But its unlikely she would have been aware that scaffolding may be 
required. So while she would have been aware of the limit on the policy, I dont think she 
would reasonably be aware that this would include scaffolding costs. NFU first made her aware that these costs were included in June 2020  two and a half 
years after the claim was first made. At this point, costs had already exceeded £20,000. 
As the insurer, I think NFU had a responsibility to make sure Mrs C was aware of anything in 
the policy that may impact the claim. And as the costs were affecting the remaining sum 
insured more as time went on, I think this should have been clearly explained to her from the 
start of the claim. 
NFU has said it requested invoices for the scaffolding in 2019, however I dont agree this 
was enough to make Mrs C aware of the impact of these costs. Its usual that insurers will 
require invoices in order to validate parts of a claim. But this wouldnt put Mrs C on notice 
that these costs were included in the sum insured.
Further, NFU has repeatedly said that Mrs Cs husband, who helped manage the claim, had 
stated that he didnt consider the claim to be a priority due to other pressing work 
commitments. But had he known about the decreasing sum available, he may have 
assessed his priorities differently.
For these reasons, I agree with our investigator that NFU hasnt treated Mrs C fairly in the 
way it has settled the claim. And it should therefore offer a revised settlement, removing the 
costs of the scaffolding from the sum insured limit. 
When paying the settlement it should pay an additional 8% interest on all costs that Mrs C 
has already paid, to make up for the time she has been without the money. 
NFU should also reimburse Mrs C for the full cost of the scaffolding, again adding 8% 
interest.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I uphold Mrs Cs complaint and require The National Farmers' 
Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited trading as NFU Mutual to:
Re-calculate the settlement and reimburse Mrs C for claim costs up to the sum insured, 
excluding the scaffolding costs from this limit.
Reimburse Mrs C the full cost of the scaffolding.
Pay 8% interest on any costs already paid by Mrs C from the date payment was made 
until the date the settlement is paid. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman