DRN-3275121
The complaint
Miss R complained that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money lent to her 
irresponsibly and provided her with an unaffordable loan.
What happened
Miss R was given a loan by 118 118 Money as follows: 
Date taken Amount Term Monthly 
repaymentTotal amount 
repayableLoan 
status
22/10/2019 £2,000 18 months £177.09 £3,187.62 Debt sold
One of our adjudicators reviewed Miss Rs complaint. He didnt think that 118 118 
Money shouldve provided the loan to Miss R and he set out the steps it needed to 
take to put things right. 
118 118 Money disagreed with our adjudicators view. It mainly said that a recent default 
balance had been cleared before Miss R applied for this loan and she hadnt missed any 
payments since.  
As the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it comes to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept all these things in mind when thinking about this complaint. Id like to reassure 
118 118 Money that Ive looked at the complaint afresh and independently reached the same 
conclusions as our adjudicator. Ill explain my reasons.
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about 
when deciding whether to uphold Miss Rs complaint. 
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. This should include 
more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. And its important to keep in mind that, when working out affordability, a lender 
must take a borrower focussed approach and think carefully about the impact of the lending 
on the customer. The lending decision shouldnt only be about the business risk to the lender 
of not getting its money back. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the 
borrower can sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow 
elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, a 
proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think about whether there was any 
other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender 
shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money problems for a borrower 
who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a sustainable way. 
118 118 Money gathered some information from Miss R about her income and expenses 
before it agreed the loan. It said it completed industry standard verification checks to validate 
the information Miss R provided and it checked her credit file to understand her existing 
monthly credit commitments and credit history. 118 118 Money recorded information 
showing that Miss Rs monthly income was around £1,149 and after allowing for her 
declared monthly outgoings and an amount to cover her existing credit commitments,118 
118 Money felt the loan monthly repayments shouldve been affordable out of her disposable 
income.
I think the checks were broadly proportionate. But, like our adjudicator, I dont think 118 118 
Money properly took into account the information it had gathered about Miss Rs overall 
financial situation or the likelihood of her being able to pay its loan in a sustainable manner. 
And I dont think 118 118 Money made a fair lending decision when it lent to Miss R based 
on the information its credit checks revealed.
Despite recording information that appeared to show that Miss R had enough spare 
cash each month to cover the loan monthly repayments, I think 118 118 Money 
shouldve realised that it couldnt rely on this information. Thats because what Miss R 
had declared was significantly at odds with what 118 118 Money saw in Miss Rs credit 
history. 
I think our adjudicator was correct in saying that Miss Rs recent default was concerning. 
She had cleared the default balance of £221 in July 2019 within 3 months of this appearing 
on her credit file when the account had been passed to a debt collection agency. And in the 
3 months since she hadnt incurred any missed payments. 
But, looking at the bigger picture, Miss R also had two outstanding defaulted accounts dating 
back to 2014 and 2016. These had larger balances and it didnt look like she had made any 
progress towards repaying these accounts. I can understand why this wouldve been difficult 
for her  especially if she had prioritised the more recently defaulted account actively being 
pursued by a debt collector. She was at the limit of her £250 overdraft at the bank. 118 118 
Money was able to see that she had struggled to repay this. She had exceeded her overdraft 
limit in February and March 2019. After managing to bring the account back to a nil balance 
in May and June it had increased again up to the account limit in the following months 
possibly reflecting the extent to which Miss R was over-stretched by needing to find the 
money to repay the account in debt collection.118 118 Money understood that Miss Rs monthly income was around £1,149. So this meant 
that the total credit repayments she needed to make for this loan on top of a hire purchase 
agreement that cost her £236 each month took her debt servicing costs to around £413  
which was at least a third of her take home pay. And whilst I can understand that by this time 
the older defaults might not have been a spending priority for Miss R if they werent being 
actively pursued, this didnt also include any payment towards clearing her overdraft. 
I think these were clear warning signs that Miss Rs dependency on credit was excessive 
having regard to her income  particularly since 118 118 Money understood that she was 
living in another household and making only a modest £60 contribution towards her board. 
Especially bearing in mind that Miss R had signed up to make the repayments for the next 
18 months I think 118 118 Money ought to have realised that her credit spending was such a 
significant proportion of her take home pay each month that, in reality, this loan wasnt likely 
to be sustainably affordable for her.  
I've taken into account that 118 118 Money understood that the loan was intended for debt 
consolidation. But 118 118 Money didnt have control over how Miss R used the loan as it 
paid the loan balance to her. It wasnt clear what debt she was planning to consolidate. 
Having gained an understanding of her financial situation, I think it was apparent that there 
was a real risk Miss R would use the loan to meet other immediate spending needs. Even if 
she had used this loan to repay some existing debt, I dont think 118 118 Money had 
sufficient reason to think this wouldve improved her overall position sufficiently to achieve a 
significant and sustainable improvement in her financial situation, given the small loan value 
compared to her outstanding indebtedness overall. 
So I think 118 118 Money shouldve realised that all the indications were that Miss R would 
most likely remain in serious financial trouble regardless. And, as mentioned above, it was in 
any event unrealistic to expect her to be able to commit to paying such a significant level of 
her income towards debt repayments over the loan term. 
118 118 Money shouldve realised that this wasnt a sustainably affordable position for 
Miss R and it shouldnt have provided this loan. And I think thats borne out by the payment 
problems she subsequently ran into  which to my mind were a reasonably foreseeable 
consequence of 118 118 Money providing this loan. 
For these reasons, Im upholding Miss Rs complaint.
As Miss R has been further indebted with a high amount of interest and charges on a 
loan that she shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that she has lost out as a 
result of what 118 118 Money did wrong. So, I think 118 118 Money needs to put things 
right.
Putting things right
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that 118 118 Money should pay any additional redress. 
Miss R hasnt commented on that and I havent seen anything which makes me think 118 
118 Money acted unfairly towards Miss R in any other way. So Im not awarding any 
additional redress. 
And I think it is fair and reasonable for Miss R to repay the principal amount that she 
borrowed, because she had the benefit of that lending. But she has been charged extra for a 
loan that should not have been provided to her. 
In line with this Services approach, Miss R shouldnt repay more than the capital amount 
she borrowed. If possible, 118 118 Money should buy back any outstanding debt it has sold before doing 
what I have outlined below. If 118 118 Money isnt able to buy the debt back then it should 
liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the following:
add up the total amount of money Miss R received as a result of having been given 
the loan. The repayments Miss R made should be deducted from this amount.
If this results in Miss R having paid more than she received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement).
If any capital balance remains outstanding, then 118 118 Money should attempt to 
arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Miss R.
Whilst its fair that Miss Rs credit file is an accurate reflection of her financial history, 
its unfair that she should be disadvantaged by any adverse information recorded 
about a loan that was unfairly provided. So 118 118 Money should remove any 
negative information recorded on Miss Rs credit file regarding the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires 118 118 Money to deduct tax from this interest. 118 118 
Money should give Miss R a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if she 
asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Miss Rs complaint and direct Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money 
to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman