DRN-3250362
The complaint
Mr M complains because CIGNA Life Insurance Company of Europe SA-NV (CIGNA) 
hasnt paid a claim under his international private medical insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr M held a Global Silver international private medical insurance policy, which included 
international out-patient cover. The policy was provided by CIGNA. 
Mr M made a number of successful out-patient claims under the policy for doctors visits 
relating to a prescription for a fungal infection. Mr M subsequently made what he says is a 
similar claim in another county. 
CIGNA asked the doctor who Mr M had seen for more information about Mr Ms visit, before 
declining the claim as it said it wasnt covered under the policy because the consultation was 
for an annual health check. 
Unhappy, Mr M complained to CIGNA before bringing the matter to the attention of our 
service. Our investigator looked into what had happened but said she didnt think CIGNA 
had done anything wrong by turning down Mr Ms claim. Mr M didnt agree with our 
investigators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Rules and guidance set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say that 
insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt unreasonable reject a claim. 
Ive taken these rules and guidance into account when deciding what I think is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Ms complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ms out-patient cover say that CIGNA will pay for:
consultations or meetings with a medical practitioner which are necessary to 
diagnose an illness, or to arrange or receive treatment up to the maximum number of 
visits shown in the benefit table
The cover which Mr M holds specifically excludes the following:
Preventative treatment, including but not limited to health screening, routine health 
checks and vaccinations (unless that treatment is available under one of the options 
for which a beneficiary has cover).
Its up to Mr M to demonstrate that the claim he is making is one which is covered under his 
policy, regardless of whether other claims have been covered in the past (or since). And, 
CIGNA is entitled to make reasonable enquiries to satisfy itself that a claim is covered under 
the policy before accepting that claim. 
The invoice for the disputed claim includes the following description:
Corporate Program
Core laboratory assessment: cardiovascular and metabolic hormones, specific 
nutrients 1 Strategy Session with MC & ND (45 min) Scheduling of core diagnostics 
(chest x ray, ultrasound, bone density, mammogram)
Genova-ION Profile.
CIGNA asked Mr Ms doctor to confirm the reason Mr M was seeking medical 
advice/treatment and what it was in relation to, in terms of a diagnosis. I think CIGNA was 
reasonably entitled to request such additional information, to satisfy itself whether the claim 
was covered. Mr Ms doctor replied to say Mr M had requested:
an annual assessment. He wanted to make sure that he was healthy.
Mr Ms doctor subsequently clarified that this was a first-time visit from Mr M, that lab tests 
were performed, and a prescription was provided. She also said Mr M was:
requesting to see a doctor to do an overall assessment of healthwe just use this 
term annual as we generally dont do general assessments more than once yearly. 
We request coverage for assessment of his disease risk factors and areas of 
concern.
Mr Ms doctor also confirmed what medication that was prescribed to Mr M. CIGNA then 
asked for a comprehensive report from the doctor confirming the following:
symptoms;
onset date of symptoms;
diagnosis;
treatment prescribed.  
CIGNA chased the doctor for a response to this request but, based on the information Ive 
been provided with, no such report was received. 
Its clear that a prescription was provided to Mr M during the consultation, but this alone 
doesnt mean the claim is covered. I wouldnt expect CIGNA to make any medical 
assessments, judgements or assumptions on what it thinks was the reason for Mr Ms 
doctors visit. Instead, Id expect CIGNA to fairly assess the medical information that it has 
been provided with when making a decision about whether the claim is covered. 
Theres no medical evidence confirming that the purpose of Mr Ms doctors visit was to 
diagnose an illness or to arrange or receive treatment, as required by the policy. Mr Ms 
doctor has twice confirmed to CIGNA that the consultation was a general health 
assessment, and these arent covered under the terms and conditions of Mr Ms policy 
regardless of whether the health assessment was an annual one or a first-time visit. 
Having taken all the circumstances of the complaint into account  including the amount of 
the invoice claimed for  I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for CIGNA to decline Mr Ms claim. Im sorry to disappoint Mr M, but I wont be asking CIGNA to do anything 
further.
If Mr M wishes to provide further evidence to CIGNA, in the form of the comprehensive 
report which has already been requested from his doctor, then its open to him to do so. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2022.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman