DRN-1593346
The complaint
  Mr C and Mrs S have complained that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De 
Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A unreasonably refused to pay all of their claim under their 
travel insurance policy.
What happened
 Mr C and Mrs S had gone on holiday where it was intended they would be travelling for 6 
weeks. Just four days into their trip their money, passports, phones, money, credit cards and 
other items were stolen.
Given this they simply wanted to go home to the UK. They had to arrange emergency 
passports and pay for emergency accommodation whilst waiting for their passports and 
before they could book a flight home. That meant they also lost out on all their 
accommodation which they had booked and paid for upfront.
Mapfre accepted their claim and paid for their return flights home and their unused 
accommodation costs but didnt pay all of their emergency accommodation. It said if it did 
this Mr C and Mrs S would be a better position financially prior to the incident occurring. 
Mr C and Mrs S said the policy covered reasonable additional travelling expenses so their 
emergency accommodation costs should be paid.
Mr C and Mrs S also complained about the delays by Mapfre dealing with their claim and the 
how it interpreted the policy wording.
As Mapre wouldnt change its stance Mr C and Mrs S brought their complaint to us. 
The investigator noted Mapfre had paid £64.75 of the emergency accommodation costs 
leaving £742.32 unpaid. So he thought Mapfre should pay that remainder. Mapfre said such 
costs werent covered and it had paid the £64.75 as a gesture of goodwill.  
Consequently Mr C and Mrs Ss complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  Having done so Im upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why.
 
Its clear that the policy says the following:
1) The value of the portion or your travel and/or accommodation arrangements 
which have not been used and which were paid for before your departure from your 
home country . if you and where appropriate a companion have to curtail your 
trip and return to your home earlier than planned due to: 

c) you being unable to continue your trip, as detailed in your travel itinerary, due to 
loss or theft of your passport, or that of any person you are travelling with;

2) Reasonable additional travelling expenses incurred by you for returning to your 
home country (economy class) earlier than planned for a reason stated in benefit 1 of 
this section.
So I consider its right that Mapfre paid the unused accommodation costs which Mr C and 
Mrs S didnt use given they came home early. Its also right that Mapfre paid the cost of the 
earlier flights home too. 
However, its clause talks of reasonable additional travelling expenses incurred by you for 
returning to your home country. It doesnt categorically state this was merely limited to 
economy class travel costs only, as against any other costs, as I consider if it did, it would 
have been defined with far greater clarity. I consider reasonable additional travelling 
expenses incurred for returning to your home country could reasonably include the 
necessary accommodation expenses necessary to procure the replacement passports Mr C 
and Mrs S needed in order to come home too. I consider that having to wait around for the 
replacement passports to be able to get on the flight to return to your home country to be 
reasonable additional travelling expenses. That waiting around was completely out of the 
control of Mr C and Mrs S who said if they could have got on a flight home the day of the 
theft they would have done so.
I feel because Mapfre decided to pay the difference of the costs between the emergency 
accommodation and the unused accommodation so that (as it said) to ensure the customer 
was put back into the situation it was before the incident occurred, its more reasonably to 
pay the emergency accommodation costs too. These are costs but for the theft of their 
passports Mr C and Mrs S would have never incurred. Therefore it follows on a fair and 
reasonable basis in the particular circumstances of the facts here, Mr C and Mrs Ss loss 
flows from the theft of the passports which is covered under the reasonable additional 
expenses provision in this policy. 
Between 4 March and 14 March whilst waiting for their replacement passports to get back to 
the UK, Mr C and Mrs S incurred costs for their emergency accommodation of which 
£738.49 still remains not yet refunded by Mapfre. Mapfre acknowledges that insurance is 
designed to put the policyholder back in the same financial position they were in before the 
loss but not better off. Here then by definition this includes these additional unforeseen and 
quite substantial costs incurred by Mr C and Mrs S in having to wait such a considerable 
time for the replacement passports. 
Looking at it another way, had Mr C and Mrs S not been insured, they would have incurred 
all the costs of their unused accommodation and flights, the costs of the new flight home 
plus these additional accommodation costs waiting for their replacement passports. Merely 
refunding them the losses of the unused accommodation and flight costs plus their new 
flights home doesnt put them back in the same financial position they would have been in 
had the theft not occurred. So theres no question that refunding them these additional 
expenses puts Mr C and Mrs S in a better financial position.
Therefore I think its fair and reasonable that these reasonable additional costs are now 
refunded by Mapfre here with interest. 
Like the investigator I dont consider there was extensive delay in Mapfre dealing with Mr C 
and Mrs Ss claim, it did have a considerable number of different accommodation costs and 
flight costs to assess.This service has no power to tell Mapfre how to word its policy we merely have the power to 
assess whether it was clear enough and if not how it should then be interpreted which is 
what Ive done here.  
My final decision
So for these reasons its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A 
to do the following:
Pay the remainder of the costs incurred by Mr C and Mrs S whilst waiting for their 
emergency passports to be available in the sum of £738.49. 
Add interest of 8% simple per year from the date of Mr C and Mrs Ss claim to date of 
their refund. If income tax is to be deducted from the interest, appropriate 
documentation should be provided to Mr C and Mrs S for HMRC purposes. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 January 2021.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman