DRN-2039400
The complaint
Miss R complains that a car acquired with finance from Santander Consumer (UK) Plc 
wasnt of satisfactory quality.  
What happened
In June 2019 Miss R was supplied with a car and entered into a conditional sale agreement.
Just over a month after getting the car, whilst driving on the motorway, Miss R experienced a 
warning light illuminating on the dashboard and then immediately going off again. Very 
shortly afterwards all of the lights on the dashboard illuminated and the car lost power and 
had to be pulled over on the hard shoulder.
A breakdown vehicle attended. Miss R says that when the bonnet was lifted, there was 
smoke and a burning smell.
The car was recovered to the supplying dealer who arranged for an independent inspection. 
Following the inspection, the supplying dealer offered to pay 25% towards the costs of repair 
but refused to meet all the costs because it said Miss R had continued to drive with the 
warning lights illuminated causing drive on damage.
Miss R complained to Santander. It responded and said the independent inspection report 
stated that a warning light wouldve been illuminated, and that Mis R shouldve stopped the 
car at that point. It also said that the low coolant level noted by the engineer during the 
inspection was Miss Rs responsibility.
Miss R arranged for a further independent inspection of the car. This was inconclusive and 
the engineer said the engine would need to be dismantled before the cause of the 
breakdown could be established.
Miss R arranged for her local garage to dismantle the engine. A further independent 
inspection was carried out and this concluded that there was a fault with the injector which 
had caused the engine failure, and which would have been present at the point of supply.
Because Santander rejected her complaint, Miss R brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She didnt think the car was of satisfactory quality at 
the point of supply and said the supplying dealer hadnt offered a repair in accordance with 
its obligations under relevant legislation. The investigator said Santander should allow Miss 
R to reject the car.
Santander didnt agree. It said that the first independent inspection contradicted the second 
independent inspection with regards to the coolant hoses. It arranged for a further inspection 
by the company who had carried out the first independent inspection, but this was 
inconclusive because the engineer said the cylinder head would need to be removed so that 
all internal areas of the engine could be inspected.
Santander also provided some comments from the supplying dealer. The supplying dealer 
said that the second independent inspection didnt make sense because if there had been 
an issue with the injector the engine management system would have logged this, would 
have illuminated the engine management light and would have caused the car to lose power. 
The supplying dealer thought that it wasnt the injector that was the cause of the fault and 
that the damage to these components occurred after the car had been stopped. It said it 
thought the car had suffered damage caused by excessive thermal overload because Miss R 
had carried ion driving the car without observing the onboard warning systems.
Following this, Santander asked an engineer to comment on both independent inspections. 
The engineer said he didnt fully support the first independent inspectors conclusions 
because he hadnt taken causation into account. He also said that some of the initial 
damage caused would have rendered the engine un-repairable so the car required a 
replacement engine, and it wouldnt have made a difference that the car was driven with the 
engine seized or not. The engineer said there was evidence that work had been carried out 
to the fuel injectors previously which was likely to have been prior to the point of supply. He 
concluded that the fault would have been developing at the point of supply.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Santander supplied the car under a conditional sale agreement, theres an implied 
term that it is of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory is what a reaosbsale person would regard 
as acceptable, taking into account factors such as the age and mileage of the car and the 
price paid.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs in the first 6 months, theres a 
presumption that the fault was present or developing at the point of supply and its generally 
up to the business to put tings right. The business sis allowed one opportunity to repair the 
fault. If the repair isnt successful, the consumer can reject the car.
Miss R and Santander disagree about whether the car had a fault at the point of supply. In 
order to reach a decision, I need to look at all the available information and determine, on 
the balance of probabilities, whether the car was of satisfactory quality.
An expert report can help to decide whether a car is of satisfactory quality. In this case, there 
have been two separate independent inspections and a further report from an expert 
engineer who has commented on both independent reports.
Ive read both independent inspections. Im not going to comment in detail on what each 
report says but will focus on those parts which are most relevant to my decision.
The first inspection report (DEKRA) concludes that the coolant was low, which caused the 
temperature of the engine to rise. It says the rise in temperature wouldve been visible on the 
temperature gauge and that a warning light wouldve been displayed to stop the car. It says 
the car suffered thermal overload caused by drive on damage.
The second report (ACE) found that one of the cylinders had melted consistent with poor 
injection. It also found that the fuel injectors had marks on them indicating that they had 
previously been removed and repaired. It concluded that poor fuelling had caused damage 
and overheating to cylinder number one which had led to overheating and seizure of the 
engine. It said the fault wouldve been present at the point of supply and not cause by driver 
error.The engineer who commented on both reports was of the view that there had been pre point 
of supply repairs to the fuel injectors and that the cause of the fault was a failing fuel injector. 
He commented on drive on damage and said it was likely that the initial damage had 
rendered the engine un-repairable, and that although there may have been an element of 
drive on damage, this made no difference because the initial damage meant the engine 
would have to be replaced in any event. 
Ive also read the comments from the supplying dealer although Im not attaching as much 
weight to these as to the expert reports. Im of the view that much of what the supplying 
dealer has said is speculation, because  I havent seen anything to suggest that the 
supplying dealer inspected the car itself.
Ive taken account of the comments made about the warning light and Ive considered 
whether Miss R continuing to drive would have caused drive on damage. Miss R says the 
waring light was only displayed momentarily before it went off again in any event. Given that 
Miss R was on the motorway when the light illuminated, I dont think its unreasonable that 
she carried on driving until she could safely pull on to the hard shoulder. And even if she did 
drive on with the warning light for a short time, the engineer who commented on both 
inspection reports has said this would be make an overall difference to the fact that the initial 
fault rendered the engine un-repairable.
Taking all of the available information into account, I think its more likely that the cause of 
the fault was a failing injector. Im persuaded by the second (ACE) report because this is the 
only report  which has considered the internal engine damage and which inspected the failed 
component parts. The second report is largely supported by the engineer who commented 
on both reports, which adds weight to this particular report. 
Putting things right
Based on what Ive seen, I dint think the car was of satisfactory quality and Im of the view 
that the business should put things right. I can see that the supplying dealer offered to meet 
25% of the costs of repair but this isnt sufficient to meet its obligations to repair under the 
relevant legislation. In the circumstances, I think the supplying dealer has declined its 
opportunity to repair. Miss R should be allowed to reject the car.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Santander Consumer (UK) Plc must:
Allow Miss R to reject the car
End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Miss R
Refund the deposit of £4500
Refund all monthly payments made (except for the first months payment)
Reimburse Miss M the costs of the independent inspections (£114 and £240)
Reimburse Miss R the cost of dismantling the engine (£493.20)
Refund Miss Rs insurance payments from August 2019 onwards (upon receipt of 
proof of payment from Miss R)Refund the costs of having the car recovered following the breakdown (£292.50)
Pay simple interest of 8% per annum on all the sums above from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement
Pay compensation to Miss R for distress and inconvenience of £150
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 April 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman