DRN-1813049
The complaint
Ms H complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc reversed a payment of £50 and returned it to the 
sender.  
What happened
Ms Hs friend made a payment of £50 into her account, via faster payment, in March 2019. 
The £50 was removed from the account several days later. In its final response, HSBC 
explained that the reversal was initiated by the sender. They said they wouldnt share the 
reasons why, as this information related to a different customers accounts and was 
restricted under GDPR rules. Ultimately, they felt they hadnt made a mistake. 
Our investigator concluded that the payment reversal had occurred due to technical issues 
on HSBCs side. HSBC agreed and couldnt explain why the reversal had taken place. 
The investigator didnt think it would be fair to make HSBC compensate for the reversed 
payment itself, as they were satisfied the payment made by Ms Hs friend had been credited 
back to them. Ms H would need to discuss further payment with her friend directly. 
HSBC spent some time trying to find out why the payment reversed, which caused Ms H 
some trouble and upset. The investigator felt HSBC should pay £75 compensation. 
Ms H didnt agree with the investigator believing the money hadnt been returned to her 
friend. She remained unhappy that it had broken the banking rules and felt that they 
shouldnt be allowed to operate in this way. She had also asked for a specific reason as to 
why the payment was reversed.
Ms H also explained that the reversal had put a strain on her friendship and caused her 
stress, which she has to avoid due to her health conditions. She feels HSBC should take 
responsibility for that, return the £50 to her account and pay additional compensation for the 
trouble and upset she experienced. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Based on what Ive seen, Ive arrived at 
the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. 
I understand Ms H would like us to give her a definitive reason as to how and why the 
payment reversal took place. But weve asked HSBC several times how the error took place 
and it couldnt answer this, so unfortunately for Ms H I cant comment any further on that. 
Our role is to consider what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances and determine 
complaints quickly and with minimal formality.
The main issues here are where the money went and what impact did this have on Ms H. 
Faster Payments cant be reversed by the sender and so HSBCs initial explanation was 
mistaken and it accepts this. So without an explanation and the time it took HSBC to 
investigate the matter for Ms H, she has been caused an amount of distress and inconvenience. HSBC accepts it should pay £75 and Im satisfied thats fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances. 
HSBC has provided its system information which shows the £50 was returned to sender. It 
wouldnt therefore be fair for me to require HSBC to pay Ms H this amount  she will need to 
take the matter up with her friend.
Putting things right
To put things right HSBC should pay Ms H £75 compensation. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct HSBC UK Bank to pay £75 to Ms 
H.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2020.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman