DRN-2270618
The complaint
Mrs L is unhappy that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited terminated a successful 
claim shed made on her employers group income protection policy. 
 
What happened
Mrs L became absent from work with symptoms of stress, anxiety, depression and chronic 
pain. In April 2018 she claimed on her employers group income protection policy. The claim 
was accepted in May 2018 and reviewed regularly by L&G. In June 2019 they terminated the 
claim saying that Mrs L no longer met the policy definition of incapacity. Mrs L appealed but 
was unsuccessful. She complained to L&G. 
L&G said that they had reasonably terminated the benefit and that Mrs Ls continued 
absence was related to her personal circumstances and issues relating to her close family, 
rather than her mental health issues. They said her difficult personal circumstances were the 
main barrier to her return to work. Unhappy, Mrs L complained to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and upheld the complaint. During the time 
that the complaint was with our service Mrs Ls employment was terminated. The 
investigator upheld Mrs Ls complaint as he didnt think there was enough evidence to 
suggest Mrs L wasnt engaging in her treatment as the rehabilitation reports had suggested. 
He noted that she had completed a course of Cognitive Behavioural Therapy (CBT) and 
remained on anti-depressants. He said there was no independent report saying that she was 
fit to return to work. So, he thought L&G should backdate the payments, add 8% simple 
interest and pay £200 compensation to Mrs L. 
Mrs L accepted the decision but L&G asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. They 
said that one occupational health report shouldnt have outweighed the five consultations 
with the Rehabilitation Specialist Nurse and it wasnt the insurers responsibility to gather 
further evidence when the available evidence suggested the definition of incapacity was no 
longer met. They queried the legal basis for dismissing the evidence and that they shouldnt 
have to pay compensation for legitimately ending the claim based on the medical evidence. 
I asked the investigator to clarify that the benefit would end on the termination of Mrs Ls 
contract of employment. L&G replied to say that if the ombudsman didnt intend to alter the 
initial the view they required me to clearly explain: 
Why a healthcare practitioner who has consulted this patient during there 
absence on three occasions is not better placed and more familiar with the 
current circumstances that led to the subsequent cessation of benefit in June 
2019? 
Whilst noting that the last occupational health opinion in December 2018 said 
Mrs L was unfit, this was at a time when benefits were in payment. As such, if 
there is no subsequent healthcare view or opinion to reaffirm them as not fit 
for work, but there are three separate consultations with a rehabilitation 
specialist since the time of that OH opinion, each confirming Mrs L is capable 
and fit to work, what more information would they be expected to obtain to 
prove or demonstrate that the definition of incapacity no longer continues to 
be met?
So, I need to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that L&G has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. As L&G accepted the 
claim its for them to demonstrate that the decision to terminate the claim was fair. I dont 
think it was because: 
In December 2018 L&Gs nurse was openly sceptical of Mrs Ls willingness to return 
to work and the effectiveness of future treatment. But I dont think that it was 
reasonable to conclude that Mrs L was refusing to engage with treatment based on 
the evidence Ive seen. She was waiting for CBT for a little while and had to cancel 
an appointment because of her mobility issues. Mrs L is known to have some issues 
with her mobility and shes been taking painkillers for this for some time.  When she 
was offered appointments with a private provider via her private health insurer they 
involved a two hour round trip which, I think understandably, Mrs L felt was too far 
away 
 
By January 2019 Mrs L had started a course of CBT, which she ultimately completed 
in full. The review report acknowledged that Mrs Ls mental health was affected by 
her personal circumstances, which related to her son. In March 2019 Mrs L had 
completed approximately four sessions but stated she didnt feel she gelled with the 
counsellor very well. But, despite this, the nurse concluded Mrs L wasnt helping her 
overall situation and remained focused on her family circumstances. Despite Mrs L 
telling the nurse that she felt she may be able to return to work if she could work 
from home, the report concluded that Mrs L had no intention of returning to work in 
the near future. So, I dont think the conclusions of the rehabilitation reviews always 
fully and fairly reflected the wider body of information available 
I acknowledge that L&G were concerned about Mrs Ls motivation to return to work. 
But I dont think it was reasonable to rely upon a series of relatively short reports 
which were compiled during telephone interviews to terminate the claim in the 
circumstances of this case. The nurse who compiled the reports didnt meet Mrs L 
and L&G didnt seek input from her treating team about her health. I think that before 
terminating the claim it would have been reasonable to obtain a more detailed 
assessment of Mrs Ls mental health and functional capability in order to determine 
whether she still met the policy definition of incapacity rather than relying on a series 
of telephone based assessments I accept that there were issues relating to Mrs Ls personal circumstances which 
may have impacted her motivation to return to work. But I also think those 
circumstances could have reasonably impacted on her mental health and, 
consequently, her ability to work. I also note that Mrs Ls job involved supporting 
people with mental health problems and she expressed concerns about her ability to 
cope with this aspect of her job. I dont think L&G, having accepted the claim, had a 
real insight into Mrs Ls mental health at the point the claim was terminated and, 
specifically, how it impacted on her ability to work. So, I dont think it was fair and 
reasonable to conclude that she no longer met the policy definition on incapacity 
based on the evidence Ive seen
Mrs L has since lost her job and this decision was based on her no longer being able 
to claim income protection. Her entitlement to benefit ceased at that point. 
Putting things right
I think that L&G should put things right by paying Mrs L:
The relevant monthly benefit from the date the claim was terminated until the date 
her employment was terminated in March 2020. They should also add 8% simple 
interest from the date the payments should have been made to the date of settlement
£200 compensation for unfairly terminating Mrs Ls benefit and the distress and 
inconvenience caused by her not receiving her income during an already difficult 
time. I think that this could have been avoided had L&G taken further steps to 
understand her circumstances, before terminating the claim.
 
My final decision
Im upholding this complaint and direct Legal and General Assurance Society Limited to put 
things right in the way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2020.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman