DRN-3479680
The complaint
Mrs W complains One Insurance Limited (One Insurance) unfairly declined her claim on her 
motor insurance policy and avoided her policy.
There are several parties and representatives of One Insurance involved throughout the 
complaint but for the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to One Insurance.
What happened
Mrs W took out a motor insurance policy with One Insurance through a price comparison 
site. This was an on-line application. 
When Mrs W made a claim on her policy it was found by One Insurance that her car had 
been previously written off.
One Insurance rejected Mrs Ws claim, avoided her policy for the reason of careless 
misrepresentation and refunded her premiums.
Mrs W said that at no time during the on-line sign up process was she asked whether the car 
was previously salvaged. She said One Insurance should reinstate her policy and settle her 
claim. 
One Insurance said during the on-line sign up process a pop up assumption box provided 
information that the car must not be a registered write off prior to purchasing the insurance 
policy. It said Mrs W had not disclosed this and it did not cover cars registered that had 
either been written off or a previous total loss. It said this meant it could avoid her policy and 
decline to settle any claim
As Mrs W was not happy with One Insurance, she brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He looked into the case and said One Insurance had 
not shown that Mrs W had not answered the question in the assumption box incorrectly or 
that she didnt take reasonable care. He said One Insurance should remove the avoidance 
maker and consider Mrs Ws claim.
One Insurance doesnt agree with the investigator and has asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. It said it had not seen any evidence that this assumption box did not pop up on the 
online journey for Mrs W in April 2021.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
One Insurance thinks Mrs W failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
when she completed her on-line application. It said she made a careless misrepresentation 
and so it avoided her policy and refunded her premium.
One Insurance said during the on-line sign up process a pop up assumption box provided 
information that the car must not be a registered write off prior to purchasing the insurance 
policy. It said it did not offer cover for cars that had been a write-off.
  
Mrs W said she wasnt shown an assumption box when following the on-line application. She 
supplied video evidence that shows the online application process. In her evidence no pop 
up assumption box appears during the process.
One Insurance believe this evidence is irrelevant as it was completed after Mrs Ws original 
quote was completed. However it is unable to evidence the actual on-line journey she took in 
April 2021 due to previous IT problems so is unable to prove the assumption box appeared.
As there is a clear difference of view between One Insurance and Mrs W as to whether the 
pop-up assumption box appeared, I also looked at the paperwork provided to Mrs W after 
the quotation was accepted. I looked at the new business letter sent on 3 April 2021, the 
certificate of insurance and the statement of fact.
I have seen One Insurances underwriting criteria and this did confirm that a vehicle write-off 
is a decline of cover for any customer. However, I found nothing in any of the policy 
documents or letter that references anything about write off/total loss cars not being 
accepted on the policy.
I also looked at the specific application questions asked by One Insurance when Mrs W took 
out her policy. There was no specific question about if the car was a previous write off.
Therefore, I uphold Mrs Ws complaint as I cannot say with certainty that she did not take 
reasonable care. Therefore, there is no misrepresentation in this case. I think One Insurance 
have unfairly avoided her policy for the reason of careless misrepresentation. 
It is my decision that One Insurance should re-instate Mrs Ws policy and settle her claim in 
accordance with terms of the policy. As it has already refunded Mrs Ws premiums, it can 
reduce any claim settlement payment by the amount of the premiums already refunded to 
her. One Insurance should also remove the reference to policy avoidance from any internal 
and external records in relation to Mrs W and her policy.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ws complaint. 
I require One Insurance Limited:
To reinstate Mrs Ws motor insurance policy.
To settle Mrs Ws claim. One Insurance Limited may reduce any settlement by the 
amount of the refunded premiums and apply any applicable excess. This should be 
completed within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mrs W accepts my final decision.
To remove all references to policy avoidance from any internal and external records and 
confirm this in writing to Mrs W.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2022.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman