DRN-4379977
The complaint
Mr C complains about advice provided by Quilter Financial Services Ltd (Quilter) to transfer 
his defined occupational pension (DB) scheme into a Self-Invested Personal Pension 
(SIPP). Mr C believes the advice to transfer was unsuitable because it wasnt in his best 
interests and has caused a financial loss. Mr C complained jointly with Mrs C, but her 
complaint is being considered separately under a different reference.
What happened
Mr C alongside his wife approached Quilter in 2019 to discuss their pension and retirement 
needs. TAG Wealth Management were an appointed representative of Quilter at the time of 
advice and it was their adviser who met with Mr and Mr C. Therefore, as the principal firm, 
Quilter are responsible for the advice given. 
Quilter completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances and 
objectives. Quilter also carried out an assessment of their attitude to risk, which it deemed to 
be balanced.
On 1 September 2019 Quilter advised Mr C to transfer his pension benefits into a SIPP to 
purchase a commercial property and hold this within the pension. The suitability report said 
the reasons for this recommendation were:
Mr and Mrs C wanted to purchase the commercial property their
business operated from and hold this within a SIPP.
They wanted flexibility on retirement, and the potential for higher/more flexible
death benefits.
Mr C complained to Quilter in February 2023, raising concerns the advice was
unsuitable for the following reasons:
Mr C believes his objectives could have been met without losing the defined
benefit pension.
Mr C was only 43 at the time of advice, so still had many years until
retirement. He doesnt feel a transfer should have been considered until at least age
55.
There was no financial reason to go ahead with the transfer. The TVC showed a
large shortfall on transfer, so Mr C doesnt believe he should have been
advised to proceed.
Quilter didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. It said the advice had been appropriate. It said the 
adviser had met the objectives required by Mr and Mrs C and if they had any queries about 
this, they shouldve been raised at the time. They said the adviser had correctly followed all 
the relevant procedures to provide a suitable recommendation for their objectives and 
circumstances.
Initially our investigator felt that Mr and Mrs C werent eligible complainants as she felt they 
had sought advice in relation to their business and not their personal retirement objectives. 
However, an ombudsman at this service decided that this was not the case. The 
ombudsman explained that Mr and Mrs C whilst clearly wishing to explore the possibility of 
holding a commercial property within their pension. They were ultimately considering their 
wider retirement aims and the evidence supports this. So she explained that Mr and Mrs C 
were acting wholly or mainly outside their business trade or profession when they sought 
advice.
Our investigator then considered the merits of the complaint and required Quilter to pay 
compensation. She said that the financial viability of the transfer wasnt in Mr Cs favour. And 
his objectives couldve been met by other methods whilst keeping his valuable DB benefits in 
place. Or failing that, the objective shouldnt have been recommended over keeping in place 
the DB benefits. So, she didnt think the transfer had been in Mr Cs best interests.
Quilter disagreed, saying after consideration it still felt the adviser did act fairly. It said the 
investigators arguments were subjective. And the adviser followed the correct procedures. It 
said it failed to understand why after three and a half years after the recommendation the 
clients then decided it was not the best course of action. It feels the particulars of this case 
are subjective and so wished to receive an ombudsmans final decision.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Quilter's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Quilter 
should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in 
Mr Cs best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was 
in his best interests.
Is the complaint within our jurisdiction?
Our investigator initially considered that Mr and Mrs C were not eligible complainants due to 
the fact she thought they were mainly acting in relation to their business interests when they 
sought advice. However, this was considered by an ombudsman who concluded that Mr and 
Mrs C were seeking advice as individuals and not mainly in relation to the business. She 
pointed out that there were no specific business objectives set and that the advice included 
information about their wider retirement aims and redirecting savings as part of the 
recommendation into their respective pensions. For clarity having considered the jurisdiction 
of this complaint, I am in agreement with the decision reached by our ombudsman on 
jurisdiction and for the same reasons. So I am satisfied that Mr C is an eligible complainant.
Financial viability 
Quilter carried out a transfer value analysis report (as required by the regulator) showing 
how much Mr Cs pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide the 
same benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield).
The business also calculated a transfer value comparator (TVC) of £253,143. This was 
required by the regulator on transfers after 1 October 2018 - and is a measure of the funds 
that would need to be invested at the time of transfer on a so-called 'risk-free' basis
(government bonds), to provide the same income as the DB scheme at normal retirement
age.
This can be compared with the actual transfer value quoted by the scheme of £73,222. The
difference between the two represents the amount of additional growth Mr C would
have needed to achieve by taking on investment risk if intending to draw benefits at the
scheme's normal retirement age.
So, I've considered what this means for the likely growth Mr C would have needed to
achieve in order to take benefits from the plan at age 60.
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
Mr C was 43 at the time of the advice and wanted to retire at 60. The critical yield required to 
match Mr Cs benefits at age 60 was 11.71% if he took a full pension and 10.8% if he took 
tax free cash and a reduced pension. 
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and 
was 4.3% per year for 16 years to retirement. Ive kept in mind that the regulator's projection rates had also remained unchanged since 2014: the regulator's upper projection rate at the 
time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Cs 
balanced attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. There would be little point in Mr C 
giving up the guarantees available to them through his DB scheme only to achieve, at best, 
the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, given the lowest critical yield was 
10.8%, I think Mr C was likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower overall value than 
the DB scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in line with that attitude to risk. 
For this reason alone a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mr Cs best interests. Of 
course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, as Quilter 
has argued in this case. There might be other considerations which mean a transfer is 
suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered this below.
Advantages of transferring their business premises into the SIPP
It was recorded that it could be tax efficient to sell the existing owned business premises to 
the SIPP, and then the business pay rent to the pension. Mr and Mrs C could then release 
equity which would allow them to pay off some of the mortgage on their home. To have the 
capital to purchase the property from within the SIPP it was recommended that Mr and Mrs 
C transfer their DB pensions.
Mr and Mrs C were seemingly happy with this recommendation at the time. However, 
following a conversation with their accountant and new IFA  Mr and Mrs C were told there 
were other alternatives that may have achieved this without risking their main source of 
guaranteed benefits in retirement. Alternatives to transferring the valuable DB benefits 
werent considered in the advice process. This seems to be the reason that Mr and Mrs C 
complained some years after the advice, they had become aware that the advice might not 
have been in their best interests.
Although Ive seen no reason to doubt the validity of the alternative options presented by Mr 
and Mr C, I dont have all the information to say with confidence that these methods 
wouldve been workable. However, I think the adviser ought to have considered other 
options before considering transferring the valuable DB benefits, which the evidence 
suggests he didnt.
But regardless of the validity of other options, I dont think Mr C ought to have been advised 
to risk his DB pension for the tax savings in any event. I say this because Mr and Mrs C at 
the time were already able to meet the repayments needed for the commercial property and 
there was only £41,000 left to pay against the value of the property of £140,000. And by 
transferring his valuable DB benefits he was very likely to be worse off in retirement. I can 
see no reasonable analysis or justification in the recommendation of how the benefits of 
holding the commercial property in the SIPP would outweigh the guaranteed benefits 
achievable from the DB pension.
Mr and Mrs C were inexperienced investors reliant on the advice given by the expert party, 
Quilter. Whilst they came to it with an objective, they werent qualified or experienced 
enough to know if it was in their best interests. And Quilters role here wasnt simply to 
transact what Mr and Mrs C wanted. It was required to give best advice in their best 
interests, but it didnt in my view sufficiently challenge this objective or give enough weight to 
what Mr C (and Mrs C) were giving up to achieve it.
Pensions primarily exist to provide income in retirement, this was going to be Mr Cs largest 
source of income in retirement and he had little capacity for loss. I accept Mr and Mrs C came with a particular objective and Quilter achieved this, however it shouldve only 
recommended transferring their DB benefits if it was clearly in their best interests. And I dont 
think Quilter has evidenced that it was. The advice process ought to considered alternatives 
to achieving the objective whilst keeping the DB benefits in place (especially considering the 
lack of viability in transferring). If no alternative was viable, I think the advice shouldve still 
been to retain the DB pensions. As Ive said above Mr and Mrs C were comfortable in being 
able to fully purchase the commercial property through the repayment vehicle in place. They 
were simply looking to see if there was a better more tax efficient way of achieving this. 
Flexibility and income needs
Quilter recorded that Mr and Mrs C would require £40,000 in income per year in retirement. 
But that this income need would fluctuate. And therefore, Mr and Mrs C would require 
flexibility in retirement. However, I cant see any evidence to suggest this was anything more 
than a stock motive included in the report. Mr C was only 43 at the time of advice and so 
there were many years to go until his retirement plans would be tangible. If it transpired 
flexibility would be required in the future, he couldve transferred at a later date when his 
plans were more concrete.
Death benefits
Quilter noted that Mr C wanted to make sure Mrs C had the largest value available to her on 
the event of his death rather than a modest income. Death benefits are an emotive subject 
and of course when asked, most people would like their loved ones to be taken care of when 
they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer through a personal pension was likely an 
attractive feature to Mr C. But whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, 
and Mr C might have thought it was a good idea to transfer his DB scheme to a personal 
pension arrangement because of this, the priority here was to advise Mr C about what was 
best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily designed to provide income in 
retirement. And I dont think Quilter explored to what extent Mr C was prepared to accept a 
lower retirement income in exchange for higher death benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr C 
was married and had children and so the spouses and dependents pension provided by the 
DB scheme wouldve been useful to his spouse and dependents if Mr C predeceased them. I 
dont think Quilter made the value of this benefit clear enough to Mr C. This was guaranteed 
and it escalated  it was not dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum 
remaining on death in a personal pension was. And as the cashflow analysis shows, there 
was a good likelihood there wouldnt be any left at the time of Mr Cs death considering the 
average life expectancy.  In any event, Quilter should not have encouraged Mr C to prioritise 
the potential for higher death benefits through a personal pension over security in retirement.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, tax efficiencies and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through purchasing the commercial property within the SIPP would have sounded like 
attractive features to Mr C. But Quilter wasnt there to just transact what Mr C might have 
thought he wanted. The advisers role was to really understand what Mr C needed and 
recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr C was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr C was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this.  Mr C shouldnt have been advised to transfer out of the 
scheme just to provide tax-efficiencies whilst repaying the loan for their business property given Mr and Mrs C could already comfortably meet these payments and the mortgage had 
a relatively short period left to run.
So, I think Quilter shouldve advised Mr C to remain in his DB scheme.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr C would've gone ahead anyway, against Quilter's 
advice. 
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr C wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against Quilters advice. I say this because Mr C was an 
inexperienced investor with a balanced attitude to risk and this pension accounted for the 
majority of Mr Cs retirement provision. So, if Quilter had provided him with clear advice 
against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I 
think he wouldve accepted that advice.
In light of the above, I think Quilter should compensate Mr C for the unsuitable advice, in line 
with the regulators rules for calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr C, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr C would have 
most likely remained in the occupational pension scheme if suitable advice had been given. 
Quilter must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
For clarity, Mr C has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age of 60, as per the 
usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should 
be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of 
notification of Mr Cs acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Quilter should:
calculate and offer Mr C redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr C before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr C receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr C accepts Quilters offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr C for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
andtake a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Cs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr C as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, Quilter may 
make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that 
consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss 
could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to Mr 
Cs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional 
deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £415,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £415,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Quilter Financial 
Services Ltd to pay Mr C the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £415,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £415,000, I also recommend that 
Quilter Financial Services Ltd pays Mr C the balance.
If Mr C accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Quilter Financial 
Services Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr C can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr C may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman