DRN-3780073
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money, didnt cancel his card
and reverse his balance transfer as he requested, and as it had agreed to.
What happened
Mr M had around £8,500 in debt across two credit cards on which the interest free periods
had expired. He applied to Virgin Money as it had a 24-month 0% interest balance transfer
offer and requested two balance transfers. When he was accepted the credit limit given was
£1,700 so £1,600 was transferred in from one of his existing credit cards. Mr M emailed to
try to stop this, but it went ahead.
Mr M says he spoke to Virgin Money, after excessive wait times, and it reassured him it
would reverse the transfer. He told Virgin Money he did not want the card with the limit he
received, and asked it to reverse the balance transfer and cancel the account. It agreed to 
do this so Mr M did not made any payments ongoing. He has been charged late fees and is 
receiving arrears letters. He says it has been impossible to try and resolve this with Virgin 
Money.
Virgin Money upheld Mr Ms complaint in part. It accepted there were some service failures
and offered £125 compensation. But it said Mr M still needed to make payments in line with
the terms of the account he had agreed to. It did not accept it was wrong to process the
lower value transfer in the first place.
Mr M brought his complaint to this service saying he wants all fees and charges refunding, 
the missed payment markers removing from his credit file, £1,600 sending back to the old 
card and the Virgin Money account cancelling.
Our investigator found Virgin Money should have sought Mr Ms approval before proceeding
with the lower value balance transfer. And it should have responded differently when it
became aware that Mr M wanted to cancel the transfer. As it didnt keep him up-to-date its
reasonable Mr M didnt expect to need to make the first payment. He initially said to put
things right Virgin Money should reverse the transfer, refund all interest and charges applied
to the account and remove any adverse information from Mr Ms file. It should also increase
the compensation for poor service to £200.
Virgin Money did then try to reverse the transfer in May 2022, but this was unsuccessful as
Mr Ms credit limit had been reduced by the recipient bank in February 2022, and so it would 
not accept the reversal. Virgin Money agreed to pay £200 compensation but said Mr M 
should not have withheld payments and must repay the balance in full. It did not agree to 
remove the adverse data but agreed to refund all interest and charges applied to the
account, and waive such charges for two further months to give Mr M time to decide what to
do about his debt.
Our investigator concluded this was a fair settlement, but Mr M did not and asked for an
ombudsmans review. He said Virgin Money had confirmed that once the transfer was
reversed the missed payments would be too.
I made different findings to our investigator in places, so I issued a provisional decision and 
asked for all comments by 31 October 2022. An extract follows and forms part of tis 
provisional decision.
Extract from my provisional decision
The card application and balance transfer
I have not found Virgin Money made any errors when it processed Mr Ms application and
balance transfer request. It had not guaranteed a credit limit. It made clear during the online
application that it would allocate a maximum 95% of the initial credit limit - even if that did not
pay the requested transfers in full, and that requested transfers were subject to its approval.
Mr M replied to the banks email that confirmed his limit and approved balance transfer
amount telling Virgin Money not to go ahead, but this was a do not reply inbox, and it was
signposted as such. This meant the transfer went ahead and for this I dont find Virgin
Money was at fault. I appreciate what happened was not what Mr M had set out to do, but
given the available evidence I cant fairly conclude Virgin Money did anything wrong at this
stage. It provided a credit facility and transferred in £1,600 of balance based on the terms
and conditions Mr M had agreed to.
The subsequent service
Mr M then made several calls to Virgin Money. He asked for the balance transfer to be
reversed and for his account to be closed.
Virgin Money accepts that on a call in October 2021 it told Mr M it would send back the
balance and he could then close his account. But this did not happen. And Virgin Money did
not make Mr M aware of this. It also failed to call Mr M back in November as it had agreed to
when he was trying to follow up on the status of the reversal.
After our service became involved Virgin Money did try to reverse the transfer. But that was
in May 2022. As the other bank had reduced Mr Ms credit limit in February 2022 it was not
accepted.
Whilst Virgin Money argues Mr M had a debt owing to it, and was contractually obliged to
make a minimum payment, I cannot fairly overlook the fact that had Virgin Money sent back
the balance as it said it would in October 2021 the subsequent issues would not have arisen.
And the arrears have built due to the time taken for Virgin Money to address the issues Mr M
raised.
As Virgin Money knows we look to put customers back in the position they would be in had a
business error not occurred. So here I need to consider what would have happened if Virgin
Money had processed the reversal properly. It argues it followed the industry process, but it
cannot reasonably ignore that it did so several months later than it should have. Had it
executed the reversal in a timely manner, as it had led Mr M to believe it was doing, he
would not have had a debt with Virgin Money, and therefore had no payments to miss and
incur charges on.
I therefore think all interest and charges should be waived from the account inception. As
Mr M has had the benefit of the money he must of course repay the capital. But Virgin
Money must reinstate the promotional interest rate he was accepted onto. Mr M has told us
he is now having financial difficulties and I am sorry to hear that. He should contact Virgin
Money so the parties can agree an affordable payment plan and terms, if needed.
I anticipate Virgin Money will argue Mr M breached the terms and therefore it must report themissed payments, but I am looking to deliver a fair outcome in the induvial circumstances of
this complaint. And I dont find this stance to be fair and reasonable. On balance, I am
persuaded that Mr M did not make his repayments because he believed  based on what
Virgin Money had told him  that the balance would be returned to the other credit card
provider. That then became the subject of a complaint prolonging the issue. I note Mr M
complained promptly when he realised Virgin Money had not done what it told him it would.
It is for this reason I find that the adverse data should be removed from Mr Ms credit file. I
would stress to Mr M that if he leaves the debt with Virgin Money and does not meet his
contractual repayments, or the terms of any arrangement, going forward the bank will of
course be entitled report any arrears.
In summary, whilst I dont think Virgin Money did anything wrong at the point of application,
the service failings that followed have had an unfair detrimental impact on Mr M and so must
be corrected. 
I then set out what Virgin Money would need to do to put things right.
Both parties responded to the provisional decision. Mr M accepted the findings. Virgin 
Money said, in summary, whilst it stands by its previous statement that it is required to report 
accurate information to the credit reference agencies and Mr M did not repay credit he had 
genuinely applied for, it would accept the outcome set out in the provisional decision. It said 
there would be merit in checking that Mr M could afford the minimum monthly payment of 
£25 that would be required if the 0% promotional offer was re-instated and said Mr M may 
wish to set up a new direct debit for his monthly payments. It asked if Mr M wanted to use 
the £200 compensation to reduce his balance or if it should be paid directly to a nominated 
bank account. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party sent in any new evidence or information it follows I have no grounds to 
change the findings or conclusion set out in my provisional decision. I would however like to 
make sure my finding is clear that the reason I find Virgin Money must correct Mr Ms credit 
file is due to its failure to both reverse the transfer as it had told Mr M it was doing  and its 
failure to communicate this to Mr M, an issue which was then exacerbated by the time it took 
the bank look into the issue. So I do not find Virgin Moneys continued stance of not taking 
into these actions to be fair and reasonable. 
I would also like to add to my finding, for clarity, and as Virgin Money pointed out in its 
response, that if Mr M does not meet his contractual repayments going forward the bank will 
should not only to report any arrears but it can also remove the promotional rate. 
Putting things right
Virgin Money must refund all interest and charges applied to Mr Ms account and remove
any negative information applied to his credit file. It should reinstate the promotional interest
rate Mr M was initially accepted for on the same terms, Mr M has confirmed he is aware this 
will require a minimum monthly payment of £25. It must pay Mr M £200 to recognise
the distress and inconvenience caused. In response to Virgin Moneys query about this 
payment Mr M has opted for it to be sent a nominated bank account.My final decision
I am upholding Mr Ms complaint in part. Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money must 
put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman