DRN-1699552
The complaint
A company, which I will refer to as T, has complained about how SumUp Payments Limited 
processed a payment made to T by a third party
What happened
The details of the complaint are well-known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I must tell T that I think the investigator has reached a fair outcome
here, Ill explain why.
On 4 June 2019 T received a payment of £2,882.25 from a third party. T says 48 
hours later SumUp told T the payment had been withheld. T feels this is unfair, it 
says it supplied all the information requested by SumUp and it was misleading with 
the information it provided.
I have reviewed the terms and conditions of the account. Having done so, I can see it 
says the following:
'8.1. For the purpose of securing the performance of your payment obligations under these 
Terms we shall be entitled at any time to temporarily withhold Payouts to you and to accrue 
a reserve (Reserve). We may withhold a risk-profile-based Reserve at our sole discretion 
at any time for your use of the Services.'
Prior to opening the account, T would have been asked to read and agree to the 
terms and conditions. As such, I feel T would have been or ought to have been 
aware that SumUp reserved the right to act in the way it did.
So, I have gone on to consider the events that occurred after SumUp notified T. I can 
see that emails were sent to T asking it to provide further information (a link to the 
website). As this information wasnt provided SumUp couldnt release the funds. 
Which is in line with the terms and conditions T agreed to. 
However, I can see that SumUp went on to provide two options to T in a further 
email. It said:
In relation to the withheld transaction for £2,882.25 we have two options. We can hold the 
transaction fee for 4 further months and then be able to release it to your account or we can 
refund the transaction fee to the credit card holder immediately upon request.
And in a further email it said again:
About your withheld transactions we ask you to choose ONE of the following open practice 
resolutions on the security verification of executed transactions:
We will process the funds not yet credited for a maximum of 4 months
We will refund the sum to the customer holding the card to allow him to make the 
payment in an alternative way.
I have also listened to the call T had with an advisor at SumUp. During that call it 
was confirmed that T hadnt responded to the options SumUp had provided. T 
stated that refunding the money back to the customer wasnt an option as the 
customer had the goods. I appreciate Ts concerns with this, but despite whether 
it liked the options provided, alternative options we given by SumUp. 
Having listened to the call T had with the advisor I do agree T was given 
conflicting information about if the funds could be held for six or four months. So, 
I can appreciate why T was confused. However, the terms and conditions dont 
specify a time limit of how long the funds can be held, and while it would have 
been confusing for T, I cant say SumUp acted unreasonably as it did operate in 
line with the terms of the account. Ultimately the funds were refunded to T within 
six months.
I do empathise with Ts position and the frustration this would have caused. But 
SumUp acted in line with the terms and conditions of the account. As such, I cant 
say SumUp acted unfairly. So, I wont be asking it to do anything further.
My final decision
Mt Final decisions is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman