DRN-3969096
The complaint
Mr B complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited didnt contact him for several years to 
make sure the income protection policy he held still met his needs.
What happened
Mr B took out an income protection policy in November 2006 while he was self-employed. 
The policy provided a benefit if Mr B was unable to work due to an illness or accidental 
injury. The policy provided increasing cover where both the benefit and premiums increased 
by 5% each year.
Mr B changed employment on 30 June 2019, and his new employer offered sick pay and an 
income protection policy as a benefit. Mr B says that he had several payments going from 
his account for various insurance policies, and these didnt show what type of policy the 
payments were for. Mr B says it wasnt until 2022 when he reviewed his finances that he 
realised that hed been paying for the income protection policy with Aviva.
Mr B says that Aviva shouldve contacted him about his policy. Had it done so, Mr B 
wouldve realised the policy wouldnt have provided him with any benefit considering the 
policy he held with his employer. And once Mr B became aware of this, he cancelled his 
policy with Aviva.
Aviva says that a letter it sent to Mr B in October 2014 was returned as gone away. Aviva 
says it carried out a trace for Mr Bs new address but this was unsuccessful. Following this, 
Aviva suppressed the policy update letters to Mr B. But Aviva sent a copy of these letters to 
Mr Bs broker. Aviva says it was Mr Bs responsibility to make sure he updated his address 
with Aviva, and that the policy continued to meet his needs. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Bs complaint. Having done so, she didnt think Aviva 
had acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances of this complaint. She said this was 
because:
she couldnt see Aviva made any further attempts to trace Mr Bs new address since 
October 2014,
Aviva knew it wasnt sending Mr B his policy update letters for several years, as 
these were suppressed,
while Aviva says it sent copies of the policy update letters to the broker Mr B used 
when he took out the policy (although the name wasnt one Mr B recognised), these 
letters said Please find enclosed a copy of the correspondence that we have sent 
directly to [Mr B] which wasnt correct, and wouldnt have prompted the broker to try 
to contact Mr B,
considering how long Aviva had known the letters werent sent to Mr B, she thought 
Aviva shouldve done more to get in touch with Mr B, such as by phoning him,
Mr Bs phone number had remained the same since 2006, and
considering Mr Bs sick pay and income protection benefit with his employer, she 
didnt think Mr B couldve claimed on his policy with Aviva.
Overall, our investigator thought that had Aviva done more to ensure Mr B received his 
policy documents, this wouldve prompted Mr B to cancel his policy. She thought a fair and 
reasonable outcome was for Aviva to refund the premiums Mr B paid after 30 June 2019 up 
to the policy cancellation date  so, when he started his new job and was covered by his 
employers sick pay and income protection policy.
But our investigator didnt think Aviva needed to pay Mr B any interest on the premiums in 
the circumstances. She said this was because Mr B couldve mitigated his losses if he had 
taken other action, such as reviewing his finances earlier.
Mr B accepted our investigators findings. But Aviva didnt agree. In summary, it said the 
following:
its for the policyholder to contact the insurer about a change in circumstances, such 
as a change in address or employment, and Mr B failed to do both,
Aviva took reasonable steps to trace Mr B and continued to contact his broker who 
set up the policy in 2006,
Avivas internal policy doesnt allow it to call its customers who have been marked 
gone away and all address or policy change details are done via post,
our service doesnt have the power to ask an insurer to change its internal policies,
Mr B wouldve known he was paying premiums to Aviva, and yet failed to take action, 
and 
it hasnt seen the terms and conditions of Mr Bs income protection policy with his 
employer.
As no agreement was reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, it might be helpful if I explained that my role is to decide what I think is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of a complaint, and in doing so address the points that I 
think are material to the outcome. That means that I may not comment on every point that 
Aviva has raised, but Ive considered everything it has said.
I agree that Mr B shouldve updated his address with Aviva when he moved in October 2013. 
He says he did, and Aviva says he didnt. Either way, Aviva doesnt have a record of Mr B 
changing his address. But I think the key point here is that Aviva knew it wasnt sending Mr B 
the policy update letters over a significant period of time  it suppressed these. I dont think 
one attempt to trace Mr Bs new address in November 2014 was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. I agree with our investigator that Aviva shouldve done more here  for 
example, it couldve phoned Mr B. I note that Mr Bs phone number has remained the same 
since 2006. 
Aviva says phoning customers whove been marked as gone away is against its internal 
policy. Aviva is right that I dont have the power to tell a business to change its internal 
policies. And Im not asking it to do so. But for the reasons Ive explained above, I dont think 
Aviva has acted fairly or reasonably in the circumstances of this complaint.Aviva says it sent copies of the policy update letters to Mr Bs broker. But firstly, these arent 
addressed to the company that was set out in Mr Bs application form. Aviva says its where 
Mr Bs broker worked at the time. But theyre not addressed to Mr Bs broker specifically. 
Most importantly, though, these letters start by saying please find enclosed a copy of the 
correspondence that we have sent directly to [Mr B]. This wasnt correct, as Aviva hadnt 
sent a copy to Mr B. Overall, these letters dont change my findings above that I think Aviva 
shouldve done more than it did.
Mr B has provided us with a copy of the welcome pack he received from his employer when 
he started his new job. This outlined that Mr Bs sick pay entitlement for the first three 
months was 100% of his pay, and for the next three months it was 75% of his pay. The pack 
also outlined that Mr B had an income protection policy with a six-month deferral period, with 
a benefit of 75% of base salary. The upper age limit for the policy was 65 years. Mr B has 
also since sent a summary of this policy which says that the policy ensures a continuing 
level of income in the event of absence from work through illness or injury thats preventing 
Mr B from following his own occupation.
Mr B hasnt been able to obtain the full terms and conditions of his policy with his employer, 
which isnt unusual for group schemes as the employer is the policyholder. But Im satisfied 
that the information hes sent (and Ive outlined above) shows that its unlikely his policy with 
Aviva wouldve provided him any additional benefit. I say this considering the level of Mr Bs 
sick pay and the benefit under the income protection policy with his employer; the maximum 
benefit payable under the Aviva policy was less than the benefits Mr B held with his 
employer.
Having considered everything, I think that had Aviva done more to make sure Mr B received 
his policy update documents, its more likely than not that Mr B wouldve cancelled his policy 
when he started his employment on 30 June 2019. So, I think it would be fair and reasonable 
for Aviva to refund Mr Bs premiums from then onwards.
I recognise that someone with income protection cover through their employer and doesnt 
intend to remain in that role for very long may choose to retain an individual income 
protection to ensure they continue to have cover after the employment ends. But Im 
satisfied in the circumstances of this complaint that Mr B wouldve cancelled his policy and 
he did so as soon as he became aware.
I am mindful, as was our investigator, that Mr B couldve also taken action earlier to review 
his bank statements, and query what the policy he was paying for was, to mitigate his 
losses. But I dont think this means that Aviva doesnt need to refund Mr B his premiums. 
Fundamentally, Aviva shouldve done more, as Ive explained above, and I think Mr B 
continued to pay for a policy that was unlikely to provide him with any additional benefit 
when he started his new job. So, I still think Aviva needs to refund Mr Bs premiums from 
30 June 2019 onwards.
But because of this, our investigator didnt think Aviva needed to pay Mr B any interest on 
the refund of premiums, and Mr B hasnt provided any comments on this. Having considered 
this carefully, I think Aviva refunding premiums, without applying interest, is fair and 
reasonable in the individual circumstances of this complaint. I also say this because Aviva 
only became aware of Mr B holding other income protection cover after he cancelled the 
policy. Had it become aware earlier, then it shouldve paid interest from the date it became 
aware.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint. I direct Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited 
to refund Mr B the premiums he paid from 30 June 2019 until policy cancellation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman