DRN-3502235
The complaint
Ms W is unhappy that NewDay Ltd, trading as Aqua, provided her with new and further credit
which she feels wasnt affordable for her at those times.
What happened
In March 2017, Ms W applied for a NewDay administered credit account. Her application
was approved, and NewDay issued Ms W with a new credit account with an initial credit limit
of £600.
In December 2017, NewDay increase the credit limit on Ms Ws account to £1,200. Further
credit limit increases followed, in May and September 2018, to £2,450 and £3,200
respectively. The credit limit in Ms Ws account was then reduced to £1,600 in April 2019,
but then increased again to £3,100 in October 2020.
In February 2021, Ms W applied for a second NewDay administered credit account. This
application was also approved, and NewDay provided Ms W with a second credit account,
again with an initial credit limit of £600.
Later in 2021, Ms W raised a complaint with NewDay because she felt that in all instances
she hadnt been able to afford the new or further credit that NewDay had provided to her,
and that this should have been apparent to NewDay had they undertaken checks into her
financial position before approving her for any credit.
NewDay looked at Ms Ws complaint. They confirmed that they had undertaken checks into
Ms Ws financial position before approving her for credit, and that thered been nothing
resulting from any of these checks which they felt should have given them reasonable cause
to suspect that Ms W might not be able to afford the credit that she was offered.
Ms W wasnt satisfied with NewDays response, so she referred her complaint to this
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt that it had been
reasonable for NewDay to approve Ms Ws initial application for credit in March 2017, but
they felt that the information that NewDay assessed about Ms W for all the other provisions
of credit was such that NewDay should have concluded that Ms W most likely wouldnt be
able to afford any further credit at those times and therefore further credit shouldnt have
been provided to Ms W by NewDay. And our investigator recommended that this complaint
be upheld in Ms Ws favour on that basis.
NewDay didnt agree with the view of this complaint put forwards by our investigator, so the
matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 16 May 2022 as follows:
Its for a business to decide whether it will offer credit to a customer, and if so, how much
and on what terms. What this service would expect would be, that before approving a
customer for a new line of credit, or before increasing the amount of credit available to a
customer on an existing line of credit, the business would undertake reasonable and
proportionate checks to ensure that any credit being offered to a customer is affordable for
that customer at that time.
NewDay believe that they did that here and note that they took information from Ms W at the
time of the initial application for credit in March 2017 about her employment status and
annual income. NewDay also note that they obtained information about Ms W from a credit
reference agency at that same time to get a better understanding of Ms Ws wider financial
position. And NewDay contend that there was nothing resulting from any of that information
that they feel should have given them any reasonable cause to believe that Ms W might not
be able to afford the credit that she was subsequently approved for.
Considering the information that NewDay gathered and assessed here, I note that Ms W
explained to NewDay at the time of the application that she was living with parents and that
she was employed with an annual income of £24,000. Its also evident from the information
that NewDay obtained about Ms W from a credit reference agency that she had total existing
credit at that time of £15,100, and I note that NewDay considered Ms W to have a high level
of existing indebtedness as well as a below average income at that time.
While Ms Ws level of already existing debt was notably high at that time, Ms Ws credit file
showed that she seemed to be managing her existing credit commitments without significant
incident at that time. I say this because there wasnt any record of Ms W missing payments
or being in arrears on any of her other credit accounts, and there was also no record of Ms
W having defaulted on any of her accounts or of here using any short-term payday loans that
might have suggested that she was struggling to manage her finances in any way.
As such, on balance and in consideration of all these points, I feel that it was reasonable for
NewDay to have approved Ms Ws initial application for credit and to have provided her with
a credit account with the relatively low initial credit limit of £600.
In December 2017, NewDay increased the credit limit on Ms Ws account to £1,200. While
NewDay didnt contact Ms W directly at that time to refresh their understanding of her living
and employment status and here annual income amount, they did assess updated
information about Ms W obtained from a credit reference agency, as well as assessed how
Ms W had managed her credit account with NewDay up to that time.
It's notable from the information that NewDay obtained from the credit reference agency that
Ms Ws total amount of existing debt had been going down on a month to month basis since
the time that the NewDay credit account had opened, reducing from £15,100 in March 2017
to approximately £12,050 in November 2017  the month before the credit limit increase.
Ms Ws credit file also appears to show that she was managing her other existing credit
commitments without significant incident, and while there was one incidence of a late or
missed payment in September 2017, its evident that Ms W was able to resolve that situation
immediately so that no further records of missed or late payments occur.
As such, while Ms Ws total amount of credit was still high, it was reducing, and so it may
seem at first glance that Ms W most likely could have afforded the increase to her credit limit
that NewDay provided her with in December 2017. However, I feel that how Ms W had
managed her NewDay credit account in the months leading up to the credit limit increase
does provide a different view on Ms Ws potential creditworthiness at that time.I say this because Ms W had incurred a large number of late fees on the account, including
in four of the five months immediately preceding the credit limit increase. Ms W had also
incurred an over-limit fee in June 2017, and its notable that Ms W didnt make a payment
towards the NewDay account at all in the month of August and was considered as being in a
payment delinquency status by NewDay because of this.
NewDay may contend that late fees can demonstrate the mismanagement of an account,
rather than a lack of affordability. But such mismanagement can be a symptom of deeper
financial problems, and at the very least I feel that Ms Ws consistent inability to make the
monthly payments required on the account in good time, and to have incurred repeated
charges on her account because of this, should have given NewDay cause to further
investigate whether Ms W would in all likelihood be able to afford the further credit that they
were considering providing to her, before they actually provided it.
However, it doesnt necessarily follow from the above that I feel that Ms W couldnt
reasonably afford the further £600 credit that NewDay provided to her in December 2017,
but only that I feel that NewDay should have undertaken further checks into Ms Ws financial
position before approving such further credit.
It's difficult not to conclude that such further checks should have reasonably included a
review of Ms Ws current account statements for the months leading up the credit limit
increase. Ms W has provided current accounts for this period to this service, but having
reviewed these statements I dont feel that they provide any notable evidence of potential
financial difficulty such at NewDay shouldnt have offered the further £600 credit to Ms W.
I say this because Ms W was receiving regular income and because of what I consider to be
normal usage of the account in the months leading up to the credit limit increase, including a
large amount of retail and leisure spend which isnt usually indicative of a person in financial
difficulty.
As such, despite the late fees incurred on the NewDay credit account by Ms W , Im satisfied
that upon a more detailed review of Ms Ws finances, it would have been reasonable for
NewDay to have concluded that Ms W was generally maintaining her finances without
significant incident at that time, and that she would most likely be able to afford the further
credit being offered to her.
NewDay increased the credit limit on Ms Ws account again  from £1,200 to £2,450  in
May 2018. This is a significant increase, and its immediately notable from Ms Ws credit
account information that her total amount of existing debt, which had been reducing up to the
point of the first credit limit increase, had increased again in the months leading up to this
second credit limit increase, so that it was approximately £15,800.
Once again, NewDay didnt contact Ms W directly to update their understanding of her
annual income, and so I can only conclude that NewDay continued to assess Ms Ws
income as being £24,000 per annum at that time  a figure which I note corresponds with the
regular net income that Ms W was receiving at that time, as shown on her bank statements
for the months leading up to the credit limit increase.
This means that before the credit limit increase, Ms W already had existing debt totalling
over 65% of her previously declared annual income, which increased to over 71% of her
previously declared annual income following the credit limit increase provided by NewDay.
This doesnt feel sustainable to me, and Im not convinced that it was fair or reasonable for
NewDay to have offered further credit to Ms W under these circumstances, especially given
the still relatively low income of Ms W at that time, which generally means that an individual
has less disposable income with which to reduce their existing indebted amount.Additionally, while Ms W had improved the management of her NewDay account, reducing
the number of late fees that shed incurred, its notable that Ms W continued to have issues
and didnt make a payment towards the account at all in February 2018, as well as incurred
a late payment fee on the account in April 2018.
Ultimately, given Ms Ws wider financial position, as well as her relatively low income and
her high existing debt to income ratio, I feel that NewDay should have reasonably concluded
that the provision of further credit to Ms W, beyond the £1,200 credit limit already in place,
wouldnt in all likelihood be affordable for Ms W and therefore shouldnt have been offered to
her. And Ill be provisionally upholding this aspect of Ms Ws complaint on that basis.
Consequently, this also means that I also dont feel that further credit limit increase to
£3,200, which took place in September 2018 should have been provided to Ms W.
However, its notable that the credit limit on this account was reduced in April 2019 to
£1,600, and so Ive assessed whether I feel that a credit limit of £1,600 was fair and
reasonable at that time. In short, I feel that it was, and I say this because by this time Ms Ws
total amount of existing debt had reduced back down to under £12,000, which I feel was
more reasonably sustainable for Ms W, and also because Ms W had reduced the balance of
her NewDay account to zero and wasnt regularly using the account. Finally, it's notable that
Ms Ws credit file didnt show that she was in arrears on any of her other credit commitment.
And so, taking all of these factors into consideration, I feel that a credit limit of £1,600 was
reasonable for Ms W at that time.
Ms W began regularly using the credit account again in December 2019, and in October
2020, NewDay increased the credit limit on the account to £3,100  a similar level to what it
had been before the reduction to £1,600.
Again, NewDay dont appear to have contacted Ms W to have updated their understanding
of her income before providing this credit limit increase, and having reviewed Ms Ws current
account statements for the months leading up to this increase it appears that Ms Ws
monthly salary amounts remained similar to what she was earning previously and were
consistent with her originally declared annual income of £24,000.
Its immediately notable from the credit file information that NewDay assessed that Ms Ws
total existing debt had grown to over £19,500 in the months leading up to the credit limit
increase, which meant that with the provision of a further £1,500 credit  as NewDay
subsequently provided  Ms W had existing debt totalling over 87% of her declared annual
income. This doesnt feel sustainable to me for the same reasons as previously explained,
and so Ill be provisionally upholding this aspect of Ms Ws complaint.
Finally, Ms W applied for a second NewDay administered credit account in February 2021.
NewDay approved this application, but Ms W never used the account, and it was closed six
months later. As such, I havent assessed or considered this account further.
All of which means that my provisional decision will be that I am upholding this complaint in
Ms Ws favour on the basis outlined above.
In my provisional decision letter, I gave both Ms W and NewDay the opportunity to provide 
any comments or new information they might wish me to consider before I moved to a final 
decision. 
Both Mrs W and NewDay confirmed that they were happy to accept my provisional decision, 
and so I see no reason not to issue a final decision upholding this complaint in Ms Ws 
favour on the basis as outlined in my provisional decision. And I can confirm that my final decision is that I do uphold this complaint in Ms Ws favour accordingly.
Putting things right
NewDay must reimburse to Ms Ws account all fees and charges incurred on the account 
from the point of the credit limit increase to £2,450 in 2018 to the reduction of the credit limit 
to £1,600 in 2019 (the first period), and also from the credit limit increase to £3,100 in 2020 
to date (the second period).
NewDay must also reimburse to Ms Ws account all interest accrued on any portion of the 
account balance above £1,200 for the first period as described above, and also reimburse to 
the account any interest accrued on any portion of the balance above £1,600 for the second 
period as described above.
If these reimbursements result in a credit balance in Ms Ws favour, NewDay must pay this 
balance to Ms W along with 8% simple interest calculated to the date of payment.
If these reimbursements result in Ms W still having a balance outstanding to pay, NewDay 
should arrange a suitable repayment plan with Ms W, ensuring as a minimum (but not being 
restricted to) that no ongoing interest is incurred on any portion of the balance above £1,600.
Finally, NewDay must remove all adverse reporting from Ms Ws credit file relating to both 
the first and second periods as described above. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against NewDay Ltd, trading as Aqua, on the 
basis explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman