DRN-2908761
The complaint
Mr S has complained about Marshmallow Financial Services Ltds handling of his application 
for a motor insurance policy. Mr S believes that Marshmallow mis-sold the policy which 
resulted in the policy underwriter cancelling it as if it hadnt existed (known as voidance).
In bringing this complaint Mr S has been helped by his friend. But, for ease of reading, I will 
refer to his friends comments as being those of Mr S.
What happened
Mr S was looking for a motor insurance policy through a comparison website. He eventually 
bought one branded in Marshmallows name. He was in an accident and claimed on the 
policy. The policy underwriter declined Mr S claim. It said he had misrepresented his 
occupation when taking the policy out. It said if he hadn't done so it wouldn't have offered 
him the policy. The underwriter refused to pay the claim and voided the policy.
Mr S thought Marshmallow had dealt with him unfairly. He brought his complaint to us. One 
of our investigators looked into it. She didn't think Marshmallow needed to take any further 
action. Mr S didn't agree so his complaint's been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to uphold it. 
In bringing this complaint Mr S has made a number of detailed points. I've considered 
everything hes submitted to us, Marshmallow and the policy underwriter. But in this decision 
I don't intend to address each and every issue raised. Instead I will focus on what I see as 
the key issues at the heart of Mr S complaint.
Marshmallow is an insurance broker. That means it sells policies and may help with their 
administration. But it doesn't provide the cover itself. The policy underwriter, the insurer 
which is a separate business, does that. Mr S has also complained about the insurers 
actions. Weve looked at that complaint under a different reference, so I wont comment on 
the insurers actions here. 
In response to our investigators assessment of the complaint Mr S has asked that I focus on 
whether or not Marshmallows actions mean the policy was mis-sold. 
At the time he applied for the policy Mr S worked as a warehouse colleague for a 
well-known supermarket chain. But Marshmallow recorded that Mr S had said he was a shop 
assistant in the industry of trade demonstrator when applying for the policy. So Ive thought 
about whether or not this mistake, recording Mr S as a shop assistant rather than working in 
a warehouse, likely happened because of Marshmallows actions, rather than because of 
something Mr S did. 
Marshmallow has confirmed that the details it records on its system are exactly those which 
Mr S would have input on the comparison site. And when asked what Mr S did for a living on 
the comparison site, he would have been required to type the first three letters of his job title 
in order to be given a list of likely matches. So, in order to select that he worked in a 
warehouse, Mr S would have had to type in the letters W+A+R. And in order to say he 
worked in a shop he would have had to type S+H+O. The comparison site recorded that 
Mr S answered its question saying he was a shop assistant. I don't think its likely that Mr S 
could have done that by accident or because of a mis-click. So I think it's probable that 
Mr S typed in S+H+O and then selected shop assistant from the choices available. I don't 
think that choice was because of anything Marshmallow or its system did or didn't do.
In response to Mr S complaint Marshmallow pointed out that, before saying he was a shop 
assistant, Mr S had said he worked as a warehouseman in five earlier requests for quotes on 
the comparison website. So Mr S thinks Marshmallow should have known, at the time that 
he applied for his policy, that he worked in a job that wasn't acceptable to the insurer. But 
Marshmallow only found out about Mr S previous request for insurance quotes after he 
claimed on his policy. I dont think theres anything unusual in that  Marshmallow wouldnt 
automatically and initially have access to applications against which it didnt quote (because 
its criteria werent met). So at the point of sale, it didn't know that Mr S actual job was in a 
warehouse. It follows that I don't think it did anything wrong in the application process 
concerning Mr S job choice. 
Mr S said that Marshmallow didn't make it clear that it was a broker and didn't provide details 
of the policy underwriter during the application process. But I don't think thats right. Before 
he bought the policy Mr S would have been able to read the policy wording and its 
information document, both of which said that the policy was underwritten by the insurer and 
not Marshmallow.
It might help if I explain that its extremely common in the insurance industry for policies to 
be branded in the name of a broker or other insurance intermediary but for the cover to be 
provided by a separate underwriter. And a policyholder may only ever actually deal with the 
broker, even though the policy is underwritten by another business. Thats usually done 
under a commercial agreement between the insurer and the broker. And there's nothing 
wrong with that. 
By way of illustration, in his submissions both to Marshmallow and us, Mr S provided a 
comparison of quotes provided by five businesses which he described as a selection of 
insurers. But, as far as I'm aware, only two of the insurers he named actually underwrite 
their own policies. The other three all act as insurance brokers/intermediaries and use other 
companies to underwrite the policies they arrange. Mr S might not be aware of that but that 
doesn't mean any of those businesses has done anything wrong. But, in any event, as I've 
said above the policy information Marshmallow made available to Mr S before he bought the 
policy said that it was underwritten by the insurer.
Further, Mr S said Marshmallow didn't give him details of any commission arrangements it 
had with the insurer before selling the policy. But, even if it didn't provide those details to 
Mr S prior to the sale, I think its unlikely that Mr S would have proceeded differently if it had. 
That's because, in his correspondence with us Mr S said he chose the policy offered by 
Marshmallow because it was the cheapest one available. In other words his choice of policy 
was based on price. So given that it was the cheapest policy available, it seems unlikely that 
Mr S would have chosen a more expensive policy simply to avoid paying commission to a 
broker. And the policy documents show it was underwritten by an insurer which is a separate 
company to Marshmallow. If Mr S wasn't happy with those arrangements or any of the policy terms then he had a 14 day cooling off period to cancel the policy. But he didn't do that. So I 
don't think Marshmallow mis-sold the policy. 
Mr S has also complained that Marshmallow didn't send him a statement of fact which 
summarises the information hed given when applying for the policy. That's something it 
should have done but it didn't do so. I can't know with any certainty exactly what would have 
happened if Marshmallow had sent the statement of fact to Mr S but I've thought about 
what's more likely than not to have happened if it had done so. 
Prior to buying his policy Mr S would have seen a screen which showed the information hed 
input when asking for the quote. That would have included that Mr S had given his job title 
as a shop assistant, rather than working in a warehouse. But Mr S went ahead with the 
purchase anyway. And I think thats because he knew hed entered shop assistant when 
applying for the policy, so he expected to see that on the quote details. It follows that I think 
he would also have expected to see his job title as shop assistant on the statement of fact if 
Marshmallow had sent one to him. So I don't think Marshmallows omission in not sending 
Mr S that document put him into a worse position. 
Mr S also complained that Marshmallow hadn't made it clear that he was paying for his 
policy by way of a loan agreement with a credit provider. But when agreeing to pay for the 
policy in instalments, Mr S had to also agreed to the condition of the loan with the credit 
provider which was specifically named. So I don't agree that Marshmallow didn't do enough 
to bring these details to Mr S attention. It follows that I don't think Marshmallow mis-sold the 
policy.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman