DRN-2466926
The complaint
Mrs H and the executors of Mr Hs estate have complained about a secured loan she and 
Mr H took out in 2006 with Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax.
Any reference I make in this decision to Mrs Hs dealings with this complaint should be taken 
to mean her representative where appropriate.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H had a mortgage with Halifax and had taken out a £30,000 further advance in 
2003 to consolidate debts.
In 2006 they approached Halifax for further borrowing to again consolidate debts. Halifax 
was unable to offer another further advance on the mortgage, but it could offer a secured 
second charge loan instead.
Mr and Mrs H applied for a £25,000 secured loan over 25 years at an interest rate of 6.55% 
(variable). The monthly payments for the loan was noted on the credit agreement to be 
£168.61.
Mr and Mrs H paid off their mortgage and further advance in 2013; a couple of years ahead 
of schedule due to overpayments theyd been making. The secured loan continued at that 
time, with Mr and Mrs H just making the normal monthly payments due. Sadly, Mr H died in 
late 2018.
Mrs H complained to Halifax in 2019 about the sale of the loan and how she was treated 
when shed recently made contact to say she might start struggling financially as she was 
looking to retire.
An ombudsman colleague issued a decision in November 2020. In that she explained which 
parts of the complaint we could and couldnt consider. She said we could consider:
the suitability of the loan for Mr and Mrs H in 2006, and
the service Mrs H received when seeking assistance due to pending financial 
difficulties.
An investigator looked at those two points and didnt recommend the complaint should be 
upheld. Mrs H didnt agree, and so its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs H has set out her account in considerable detail. I trust she wont take it as a discourtesy that 
Ive condensed her complaint in the way that I have. Although Ive read and considered the whole 
file Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not 
because Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
the right outcome.
The 2006 sale
The mortgage and secured loan market  and the regulatory landscape  has changed 
significantly in the time since Mr and Mrs H took this secured loan. I can only consider the 
arrangement of this secured loan against the regulations that were in place at the time, and 
without the benefit of hindsight. 
Mr and Mrs H approached Halifax to borrow money to pay off other debts. Just because it 
didnt turn them away doesnt mean it was lending irresponsibly. Unfortunately, because the 
loan was taken out so long ago there is limited information available, all we have is the credit 
agreement that Mr and Mrs H signed and some internal Halifax system information to show 
some of the information that was recorded.
Mrs H has said that she and Mr H should have been sold a short-term unsecured loan 
instead, but Im not persuaded by that. Generally, the interest rates available for short-term 
unsecured lending would have been higher and the reason for the debt consolidation was to 
pay off short-term unsecured lending. The system information Halifax has from the time 
seems to show that the income and outgoings information provided by Mr and Mrs H in 2006 
wouldnt have demonstrated affordability for the borrowing over a shorter term. Taking all 
that into consideration, it seems likely Mr and Mrs H wanted the longer term that was 
available with secured lending to reduce their payments.
Ive carefully considered Mrs Hs arguments about the fact the lending runs into their 80s. 
Unfortunately, due to the passage of time we cant see what information Mr and Mrs H gave 
in 2006 about their pension provisions. As Mr H was 64 years old and Mrs H was 57 years 
old then it seems unlikely that Halifax didnt ask them about their pension provisions, 
especially as this was secured lending over a 25-year term. 
What we do know is that, to date, the payments have been made in full and no affordability 
concerns have been raised (other than that Ill cover below which may happen in the future). 
So, for 14 years the payments have been maintained.
As Ive said above, the figures dont support a shorter term being affordable in 2006, so it 
seems the options were either for this secured loan to be taken, or for the debt consolidation 
not to be undertaken. Due to the passage of time we cant know what would have happened 
if the debt consolidation hadnt taken place; it is possible that could have caused 
Mr and Mrs H financial difficulties at the time. We also dont know what the term of the 
existing lending was that was being replaced; it is possible that also ran past Mr and Mrs Hs 
retirement ages, but with much higher payments to be met. In 2006 Mr and Mrs H knew:
how old they were, 
that they were taking out the loan over a 25-year term,
what the monthly payments on the loan would be, 
broadly when they were intending to retire, and
approximately what income they were likely to receive when they retired.
It doesnt matter here whether Mr and Mrs H knew the loan was secured on their home, they 
knew all the above facts and still applied for the loan. If they felt they would struggle with the 
loan term then they had the option to not proceed with it.
Mrs H has said she and Mr H approached Halifax for a further advance and were turned 
down. It seems from her submissions she thinks that if theyd instead taken another further 
advance then their position would be different now. 
I understand the confusion as the terms mortgage and secured loan are sometimes used 
interchangeably as a mortgage is simply a form of secured loan. Normally the term 
mortgage is used for the first (and main) lending against a property (otherwise known as the 
first charge) and secured loan is used for any subsequent lending secured against a 
property (otherwise known as the second charge, or third charge etc). 
The 2003 lending was undertaken as a further advance on the main mortgage, so it was also 
secured under the first charge Halifax already held. Due to the rules Halifax has for further 
advances it wasnt able to offer another further advance in 2006. But it could offer a secured 
loan on a second charge basis instead.
If Halifax could have offered a further advance instead in 2006 then it seems Mr and Mrs Hs 
situation would have been broadly similar. That is, they still needed to borrow £25,000 and 
the interest rate Halifax would have offered for a further advance wouldnt have been that 
much different from the interest rate it offered on the secured loan. The secured loan rate 
was 6.55% variable and Halifaxs standard variable rate for first charge mortgages at that 
time was 6.75%. For that reason, it is likely that if a further advance had instead been 
offered (as Mr and Mrs H wanted, and Mrs H says should have been offered), then it is likely 
they still would have taken that over the same term.
Mrs H has said the secured loan doesnt give flexibility and has early repayment charges, 
but thats not so. The secured loan that was taken out had no tie-in period at all, so they 
could have overpaid the loan, or paid it off early, if they wanted to.
It is unfortunate that Mr and Mrs H didnt switch the overpayments they were making to their 
mortgage to paying the secured loan when the mortgage was repaid in 2013. Those 
payments of £1,200 a month would have repaid this secured loan within a couple of years.
Mrs Hs representative has said that suggests Mr and Mrs H didnt understand the product 
and the impact of it being a secured loan. But even if they didnt understand that (which, to 
be clear Im not saying) then they still received annual statements for the secured loan which 
would have shown the outstanding debt, the remaining term and the amount they were 
paying in interest each month. So, based on that, it still would have made sense to continue 
the overpayments - but to the secured loan instead of the mortgage - if they were concerned 
about this debt running so far into retirement.
Halifax had no regulatory responsibility to offer ongoing unsolicited financial advice, so I 
cant hold it liable for Mr and Mrs Hs decision to not switch the overpayments to the secured loan. If Mr and Mrs H wanted advice about the overpayments then they needed to approach 
Halifax directly.
Its unfortunate that the point of sale paperwork is no longer available but thats not unusual 
for a sale that happened so long ago. In the absence of the paperwork I have to reach a 
decision on what I think likely happened. Having done so, Im satisfied this loan met a need 
Mr and Mrs H had at the time and was likely the only option Halifax had available for them. 
They entered into the loan in full awareness of the underlying terms of it (such as the term 
and monthly payments due) so Im satisfied they must have felt it would be affordable for 
them. Having considered everything, I cant uphold this part of the complaint.
Mrs Hs recent request for help
Whilst I understand why Mrs H made contact with Halifax to discuss her options 
unfortunately there are no options until they are actually needed. Thats entirely normal and 
what I would expect. Until such time as the payments arent affordable then the customer 
needs to follow the contract they entered into and keep paying in full and on time. Only once 
a customer cant afford those monthly payments can the options be considered. Thats 
because part of the decision-making process for what options can be offered (if any) is that 
the customers income and expenditure is considered, and the lender will ask for various 
proofs of that information. The lender cant consider a hypothetical situation.
Mrs H is right, lenders do have to treat those with financial difficulties positively and 
sympathetically. But that wasnt relevant when Mrs H made contact as she wasnt in financial 
difficulties. I do understand that Mrs H was trying to be proactive, but unfortunately the only 
way she can be proactive is to look to refinance  or repay  the debt. The financial 
difficulties framework only comes into effect once a person is in financial difficulties, it isnt 
something that can be looked at on a proactive basis.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mrs H and the estate of Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 
8 April 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman