DRN-3961616
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that during the course of managing their investments, Santander UK 
Plc:
ignored their financial objective, which was to purchase a property with the funds 
invested, by failing to reference this in review meetings 
invested in bonds when this went against Mr Ss investment preferences which 
clearly state "prefers Equities only"
discontinued conducting 6 monthly reviews. 
To put things right Mr and Mrs S want Santander to pay them compensation equal to the 
value of the property that they feel they should have been advised to purchase. 
The initial investment advice was provided by a financial business trading under a different 
name. But, to keep things simpler, as Santander is responsible for dealing with the complaint 
I will refer to it as the financial business that provided the advice and sold and managed the 
investments complained about. 
What happened
In 2005, Mr and Mrs S met with a Santander representative and entered into an agreement 
whereby Santander would provide discretionary investment management services in return 
for a fee. Acting on Santanders financial advice Mr and Mrs S opened ISA accounts and 
invested in a medium to high risk fund. In later years, they made further investments.
In 2021, Mr and Mrs S complained to Santander that, amongst other things, it had never 
advised them to put their money into the purchase of a property, despite the fact their only 
objective had been to buy a house with the investment. They were also concerned to learn 
that their money had been put into a fund that they objected to being invested in for personal 
reasons and they were unhappy that they hadnt had any regular reviews with a financial 
planning manager - which was part of the service they paid for.
In response, Santander said it didnt uphold any of Mr and Mrs Ss complaint points and 
responded as follows (in brief summary):  
due to the nature of investments, Santander could not guarantee future returns so 
would never confirm a specific outcome to customers. It had sent regular 
statements about investment performance to the address held for Mr and Mrs S and 
whilst it appreciated that they had expected a greater return, Santander had not 
acted incorrectly. 
In the past 18 months, Mr and Mrs Ss asset holdings changed from 100% equity to 
include a small percentage in bonds and this information had been communicated 
to Mr and Mrs S in writing. There was nothing mentioned in the notes or the 
recommendations documented at reviews to suggest this was against 
Mr and Mrs Ss instructions  and had this been highlighted to Santander, it would 
have considered any implications of these changes.
 
Santander issued annual letters inviting customers to make contact and arrange a 
review. Records show that Mr S did speak with a financial planning manager in 
August 2020 but no formal meeting was arranged, although Santander made 
several attempts to schedule this.
Mr and Mrs S werent happy with this response so they brought their complaint to us. 
After considering the complaint, based on all the information she had seen, our investigator 
didnt feel this was a complaint she could recommend upholding. She thought that 
Santander had acted fairly and reasonably throughout and hadnt done anything wrong  
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree with the investigator. They mainly say that they dont feel the 
investigator properly understood the complaint  and they have mentioned wider concerns. 
As their complaint hasnt been resolved, it comes to me for a decision and Mr and Mrs S 
have asked me to go back to their main concern (that Santander ignored their investment 
objective) and answer their questions in relation to this. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although the Financial Ombudsman Service doesnt always have power to investigate 
complaints about events that happened more than six years ago, Santander has said it 
consents to us looking at this complaint. So I've proceeded to consider everything that has 
been said about the merits of this complaint. 
Ive looked at the complaint afresh and Ive independently reached the same conclusions as 
our investigator. Ill explain my reasons.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered everything that 
Mr and Mrs S and Santander have told me. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
Mr and Mrs S have mentioned some concerns about Santanders changed regulatory remit 
but how businesses operate and the services they offer are matters that come under the 
oversight of the regulator - the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).
We provide an informal complaints handling service and this is reflected in the way Ive 
approached the complaint. Its part of my role to identify and concentrate on the core issues 
I need to address in order to reach a fair outcome. This means I wont necessarily mention 
everything Mr and Mrs S have brought to my attention and Ive expressed some of their 
concerns in my own words. But I will comment on everything that makes a difference to the 
outcome of the complaint and try and deal with their main points of concern.  
Its my understanding that Mr and Mrs Ss main complaint is that their objective of buying a 
home was not referenced at subsequent meetings to ensure that they were on track to buy a 
house. Mr and Mrs Ss put things this way: The objective was not (to) meet or beat market benchmarks, or to simply achieve 
positive growth, it was something real and practical about which Santander never advised 
on in terms of getting closer or further away from in terms of my investment being the 
vehicle to achieve that objective..
At the initial point of sale in 2005, the advisor completed a fact find and under the heading 
Events/Goals/Aims it was recorded that Mr and Mrs Ss investment objective was 
to:Build nest egg (potential future home purchase). 
So Ive thought carefully about what Mr and Mrs S say about Santanders failure to 
document progress against their specific objective and whether this is a reason for me to 
uphold this complaint  and I dont find that it is. Ill explain why I say this. 
Mr and Mrs S have said they feel the investment was suitable for them at the start. And, as 
far as I can see, they were in a position to invest as they did in 2005. Based on the 
information I've seen, Mr and Mrs S had sufficient financial resources to be able to absorb 
some element of loss in pursuit of capital growth so they were able to take some element of 
risk when investing. Overall, I consider that Mr and Mrs S were in a strong enough financial 
situation to be able to invest as they did, the fund reflected their risk approach at the time 
and they wanted an investment that would ideally beat inflation. So I find the advice provided 
met Mr and Mrs Ss identified needs and investment objectives and was suitable for them, 
bearing in mind their hopes that the fund offered the potential it could grow and that, one 
day, they would be able to use the encashed proceeds to fund the purchase of a family 
home. 
Santander was responsible for managing their investment on Mr and Mrs Ss behalf and 
keeping them appraised of its performance. But the onus was on Mr and Mrs S to evaluate 
that information and only they were in a position to assess how far their investment was 
performing in line with their hopes and expectations. 
They hadnt told Santander they were looking for an investment property  so I dont think 
Santander would have had any particular reason to advise them about putting their money 
directly into property purchase  especially as that might have involved more investment risk 
than it looks like Mr and Mrs S would have been comfortable taking. 
I think its reasonable to expect that Mr and Mrs S would have revisited their investment 
objectives with Santander at the regular reviews Santander offered. And it looks like that did 
happen. In 2009, Mr and Mrs S confirmed they were still happy to invest for the long term for 
a better standard of living, they wanted to see their investments beat inflation and they were 
still happy to take additional risks to achieve that goal. This prompted Santander to 
recommend further investment in another fund. The review paperwork from 2011 shows that 
Mr S mentioned a different investment goal  financing university education. 
So I think it's fair to say that Santander did use the opportunities presented by the reviews to 
do what I would reasonably expect it to have done  provide information and advice to 
Mr and Mrs S so they were able to make an informed investment decision. 
Had Mr and Mrs S wanted at any stage to encash their investment in order to buy a home, 
they could have done so. I dont consider that it was up to Santander to tell them when they 
should do this  or that anyone other than Mr and Mrs S were really in a position to know 
when it was the right time for them to buy a family home. Santanders notes indicate that Mr and Mrs S mentioned they anticipated that a change of 
circumstances in their living arrangements in 2011 might impact on their plans for home 
ownership, so it looks like this was something they considered at the time.
The way the investment performed is outside the scope of this complaint. 
I am looking at whether Santanders investment advice was suitable and I havent seen 
enough to make me think that their investment was too risky for Mr and Mrs S or otherwise 
unsuitable. So for the reasons I have set out more fully above, Mr and Mrs Ss main concern 
about Santander ignoring their financial objective to purchase a property with the funds 
invested and not having referenced this once in any review meetings is not a good enough 
reason for me uphold their complaint. 
I will deal briefly with the other complaints Mr and Mrs S mentioned. In response to the 
investigators view, they said:
The fact-finding meeting with my original advisor definitely should have captured the 
reasoning but in failing to do so at least captured the preference correctly, Equities Only. 
my point is thata flag should have been raised to say that this change will make the 
fund unsuitable for some customers and these should be contacted with an opportunity to 
change funds. Instead the change was slipped into regular standard 
correspondence/quarterly valuation statements  It cannot be right that a fund manager 
decides to invest in something I have never given them permission to invest in on my 
behalf.
I can understand why Mr and Mrs S have a particular objection to bond investment. But I've 
looked carefully through all the paperwork thats been provided to me, and I can see no 
specific instructions recorded about this  beyond a note made by the advisor in the point of 
sale paperwork from 2005 that says  would prefer purely equities in their portfolio 
If ruling out any particular sort of investment had been a key consideration for Mr and Mrs S 
I think it was up to them to make it very clear to Santander that any such investment would 
be unacceptable. And despite what they say about what they told the advisor, this isnt 
enough for me to be able to uphold this part of their complaint. I wouldnt reasonably expect 
Mr and Mrs S to be able to recall word for word details of conversations that took place some 
18 years ago. I think its reasonable for me to place more weight on the point of sale 
paperwork, that Mr and Mrs S signed to confirm reflected what they had said at the time, and 
which simply reflected a preference.
Additionally, in 2009, when discussing the merits of a particular product being 
recommended, the advisor recorded the following information:
you are aware of the differing potential returns on the qualifying investment and the (other 
recommended) product and have considered both of these individually in reaching your 
decision to invest.You are considering whether this account is appropriate to your 
circumstances in light of your (particular personal) view.
This suggests that Mr and Mrs S were aware that Santander might invest in funds that 
Mr and Mrs S may have considered unsuitable for them. So, bearing in mind it seems they 
had expressed only a preference for the sort of investment they wanted to hold, I think the 
onus was on Mr and Mrs S to check that any fund changes would still meet their investment 
requirements. Information about the fund change was notified to Mr and Mrs S when it happened in 2017. 
I accept that this notification seems only to have been included in a regular quarterly 
Performance Report & Cash Statement. But it is clearly set out under a heading in bold 
type: Important information about changes to your  Investments portfolio(s). So it 
should have been reasonably evident to Mr and Mrs S. And I can see that Mr and Mrs S 
should have received this update as it was sent to them at the address they were living at. 
Bearing in mind that it was part of the fund managers job to adjust the holdings of a fund in 
response to changing market conditions, I cant fairly say that Santander did anything wrong 
when it did this, or that it treated Mr and Mrs S unfairly or unreasonably. 
I appreciate Mr Ss frustration when he says that: The nature of the offering from 
Santander has changed and the onus has now been shifted to customers to arrange 
reviews with (ever changing) advisors and away from being regular and arranged as a 
matter of course with a dedicated advisor. That leaves me with a decision to make as the 
service delivered today is unrecognisable in comparison to the original set up I invested 
into.
Santander refunded fees in response to FCA concerns that Santander Premium Investment 
customers hadnt been offered an annual review when that should have happened. 
Mr and Mrs S were sent a review letter in September 2019 and contacted on 18 October 
2019 when Mr S informed the advisor he would get in touch when he needed a review. 
An advisor called Mr S on 31 March 2020 and a review via video conference call was set up.
Subsequently, around September 2020 Santander wrote with information about the transfer 
of customers investments to its new Investment Hub online platform. Customers were given 
a deadline of 30 October 2020 to opt to arrange a portfolio review with an advisor or allow 
the transfer of their portfolios to the Investment Hub, at which point they would stop paying a 
fee for an advisory service as this would no longer be provided. 
It doesnt appear that Mr and Mrs S responded. It looks like Santander sent a letter inviting 
them for a review in October 2020. On 11 May 2021 Santander wrote again to give notice 
that their investments would be transferring to the Hub on 21 June 2021. Mr and Mrs S were 
offered a final opportunity to respond and recommended to arrange a telephone or video 
consultation with an advisor. 
I am satisfied that Santander was entitled to make these account changes and that it treated 
Mr and Mrs S in a reasonable way, offering them opportunities for review had they wished to 
speak to an advisor. Mr S has admitted that he did not give this priority as he had already 
raised a complaint by then. However, I cant conclude on these facts that Santander treated 
Mr and Mrs S unfairly or unreasonably, so there is no basis for me to uphold their complaint 
about this.   
I appreciate that what I've said here will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs S but 
I hope that setting things out as Ive done helps explain why I've come to this overall 
conclusion.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman