DRN-2630654
The complaint
Mr O is unhappy with Advantage Insurance Company Limiteds valuation of his car after it 
was stolen. 
What happened
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He considered the evidence 
Mr O had provided of advertised prices for similar cars, but he didnt think Advantages offer 
was unfair. He said the offer was in line with our approach because it was within the 
valuations of the motor industry trade guides. He added that he thought the £50 offer for the 
poor service Mr O had received was fair in the circumstances. 
Mr O disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans review. He said that to buy a similar car it 
would cost him between £16,000 to £20,000. And it wasnt fair for this service not to take into 
account the large difference in the advertised price and the valuation given by the trade 
guides.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. Ill explain why below.
Its not this services role to provide an exact valuation of the car. We consider if the offer 
being made is reasonable based upon the trade guides we use as theyre based on likely 
selling prices rather than advertised prices, which allow a margin for negotiation. 
I appreciate Mr Os concern that he hasnt been able to find a replacement car of equal value 
with the settlement Advantage have offered. And that he spoke to two dealers who said they 
wouldnt give him a discount as a cash buyer. But Mr Os policy says Advantage will settle 
the claim by paying him the market value of his car at the time of the loss. But that sum wont 
necessarily be the same amount that the car was purchased for or the cost of replacing it. 
This service believes its fair for industry guides to be used to provide a valuation based 
upon the condition of his car at the time of the loss. 
Ive considered the trade guides used by this service which vary, as do the prices of the 
same make and model of cars across the country. But I believe the valuation offered by 
Advantage sufficiently considers Mr Os cars age, mileage and condition. I believe an 
insurers valuation is fair and reasonable if its within the ranges of the various guides we 
use. And because Advantages offer of £13,944 is within these ranges, Im satisfied its 
made a fair offer here. 
I note Mr O was unhappy with the delay in Advantages response to his concerns. So, 
Advantage offered him £50. This seems reasonable to me and in line with what Id expect in 
similar cases. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2021.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman