DRN-3642768
The complaint
Miss J complains that Next Retail Limited, trading as Next Financial Services, irresponsibly 
gave her a running account credit facility that she couldnt afford.
What happened
Miss J has complained about unaffordable lending on a shopping credit account that she
took out with Next.
In February 2018, Miss J applied for a credit account with Next. She was given an initial
credit limit of £150. The credit limit was increased to £300 in April 2018, reduced back to 
£150 in December 2018, increased to £300 in February 2019 and finally increased to £750 
in February 2021. 
Miss J says that Next ought to have done better checks to understand her financial 
circumstances before opening her account and increasing her credit limit. She wasnt 
working and her income was from benefits, she was only ever able to make the minimum 
payment.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Miss Js complaint as she did not find there was evidence Next 
had lent irresponsibly to Miss J.
Miss J disagreed saying she has had multiple accounts with lots of credit that she has 
struggled with  she is still struggling with the Next account now. She asked for an 
ombudsmans review so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Next will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to
these complaints is set out on our website.
Prior to providing the account and the credit limit increases to Miss J, Next says it carried out 
a credit check to determine the amount of credit it was able to offer. Next told us that 
Miss Js account was assessed on a monthly basis from the credit check information and the 
credit limit was set using that information and its observation of Miss Js management of the
account.
I think allowing Miss J an opening credit limit of £150 was not unreasonable. I say this 
because when the initial credit of £150 was provided when Next told us there was no recent 
adverse information on Miss Js credit file. It has acknowledged there were some defaults 
but they were historic and therefore I think it was still reasonable for Next to go ahead and 
lend. Its possible that Nexts checks at the time of the account opening werent as thorough 
or sufficient as they might have been. But even so, from what Ive seen, I dont think better 
enquiries would have caused Next to think the initial credit limit was unaffordable. I say this 
as Miss J has provided bank statements from this time and they show she had enough 
disposable income to sustainably repay the amount of credit offered. Miss J argues she was 
unemployed, and her only income was from benefits. But being in receipt of state benefits 
wouldnt, by itself, be a fair reason to decline a credit facility.
At the time of each increase Next needed to carry out proportionate checks to make sure 
that Miss Js financial situation was such that she could afford these increases. Next made 
its decisions based on data from one of the credit reference agencies, in addition to looking 
at how Miss J was managing her account. This third-party data was an affordability index 
and I can see Next both increased and decreased Miss Js limit based on how this score 
changed. Next explains that the index is a predictor of the likelihood of an accountholder 
experiencing payment difficulties across all their outgoings, in the next 12 to 15 months. 
Given what Ive seen about the way Miss J was managing her account and the scores the 
affordability index returned at the time of the increases, I dont think there was enough to 
alert Next to the possibility that her financial situation was challenging. Miss J said she only 
ever made the minimum payment, but I dont find that to be the case. I can only see she did 
so twice. 
Next reduced Miss Js credit limit back to £150 in mid-2018 due to changes in her credit file 
information, before increasing it back to £300 early the following year. It also suspended her 
limit in April 2019 and April 2020 when external data showed a high number of searches and 
a report of arrears. So I find it was proactively trying to ensure Miss J wasnt over-extending 
herself. 
It was ten months later that Next offered the final increase to £750, which Miss J accepted. 
She had been consistently paying more than the minimum required in those ten months and 
in January 2021 prior to that final increase she had cleared her balance in full. So I think it 
was reasonable for Next to conclude her finances were again stable. 
It follows I am satisfied Next acted fairly and reasonably when it gave credit to Miss J. 
I am sorry to hear Miss J went on to struggle financially. Next have said she should get in 
touch and it will try to agree an affordable repayment plan.
My final decision
I am not upholding Miss Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman