DRN-2790034
The complaint
Ms H complains that PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA wont refund a payment that she 
disputes from her account.
What happened
A payment of £380.99 was made through Ms Hs PayPal account on 12 December 2019. It 
was made up of a credit card transaction of £252.45 and a payment from a balance on the 
PayPal account of £128.54. Ms H says she didnt make this and that she cant understand 
why as the credit card company has refunded its element, that PayPal wont too despite her 
contacting it a number of times.
PayPal said it wouldnt be refunding the amount of £128.45 as it couldnt see any 
unauthorised access to the account. This amount wasnt covered by a chargeback that Ms H 
had pursued with her credit card company. But it offered to pay her a gesture of goodwill of 
£75.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Ms H had told her she kept 
her information secure and that no one else had access to her device. Ms H didnt see how 
an unknown third party could have made this payment. And PayPal had shown that the 
payment was made after a successful login to Ms Hs account using her correct email and 
password. This had been confirmed with a code sent to her mobile phone and then input. 
PayPal had shown that no other device had been used to access the account other that one 
used for genuine log ins. She had also seen that a name associated with the delivery of the 
purchase was the same as Ms Hs daughter - although one letter had been missed from the 
end of the surname used. And the item had been collected from a pick-up point. We werent 
considering what the separate credit card company had done in this complaint but the 
PayPal element of this payment. And she said that PayPal had established that the payment 
still in dispute was authorised.
Ms H didnt agree. She said she wouldnt otherwise have gone to this trouble for a payment 
of this amount. The transaction wasnt made by her and somehow the fraudsters must have 
got her daughters name. She intended to provide evidence from her phone company that 
she didnt receive a text. This couldnt have been made from her device. PayPal didnt 
investigate this properly. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, with security information. And it wasnt authorised     
Ms H wouldnt generally be responsible for it.
So, I will be thinking about the following areas in looking at this complaint:
- What is the most likely explanation of how this payment was made?
- Did Ms H either authorise the payment on the account, or allow someone else to make it 
as PayPal says?
This service provides informal dispute resolution. I wont be able to say exactly what 
happened here but Im thinking about what is most likely. 
Ive seen audit information from PayPal about this payment and Ms Hs account. The 
payment was made using a mobile device. There has only been one mobile device used in 
this period to access Ms Hs account and PayPal has captured a unique device number. 
This device was used to access the account both before and after the disputed payment. A 
code was sent to verify the access. So, Im satisfied that the payment was authenticated. 
The issue is whether Ms H consented to it and it was authorised.
Its possible for Ms Hs details to be hacked as she thinks happened. But as I say Im 
satisfied based on what Ive seen that Ms Hs genuine mobile device was used for this 
purchase. And thats especially taking into account that it was used after this date with no 
other disputed payments attempted. PayPal has also explained that the code used to verify 
the login would have been sent to Ms Hs mobile phone number. The correct first name of 
her daughter was linked to this payment. Like the investigator Im unclear how that would 
have been discovered and also why a fraudster would use this information especially given 
the purchased item was picked up from a third- party location. Having said that I dont know 
what identification verification in that name to collect the purchase would have been 
required.
I can see from the information Ms H provided that she quickly disputed this payment with 
PayPal. It sent her an email on 15 December 2019 saying it didnt accept that this wasnt 
authorised. And on 19 December 2019 told her that her appeal had been denied too. I can 
see from the credit card statement she provided that other element of her payment was 
refunded on 16 December 2019 which seems to have been following her contact with that 
financial business. I can appreciate her point that the overall transaction was either 
authorised or not authorised. But as our investigator says we are considering the amount 
relating to her PayPal balance and not what the other business did.
I am not persuaded here that the most likely explanation is that an unknown third party was 
able to make this payment. There is no explanation of how someone was able to access   
Ms Hs genuine device and so receive and input the correct code. There is no evidence of 
any other attempted misuse of the account. Ms H is clear no one close to her could have 
made this payment either without her knowing. And so, Im afraid that the most likely 
explanation is that she consented to this payment which could have involved allowing 
someone else to access her account to make the payment. I dont find this payment was 
unauthorised.
PayPal hasnt changed its position on this payment for consistent reasons but has offered 
Ms H £75 as a good will gesture. I understand this remains available to her and if so she 
would need to contact PayPal for this directly. I know she will be disappointed with my 
conclusion that I wont be asking PayPal to do anything.My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint as I dont think that PayPal Europe Sarl & 
Cie, SCA needs to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman