DRN-1007146
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Clydesdale Bank Plc wrongly halted a payment they made. This 
caused them distress and inconvenience for which they'd like some compensation.  
What happened
In December 2018 Mrs D attempted to make a payment of around £270 for a supermarket 
shop just before Christmas. When Mrs D and her husband, Mr D, went to collect their 
shopping, they were informed the card payment hadn't gone through. As a result, they 
needed to use a different card to complete the payment in order to be able to collect their 
shopping.  
A few days later Mrs D attempted to use the same card to buy something else, and the 
payment was declined again. She was told by the bank that the card had been blocked since 
22 December 2018 as a result of the previous payment which had flagged on its system. It 
explained to Mrs D that this was an automated process and that where a transaction 
had been flagged it needed to be verified by the user
Mr and Mrs D complained. Clydesdale looked into the complaint but didn't consider it had 
done anything wrong. It said that its system was automated and designed to detect any 
transaction that it believed may be suspicious or unusual. It said that normally contact 
should've been made on 22 December with Mrs D when the payment was halted, but it 
acknowledged it hadn't done so. As a result, it offered Mrs D £30 compensation for the 
inconvenience. 
Mr and Mrs D brought their complaint to this service. One of our investigators looked into the 
complaint, but didn't think it should be upheld. She considered that Mr and Mrs D were still 
able to complete their shopping using a different card. And she thought Clydesdale's offer of 
£30 was fair and reasonable compensation for the inconvenience not contacting her on 22 
December caused. 
Mr and Mrs D didn't agree. They thought £30 was insufficient compensation for their 
experience. They asked for an ombudsman to decide the matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
investigator for largely the same reasons. 
I should start by saying that I do completely understand the inconvenience and frustration a 
halted payment or blocked card can cause. Particularly given that, in most cases, such a 
block appears without the consumer knowing - and generally at an inconvenient time, such 
as when making a large purchase. 
In Mr and Mrs D's case, this happened at what I recognise is a particularly stressful and 
hectic time - the run up to Christmas. But it's important to emphasise that Clydesdale, as do other banks, have these processes in 
place to protect consumers from unauthorised transactions and scams. These systems are 
designed to trigger when something happens on an account which is deemed unusual or 
risky. And as these systems need to be automated, it'll often be the case that the transaction 
itself is an authorised one. But that doesn't mean that the bank has done something wrong, 
or should be responsible for the inconvenience caused by the payment being halted in the 
first place. 
It isn't my role to interfere with the way Clydesdale sets up its systems to protect its 
customers. And as the investigator has correctly explained, it's not this service's role to 
punish or 'fine' a business when we consider it has done something wrong. 
In this case, I agree that Clydesdale should've contacted Mrs D, either by calling her or 
sending her a message, on 22 December to explain the card had been blocked. Clearly this 
wouldn't have changed the situation at that point in time - Mr and Mrs D would still have 
been required to pay for their shopping using a different card. However it would've avoided 
Mrs D finding out days later that her card had been blocked. 
Whilst I appreciate that finding out some days later that a payment had been declined as a 
result of the bank's systems would've caused a degree of inconvenience, I'm not persuaded 
an award of more than £30 would be fair and reasonable given all the circumstances of this 
case. I understand that this payment has already been made - so I'm satisfied Clydesdale 
need not take any further action. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 July 2019.
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman