DRN-1820305
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy that EUI Limited trading as Admiral (EUI) declined his car insurance claim 
when water leaked into his car, causing damage to the interior and stereo system. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat all of them here. 
Instead Ill give a summary of the complaint and then Ill focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision.
Mr Ds car had two water leaks  one in July 2019 and one in August 2019. The leaks 
caused damage to his cars amplifier on both occasions, carpets, seats, and caused the 
battery to go flat. 
Mr D paid for the works to be completed on the two separate occasions to fix the damage 
the water leaks had caused. He then decided to make a claim under his insurance policy for 
the damage. Mr D says he didnt initially make a claim as he wasnt aware of how extensive 
the damage would be, or how much it would cost to repair.
EUI asked an independent assessor to inspect Mr Ds car to ascertain the reason for the 
water leak. The independent assessor concluded that blocked drainage holes on the first 
occasion had caused the leak. But Mr D has provided information to show that this was 
caused by faulty door seals. EUI accepted that the independent assessor had given the 
incorrect reason for declining the claim and paid Mr D £50 for this. But it maintained that the 
claim should be declined as the faulty seals were the result of wear and tear. 
Our investigator thought that this part of the claim had been declined fairly, as the faulty 
seals had leaked as a result of wear and tear. Neither party has disputed this part of the 
investigators opinion.
EUI also declined the second part of Mr Ds claim under the wear and tear exclusion of the 
insurance policy. It further explained that the leak in August 2019 was the result of a 
servicing issue and was not caused by an insured event. 
EUI said that the drainage holes  which would usually carry rainwater away from the car  
were blocked. It said that these holes hadnt been unblocked in line with the manufacturers 
recommendations as part of the cars regular servicing and maintenance. 
Mr D didnt agree with EUI. He provided confirmation that the car had been serviced in June 
2019, and a written account from the garage that did the service to explain the work it done 
as part of that service. This account explains that the blocked drainage holes had been 
cleared as part of the service, as this is a known issue with this particular model of car. EUI 
didnt accept this. It said that as this work hadnt been included in the cars service log, the 
car hadnt been properly maintained and therefore the issue was caused by wear and tear or 
a lack of maintenance.
Our investigator concluded that EUI should reconsider the claim for the second water leak. 
He said that although unblocking the drainage holes wasnt specifically included on the cars 
service record, there was no option for this to be included. So he didnt think it was 
unreasonable that this wasnt specifically mentioned. But he accepted that the garage had 
done the work that it said it had, and had cleared the drainage holes when it serviced the 
car. So he thought that Mr D had properly maintained the car and had attempted to prevent 
loss or damage to the car by having it serviced two months earlier.
EUI didnt agree with the investigators opinion. EUI maintained that the second leak was 
caused by a wear and tear issue, so it says that its not covered under Mr Ds policy.
As the case still hasnt been resolved, its been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for 
these reasons:
I agree that EUI was fair to decline the claim in relation to the first water leak, in July 
2019. The garage engineer has confirmed this was caused by door seals which had 
deteriorated and needed lubricating and re-fitting. I think its fair to say this is an issue 
that had most likely worsened over time, and so falls under the nature of wear and 
tear.
The General Conditions of Mr Ds car insurance policy, under Care of your car 
state: 
You or any other person covered by this insurance must:
protect your car from loss or damage;
make sure your car is roadworthy;
allow us to inspect your car at any reasonable time if we ask you.
Mr D says he bought the car in July 2018, and had the full service completed in June 
2019. And he took the car to the garage on two separate occasions when he noticed 
that water was leaking into the car. So I think its reasonable to say that Mr D did in 
fact try to protect his car from loss or damage, as well as making sure the car was 
roadworthy. I know that EUI says Mr D hasnt complied with the requirements of the 
policy, but I dont agree. EUI says that the drainage holes werent unblocked, but as 
Ive already said, Mr D has provided an email from the garage that serviced the 
vehicle. The email confirms that the drainage holes were unblocked when the car 
was serviced around two months before the issue arose in August 2019. So I think 
that Mr D did as much as he could to prevent this from happening. And whilst this 
wasnt specifically noted in the cars service book, I dont think thats the fault of Mr D 
or the garage. Ive seen a copy of the service book, and whilst it includes a tick box 
for maintenance  which is ticked  theres no space to record exactly what type of 
maintenance was carried out.  
The garage that completed the service of Mr Ds car explained that it always checks 
and unblocks the drainage holes on this type of car as part of a service, as this is a 
common issue. Whilst I note that EUI doesnt accept this, I can see in its claim notes 
that it has noted these vehicles are renowned for water leaks ( Common fault ) 
Generally the cause of water ingress is down to the drain channels in rear being 
blocked. So I think that this is in fact a common issue, and its more likely than not that the garage would have checked and unblocked the holes as part of the cars 
service. And it seems they became blocked again after this, causing the second leak.
Having considered everything, Im satisfied that Mr D has taken reasonable care of 
the car in line with the requirements set out by his insurance policy. And I dont agree 
the damage caused by water ingress from blocked drainage holes was caused by 
wear and tear, or a lack of maintenance. Whilst its unfortunate that the issue seems 
to be a common one, theres no suggestion that its caused by deterioration over time 
 so I havent concluded that its related to wear and tear. Im also not satisfied that it 
was caused by Mr D not maintaining the car in the way he should have, or the 
garage not servicing the car in line with the manufacturers recommendations.
It follows that I uphold the complaint in relation to the second water leak, as EUI has unfairly 
declined the claim. So EUI needs to put things right.
Putting things right
I require EUI Limited to:
Consider the two instances of water ingress as separate claims;
Consider the second instance as a valid claim, subject to EUIs normal claims 
handling procedure and the policy excess.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against EUI Limited and I require it to do 
what Ive set out above to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2020.
 
Sam Wade
Ombudsman