DRN-1969265
The complaint
Ms A and Mr S are unhappy their re-mortgage application was declined by Leeds Building 
Society because of the valuation it received. They dont think the valuation is right.
What happened
In mid-2019 Ms A and Mr S applied to re-mortgage a property they owned and had 
converted for holiday rental. They had existing private lending on the property and wanted a 
mortgage from Leeds, increasing the amount of borrowing by £125,000 to £500,000. Before 
submitting the application, Ms A and Mr S broker suggested they arrange for local letting 
agents to produce rental valuations to assist with their application.
Leeds commissioned a valuation. The valuation said that the property didnt comply with the 
lenders guidelines and was not suitable security for the mortgage because there was a lack 
of demand for AST lettings of this nature in the vicinity. Leeds declined the application. 
Ms A and Mr S werent happy with the decision. They questioned the findings of the survey 
and Leeds referred their concerns back to the valuers. The valuers explained that it had 
been valued as a domestic residence rather than as a holiday rental because of its location 
in a domestic residential area, not on the sea-front. It maintained the valuation was correct.
Leeds explained that whilst the property was to be used as a holiday let, the lack of general 
outside space would make it less appealing for local buyers at the estimated value provided. 
In addition, part of the property was still not converted and there was no evidence of plans of 
permissions for that to happen. It was satisfied the valuer had applied its guidance correctly 
and the decision to decline the application was not wrong. In addition, it pointed out that it 
outsources its valuation work to an external company, and it was not responsible for the 
opinion reached by the valuer.
Ms A and Mr S werent happy with Leeds response and referred their complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators considered the complaint, but he didnt recommend it be 
upheld. He explained that where a lender arranged for a suitably qualified expert to value a 
property, it was entitled to rely on that opinion when making its decision about whether to 
lend. As that is what Leeds had done, he didnt think it had acted unfairly. 
Ms A and Mr S didnt accept the investigators conclusion. They said the surveyors 
conclusions were wrong and so they found Leeds response shoddy, ill informed and 
incorrect. They also pointed out that they had submitted valuations for potential rental 
income as a holiday rental from local specialist rental companies. They were unhappy that 
Leeds had ignored those valuations in favour of the valuer. They said they wanted to be 
compensated for their time and efforts in getting the letting agent rental valuations and doing 
the mortgage application, which they consider was a complete waste of time. 
Leeds confirmed that it didnt have copies of the letting agents valuations in its records. It 
also highlighted the reason for the application being declined was not because of 
affordability, i.e. the income that could be achieved from the property, but because the valuer 
didnt think it was suitable security. Ms A and Mr S provided copies of the valuations they 
had arranged before applying for the mortgage, to support their application, on the advice of 
their broker. 
Our investigator considered the further comments and information, but he didnt change his 
opinion. As such, the complaint has been referred to me for consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would confirm that a lender is not obliged to grant a mortgage. Each lender will have its 
own criteria for what type of lending it wants to be involved in and the risks its willing to take. 
What risk a lender is willing to take is a matter of its commercial judgement. As long as the 
lender applies its criteria to all its customers fairly, we wouldnt usually look to interfere with 
that criteria.
When determining whether to lend, most lenders will hire in professional expertise to value 
the property and determine whether its a suitable risk to secure the borrowing against. 
Where a lender hires in a suitably qualified expert, such as a valuer registered with the Royal 
Institute of Chartered Surveyors (RICS) the lender is entitled to rely on the valuers opinion 
when making its lending decisions. The lender doesnt take on responsibility for the 
professional opinion of the valuer  that responsibility remains with the valuer. 
I am satisfied that Leeds followed this process and hired a suitably qualified professional to 
determine the value of the property and whether it was suitable security for its purposes. 
In this case the application was declined because the valuer decided, based on Leeds 
criteria, that the property was not suitable security for lending. That was why the valuer 
detailed a value of zero on the valuation, not because the property didnt have a value in 
other contexts and/or there was no possibility of it being rented out. 
As I have said above, Leeds is not responsible for the content of the valuers report. So while 
Ms A and Mr S arent happy with its content, Leeds isnt responsible for answering those 
concerns. That said, Leeds has explained why the valuer reached the conclusions it did.  I 
dont consider Leeds was wrong to rely on the valuers report. As far as Leeds was 
concerned, based on the risks it was willing to take, a professional expert had determined 
the risk was not one that fitted with its criteria. 
I can understand why Ms A and Mr S were so disappointed with Leeds decision, but it was 
entitled to make that decision and I dont think it did anything wrong in doing so. As for the 
time they spent on preparing for, and making the application, that was time they were always 
going to spend, irrespective of which lender they applied to. There wasnt a guarantee the 
lending would be approved until the valuation was done, and the application was fully 
considered. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Ms A and Mr S to accept or reject my decision 
before 12 January 2021. 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman