DRN-4375068
The complaint
Mrs S says Revolut Ltd (Revolut), didnt do enough to help when she fell victim to an 
impersonation scam. She says Revolut should reimburse her for the money she lost.
What happened
As both parties are familiar with the circumstances of this complaint, Ive summarised them 
briefly below. 
Mrs S fell victim to an impersonation scam. She was contacted by someone purporting to 
work for HMRC. Mrs S was sadly duped into making two payments totalling £2,940 (£1,945 
and £995 respectively) on 12 May 2023. 
Mrs S also made other payments as part of this scam from accounts she held with different 
banks, which shes told us shes been reimbursed by. 
On realising shed fallen victim to a scam, Mrs S reported the matter to Revolut through its 
chat function around 15:28 the same day, to see if her funds could be reimbursed or 
recovered. 
Revolut didnt consider it was liable for the losses Mrs S incurred and advised it wasnt able 
to recover any of the funds.
Unhappy with Revoluts response, Mrs S brought her complaint to this service. One of our 
Investigators looked into things, but she didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She 
acknowledged the Revolut account had been opened with the purpose of making the scam 
payments, but she didnt think the payment amounts were so unusual or suspicious in 
appearance that further intervention from Revolut was required. Overall, our Investigator 
didnt think it was fair to say Revolut should have identified that Mrs S was at risk of losing 
her funds. Or that its decision not to intervene further than it did, was unfair in the 
circumstances. 
With regards to the recovery of any funds, our Investigator said that even had Revolut 
contacted the receiving bank as soon as it was made aware of the fraud, this wouldnt have 
made a difference in this case. This is because the money had been removed from the 
receiving account. So, she didnt think there was anything further that Revolut could do to 
recover the funds.
Mrs S didnt agree with our Investigators view. As no agreement has been reached the 
complaint has been passed to me to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint and the responses briefly, in less detail than 
has been provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive 
focussed on what I think is the heart of the matter here  which is to determine whether 
Revolut should have done more to prevent Mrs Ss losses. If theres something Ive not 
mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on 
every individual point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our 
rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as an 
alternative to the courts. 
Having thought very carefully about Revoluts actions, Im not upholding Mrs Ss complaint. I 
do appreciate how disappointing this will be for her. Mrs S was a victim to a cruel scam. But 
in weighing everything up, I dont think I can fairly say Revolut should reimburse her. Ill 
explain why.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank and payment service providers are 
expected to process payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in 
accordance with the terms and conditions of the customers account. And I have taken that 
into account when looking into what is fair and reasonable in this case.
Here, Mrs S carried out the payments herself from her newly opened Revolut account. So, it 
is the case that Mrs S authorised all the payments that are in dispute. And under the 
Payment Service Regulations 2017 (which are the relevant regulations in place here) that 
means Mrs S is responsible for them. That remains the case even though Mrs S was the 
unfortunate victim of a scam.
However, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate for Revolut, as an 
electronic money institute (EMI) to take additional steps or make additional checks before 
processing a payment in order to help protect its customers from the possibility of financial 
harm from fraud. An example of this would be payments which are sufficiently unusual or 
uncharacteristic when compared with the usual use of the account. In such circumstances, 
Id expect Revolut to intervene and ask some questions about the intended transaction 
before processing it and provide a suitable warning. 
Having carefully considered whether there was anything about the circumstances 
surrounding the payments that could have put Revolut on notice that they were being made 
as part of a scam, Im afraid I dont think that there was. I will now explain why. 
Revolut has a difficult balance to strike in how it configures its systems to detect unusual 
activity or activity that might otherwise indicate a higher than usual risk of fraud. There is a 
delicate balance to be struck. There are many millions of payments made each day and it 
would not be possible or reasonable to expect a bank to check each one. And, in situations 
where Revolut do intervene, I would expect that intervention to be proportionate to the 
circumstances of the payment.
In this case, Mrs S opened the account for the purpose of making the scam payments and 
so there was no transaction history to compare the payments in question to. I also dont find 
it unusual for a newly opened account to be used immediately. 
When looking at the activity, I can see Mrs S deposited funds into the Revolut account in 
order to make each of the payments and, whilst I note she proceeded to make two payments 
from the account (around 43 minutes apart), I dont find these payments to have been made 
in such quick succession that this ought to have caused Revolut concern. Further, while I recognised the value of the payments are not insignificant in amount, and 
that this is a lot of money to Mrs S, I dont consider the payments to be remarkably high in 
value that they ought fairly and reasonably to have caused Revolut concern that she might 
have been at risk of financial harm from fraud. 
This said, Revolut say when Mrs S set up the new payee it asked her if she knew and 
trusted the payee. Mrs S selected that she trusted the beneficiary and proceeded with the 
payments. It adds that the initial payment of £1,945 flagged on Revoluts systems and it 
provided her with a warning. After seeing this warning, Revolut add Mrs S proceeded to re-
initiate the payment to the beneficiary. 
Mrs S in her submissions to our service has acknowledged receiving warnings from Revolut 
before making the payments but has said that this is shown before any genuine payments as 
a normal warning process, so how can they differentiate which is a genuine transaction and 
which is not. 
Ive thought carefully about everything Ive seen and been told and with all things considered 
I think that Revolut did enough in providing a warning to Mrs S when she made the 
payments. 
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont think the payments Mrs S made as part of the 
scam would have appeared so suspicious or unusual to Revolut that it ought to fairly and 
reasonably have intervened further than it did. I think that warnings were a proportionate 
intervention, given the individual circumstances of this case, and Im not persuaded Revolut 
needed to do anything more than it did. 
I have also considered whether Revolut did all it could to try and recover the money Mrs S 
lost. The evidence Ive seen persuades me Revolut could have acted sooner than it did. But 
unfortunately, it is common for fraudsters to withdraw or move the money on as quickly as 
possible. Based on what Ive seen, there were no funds available to be recovered from the 
receiving account. It follows that I dont think Revolut could have prevented Mrs Ss losses 
after she reported the scam.  
Its very unfortunate Mrs S has lost this money in this way, and I understand the whole 
experience has been deeply upsetting and I have a great deal of sympathy for her. But in the 
circumstances, I dont think I can fairly or reasonably say Revolut should have done more to 
prevent Mrs S from losing her money. And unfortunately, there wasnt anything further 
Revolut could do to help Mrs S recover her funds.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2023.
 
Staci RowlandOmbudsman