DRN-4446423
The complaint
Mr B complains that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) failed to set up his 
pension annuity in a timely manner, failed to respond to queries and havent fairly 
compensated him for the inconvenience and loss of interest during the delay. And, when the 
annuity was set up, the rate used was less than it should have been. He wants 
compensation for his losses and the distress and inconvenience caused.
What happened
Mr B wanted to purchase an annuity with his Aegon pension fund. Having researched The 
MoneyHelper website he decided to proceed with L&G and applied online. Based on health 
information entered on the application by Mr B, L&G offered a higher than standard annuity 
rate. L&G says it requested that Aegon transfer Mr Bs fund to it on 12 April 2023 using the 
Origo electronic transfer system. Aegon updated Origo on 2 May 2023 that it had sent the 
funds to L&G. But as he hadnt heard anything from L&G, Mr B chased it by email on 16 May 
2023. And then called it on 23 May 2023. L&G recorded a complaint and on checking 
realised it had received the funds from Aegon. Mr B continued to call and email L&G chasing 
for updates. 
On 29 June 2023 L&G called Mr B saying he needed to agree to a change in the annuity as 
more funds had been received than expected. Mr B was on holiday and said he wouldnt 
proceed until he was back home and could review the figures. He says he checked the 
income rate offered by L&G compared to that on The MoneyHelper website, which was 
higher, which he queried. 
L&G sent Mr B a final response letter on 12 July 2023. It apologised for the delay and errors 
and said it was honouring the original annuity rate it had quoted. It said it would set the 
annuity up if he confirmed he wished to proceed and backdate the arrangement to when it 
received the funds on 2 May 2023. It said it would pay interest on the late payments for 
June, and July 2023. It also paid Mr B £300 in compensation for the inconvenience caused. 
Mr B says he wasnt sure he wanted to proceed because of the problems but he reluctantly 
agreed to do so.
Mr B referred his complaint to our service. He said L&G had held nearly £60,000 of his 
money for months and should pay him interest on it.
Our investigator asked L&G to send its file, but it didnt respond. So, he considered the 
complaint based on the evidence and information provided by Mr B. He said the complaint 
should be upheld.
Our investigator said there had been errors and delays, but it appeared L&G had set the 
annuity up correctly, using the original annuity rate offered and it had backdated payments to 
when these should have started. He said the £300 compensation it had paid for the distress 
and inconvenience caused was fair under the circumstances. But he said L&G hadnt added 
interest to the late annuity payments as it should have done in order to put Mr B back into 
the position he should have been it. He said it was fair that interest only be added to the late 
payments rather than the total amount invested into the annuity because Mr B hadnt been 
deprived access to the capital sum, only the income.
L&G apologised for the delay in providing its file. It said it would calculate and pay the 
interest up to date and it offered Mr B a further £50 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. Our investigator advised Mr B of this. 
Mr B didnt agree with our investigator. He said this wasnt adequate compensation. He said 
it didnt reflect the stress and time taken to chase L&G up which included ignored emails and 
very long telephone call queuing times. Or the length of time hed been left with nothing 
whilst L&G had the use of his funds. And he said the main part of his complaint, that L&G 
hadnt offered the annuity rate available on The MoneyHelper website hadnt been 
considered, and this could cost him thousands of pounds over the lifetime of the annuity. He 
said hed contacted The MoneyHelper website whod confirmed there was no reason why 
L&G shouldnt have used the higher rate.  
Our investigator said the screenshots Mr B had provided showing annuity rates from The 
MoneyHelper website were only a guide and not a full quote from L&G. He said it had 
honoured the correct rate from when the annuity should have been set up. Mr B said this 
wasnt right and that L&Gs complaint process wasnt satisfactory as it didnt address its 
failures of service and that independent customer reviews showed more than 50% of 
consumers consider L&Gs customer service to be exceptionally poor. He said it should be 
held properly to account for its failures.
As Mr B doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am upholding the complaint, but to be clear to Mr B I wont be telling it to 
do any more than our investigator has suggested.
Our service doesnt regulate financial firms, so I cant tell L&G to change its systems or 
procedures or punish it for perceived failings. But I can award compensation if I think errors 
or problems have resulted in unfair outcomes. 
Here L&G accepts there was a problem in setting up the annuity and that it didnt sort this 
out soon enough or respond to Mr Bs queries and complaints about this promptly. It said it 
had been dealing with very high levels of business and hadnt met its service standards in 
this case. It said by the time it realised it had received the funds from Aegon (only after Mr B 
had chased it repeatedly) the original quotation and underwriting decision had expired and 
unacceptable delays between the different departments then held matters up further. 
This has been an unfortunate experience for Mr B but having considered all the evidence I 
do think L&G has taken the correct steps to put Mr B back in the position he should have 
been in. Apart from its further failure to add interest to the income payments it has paid late. 
When errors have resulted in payment delays, as they have here, our service thinks it is fair 
the injured party be put back into the position they should have been in but for the error. And 
L&G has backdated income payments to when these should have started and has used the 
original annuity rate it offered. That is fair, provided that interest is also added to reflect the 
delay in payment. Because Mr Bs loss was that he was deprived of the use of the income 
that should have been paid to him in June, July, and August 2023, not the full amount of the funds invested with L&G. It paid the late income payments in September 2023, and if it pays 
fair interest on these it is putting Mr B back into the position he should be in. 
 
Mr B says the actual annuity rate and thus level of income should be higher, based on the 
figures on The MoneyHelper website. I understand why he thinks this, and it may be that 
annuity rates increased during the delay. But the figures quoted on The MoneyHelper 
website were not a firm quotation from L&G and didnt reflect the actual circumstances that 
an application was in progress, albeit delayed. Had annuity rates instead declined Id expect 
L&G to honour the rate originally offered. Which is fair because that was the intention of the 
parties. So, using the original annuity rate does put Mr B back into the position he should 
have been in. 
Mr B was undoubtedly inconvenienced by the errors, with his time being wasted chasing 
things up by telephone, and I understand the frustration he feels. But it has now offered a 
total of £350 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. I think this is a fair 
amount of compensation which is in keeping with what we would award in similar 
circumstances.
Putting things right
I think setting up the annuity as originally intended was fair, given the missed payments have 
been made good. But L&G must add interest at 8% per year simple from the date each 
payment should have been made until the date it makes settlement to Mr B. 
Income tax may be payable on this interest. If L&G deducts income tax from the interest, it 
should tell Mr B how much has been taken off. L&G should give Mr B a tax deduction 
certificate in respect of the interest if Mr B asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on the 
interest from HMRC if appropriate.
L&G should provide Mr B with a simple calculation of how it arrived at the figures.
I think the compensation offered of £350 in total is fair in the circumstances of the complaint 
and L&G must now pay the outstanding £50 of this to Mr B if it hasnt already done so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint against Legal and General Assurance Society 
Limited
I direct Legal and General Assurance Society Limited to calculate and pay the redress set 
out above to Mr B. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2023.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman