DRN-2435850
The complaint
Ms D complains that she had to pay to close out a currency contract with HiFX Europe 
Limited trading as XE (XE).
What happened
On 12 March 2020 Ms D was shopping round for quotes to buy great british pounds with 
euros. She visited the XE website. She ended up buying £16,750 with EUR19,000. XE 
asked her to pay this by 13 March 2020. On 18 March 2020, she cancelled the contract. 
Because rates had changed, there was a cost of £781.62. XE instructed solicitors to recover 
the debt. Ms D paid the amount in April 2020.
Ms D complained. She said she was just shopping round for the best rates and didnt think 
she was entering into a contract to buy and sell currency. She said that she thought this 
would happen when she asked her bank to send the money to XE. She paid the amount to 
XE as she wanted to make sure her credit record wasnt affected.
XE replied in March 2020. They said Ms D had entered into a foreign exchange contract. 
Close out charges applied if a transaction is cancelled. The cost of the currency purchase 
had to be paid to them by 13 March 2020. They closed out the contract on 19 March 2020 by 
reversing the sale and purchase. The resulting cost was £781.62 because rates had 
changed. They said that their terms and conditions said that any cost of closing out a deal 
was to be paid by Ms D.
Ms D brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator looked at what had happened. 
In December 2020, she said that she thought that XE had acted reasonably. XEs terms and 
conditions said that any close-out cost was to be paid by Ms D. She looked at screenshots of 
how the website runs  this showed that when a transaction is confirmed by a customer, 
they accept the terms and conditions. And that customers are told before they confirm a 
transaction - that the currency deal will be done, terms and conditions are accepted and that 
any close out costs are for them to pay.
Ms D asked that an ombudsman review her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Ms Ds complaint is that she says she didnt understand what she was getting 
herself into and that XEs website wasnt clear enough. She thought she was shopping round 
for rates and didnt think she was actually buying and selling currency. And that any deal 
would only take place once she asked her bank to send money to XE. 
XEs terms and conditions clearly state that any close out cost must be paid by customers:
If the contract is terminated for any reason: we: a) will Close Out any Trade not yet 
completed, which you acknowledge many involve us entering into a Reversal 
Transaction.you must pay us on demand the amount of the Close Out Cost and / or 
Further Loss that we claim following any Close Out or termination..
I can see that Ms D already had an account with XE and she last accepted the terms and 
conditions on 28 February 2020  just before what happened.
I have looked at the screenshots of the website to see what Ms D wouldve seen. To deal, 
customers must go through a number of processes on five screens which include:
1. A new transfer screen  this also has a link to the terms & conditions
2 & 3: Screens to enter bank details of the recipient  where the currency is to be 
sent - click: confirm pay to this recipient
4: Confirmation that customer will pay from their bank account  click: confirm pay 
by bank transfer
5: Details of the currency transaction  click: confirm transaction now
So  Ms D had to go through a number of screens - quite deep into the website - before 
finally confirming the deal. She had to enter various details and provide confirmations. And 
through the process, there were two chances to see the terms and conditions  including just 
before clicking confirm transaction now.
There is a clear warning that a foreign exchange deal will take place  and what would 
happen if its cancelled. The final screen shows details of the deal, its rate, cost and payment 
date. It says - before a customer clicks confirm transaction now - they are advised: 
Foreign exchange rates can go up as well as down. When you confirm a transaction, we 
secure your rate of exchange as soon as we receive your order. You are liable for any Close 
Out cost incurred if you cancel your transaction. When you confirm the transaction, you 
accept our standard Terms and Conditions which shall govern your Contract and transaction 
with us. No details can be changed after you confirm the transaction.
It is unfortunate that Ms D has had to pay the cost of closing out the contract. I can see she 
is frustrated at this. But I cant see that XE have done anything wrong here, and I wont be 
asking them to do anymore.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman