DRN-3660050
The complaint
Mr L complains he was the victim of an investment scam and that Lloyds Bank PLC didnt do 
enough to stop that from happening or to recover his money.  
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
Mr L says that between 4 and 25 January 2022, ten payments were made totalling 
£13,965.03 using a Visa debit card connected to his Lloyds account. He had been contacted 
via a text message by someone claiming to be a broker who worked for the Bank of 
Germany who advised him to invest in cryptocurrency. He was told to send money to a 
cryptocurrency exchange company Ill refer to as E, before transferring the cryptocurrency 
to an online app wallet. The broker advised him to exchange the money into US dollars, 
which would then sit in the app before being mined. 
Mr L created a username and password and was told to download the app. He decided to 
invest once the broker had sent him evidence of where they were contacting him from, and 
hed satisfied himself he was dealing with a genuine investment bank.
Mr L realised hed been the victim of a scam when he received a notification that the funds 
had disappeared from his wallet. He complained to Lloyds, but it said it couldnt raise a 
chargeback request because E had successfully transferred funds to Mr Ls online wallet as 
requested. It accepted there had been a scam and that the funds had been taken from the 
wallet without Mr Ls consent, but it said he would have to take that up directly with the 
administrators of the wallet. Finally, it accepted it had originally told Mr L in error that it could 
get his money back, offering £120 compensation for the inconvenience that had caused.
Mr L wasnt satisfied and so he complained to this service arguing Lloyds shouldve flagged 
the payments as suspicious. He also feels Lloyds was unhelpful and caused him additional 
stress. He says he was told hes young enough to know better and that he would have had 
a refund if he was elderly.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied Mr L had 
authorised the transactions, explaining Lloyds had provided evidence that the payments 
were made from Mr Ls debit card and that the CVV code on the back of the card was used. 
He concluded that either Mr L had made the payments; or if not, hed consented to his card 
being used to make the payments. He also noted that Mr L was always left with significant 
funds in his account after each transfer which he didnt think supported a fraudster having 
attempted to make payments without his knowledge. 
Our investigator further explained Lloyds should have been monitoring Mr Ls account and 
had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might indicate 
its customers were at risk of fraud, particularly given the increase in sophisticated frauds and 
scams in recent years. He explained that, in some circumstances, irrespective of the 
payment channel used, Lloyds should take additional steps, or make additional checks, 
before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make a payment altogether.
However, he didnt think the payments were particularly unusual or suspicious considering 
Mr Ls normal account and payments activity. And there were no warnings about E on either 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) or International Organization of Securities 
Commissions (IOSCO) websites, so he didnt think they should have triggered warnings from 
Lloyds fraud systems. And as there was no communication between Mr L and Lloyds when 
he made the payments, he didnt think it had missed an opportunity to intervene.
Our investigator considered whether Lloyds had dealt with the chargeback request fairly, 
observing the applicable reason code required very specific evidence, which Mr L didnt 
have. He also noted that, even with the required evidence under Visas rules, the 
chargeback was likely to fail because E had provided the service it had been asked to.
Finally, our investigator looked into Mr Ls description of comments made to him when he 
first reported his loss and said the branch member didnt accept having made the comments 
and that there was no evidence Mr L was told he is young enough to know better or that if 
he was elderly he would have been refunded. He noted Lloyds accepted Mr L had 
originally been led to believe he could get his money back, but he thought £120 
compensation was fair.
Mr L has asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman and so its been passed 
to me for a decision. He has said he didnt authorise the transactions because he didnt 
know he was dealing with a fraudster. He argued Lloyds should have stopped such volatile 
investments or sent a text message with a warning.
Mr L has also said he was pressured and threatened into making the larger transactions and 
that the £20,000 transaction referred to by our investigator was from his business account 
and wasnt relevant to his personal account. He also explained the payment of £5,250 was 
for a car he never received and questioned why hes lost out because he made smaller 
payments instead of a lump sum.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied Mr L authorised the payments. He told Lloyds hed authorised some, but not all 
of the payments in question and has since said he didnt realise he was dealing with a 
scammer and that he was pressured and threatened into making the larger transactions. 
Unfortunately, this doesnt mean he didnt authorise the payments. This is because, whether 
or not he knew he was dealing with a genuine broker, provided he used the legitimate 
security credentials given to him by Lloyds  and, based on the information supplied by 
Lloyds, Im satisfied that he was  then he is deemed as having authorised the transactions 
for the purposes of the of the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in 
force at the time. So, although he did not intend the money to go to scammers, under the 
Regulations, and under the terms and conditions of his bank account, Mr L is presumed 
liable for the loss in the first instance.
Mr L believes hes entitled to a refund because he was the victim of a scam and Lloyds 
should have either done more to stop that happening or help him get the money back. Not 
every complaint referred to us and categorised as an investment scam is in fact a scam. 
Some cases simply involve high-risk unregulated investments that resulted in disappointing 
returns or losses. Some of these investments may have been promoted using sales methods that were arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, while customers who lost out may 
understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not necessarily meet 
the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud, i.e. dishonestly making a false 
representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a gain for 
himself or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006). 
Ive carefully considered the circumstances, and I am persuaded the broker was operating 
as part of a scam. But, although Mr L didnt intend his money to go to scammers, he did 
authorise the disputed payments. Lloyds is expected to process payments and withdrawals 
that a customer authorises it to make, but where the customer has been the victim of a 
scam, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse them even though 
they authorised the payment.
Buying cryptocurrency is a legitimate activity and from the evidence Ive seen, E was a 
genuine cryptocurrency exchange company. However, Lloyds had an obligation to be alert to 
fraud and scams and these payments were part of a wider scam, so I need to consider 
whether it ought to have intervened to warn Mr L when he tried to make the payments.  If 
there are unusual or suspicious payments on an account, Id expect Lloyds to intervene with 
a view to protecting Mr L from financial harm due to fraud. 
The payments didnt flag as suspicious on Lloyds systems. Ive considered the nature of the 
payments in the context of whether they were unusual or uncharacteristic of how Mr L 
normally ran his account and I dont think they were. Three of the payments were between 
£1,000 and £2,000 and the highest was £4,154.82. As our investigator pointed out, on 21 
June 2021 Mr L made a payment of £20,000 and between 5 July and 11 October 2021 hed 
made seven payments ranging from £1,500 to £6,000 so none of the disputed payments 
were unusually high when considered alongside the normal operation of Mr Ls account. 
Further, this wasnt the first time hed traded. Because of this, I dont think the fact Lloydss 
fraud systems werent triggered by the payments was unfair or unreasonable.
Chargeback
Ive also thought about whether Lloyds could have done more to recover Mr Ls payments 
when he reported the scam to it. Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by Visa whereby it 
will ultimately arbitrate on a dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be 
resolved between them after two presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of 
the scheme  so there are limited grounds on which a chargeback can succeed. Our role in 
such cases is not to second-guess Visas arbitration decision or scheme rules, but to 
determine whether the regulated card issuer (i.e. Lloyds) acted fairly and reasonably when 
presenting (or choosing not to present) a chargeback on behalf of its cardholder (Mr L).
Mr Ls own testimony supports that he used cryptocurrency exchanges to facilitate his 
transfers to E. Its only possible to make a chargeback claim to the merchant that received 
the payments. Its most likely that the cryptocurrency exchange would have been able to 
evidence theyd done what was asked of them. That is, in exchange for Mr Ls payments, 
they converted and sent an amount of cryptocurrency to the wallet addresses provided. So, 
any chargeback was destined to fail and as above, it wouldnt be possible to raise a 
chargeback against E directly.
Overall, Im satisfied Lloyds took the correct steps prior to the funds being released  as well 
as the steps it took after being notified of the potential fraud. Im sorry to hear Mr L lost such 
a significant amount of money. But for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think Lloyds is to 
blame for this and so I cant fairly tell it to do anything further to resolve this complaint. My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2023.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman