DRN-4179215
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain that more 2 life Ltd or its solicitors caused delay in processing their 
application for a lifetime mortgage. This meant that their mortgage offer expired and when 
more 2 life issued a new offer it was at a higher interest rate. Mr and Mrs F complain this 
means their mortgage will be more expensive over its term.
What happened
Mr and Mrs F applied, via a broker, for a lifetime mortgage with more 2 life. They first made 
their application in December 2021. 
A valuation of their property was carried out on 20 December. Mr and Mrs Fs property is 
relatively unusual  its grade two listed, includes a right of way over the land for the benefit 
of neighbouring properties, and includes a utility pole within the boundary. As a result more 2 
life had some queries. Following satisfactory resolution of the queries, it issued a mortgage 
offer on 11 January. It offered an initial loan of £100,000 with a drawdown facility of £60,000, 
at an interest rate of 2.78%. The offer was valid for 42 days, and also included a special 
condition  more 2 life required Mr and Mrs Fs solicitors to confirm that their buildings 
insurer was aware that the property was listed and that it provided full insurance on standard 
terms.
Mr and Mrs F say they decided not to proceed with the loan while they explored other 
options. Later that year, they decided to go ahead after all and asked their mortgage adviser 
to re-apply to more 2 life.
more 2 life issued a new mortgage offer. It did so relying on the December 2021 valuation, 
which it said was valid for six months  but this meant that the new mortgage offer expired 
on 20 June 2022. The new offer was for the same amount, but this time at an interest rate of 
3.58%. The offer included the same standard condition.
Mr and Mrs Fs solicitors sent more 2 lifes solicitors the completed loan documentation on 
9 June  more 2 lifes solicitors checked and noted that Mr and Mrs Fs solicitors had not 
included the required information to show the special condition was satisfied.
Mr and Mrs Fs solicitors gave more 2 lifes solicitors some evidence about the insurance on 
14 June. But more 2 life solicitors said that it wasnt sufficient, because it didnt confirm that 
the insurers were aware that the property was listed. It was only on 17 June that the full 
information required was received from Mr and Mrs Fs solicitors, and more 2 lifes solicitors 
sent it on to more 2 life the same day. But 17 June was a Friday, and the offer expired on the 
following Monday, 20 June. 
On 20 June Mr and Mrs Fs broker called more 2 life for an update. more 2 life confirmed the 
special condition had now been satisfied. But by then it was too late to release the funds and 
so the loan did not complete that day and the offer expired. 
As the valuation had now expired  because it was more than six months since it was 
carried out  more 2 life said a new valuation would be required. It arranged one without 
charging Mr and Mrs F for it. The new valuation took place in July and more 2 life issued a 
new offer, for the same amount but this time at an interest rate of 4.3%.
Mr and Mrs F complained. They said the special condition had been satisfied before the offer 
expired and more 2 life should have released the funds, or should have agreed to an 
extension of the offer. It wasnt fair that it withdrew the offer and issued a new one at a 
higher interest rate. While Mr and Mrs F completed on this new offer, theyre unhappy that it 
means theyll pay more interest over the life of the loan. 
more 2 life said that it hadnt acted unfairly. It generally needed five days to arrange the 
release of the funds, but Mr and Mrs Fs solicitor had only provided the necessary 
information to satisfy the special condition on Friday 17 June, with the offer expiring on 
Monday 20 June. It said that the special condition had been known about for several months 
and Mr and Mrs Fs solicitor shouldnt have left it to the last minute to provide the required 
information. It said that even though it wasnt responsible for the delay it hadnt charged 
them for the second valuation. But it wouldnt agree to honour the 3.58% interest rate as that 
was no longer available. 
Mr and Mrs F brought their complaint to us. They didnt think it was fair to blame their 
solicitors, who they had only instructed in May when they received the second offer. They 
said more 2 life could have warned them that it would need five days to release the funds. Or 
its solicitors could have requested the funds in time, pending receipt of the evidence needed 
to satisfy the special condition. As neither of those things happened, they lost out on the 
lower interest rate. 
Our investigator didnt recommend upholding the complaint, so Mr and Mrs F asked for an 
ombudsman to review it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs F originally applied for their mortgage in December 2021. At the beginning of 
March they instructed their broker that theyd changed their minds and decided not to go 
ahead.
But then Mr and Mrs F decided that they did want to go ahead after all, in May. On 6 May 
their broker contacted more 2 life and asked for the previous application to be re-opened, 
and for more 2 life to issue a new offer.
It would have been open to the broker to make a fresh application at this point  I dont know 
why the broker chose to re-open the old application instead. It may be because doing so 
would be quicker, since more 2 life had already completed its underwriting checks and 
issued an offer previously. Starting a new application would take longer, as a new valuation 
and underwriting checks would be needed.
However, the downside of proceeding with the old application rather than starting again is 
that doing so would be dependent on the old valuation, carried out in December. Valuations 
are only valid for six months  lifetime mortgages are very dependent on loan to value, and 
so an up to date valuation is required for lending. Once a valuation is older than six months 
it's less reliable because there could have been changes to the property or the market in the 
meantime.
The valuation from the first application was carried out on 20 December 2021, which means it would expire on 20 June 2022. This in turn meant that Mr and Mrs Fs mortgage had to 
have completed by then, otherwise the valuation would expire and there would have to be a 
fresh application.
As I say, I dont know why Mr and Mrs Fs broker asked more 2 life to continue with the old 
application rather than start a new one. It might have been to avoid paying for a new 
valuation; it might have been to enable more 2 life to issue an offer more quickly, so avoiding 
the risk that interest rates might rise; it might have been for some other reason. But once 
Mr and Mrs F or the broker on their behalf made that choice, it meant that there was a hard 
deadline for completion of 20 June  any delay beyond that would need a new valuation and 
a new offer based on that new valuation.
more 2 life issued the offer on 16 May and Mr and Mrs F instructed their solicitors to go 
ahead. The solicitors would have had a copy of the mortgage offer, so its not clear why they 
didnt provide evidence to show that the special condition was met on 9 June  whether 
because information hadnt yet been received from the insurers, or from Mr and Mrs F, or 
whether it was an oversight, I dont know.
But the fact is that more 2 lifes solicitors werent in a position to advise more 2 life that all 
the conditions had been met and the lending could proceed until 17 June  a Friday  in the 
afternoon. This was the last working day before the offer expired. 
more 2 life required five working days to release the funds. This is because although its a 
lender, more 2 life doesnt lend its own funds. It lends funds provided by third party investors. 
It requests funds from the investors once its satisfied all the conditions are met, then passes 
the funds on to solicitors to allow completion to go ahead. For that reason, it doesnt request 
funds from the funder until satisfied that all lending conditions are met. 
Ive not seen any evidence that more 2 life, either directly or via its solicitors, made this 
requirement clear to Mr and Mrs Fs solicitors. Equally, however, Ive not seen any evidence 
that the insurance information could have been provided sooner even if it had been. As Ive 
explained, there was a hard deadline of 20 June because of the decision to re-open the old 
application rather than start a new one. And it was only on 17 June that Mr and Mrs Fs 
solicitors were able to confirm that the special condition was met  by then it was too late.
I dont think it would be fair to say that more 2 life is responsible for the deadline not being 
met. Ive explained that there are good reasons for not relying on a valuation after six 
months. So once the deadline had expired, a fresh valuation and a new mortgage offer  at 
the interest rates then available  was required. Its unfortunate that this meant that 
Mr and Mrs Fs mortgage completed at a higher interest rate than theyd hoped for. But I 
dont think more 2 life acted unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman