DRN-4370509
The complaint
Miss J complains that TSB Bank plc (TSB) is unfairly holding her jointly liable for 
outstanding debts and missed payments on a joint account held with her ex-partner.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. In brief summary, Miss J was added to her ex-partners account in 2018. She 
said the relationship was abusive and that she never had access to a physical card, internet 
banking or any funds in the account. 
Miss J said that it wasnt until 2020 that she checked her credit file and saw a TSB overdraft 
had been used on a joint account, which she wasnt aware of. She was also having missed 
payments recorded on her credit file as her ex-partner was not paying off the overdraft. 
Miss J reported her concerns to TSB, who informed her that the debt had been sold on to a 
collection agency. But she said that neither firm would provide her with details of the account 
or the application. Miss J complained that she should not be held liable for the debt, and that 
the missed payments should be removed from her credit file. 
TSB said it would still be holding Miss J liable for the debt, as it believed she had used the 
account and had benefit of the funds in the overdraft. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She wasnt persuaded that Miss J didnt have 
access to benefit of the funds in the account and overdraft, so she didnt think TSB had 
acted unfairly by holding her jointly liable for the debt. Miss J disagreed, so the matter has 
been escalated to me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold it for the following reasons:
Miss Js testimony has been inconsistent regarding her awareness of the account. She 
initially said that she only became aware of the account after checking her credit file, but 
later told this service she was aware she had been added to the account as an 
authorised user in 2018, and thinks she might have signed something when she went 
with her ex-partner into branch to get a card in her name. Miss J has also said that she 
was forced to be added to the account so her ex-partner could have access to her card.
I understand that Miss J has said that she was suffering with mental health issues at the 
time, which has left big gaps in her memory and has led to issues in her recalling certain 
facts. And so, I accept its possible that she may not recall or have misremembered 
certain events, which has led to our service being given inconsistent testimony. But it 
also means that Im unable to place much weight on her testimony as being a reliable 
and persuasive account of what happened here. 
The evidence provided by TSB also doesnt support Miss Js testimony on not being 
aware or ever having used the account. I can see that she signed the overdraft 
agreement in December 2018. And while I appreciate she may have been going through 
a difficult time with her mental health, Im not persuaded she lacked capacity to 
understand what it was she was signing. 
I also acknowledge that Miss J has provided evidence of periods where she was living 
overseas, although its not clear how often or routinely she might have returned to the 
UK. However, the account history and statements provided by TSB demonstrate that its 
likely two people were using the account simultaneously, as there were instances where 
Miss Js debit card was used on the same day her ex-partner was making transactions. I 
appreciate that Miss J says her ex-partner was the only one who had access to her debit 
card. But he wouldve already had access to the funds in the account through his own 
debit card. And given both cards would debit the same account, it seems implausible that 
one person would need to use two different cards in the same day when the funds are all 
coming from the same account, for which both parties were jointly liable.
When Miss J was added to the account, the notes state that she would not be paying 
money in but that she will be using the account to pay for things like food shopping. The 
statements show that the card was issued in Miss Js name was mainly and consistently 
used to buy food in line with the stated purpose TSB had been given. So, I think the 
more likely explanation here is that Miss J used the card issued in her own name, 
although I accept its possible she may not be able to recall this. 
Miss J also said that she didnt have access to internet banking for the joint account 
either. However, the evidence provided by TSB shows that two logins had been 
registered for the account, and that both logins were used to access online banking from 
different devices. Again, there doesnt appear to be a reasonable explanation as to why 
Miss Js ex-partner would need to login as her from a separate device, as he would have 
access to the same online account.
I can also see that several transfers were made via online banking from the joint account 
(often utilising funds in the overdraft) to another account in Miss Js name. She said this 
was her ex-partner transferring money to her after she had moved out in January 2019 in 
an attempt to show that he had changed. However, she has not been able to provide 
evidence to substantiate this, and I note that transfers were also being made to her 
before she said she moved out of her ex-partners house. So, Im satisfied she has 
benefitted from the account funds, such that it would be fair and reasonable for her to be 
held jointly liable to repay the overdraft.  
TSBs terms and conditions relating to joint accounts state that Each person named on 
the account has to follow these terms and conditions. If one person doesnt, we can take 
action against any or all of you. You and each person named on the account are 
responsible for any money you owe us, such as if you have an overdraft. This means 
that we can ask [either you or the joint account holder] to repay any of the money youve 
borrowed on your joint account. 
So, in light of TSBs terms and conditions, and the evidence available in this case, Im 
not persuaded the bank has acted unfairly by holding Miss J jointly liable for the account. 
The evidence demonstrates that, on balance, she was likely aware of the account, had 
access to the payment card and internet banking, and also benefitted from the funds in 
the account. Im sorry to hear about the difficult circumstances Miss J has described, and I understand she has been going through a very difficult time. But overall, I dont think 
TSB has acted unfairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman