DRN-3459416
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain Covea Insurance Plc unfairly declined a claim they made for 
malicious damage under their property owners policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs F own a property which is rented out. After a tenant left the property, they made 
a claim to Covea for malicious damage by the tenant. 
Covea said most of the items claimed for under the policy wouldnt be covered under the 
malicious damage section. For some items it said it would cover under malicious damage, 
like a kitchen unit, it said the repairs needed fell below the policy excess. Mr and Mrs F 
complained, they felt all of the damage should be covered by Covea. They also complained 
about the service theyd received during the claim. Covea didnt agree to change its position 
but did acknowledge it could have given a decision on the claim earlier. 
Unhappy with Coveas response, Mr and Mrs F brought the complaint to our service. Our 
investigator thought Covea had reached a fair outcome, so she didnt think it needed to do 
anything differently.
Mr and Mrs F didnt accept that. They raised various points about the conduct of Covea in 
assessing the claim. They also said the tenant was removed from the property by social 
services and the damage wasnt consistent with how normal people live. They said there 
was cat faeces in the property and ripped worktops which shouldnt be considered as wear 
and tear.
As Mr and Mrs F didnt agree, the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Fs policy does cover them for malicious damage caused by tenants. Covea 
hasnt defined what it means by malicious, but a dictionary definition suggests it means 
intending to do harm. In this case, whilst there is clearly some damage to the property 
including stained carpets, cat faeces on the floor and heavy scuff marks to walls, Covea has 
said this isnt evidence of malicious damage. 
Having considered all of the evidence, I dont think thats an unreasonable stance for Covea 
to take, so Im not going to interfere with its decision on the claim.
Mr and Mrs F have argued the damage isnt consistent with how normal people live. But this 
doesnt persuade me that the tenant intended to do any harm. Theyve said the tenant was 
suffering from poor mental health and was involved with social services. And its clear theres 
been some neglect of the property in allowing cat faeces to be left on the floor. I also think 
its clear theres been poor maintenance, with rubbish left outside and not correctly sorted. 
But from the photographs Ive seen, Im not persuaded any of this damage meets the policy 
definition, or that its been shown the damage was caused by a malicious intent.
From the file, it seems Covea initially said it would cover damage to a wall, and asked Mr 
and Mrs F for a quote. It later appears to have changed its position and instead accepted 
malicious damage to a kitchen unit. But because the cost of repair was under the policy 
excess, Covea didnt need to make a payment. Its not clear why Covea first mentioned a 
wall, but from the photographs Ive seen, Im not persuaded any damage to a wall would 
meet the definition of malicious damage in any event. 
There have been a number of items removed from the property such as a bed, curtains and 
a shelf. But under Mr and Mrs Fs policy, I cant see any of these items would be covered. So 
I dont think Covea acted unreasonably in not offering a settlement for those items. 
Mr and Mrs F have raised various other points about the handling of the claim by Covea. It 
accepted it could have given an outcome quicker, and it could have been clearer in its 
communication; it apologised for this. Mr and Mrs F have also said they were given 
misinformation, and there was poor professional conduct during a conversation with a staff 
member of Covea. Its unclear whether Mr and Mrs F have raised these points with Covea. 
But in any event, it seems accepted it could have handled the claim better. But given I 
consider Covea ultimately reached a fair decision on the claim, and its offered an apology, 
Im not going to ask it to do any more to put things right.
My final decision
My final decision is Im not going to ask Covea Insurance Plc to do anything differently.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 June 2022.
 
Michelle Henderson
Ombudsman