DRN-2823730
The complaint
Mr M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc caused a delay in transferring a stocks and shares 
Individual Savings Account (ISA) he had instructed, and that hes now unable to view his 
account history on-line. 
What happened
Mr M held a stocks and shares InvestDirect (ID) ISA account with HSBC. Hed made a 
payment of £2,800 to this account in mid-April 2020. Later in the same tax year, Mr M 
wanted to open a Global Investment Centre (GIC) stocks and shares ISA with HSBC. He 
was unable to do so because hed already contributed to his ID ISA earlier in the tax-year. 
HSBC suggested Mr M transfer the proceeds of his ID ISA into a HSBC cash Loyalty ISA, so 
that he could then open a GIC ISA.
The Loyalty ISA opened on 21 July and Mr M instructed HSBC to close his ID ISA and 
transfer the proceeds to the Loyalty ISA. Mr M then tried opening a GIC ISA on-line, but he 
was prevented from opening one as HSBCs records incorrectly showed the ID ISA record 
still had a subscription for the current tax year. HSBC arranged for the ISA subscription 
history to be updated and the GIC ISA account to be opened manually. 
Mr M completed an ISA transfer to the GIC ISA on 26 August and the funds were paid into 
the GIC ISA on 7 September. Mr M then instructed £7,000 from his GIC ISA be invested into 
a specific fund I will call Fund J.
Mr M complained to HSBC about the delay their error caused. He said this had caused him a 
financial loss because he couldnt invest into Fund J earlier and hed missed the opportunity 
to invest the funds in his GIC ISA. Mr M says hes now unable to view his account history on 
HSBCs on-line platform or check his ISA allowance for the tax-year.
HSBC upheld the complaint and apologised to Mr M for the delay in opening the GIC ISA. 
They paid Mr M the sum of £250 for the inconvenience and explained how much of his 
2020/21 ISA allowance remained uninvested in his GIC ISA. 
Mr M didnt accept the response from HSBC and brought his complaint to our service. One 
of our investigators looked into things for Mr M and thought that the £250.00 HSBC had paid 
for the delays they caused was fair and reasonable. But he thought HSBC should also pay 
Mr M for any financial loss caused when his investment of £7,000 into Fund J was delayed. 
HSBC agreed they would purchase additional units in Fund J to make up the loss Mr M 
suffered. Our investigator thought this was a fair and reasonable offer, but Mr M didnt 
accept it.
Mr M has asked that an ombudsman decides his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr M will be disappointed but having looked at the revised offer HSBC have 
made, Im satisfied its fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I will now explain why.
Mr M invested £2,800 in the ID ISA in the 2020/21 tax year. The ID ISA account is a 
nominee account, which is fundamentally different to the GIC ISA that invests in a range of 
funds. This meant that if Mr M wanted to invest in the GIC ISA he would have to dis-invest 
(sell) the shares in the ID ISA and then transfer the cash into the GIC ISA. So, HSBCs 
suggestion that Mr M open a cash ISA for these funds, close the ID ISA and then open a 
GIC ISA with a transfer from the new cash ISA, wasnt an unreasonable one.
Unfortunately, during the process of completing this transaction HSBC didnt take steps to 
fully close the ID ISA. Mr M was unable to open the GIC ISA as quickly as he expected. 
Although HSBC rectified the error, Mr M couldnt transfer funds to the GIC ISA between early 
August and early September 2020. 
Mr M says he wouldve invested in Fund J much earlier if the funds had been transferred 
from his cash ISA to the GIC ISA as he expected. He says the unit price in Fund J rose over 
this time and this created a loss for him. HSBC have already accepted they caused a delay 
in the GIC ISA being opened, so Ive looked at when it reasonably shouldve been opened if 
the error hadnt occurred. The cash ISA was funded on 7 August from the ID ISA proceeds. I 
consider these funds couldve been credited to the GIC ISA the following day but for the 
error HSBC made. This wouldve been 8 August (a Friday). The units in Fund J could 
reasonably have been purchased on 10 August (the next working day).
HSBC offered to calculate the difference between the unit price on 10 August and the price 
Mr M paid on 8 September (the execution date), and then to purchase the equivalent units 
and place them in his GIC ISA. I consider this to be a fair and reasonable offer, as it puts Mr 
M back into the position he wouldve been in if the account opening happened as it 
shouldve.
I have seen that Mr M says it was his intention to invest more than the £7,000 he invested on 
8 September. Its too speculative for me to decide what Mr Ms plans were when he sold the 
holdings in his ID ISA, but I can look at what he did when the funds became available to 
invest. On 12 August, Mr M had emailed HSBC to tell them he would like to invest some 
money into funds on a GIC ISA account. Then, on 8 September he chose to invest just 
£7,000 from the funds available in his GIC ISA. Ive also seen that Mr M has since made one 
further investment of £2,000 into Fund J in February 2021. 
I appreciate Mr M says his intention was to invest much more than he did in Fund J, but his 
actions arent enough to persuade me he intended to invest more than the initial £7,000 he 
did. So, I wont be asking HSBC to do anything else in this regard. Im satisfied HSBCs 
revised offer to purchase more units using the £7,000 investment amount is fair and 
reasonable.
Mr M says he now finds it difficult to review his account history using HSBCs on-line 
platform. He says this causes him problems in checking his ISA allowance for the current 
tax-year. 
I cant tell HSBC how they should manage their on-line platforms. However, I can consider if 
HSBC provide other ways for Mr M to access this information. The uninvested part of the 
GIC ISA cant be viewed on-line, but transactions can be viewed on bank statements. The 
investments in the GIC ISA are detailed in quarterly statements. HSBC also provide 
customers with a specific Investment Helpline telephone number to assist them with any 
enquiries of this type. I consider that these options are reasonable. So, I wont be asking 
HSBC to do anything else in this regard.  Putting things right
Ive seen that HSBC have paid Mr M £250.00 for the inconvenience caused by their failure to 
delete the current tax year subscription from the ID ISA when it closed. This caused a delay 
in Mr M having his funds available to invest. I consider £250.00 was a fair and reasonable 
amount and I wont be asking HSBC to do any more in respect of this part of the complaint.
I dont consider HSBCs original remedy of £250.00 took into account that if they hadnt 
made a mistake when closing the ID ISA, Mr M would likely have invested his £7,000 in 
Fund J on 10 August rather than 8 September 2020. So, Ive decided to uphold this part of 
the complaint and put Mr M back in the position he wouldve been in if he couldve 
completed the investment in Fund J on 10 August 2020.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. HSBC Bank UK Plc must calculate the 
difference in the unit price of Fund J on 10 August and 8 September 2020, and purchase 
units to the value of the difference and add them back into Mr Ms holdings in Fund J. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2021.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman