DRN-3961822
The complaint
Mr P complains about AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (AA) making an offer to 
settle a claim under his home insurance policy for damage to his property in bad weather, 
but then declining the claim. 
References to AA include their agents who administer the policy and assess claims. 
What happened
In November 2021, there were high winds around Mr Ps property, which led to a fascia 
board falling off and breaking a phone line attached to the board. There was also damage to 
a fence. Mr P contacted AA to tell them about the damage and lodge a claim. AA said the 
damage to the fence wouldnt be considered, as fences werent covered under the policy. 
They also said theyd appoint a surveyor to visit the property and assess the damage.
The surveyor visited the property. In their report they noted the fascia boards at the side of 
the property had come away, also damaging the phone line. They also noted a small amount 
of rot in the timbers behind the boards. However, they said the nature of the storm conditions 
at the time of the incident (as well as significant damage to neighbouring properties) 
suggested the proximate cause of damage was storm related. The report also noted the rot 
in the timbers as a pre-existing or ongoing defect/issues (that werent peril-related).
AA then contacted Mr P to offer a cash settlement for the cost of repairing the damage (they 
wouldnt have appointed their own contractors to repair the damage because of the condition 
of the timbers behind the boards). AA offered £690.34  less the policy excess of £200  
making a net offer of £490.34.
However, AA then reviewed the claim and decided to decline it, on the basis that while there 
were storm conditions at the time of the incident, the board wouldnt have fallen off if there 
hadnt been an underlying issue with rot of the timbers. AA also thought the photographs of 
the damage supported the presence of rot and their decision to decline the claim.
Mr P was unhappy at AAs decision to change their initial cash settlement offer to a decline 
of the claim, and that he hadnt been made aware of the decline until some two weeks after 
the cash settlement offer (during which time he had obtained quotes from contractors for 
repair work). 
AA treated the issue as a complaint, which they partially upheld. In their final response, they 
didnt uphold the complaint about the decline of the claim, saying the damage to the boards 
wasnt due to the storm  the storm had simply highlighted the underlying issue of rot in the 
timbers. They referred to an exception in the policy for loss or damage from gradually 
operating causes, including deterioration and rot.
But they upheld the part of the complaint about initially offering a cash settlement to Mr P, as 
it shouldnt have been made before their decision to decline the claim. In recognition of the 
failure to manage Mr Ps expectations (that the claim was being accepted, but then declined) 
they offered £50 in compensation.
Mr P then complained to this service. He was unhappy at AA making an offer to settle his 
claim, then withdrawing it. He wanted AA to honour their initial acceptance of the claim.
Our investigator initially didnt uphold the complaint, concluding AA didnt need to take any 
action. He thought there were storm conditions at the time of the incident and the damage 
consistent with that expected in a storm. But based on the surveyors report findings that 
there were pre-existing issues with the rotting timbers, and the policy exclusion for gradual 
damage and rot, the investigator concluded AA had acted fairly in declining the claim. He 
also thought the £50 compensation offered by AA was fair for Mr P having been told his 
claim was accepted, but then declined.
Mr P disagreed with the investigators view and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. He didnt agree that the storm wasnt the dominant cause of the damage, saying 
at the time of the incident the wind was coming from a northerly direction, reaching speeds 
of 80mph plus. The damage to his property was to the north-facing gable end and so subject 
to the full force of the wind. And there were no issues with the board prior to the incident and 
as it broke into three pieces, which was result of the high winds. He also said the surveyor 
was only on site for less than 10 minutes and didnt physically inspect the area of the 
damage. He also didnt think £50 compensation was sufficient, though it was an 
acknowledgement by AA of their managing the claim badly.
When I approached this complaint, I had regard to a decision I recently issued in a very 
similar case (with a different business) where there was rot in the timber behind a fascia 
board. In that case, I concluded the claim had been unfairly declined because the rot would 
not have been apparent and there were no obvious or visible signs of deterioration. The only 
way to have identified the rot would have been to remove the fascia boards and soffits to 
check the condition of the timber beneath. This would have potentially caused damage and I 
concluded it wasnt reasonable for the policyholder to do this. So, I upheld the complaint.
Having regard to this decision, our investigator reconsidered the case and issued a revised 
view, upholding the complaint. Having considered the previous decision alongside Mr Ps 
views and photographs of the remaining fascia boards, he concluded Mr P wouldnt have 
been reasonably aware of any issue with the condition of the fascia boards before the storm 
conditions. And it wouldnt have been reasonable for Mr P to remove them to check the 
condition of the timber underneath, given the absence of signs of deterioration. Having 
reached this view, our investigator thought AA should reimburse Mr P for the cost hed 
incurred in repairing the fascia board (£555.26  less the policy excess of £200) together 
with interest. Having concluded AA had unfairly declined the claim, the investigator also 
thought AA should increase the amount of compensation for distress and inconvenience 
from £50 to £150.
AA disagreed with the investigators revised view and asked that an ombudsman review the 
complaint. It has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether AA have acted fairly towards Mr P.
The main issue in Mr Ps complaint is that AA have unfairly declined his claim for damage to 
the board at his property. He says the damage was caused by the storm, so his claim should 
have been accepted (as it was initially). AA say there was an underlying issue with rot of the timber beneath the board, so the storm had simply highlighted the issue of rot. They say rot 
wouldnt be covered under the policy, as it would fall under an exclusion for damage caused 
by gradually operating causes.
In considering this issue, whether the damage resulted from a storm or from a pre-existing 
issue, there are three key issues we consider:
Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage that a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main (or dominant) cause of the damage?
On the first question, in their final response AA accept there were storm conditions around 
Mr Ps property at the time of the incident. Reports from the weather firm this service uses 
show (for the weather station nearest to Mr Ps property) on the date of the incident a peak 
gust of 56 mph (and the conditions described as a dry storm).  Based on this, Ive 
concluded there were storm conditions on the date of the incident. 
On the second question, Ive considered the description of the damage provided by Mr P 
and the surveyors report, together with photographs of the damage. Damage to fascia 
boards is damage wed expect to see in storm conditions, particularly those with high winds.  
The third question is therefore key, given AA declined the claim on the grounds the cause of 
the damage was gradual operating cause (rot). Ive considered this issue carefully, including 
the points made by Mr P together with the report from AAs surveyor. Ive also looked at the 
photographs of the property, including the damaged fascia board. Taking all these things into 
account, Ive concluded AA havent acted fairly in declining the claim. Ill set out why Ive 
come to this conclusion.
Firstly, as a general principle, where a policyholder makes a claim for damage or loss under 
a policy, the onus is on them to show there was an insured event that caused the damage or 
loss. In this case, given my conclusions there were storm conditions at the time of the 
incident, and the damage is consistent with that wed expect to see in a storm, I think its 
reasonable to conclude there was an insured event (storm) that caused damage. 
However, where an insurer relies on an exclusion in the policy to decline a claim (as AA 
have done) then the onus is on them to show the exclusion applies. Looking at the available 
information and evidence, I think AA havent done so in the specific circumstances of this 
case. Ill explain why Ive come to this view.
In their final response, AA refer to the following policy exclusion in the General Exceptions 
section where theres the following exclusion:
The policy does not insure the following:
Loss or damage arising from gradual operating causes including deterioration, 
wear and tear, corrosion, rot or similar causes.
AA also referred to the surveyors report which included their finding of rot to the timbers 
behind the fascia boards. 
Based on these points, AA say the storm wasnt the sole cause of the damage but 
highlighted the previous condition of the fascia boards.
Ive considered AAs view alongside the points raised by Mr P in his response to our 
investigators initial view, that the boards were in good condition prior to the incident. On balance Im persuaded by his view, rather than that of AA (and their surveyor). The 
photographs of the property show the remaining (undamaged) areas of fascia boards and 
soffits to be in a good condition. And the wooden boards beneath them wouldnt have been 
visible, so Mr P wouldnt have had any indication of a rot issue (and consequently need to 
take maintenance action). I dont think it would be reasonable to remove the fascia boards to 
check the condition of the boards beneath, given there werent any obvious signs of 
deterioration. 
Based on these conclusions, I think AA have acted unfairly to decline the claim for damage 
to the fascia board by applying the exclusion for gradual operating cause and rot.
Having reached these conclusions, Ive thought about what AA should do to put things right. 
As Ive concluded they didnt act fairly in declining the claim for damage to the fascia, then 
they should settle the claim in accordance with the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy (that is, they cannot apply the exclusion for gradual deterioration and rot). Mr P says 
hes paid for the repair, at a cost of £555.26. That being the case, as this figure is less than 
the (gross) cash settlement offered by AA, then AA should reimburse Mr P for the cost of the 
repair (less the policy excess of £200). AA should also pay interest on the cost of repair, at a 
rate of 8% simple from the date Mr P paid the cost of repair to the date they reimburse him.
Ive also considered what Mr P has said about the impact the incident and AAs assessment 
of the claim have had on him, including the stress and anxiety of the claim having been 
initially accepted, only to be subsequently declined. Considering all the circumstances of the 
case, I think AA should pay £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision to uphold Mr Ps complaint. I require AA 
Underwriting Insurance Company Limited to:
Settle Mr Ps claim by reimbursing him for the cost of repair (£555.26) less the policy 
excess (£200).
Pay interest on the cost of repair, at a rate of 8% simple, from the date Mr P paid the 
cost of repair to the date they reimburse him
Pay Mr P £150 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of 
the date on which we tell it Mr P accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this they 
must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman