DRN-3976073
The complaint
Mr D complains about AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) for declining his claim for damage to 
his home during a storm. He wants AXA to settle his claim. 
What happened
Mr D lives in a period property. He insured his home with AXA. 
In February 2022, Storm Eunice hit the area of Mr Ds home. Substantial damage was 
caused in the area and hedges were uprooted. 
Tiles were blown off Mr Ds roof, and were blown onto a lower roof, causing damage to the 
lower roof and smashing a skylight. Mr D submitted a claim to AXA. AXA engaged a third 
party to handle the claim. 
A surveyor was sent to Mr Ds home, and he recorded a voice recording of his assessment 
and took some photographs. The surveyor considered that there were signs of wear and tear 
to the upper roof and that it was therefore excluded from cover. He indicated that the lower 
roof was in good condition and could be covered if Mr D held accidental damage cover, but 
as he did not, the surveyor considered that this damage too was not covered. 
Mr D complained to AXA. He provided evidence of repairs and maintenance he had 
commissioned in 2020 and argued that the roof was in good condition prior to the storm.
AXA sent its final response maintaining its decision to decline the claim. AXA offered Mr D 
£25 to reflect a delay in responding to him. Mr D was unhappy and contacted us. 
Our investigator agreed with AXA and thought that the main cause of the damage was wear 
and tear and so was excluded. He did not recommend that AXA do anything further.
I have issued two provisional decisions in respect of this matter. One in December 2022 and 
then a further provisional decision in January 2023, after Mr D submitted an experts report. 
In my initial provisional decision, I set out that I considered that the complaint should be 
upheld, and AXA should reimburse the costs Mr D has incurred in carrying out repairs. 
Both parties responded to that decision.
Mr D argued that the roof repairs he had carried out were of a different material than the 
original tiles and he is concerned that this devalues the property. 
AXA argued against my view that the storm had been the main cause of the damage. 
I addressed AXAs arguments in my second provisional decision and AXA has not made any 
further comments since that time. 
I acknowledged Mr Ds concern that his choice of replacement tile was affected by having to 
fund the repairs privately, and I indicated that if he considered his home had lost value as a 
result, he could submit evidence of this to AXA to have AXA consider this.
Mr D has now responded to my second provisional decision. He has obtained a report from 
an estate agency indicating the writers view that the value of the property may be impacted 
by the choice of tiles and I understand he wishes me to consider this within this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no substantive arguments have been received in response to my second provisional 
decision, I remain of the view expressed there. 
I am satisfied that the answers to the three questions we consider when looking at storm 
claims were yes, and that Mr Ds claim ought to have been successful. 
I therefore uphold Mr Ds complaint and direct AXA to put matters right. 
I consider that AXAs decision to decline the claim caused Mr D financial effects, in that he 
had to pay privately for repairs to the roof. I consider that AXA must reimburse Mr D for 
these costs, along with interest at a rate of 8% per annum from the date he paid out his 
expenses up until the date of settlement. 
AXA must also reimburse Mr D for the costs of his expert report, with interest as set out 
above. 
I do not include any difference in value for Mr Ds property in this direction as I do not have 
sufficient information on this. I appreciate that Mr D has obtained an opinion on the property 
value, but as this potential loss has not been put to the business or considered as part of a 
claim or complaint, it is premature for this to be considered within this complaint. 
As I set out in my second provisional decision, if Mr D considers that there has been a 
provable loss in value of his home then he should submit his evidence and reasons for this 
to AXA to consider. AXA must then consider this and respond to Mr D, setting out its 
reasons for its decision. If he remains unhappy at AXAs response, he may raise a further 
complaint with our service in due course. 
I also remain of the view that Mr D has experienced substantial distress and inconvenience 
due to AXAs decision and I direct that AXA pay him £400 compensation to reflect this. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in my provisional decisions, I uphold Mr Ds complaint and 
direct AXA Insurance UK Plc to:
Settle Mr Ds claim, and reimburse him for the costs of repair he has already 
incurred;
Reimburse Mr D for the cost of his expert report;
Add interest at a rate of 8% per annum to any expenses to be reimbursed to Mr D 
(from the date of payment up until the date of settlement);Consider any evidence of loss which Mr D submits relating to his choice of tile, and 
provide him with a reasoned decision in relation to that claim; and
Pay to Mr D £400 compensation for his distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 March 2023.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman