DRN-1731621
The complaint
Miss P has complained to us that she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) by 
Zurich Advice Network Limited (Zurich) when shed arranged to take out a mortgage in 
2002. She says she was made to feel she didnt have a choice about buying the PPI and so 
had to take it. 
What happened
One of our adjudicators explained that because this policy was sold prior to insurance being 
covered by us, we could only look at Miss Ps complaint where it related to a breach of the 
Mortgage Code. Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint as she wasnt persuaded a 
breach had occurred.
Miss P asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The insurance market only became something we covered in its own right on 14 January 
2005. We can look at some complaints about insurance before that date but only if the 
complaint related to something we already covered, or if the business was member of a 
former complaint scheme.
Zurich was a member of a former scheme, the Mortgage Code Arbitration Scheme 
(MCAS). So we can look into this complaint, but only in the same way MCAS could. 
Im satisfied that this complaint is about a potential breach of the Mortgage Code. That 
means MCAS could only have looked at the four issues when considering complaints about 
insurance that was sold alongside a secured loan or mortgage. So we can look at the 
following things for the PPI sale: 
A description of any insurance service which can be arranged (for example, buildings, 
contents, mortgage payment protection and life insurance);
Whether it is a condition of the mortgage that such insurance be taken out and whose 
responsibility it is to ensure that it is taken out;
Whether it is a condition of the mortgage that such insurance must be arranged by the 
business; and
A general description of any costs, fees or other charges in connection with the 
mortgage which may be payable by the customer (for example, mortgage valuation fees, 
arrangement fees and insurance premiums).
Because Im limited to the four points above, it follows that I can only consider Miss Ps 
complaint about being made to feel she didnt have a choice about taking out the  PPI cover.
From what Ive seen its likely that the sale of the PPI took place at a meeting between 
Miss P and the Zurich representative. Although I have no way of knowing what was said at 
this meeting, I think its likely that a discussion must have been had about the PPI. Ive kept 
in mind that a recommendation about buying PPI, or being told that having it is a good idea, 
isnt necessarily the same as being told that PPI must be taken.
 
Also, Ive not seen anything from the available paperwork provided by both Zurichs 
representative and the mortgage lender to show or suggest that PPI was something Miss P 
had to take out or would have thought she had to take get the mortgage she wanted. 
Ive also kept in mind that from what Ive seen the PPI was taken out in July 2002, which was 
around two months after Miss Ps mortgage application had been accepted. So, given that 
she had been approved for the mortgage by the lender, I think Miss P ought to have known 
by the time she took it out that the PPI wasnt something she had to take out in order to 
ensure she obtained the mortgage borrowing she wanted. 
In summary, I havent seen enough to make me think that Miss P had to take the PPI. 
Therefore, having carefully considered the available information and evidence, Im not 
persuaded a breach of the Mortgage Code occurred, so I wont be upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint against Zurich Advice Network 
Limited
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 January 2021. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman