DRN-3434357
The complaint
Mr H complains that he was misled into entering a contract for the supply and installation of 
replacement windows and doors, along with a connected finance agreement with Omni 
Capital Retail Finance Limited.
What happened
Mr H and his wife got a quote for replacement doors and windows from a double-glazing 
business, S. They agreed a price of £5,000, paying £100 deposit with the balance funded 
by a loan agreement with Omni Capital. Following a survey, S said it would carry out the 
work a month or so later. Mr and Mrs H were unhappy with the work S undertook. They 
asked for rectification work to be done, which remained unsatisfactory to Mr and Mrs H. 
They continued to pursue S over the work, but then received notice from Omni Capital that 
the loan monies had been released to S and that repayments would shortly fall due.
Mr H is unhappy with a number of aspects of Ss sales and installation practices. He says S 
was pushy and initially quoted a high price, which it then reduced by applying what he 
believes to be false discounts. He disputes signing any documents and believes his 
signature was forged. Mr H says the loan shouldnt have commenced until he signed to say 
he was satisfied with Ss work. He hasnt received any certificates or guarantee for the work 
as hed been promised. He doesnt now expect to do so, as S has ceased trading. And he 
remains dissatisfied with the quality of the installation.
After raising matters with his local Trading Standards office, Mr H complained to Omni 
Capital, who accepted it held certain responsibilities by virtue of financing the installation. In 
response to Mr Hs concerns, Omni Capital said it asked Mr H to obtain independent quotes 
for any remedial work. Omni Capital also suspended loan repayments pending Trading 
Standards review. After 18 months, Omni Capital sought to reinstate the loan repayments 
as it had heard nothing further about Trading Standards review. It told Mr H that any missed 
payments could affect his credit file and incur charges. Omni Capital also provided Mr H with 
details of debt management charities that could assist if he was in financial difficulty.
Omni Capital disputed Mr Hs claim in relation to the signing and commencement of the loan 
agreement. It said the agreement was signed electronically, and that the loan terms didnt 
make drawdown contingent on whether Mr H was satisfied with the installation. It has, 
however, offered to cover the cost of remedial work in bringing the installation up to 
standard, subject to it not exceeding the value of the loan agreement. It has also said it will 
reimburse the cost of Certass-equivalent certification and pay Mr H £250 in respect of 
damage he says S caused to his sofa.
Our investigator was satisfied with the steps Omni Capital has taken in response to Mr Hs 
claim and subsequent complaint. He didnt think it was responsible for the sales techniques 
adopted by S, and wasnt persuaded the available evidence was enough to say S had 
misrepresented its position when offering the guarantee for the work. The investigator 
thought Omni Capital had made a fair offer in relation to covering the cost of certification.
The investigator concluded that the loan agreement didnt require a signed satisfaction 
statement from Mr H in order to commence. He also found that an electronic signature was 
satisfactory in relation to Mr Hs acceptance of the loan terms. 
In respect of the claim for damage to the sofa, our investigator didnt think there was 
sufficient evidence to hold Omni Capital liable for more than the £250 it had proposed to pay. 
He further found that Omni Capitals actions were reasonable both in terms of obtaining an 
independent inspection to report on any necessary remedial work and in offering to cover the 
cost of that work.
Trading Standards, which has assisted Mr H in bringing his complaint, responded to say 
Mr H didnt accept the investigators conclusions. It said Mr H maintained his objections over 
the sales process and the installation, and reiterated that the loan should not have been 
advanced without his signed confirmation that he was satisfied. In its response Trading 
Standards also referenced the Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading Regulations 2008, 
with particular regard to misleading business practices by S.
Mr H also thought he might have difficulty selling his property in the absence of Certass 
certification. He asked that Omni Capital instead instruct Certass to inspect and certify the 
remedial work once carried out. And he considered the level of damage to the front door to 
be greater than indicated by the independent inspection.
The matter has now been passed to me for review and determination.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The nature of the transaction falls within the definition of section 56(1)(c) of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (the CCA). Section 56(2) has the effect that negotiations between S and 
Mr H are deemed to have been conducted by S acting in the capacity of Omni Capitals 
agent, as well as in Ss own right. In addition, section 75 of the CCA provides that Omni 
Capital has the same liability to Mr H in a misrepresentation or breach of contract claim as S 
would have towards him.
I note what Mr H and Trading Standards have said about Ss sales techniques. And I accept 
that the regulations cited say that certain commercial practices are unfair. The practices 
adopted by S might well fall foul of those regulations. But as Trading Standards is no doubt 
aware, action in relation to offences under the regulations is to be taken by a suitable 
enforcement authority. Our service is not one of the enforcement authorities listed in the 
regulations. Nor do I have any power to impose the penalties set out in regulation 13, even if 
Omni Capital could properly be held liable for all Ss actions under section 56.
Its further worth noting that regulation 29 says that a contract is not void or unenforceable 
solely because of a breach of the regulations. So I cant declare the contract between Mr H 
and S void or unenforceable. And while I dont doubt that Mr H is aggrieved by what he 
believes to be unfair sales practices, I cant impose a penalty or punishment on Omni Capital 
for the shortcomings of S. Theres no mechanism in our rules that allows me to do this. With 
this in mind, I dont consider theres a persuasive argument for me to take a view on them in 
the context of this complaint.
Im satisfied Mr H was provided with suitable information about the loan terms, and that he 
took the relevant action to accept those terms electronically. The terms were clearly and 
unambiguously set out in the loan agreement. Term 1a says:The Amount of Credit will be advanced to the Credit Intermediary (the retailer) for 
the purposes of financing the purchase of the goods/services described in the 
agreement. The Amount of Credit will be advanced on the date of this agreement, or 
following delivery of the goods/services described in the agreement to you, 
whichever is the later.
Theres nothing in that agreement about the loan advance being withheld until Mr H was 
satisfied with the work carried out by the retailer.
I appreciate Mr H has presented a document purported to be a satisfaction note, which he 
says bears a forged signature. However, that document doesnt appear to have been issued 
either by S or by Omni Capital. Rather, it bears the name of a third party who doesnt appear 
to be connected to the agreement. I dont believe I can fairly say that this document, signed 
or unsigned, should override the clear terms of the finance agreement.
Having concluded that Mr H both entered into the finance agreement and that Omni Capital 
was entitled to release the funds when it did, I now turn to its actions in response to the 
problems Mr H highlighted with the installation. Its accepted by all parties that Omni Capital 
has a potential liability under section 75 of the CCA.
In respect of misrepresentations S made, and the acknowledged problems with the quality of 
Ss work, Im satisfied that Omni Capital has had appropriate regard for its obligations and 
made a suitable offer to remedy the problems identified in the independent inspection at no 
additional cost to Mr H. I further note that it has deferred repayment for some considerable 
time, notwithstanding the wording of the finance agreement, which seems to me quite fair.
Im conscious Mr H doesnt accept the offer Omni Capital has made in relation to the 
damage to his sofa, and that he disputes the level of damage and remedial work needed to 
the front door. Nevertheless, Omni Capital has set out the steps its willing to take to address 
these matters, and that doesnt oblige it to meet all of Mr Hs claim. Nor do I consider it clear 
that Mr H would be able to recover everything hes seeking should he seek to pursue that 
claim in a court of law. In such circumstances it would be wrong for me to require Omni 
Capital to meet the claim in full.
Overall, I find that Omni Capital hasnt dealt with Mr H unfairly in the way it set up the loan or 
how it has responded to his concerns, such that it needs to increase the settlement offer it 
has previously proposed. I do however acknowledge the point in relation to the Certass 
certification, and the problems the lack of it might cause Mr and Mrs H. While I dont think 
Omni Capitals proposal is far off what Mr H is seeking, in the interests of bringing this 
dispute to a mutually agreeable conclusion, Omni Capital should arrange for Certass 
certification if that is something available through that scheme. If this isnt a viable solution, 
then Omni Capital should cover the cost of building regulations approval for the remedial 
work.
Im also conscious of what Mr H has said about his current financial situation. He was made 
redundant and as I understand it his financial position is possibly markedly different from the 
one he was in when he entered into the arrangements.
I dont doubt Omni Capital is aware of its obligations under the provisions in the Consumer 
Credit Sourcebook (CONC) about dealing with customers in financial difficulty. I know it has 
previously provided Mr H with details of third party charities that can assist him in dealing 
with his creditors, and has provided a significant amount of forbearance already. It should 
keep these obligations in mind when discussing with Mr H suitable steps to reinstate 
repayment of the loan.My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out here, my final decision is that to settle this complaint, Omni 
Capital Retail Finance Limited should take the following steps:
Arrange for the remedial work as outlined in the inspection report to be carried out to 
meet the satisfactory quality standard under the Consumer Rights Act 2015. This 
should be at no additional cost to Mr H
pay Mr H £250 as compensation for the damage to his sofa incurred during Ss 
original installation
arrange for Certass certification of the overall work once carried out. If this cannot be 
provided, it should instead cover the cost of Building Regulations inspection and 
approval
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2022.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman