DRN-3571987
The complaint
Mr S complained about how Highway Insurance Company Limited handled his claim under 
his specialist motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Ss motorhome was damaged in about October.  Highway were willing to repair it, but a 
main part was unavailable as it was no longer manufactured. So Highway offered Mr S a 
cash settlement instead, less his £400 policy excess. Mr S didnt want to accept that. 
Highway then found a garage who could do all the repair work including making a new 
version of the main part. That garage didnt do the repair properly and so Highway agreed 
that it needed to be rectified. Mr S didnt want it to go back to the first garage, so another 
garage did the rectification work ( the second garage). By this time it was about May.  
Mr S thought that Highway took too long to fix his motorhome, so hed missed out on trips in 
it over that period. He was unhappy that hed had to take it to and from the second garage. 
He was also unhappy that he had to pay overnight storage costs of £25, but Highway have 
since reimbursed him for this. Highway offered him a discount of £150 on his policy excess, 
by way of compensation. But Mr S didnt think this was enough. 
 
The investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. She thought that 
Highway had done what they needed to do under the policy and their offer of a £150 
discount on his policy excess was fair.  Mr S didnt agree and so Ive been asked to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigator explained to Mr S, his policy says that Highway may ..entirely at our 
discretion and subject to payment of the policy excess, arrange to:
a) Repair the damage at a recommended repairer. We may decide to use suitable parts
or accessories which are not supplied by the original manufacturer, or alternatively
authorise repairs at a repairer of your choice subject to the provision of satisfactory
estimates.
b) Pay you the costs of replacing or repairing the damaged parts, including their fitting...
The policy also says, If any part or accessory is not available, the most we will pay for that 
part will be the cost shown in the manufacturers last United Kingdom price list, plus a fitting 
cost.
So the policy did permit Highway to offer Mr S a cash settlement at the last list price 
available for discontinued parts. Ive looked at their file and its clear that they did so after 
having searched manufacturers and suppliers for the part, and so that was reasonable of 
them.
Mr S felt that they should have used a similar part from another vehicle, or a second-hand 
part. But explained to Mr S that they couldn't do that as it wasn't like for like, and if there 
were any problems with the part Highway would have been responsible for that. I can see 
that Highways policy gave them that discretion and that it was reasonable for them to decide 
as they did. And theyd offered to settle in cash so that Mr S could proceed with that option 
himself. Highway complied with the policy by doing this and again I think that they were 
reasonable.
Mr S didnt want to do that and so chose not to accept the cash offer. Although Highway  
were fulfilling their obligation under his policy by offering him the cash settlement, to help him 
they found a garage which could do all the work including creating the main replacement 
part from new using photos. They told Mr S that this garage wasnt on Highways network of 
approved repairers. This meant that Highway wouldnt be responsible for the work they did. 
Nevertheless, Mr S agreed to the garage doing the work. Highway also paid to have his 
motorhome taken to the garage and back as it was far from Mr Ss home. 
Unfortunately the garage didnt do the other repair work property. Highway agreed to pay for 
it to be rectified. Mr S didnt want it to go back to the same garage so chose a second one 
nearer to his home. He said that he had to take it there and back and  wanted to be 
reimbursed for that. Highway said they would have paid for that but Mr S said he would do it. 
They said they would also have paid the storage charge, which they did then pay on seeing 
the invoice. Ive listened to a call between Mr S and Highway s staff member when they 
were trying to arrange the second repair. Highway did say that they could arrange for it to be 
taken there and back but Mr S said he would do it. So I cant say that Highway were 
unwilling to do it. 
Highway fulfilled their obligation to Mr S under the policy by offering him a cash settlement. It 
was unfortunate that the relevant motorhome part was no longer being manufactured and so 
was not available, but that wasnt Highways fault. They were not required to find a specialist 
repairer not on their approved list. But to help him they did that, and he agreed to it. 
Its also unfortunate that his motorhome  wasnt repaired correctly the first time. These things  
meant that he was unable to use his motorhome over holidays, and I can see that was 
frustrating for him. But I dont think that was Highways fault. All Highway had to do was offer 
him a cash settlement and they did that. 
As the investigator explained, a policy excess is the first part of claim that a policyholder has 
to pay themselves, even when a claim isnt their fault. Its not an insured loss and isnt 
covered by the consumers policy, though they may be able to recover it from the person 
responsible in certain circumstances. Highway offered Mr S compensation of £150 as a 
discount on his excess and I think that is a fair and reasonable amount for the inconvenience 
of Mr S taking take the motorhome to the second garage. This means that I dont require 
Highway to do any more
. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint..
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2022.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
