DRN-4456588
The complaint
The trustees of T, a trust, complain that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc restricted Ts 
accounts and didnt communicate with them as agreed.
The trustees have been represented in this complaint by Mr W, a trustee of T.
What happened
In May 2022 RBS wrote to Mr W asking for some information which it needed to complete a 
review of Ts business profile. It was subsequently agreed that Mr W could provide the 
information over the phone, as hes dyslexic. Mr W then provided most of the requested 
information, but he refused to provide some details of Ts beneficiaries.
In mid-September 2022, around a week before the deadline for completion of the business 
profile, Mr W told RBS he was the only trustee of T. This didnt match RBSs records. But 
instead of phoning Mr W, as it had said it would, RBS wrote to him again, saying it required 
further documents. When it hadnt received those by the specified deadline a month later, it 
restricted Ts accounts. 
In its final response to the complaint, RBS apologised for not having phoned Mr W as 
promised. It also accepted that given that it was aware of Mr Ws dyslexia, it ought, in any 
event, to have called him following the phone call in mid-September 2022 to say that it 
needed a certified copy of the trust deed. RBS credited Ts account with £250 to apologise. It 
also waived a £12 charge for an unpaid direct debit and said it had arranged to lift the 
restrictions on Ts accounts. In the event, this didnt happen, as RBSs Customer Due 
Diligence team werent willing to lift the restrictions as long as information needed to 
complete the business profile remained outstanding.
Mr W told RBS that he wished to close Ts accounts. RBS said hed need to complete an 
account closure form, but Mr W explained that he wasnt willing to do so until the accounts 
were unblocked. He also said that RBS has the original trust document, which hed like it to 
return.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She 
said, in summary, that RBS had acted reasonably in asking for information from T. The 
trustees hadnt provided all the required information. RBS hadnt phoned Mr W, as it should 
have done. But she didnt think it likely that Mr W would have provided the information in 
time to prevent restrictions being applied even if RBS had phoned him rather than writing. 
And she thought it was understandable that RBS wasnt willing to lift the restrictions without 
all the requested information. She was happy that RBS had explained to Mr W how Ts 
accounts could be closed, and she was satisfied that RBS didnt have the original trust 
document. Taking everything into account, she considered that the compensation RBS had 
paid to T was fair.
Mr W didnt agree with the investigators view, so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RBS has a responsibility to keep the information it holds about its customers up to date. It 
wrote to Mr W several times, explaining the need to provide information to complete Ts 
business profile. And it warned Mr W that if the requested information wasnt provided, it 
might be necessary to restrict access to Ts accounts.
Im satisfied that it was reasonable of RBS to request the information from T. In the end, the 
accounts were restricted because RBS didnt receive all the information by the deadline.
RBS has acknowledged that it failed to phone Mr W when it said it would, and that, 
especially in view of Mr Ws dyslexia, it ought to have called him between asking for further 
documents and restricting the account. 
But Im satisfied that Mr W was aware that RBS required further information. Hed made it 
clear that there were some details that he wasnt happy about having to provide, and hed 
written to RBS asking it not to send any further information request letters. Taking everything 
into account, I think it unlikely, on balance, that hed have provided the requested information 
before the deadline even if RBS had phoned him. 
I consider the compensation that RBS has already paid to be fair, in the circumstances, to 
compensate for RBSs poor service in failing to call Mr W as promised on more than one 
occasion. I acknowledge that Mr W is also dissatisfied with the time hes had to wait for RBS 
to answer phone calls. But while I can understand his frustration, I dont consider that it 
would be fair to require RBS to pay further compensation for this.
RBS says its never had the original trust deed for T. Its provided a copy of a certified copy 
that it holds of the original from the year 2000. I cant be sure what happened, but I cant see 
any obvious reason why RBS would hold a certified copy of the trust deed if it also holds the 
original. In order to require RBS to return the original deed, Id need to be satisfied that it has 
it. And while thats not impossible, based on the information provided, Im not convinced that 
its likely. That being the case, I cant reasonably require RBS to return the original trust 
deed to Mr W.
Finally, RBS explained that T could move its account elsewhere without the restrictions 
being lifted. After the investigator send out her view, Mr W sent us a copy of a letter from 
RBS saying that it had decided to end its banking relationship with T, and would be closing 
its accounts in July 2023. It explained that this was because it had asked for additional 
information and/or documentation that hadnt been supplied. 
I acknowledge that Mr W told us he wished to access the money in Ts account before the 
account closed. And I understand that Mr W will have been frustrated to be told in RBSs 
final response that arrangements had been made for the restriction to be lifted, only to 
discover that it wouldnt be lifted after all. But Im satisfied that it was reasonable of RBS to 
restrict access to Ts accounts unless and until the outstanding information was provided. 
The trustees effectively had the option of providing the information or moving Ts accounts 
elsewhere without the need to remove the restriction first.
I realise that Mr W will be disappointed with my decision, but for the reasons Ive set out, 
I dont find that I can fairly require RBS to do more to put things right.My final decision
My decision is that the compensation that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc has already paid 
is fair. So I dont require it to do anything further to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2023.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman