DRN-1920953
The complaint
Mr H complains that Prudential Financial Planning Limited made various mistakes when he 
sought to make a tax-efficient withdrawal from a bond. This resulted in a greater tax liability 
than necessary, if hed been given prompt and accurate information.
What happened
The Pru admitted that it had failed to let him know that a full surrender would trigger an 
immediate chargeable gain resulting in the entire gain falling within the same tax year. It 
offered him £200 in compensation for the trouble and upset this had caused. After Mr H 
brought his complaint to this service, it admitted that its overall responses had not been 
acceptable and paid him an additional £200 in lieu of this.
It said it could approach Her Majesty's Revenue and Customs (HMRC) to ask them to 
reverse the full surrender and reinstate the policy. Or, if Mr H said he would, if fully informed, 
have still gone ahead with the full surrender, it could use top slicing, which can potentially 
help reduce the tax.
Mr H didnt accept Prudentials proposal and brought his complaint to this service.
An investigator at this service said the Pru was aware of Mr Hs intentions and had more 
than one opportunity to give him the correct information and let him know the possible 
consequences. 
Mr H had wanted to complete the initial withdrawal due to the possibility of expensive care 
and home support costs. This led him to sell half the fund in March 2019, with a view to 
selling the remaining half, due to his curtailed life expectancy, at a tax efficient date in what 
he believed to be the following tax year. However, the Pru said Mr H informed it he wanted 
to withdraw from the bond quickly as his financial adviser told him the investment was likely 
to fall in value in the approach to 31 October 2019.
The investigator noted that if Mr H had only made the March withdrawal, the chargeable gain 
in the tax year of 2019/20 would have been £10,610, as £16,000 would have been treated 
as a return of capital. This would have put Mr H in the position of having a much smaller 
amount of additional tax to pay.
Given his reason for withdrawing, he thought it likely that Mr H would still have withdrawn as 
much as he could from the investment bond by August 2019 if given the correct information 
about the tax position but he would have left the minimum sum of £250 to withdraw after the 
next policy anniversary.
This would have meant that the gain wouldnt be realised until July 2020 i.e. a different tax 
year. As the 40% tax band in tax year 2020/21 starts at £50,001, no further tax would be 
payable.
In light of the above, he was satisfied that the complaint should be upheld. But as Mr H 
hadnt paid the additional tax yet, he said the Pru should try to get HMRC to agree to 
reinstate £250, which Mr H would need to pay. If he then surrendered after the policy 
anniversary, and his income remains the same, there would be no further tax to pay - other 
than that payable due to the first withdrawal.
If this is not possible, the Pru should pay Mr H the difference between the amount of tax hes 
having to pay - as a result of the full surrender happening in one year - compared to the 
amount if he had kept the minimum amount in the bond. Mr H should take reasonable steps 
to mitigate his losses, so if top slicing relief becomes available he should utilise this.
Taking into account Mr Hs illness and resultant stress, the Pru should pay an additional 
compensation award of £100 i.e. a total of £500.
Subsequently, before I assessed this complaint, Mr H said the tax issue had now been 
resolved and the only outstanding question was how much the Pru should pay in lieu of its 
very significant failings. He didnt feel the additional £100 was sufficient to compensate for 
the stress and worry the Pru had caused or to act as a deterrent to ensure its staff didnt give 
such poor and misleading information again.
The Pru also did not agree, saying it felt its total compensation paid so far, £400, was 
sufficient and in line with this services guidelines. It said:
Mr H complained about two things: that the tax charge would fall in 2018/19 when it 
occurred in 2019/20; and that it wrongly stated, in a March 2019 letter, that he had a 
£16,000 tax-deferred allowance
It reviewed his complaint and paid him £200 in lieu of his circumstances
Mr H then withdrew the money. Its call handler  while not giving incorrect 
information  should have realised that Mr H had misunderstood the tax situation
On receipt of the claim form, it should have checked that Mr H wanted to proceed 
with a full withdrawal
Given these failings it agreed to a further payment of £200
It then offered to try and reverse the full withdrawal; alternatively, it explained how 
Mr H could benefit from top-slicing 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that the tax liability issue has now been resolved and Mr H is satisfied with the 
outcome of this issue. The only issue remaining therefore is how much the Pru should pay in 
lieu of the overall trouble and upset it has caused due to the various errors/service failures 
which both parties broadly agree about.
I recognise that the Pru acknowledged its errors and increased its initial payment in lieu of 
this. However, it is clear that Mr H has had to undertake considerable work and effort to try 
and resolve things with HMRC (as a result of the Prus initial error) and as of May 2020 he 
was still engaged in further work to sort out the top-slicing issue. All this during a time when 
he was grappling with serious ongoing health concerns.
Given this, I am satisfied that the investigators recommendation of an additional £100 
payment is fair and reasonable.While I understand Mr Hs feeling that this still doesnt adequately reflect the trouble this 
issue has caused, I believe this overall sum fairly reflects the sort of awards this service 
generally makes in circumstances like these. Importantly, it is not our role to seek to punish 
businesses for mistakes or to set awards designed to send a message about future conduct. 
It is, instead, the role of the Financial Conduct Authority, to oversee and monitor businesses 
broader behaviour.
Putting things right
The Pru should pay Mr H an additional £100.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and instruct Prudential Financial Planning Limited to pay Mr H £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2020.
 
Tony Moss
Ombudsman