DRN-3338713
The complaint
Miss S complains that Atlanta 1 Insurance Services Limited is pursuing her for an 
outstanding balance after she cancelled her commercial motor insurance policy. She wants 
the charge cancelled and any negative records removed.
What happened
Miss S cancelled her policy mid-term, and Atlanta told her she was due a refund of premium. 
This was paid. But Atlanta then said that Miss S owed £421.80 additional premium for a mid-
term change that hadnt been correctly added to the policy. Miss S thought this wasnt 
justified. She was also unhappy with Atlantas level of service and communication. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought Atlanta 
hadnt justified the additional premium and so she thought it should stop pursuing Miss S for 
this. 
Atlanta didnt respond to the Investigators view. And so the complaint has come to me for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss S told us that the figure of £421.80 emerged as a quote for additional premium when 
she enquired about changing her van on her policy. She thought this was too much and 
cancelled her policy instead. And she was then provided with a refund of unused premium. 
A month later, Atlanta sent her a bill for £421.80. It said this was the charge for an earlier 
change of van that hadnt been correctly added to the policy. But Miss S said this change 
lasted just two days before she reverted to another van. She didnt understand how the 
outstanding balance had been calculated. 
Atlanta, in its response to Miss Ss complaint, confirmed this sequence of events. It provided 
a breakdown of how the outstanding balance had been calculated on cancellation. This 
included a charge made by the insurer, Atlantas arrangement fee, cancellation charge, mid-
term adjustment fee, recovery of a premium discount and an underpayment charge. 
Atlanta later provided us with a further breakdown of the charges. And I can see that when 
Miss S changed her van in March 2021, she was charged an adjustment fee and additional 
premium. And when Miss S changed her van back two days later, she was then charged an 
adjustment fee and given a refund of premium. 
Atlanta now said that the final balance owed was £536.79. I can see that it also offered Miss 
S a lower settlement fee, but it hasnt explained how it arrived at this amount. 
Our Investigator asked for further explanation of how Atlanta had arrived at the figure of 
£421.80. And she asked how much in total Miss S had paid for the policy. But Atlanta didnt 
provide any further explanation. And I cant see that Atlanta has explained why Miss S was 
provided with a refund when she cancelled her policy over the phone. 
So I agree with the Investigator that Atlanta hasnt reasonably explained how it reached the 
figure that its chasing Miss S to pay. So I cant fairly say that Miss S owes Atlanta this 
amount. And therefore I think it should stop pursuing her for payment of this.
 
Putting things right
I require Atlanta 1 Insurance Services Limited to stop pursuing Miss S for any outstanding 
balance for her cancelled policy. And I require it remove any adverse record of this debt from 
Miss Ss credit file if it has been recorded there. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Atlanta 1 Insurance Services Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 April 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman