DRN-2893235
The complaint
Mr W complains that a car acquired with finance from FirstRand Bank Limited trading as 
Motonovo Finance wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In May 2018 Mr W was supplied with a car and entered into a finance agreement with 
Motonovo.
In April 2019 the car broke down and was recovered to a garage, who carried out a 
diagnostic and advised Mr W that he needed a new inverter. Mr W paid for the repairs. 
Mr W contacted Motonovo in May 2019 and told them what had happened but didnt pursue 
a complaint at that time.
Following this, the repairing garage advised Mr W that another part was needed for the car. 
Mr W wasnt happy that the garage hadnt diagnosed the car properly and asked for his 
money back. Litigation followed and was concluded inn January 2021 when the garage 
reached a settlement with Mr W. the car was deemed uneconomical to repair. Mr W 
contacted Motonovo and asked then to collect the car.
Motonovo advised Mr W that in order to assist with repair costs, it would need to se evidence 
that the fault was present or developing at the point of supply and suggested that he obtain 
an independent engineers report.
Mr W was unhappy with the response and complained to this service. He wants the 
outstanding balance on the finance agreement written off.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said there wasnt enough evidence to show 
that the fault was present at the point of supply and that Motonovo had acted reasonably in 
asking Mr W to obtain an engineers report.
Mr W didnt agree. He said hed lost his career as a result of the issues with the car, which 
had in turn caused him to experience financial difficulties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Motonovo supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, theres an implied 
term that it is of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as 
the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. I would expect a  second hand car  such 
as that supplied to Mr W  to have a degree of wear and tear and to require repair more 
often than a brand new car. So, in order to uphold the complaint, I would need to be satisfied 
that there was an inherent fault with the car, as opposed to a fault caused by general wear 
and tear.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs within 6 months of the point of 
supply, theres a presumption that it was present or developing at the point of supply and its 
generally up to the business to put things right. After 6 months, the burden of proof is 
reversed and its up to the consumer (in this case Mr W) to show that the fault was present 
or developing at the point of supply.
Mr W and Motonovo disagree about whether the car was of satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied. I can see that at the point of supply, the car was around 5 years old and had 
covered 57,000 miles. As Ive said above, its reaosbsale to expect that a second hand car of 
this age and mileage will have some wear and tear issues. Mr W experienced the fault in 
April 2019, around 11 months after the point of supply. Because the fault occurred after the 
first 6 months, its up to Mr W to show that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
Theres no independent engineering or other expert evidence for me to consider. I can see 
that Motonovo asked Mr W to obtain an engineers report but from what I can see, he hasnt 
done so. I understand that Mr W no longer has the car so it wont be possible to obtain a 
report now.
Theres a dispute about whether Motonovo offered financial assistance to Mr W to obtain an 
engineering report. I dont think it matters whether Motonovo offered to assist or not. It isnt 
obliged to assist. And because the fault occurred after the first 6 months, the burden (and 
associated cost) of proving that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality rests with Mr W.
I appreciate that being unable to use the car caused MR W significant inconvenience. 
However, there isnt enough evidence here to show that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality 
at the point of supply. So I cant safely conclude that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality, 
and I wont be asking Motonovo to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman