DRN-3256811
The complaint
E, a limited company, complains that Zurich Insurance PLC wont accept its buildings 
insurance claim for damage to a balcony.
What happened
E bought a leasehold flat in late June 2021. C is the managing agent and S is the freeholder 
and policyholder. C is responsible for tending the communal garden but during the pandemic 
the gardeners were unable to attend. Foliage grew up and E discovered the balcony was 
damaged and, in areas, coming away from the wall. E informed C and it sent the gardeners 
round to cut back the offending tree. E then had the balcony repaired at a cost of £1,200 
which it paid to its builder in cash.
In July 2021, after the repairs had been completed, E, a beneficiary of the policy, submitted 
a claim to Zurich for accidental damage under Ss policy. E made the claim through the 
broker, M. Acting under its delegated authority from Zurich, M declined the claim on the 
grounds the damage wasnt covered by any of the insured perils contained in the policy and 
that it had been caused gradually. E challenged Ms decision to decline the claim. M looked 
at it again but didnt change its mind. 
E then complained to this service about the decision to decline the claim. Zurich asked us if 
it could have the opportunity to consider the complaint as E hadnt yet raised a formal 
complaint with it. 
Zurich issued its final response letter in December 2021 and said it agreed that the claim 
had been correctly declined as no insured peril had operated and because damage caused 
by wear and tear was excluded under the policy. It told our investigator that itd reviewed all 
the information associated with the claim and said the balcony had been in a poor condition 
over a long period of time, as evidenced by the sales particulars for the flat and an internet 
map search from 2008.
Having first gained Ss consent (as policyholder), our investigator then looked into Es 
complaint but didnt recommend that it was upheld. She didnt think Zurich had unreasonably 
or unfairly declined the claim. E didnt accept our investigators findings and asked for the 
complaint to be referred for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Despite the disappointment I know this will cause E, Im unable to uphold its complaint; Ill 
explain why. 
Not all damage sustained by a property will be covered by a property insurance policy. Only 
damage thats caused by one of the insured perils listed in the policy  fire, theft, storm 
escape of water etc.  is covered. Its the responsibility of the policyholder/beneficiary to 
show that the damage it is claiming for has been caused by one of the insured perils listed in 
the policy. Providing it can do so, the insurer must indemnify them unless it is able to 
successfully apply one of the policy exclusions to defeat the claim.  
With Es claim Zurich has said the damage hasnt been caused by any of the insured perils 
listed in the policy. Consequently, it has said the claim isnt covered. Ive not seen any 
evidence from E about exactly what peril it thinks the damage to the balcony was caused by. 
Having reviewed the policy I can see that, in addition to the named perils, there is an all 
other damage peril. But damage that could be considered under this peril is excluded if its 
caused gradually or by wear and tear. Zurich has said that the damage to the balcony was 
caused gradually and is the result of wear and tear. 
Unfortunately, by having the repairs done before making a claim E prejudiced Zurichs 
position because it was unable to assess the damage first-hand in order to validate the 
claim. This being the case, I can see that Zurich asked E to provide some additional 
information about the damage so it could consider liability. It asked E to provide the date the 
damage was discovered, photographs of the damage and the offending foliage, the 
contractors invoice, for information about when the tree had last been maintained prior to 
the incident and any pre-purchase surveys undertaken by E. That seems reasonable to me. 
But having reviewed the evidence itd requested, Zurich repudiated Es claim. 
Having reviewed the evidence myself, I dont think that was an unreasonable conclusion for 
Zurich to have reached. I can see that the flat was purchased in late June 2021 and that the 
claim was made, and repudiated, 2 days later. E has provided a number of photographs of 
the balcony both before and after the repair and from a number of different angles. Looking 
at the nature of the pre-repair damage, I dont think that Zurich unreasonably concluded that 
the damage had happened gradually and/or was the result of wear and tear. I can see that 
the balcony wasnt in good condition, that there were gaps in the wood and that the paint 
was peeling off. I think this is damage that had been occurring for a lengthy period of time. 
I can see too from the photographs that there was foliage intruding through the gaps in the 
balcony and that Zurich contacted Cs gardener to ask for an opinion on the damage. The 
gardener told Zurich that there was a shrub and a tree that was pushing through but that the 
previous owner of the flat had cut part of the foliage back so all that remained to be done 
was to tidy things up. The gardener said that he didnt think the foliage couldve caused the 
type of damage E had reported. 
Zurich also received an email from C, the managing agent for the property, suggesting that 
the home buyers report suggested there were existing issues. The sales particulars for the 
flat were reviewed by Zurich and they confirmed the balcony was in a poor state prior to 
purchase. Ive seen a photo from the sales particulars and note that it shows the balcony in a 
poor condition. So its reasonable to assume that E was aware of the condition of the 
balcony at the time of purchase and that it agreed to purchase the flat as such. So I cant 
agree it would be fair to make Zurich pay to cover the cost of the repair E undertook. Taking 
all the circumstances into account I cant see that that the damage is covered by any of the 
perils listed in the policy so it follows that I dont think that Zurich has unfairly declined Es 
claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2022. 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman