DRN-4343999
The complaint
Ms H and Mr V complain Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) unfairly 
declined a claim under their home insurance policy for damage to their propertys roof and 
interior.
Because Ms H has been leading on this complaint, Ive referred to her throughout my 
decision. 
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ive summarised 
events. 
Ms Hs home insurance policy is underwritten by LV. She contacted LV when her 
propertys roof was damaged by a contractor working on her neighbours roof. Ms H 
also reported that internal damage had occurred because of water entering the 
property via the roof.
LV considered the claim but declined it, saying the damage hadnt been caused by 
an insured event under the policy. LV acknowledged that whilst Ms H had chosen to 
include additional accidental damage cover to her policy, this was added after the 
damage had occurred, and so, it couldnt provide any assistance in respect of this 
claim.
Unhappy with LVs decision to decline the claim, Ms H complained to this Service. An 
Investigator considered it but didnt uphold the complaint.  
Ms H disagreed and so, the complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome the Investigator reached  Ill explain why. 
When a policyholder makes a claim, the onus is on them to show an insured event 
most likely caused the damage. Ms H has said the damage should be covered under 
the policy because it was caused by a third party and shes not at fault. But insurance 
policies arent designed to cover every eventuality and instead cover damage caused 
by specific insured events. 
Here, LV has considered whether the damage to Ms Hs roof and interior is covered 
under the policy. Its said it isnt because it wasnt caused by an insured peril. Whilst 
the policy provides cover in respect of damage to a roof, the damage would need to 
have been caused by a storm (an insured peril) - but thats not whats happened 
here. 
The policy does provide standard accidental damage cover, but this is specific to 
underground pipes, sanitary wear, solar panels, ceramic hobs, mirrors or glass that 
form part of the policy holders furniture, and home entertainment equipment. But Ms 
H isnt claiming for damage of this nature. 
I note Ms H now has the benefit of additional accidental damage but as this was 
added after the damage occurred, she doesnt have recourse to it in respect of this 
claim. 
I dont doubt the situation Ms H finds herself in is a stressful one and I know my 
decision will be disappointing for her, but Im satisfied LVs decision to decline the 
claim - because the damage wasnt caused by an insured peril - is fair in the 
circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H and Mr V to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman