DRN-2294766
The complaint
Mrs A complains about three unsecured personal loans she was provided by Lloyds Bank 
PLC (Lloyds). She says Lloyds encouraged her to take them out and lent irresponsibly.
 
Mrs A is being represented by her husband, Mr A, in bringing this complaint to our service.
What happened
Between September 2014 and March 2017, Mrs A took out three loans with Lloyds. 
The first loan, of £8,000, was provided in September 2014. It was to be repaid in 48 
instalments of £196.35. 
The second loan, for £9,331.56 (which included an amount to settle the outstanding balance 
on the first loan), was taken out in April 2016. This was to be repaid over 48 instalments of 
£235.97. 
Mrs A then took out the third loan, for £11,729.72 (which included an amount to settle the 
outstanding balance on the second loan), in March 2017. This was to be repaid over 48 
instalments of £323.38. But the loan was settled early in January 2018.
Towards the end of 2019, Mrs A complained to Lloyds about these loans. She felt it didnt 
fully consider her circumstances and her lack of financial awareness. She thought minimal 
affordability checks were carried out and she was actively encouraged to refinance. Mrs A 
also complained the repayments were too high and Lloyds should have considered her as a 
possible vulnerable customer.
Lloyds said it carried out appropriate affordability checks and took Mrs As individual 
circumstances into account before agreeing to lend on each occasion. So, it didnt agree the 
lending was irresponsible. 
Our investigator reviewed Mrs As concerns and concluded Lloyds hadnt treated her 
unfairly. He thought it carried out relevant checks before accepting each loan application, 
and there was nothing to suggest Mrs A was struggling with her existing borrowing. The 
investigator also thought Lloyds gave Mrs A reasonable opportunities to highlight any 
potential financial difficulties. 
Mrs A disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on 
our website. And Ive used this approach when deciding Mrs As complaint.
Under the regulations in place, Lloyds was required to carry out a reasonable assessment of 
whether Mrs A could afford to repay the loans in a sustainable manner. This is often referred 
to as an affordability check or affordability assessment. Theres no set list of checks that 
must be carried out. But they need to be borrower-focused, i.e. considering the impact of 
any payments on the borrower and not just the likelihood of getting its money back. And the 
checks need to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check is dependent on several 
factors including  but not limited to  the circumstances of the borrower (e.g. their financial 
history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or financial 
difficulty), and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. Ive thought about all the 
relevant factors in this case and what it means for Mrs A. 
From what Ive seen, Lloyds asked Mrs A for details about her income, her outgoings and 
her outstanding debts with other lenders while assessing affordability for each loan 
application. Its system notes show Lloyds verified Mrs As income by looking at her bank 
statements. I can also see Lloyds made enquiries with Mrs A about any potential changes to 
her circumstances which might impact her ability to make sustainable repayments.
The record on Lloyds system also shows each application was scored against credit 
information it held about Mrs A, as well as that held by credit reference agencies. And the 
applications passed the check.
So, it seems to me Lloyds asked for information on Mrs As income and outgoings and 
assessed her ability to make payments over the term of each loan. It also scored her 
application against information on her credit file as well as what it knew about her. The 
information Ive seen also suggests Mrs A was looking to reduce her overall outgoings by 
consolidating her debts.
Taking everything into account, I think Lloyds did carry our reasonable and proportionate 
checks on each occasion. I also think it made a fair lending decision based on the 
information it gathered and what it found in the proportionate checks.  
Mrs A has said Lloyds should have considered her as a vulnerable customer given her age 
and lack of financial understanding. Shes also mentioned she was going through a stressful 
and upsetting time in her personal life  she had a change of job around the time she applied 
for a loan in 2014, a relationship breakdown around the 2016 application, and a relocation 
on both occasions.
Ive thought carefully about what Mrs A has said about being young and having little financial 
knowledge. Mrs A was around 24 years old when she took out the loan in 2014. I dont 
consider age alone as a vulnerability. Im also mindful that this wasnt the first loan Mrs A 
had taken out. In fact, according to Lloyds records it was taken out to refinance a loan she 
held with another lender. The system notes state Mrs A had originally considered refinancing 
with the other lender, but the interest rate had increased dramatically. 
I also note Mrs A had already taken out and repaid five loans with Lloyds prior to the 2014 
application. And in February 2014, she obtained a loan quote but didnt go ahead. A loan 
application was approved in July 2014, but Mrs A decided not to proceed. Lloydss system 
notes also show that in 2017, Mrs A was looking to save interest she was paying on her 
credit card. There are also notes about upgrades and downgrades on her packaged bank 
account.It seems to me Mrs A had enough awareness of how financial products such as loans, 
credit cards and current accounts  worked. And she shopped around for competitive deals. 
So, Im not persuaded she had little financial knowledge. 
I acknowledge a job change or relationship breakdown can be difficult and stressful. But Im 
not persuaded Mrs As specific circumstances made her vulnerable. So, I dont think it would 
have been appropriate for Lloyds to have refused lending to her at these times. 
Ive also looked at Mrs As credit file covering this period and it doesnt show anything that 
would have suggested she was particularly vulnerable or that Lloyds was acting 
irresponsibly by lending to her.
So, having considered the overall circumstances surrounding this complaint, I think Lloyds 
carried out reasonable checks when assessing whether Mrs A could afford the loans. And I 
dont think it lent to her irresponsibly. Accordingly, I dont uphold this complaint. Going 
forward, I expect Lloyds to treat Mrs A positively and sympathetically in response to any 
ongoing debts or financial difficulty.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2020.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman