DRN-3766189
Complaint
Mr I is unhappy that Paysafe Financial Services Limited (trading as Neteller) closed his 
account without notice.
Background
In September 2020, Neteller took the decision to review Mr Is account. As a result of its 
review, Neteller decided to close Mr Is account with immediate effect. Mr I complained about 
Netellers actions. Neteller didnt uphold Mr Is complaint. As Mr I remained dissatisfied, Mr I 
referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Is concerns. He didnt think that Neteller had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr I unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld.  
Mr I disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I dont think that Neteller acted unfairly towards Mr I 
and so Im not upholding his complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
As our adjudicator explained to Mr I, a financial institution is generally under no obligation to 
continue offering an account to a consumer if it doesnt wish to do so. I know that Mr I is 
unhappy that Neteller closed his account. However, each financial institution has its own 
criteria and risk assessment for deciding whether to open (or close) accounts and providing 
a customer with an account is a commercial decision that a financial institution is entitled to 
take. 
Furthermore, while Mr I is unhappy that his account was closed without notice, having 
reviewed everything, including Netellers actions and the information provided, Im satisfied 
that Neteller acted in line with the terms and conditions of his account when taking the action 
it did. 
So Im satisfied that Neteller had sufficient grounds to close Mr Is account and as such its 
decision to block and then close it wasnt unfair in the circumstances. I realise that Netellers 
decision will have been very disappointing to Mr I and I can appreciate why the closure of his 
account will have caused him inconvenience. But despite this, Im simply not in a position to 
be able to tell Neteller it should have continued offering Mr I an account in circumstances 
where it legitimately decided it no longer wishes to provide him with one.
Finally, Ive seen that Neteller has told Mr I what he needs to do in order for the funds 
remaining in his account to be returned to him. It has confirmed that the copies of bank 
statements provided thus far arent acceptable and has told him why. So its up to Mr I to 
now provide the information necessary in order to be sent the funds. 
Overall and having considered everything, I dont think that Neteller has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards Mr I and Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate this will be very 
disappointing for Mr I. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that hell 
appreciate why Neteller was entitled to close his account in the way that it did.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Is complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman