DRN-2455078
The complaint
N Ltd complains that Experian Limited reported inaccurate information about N Ltd being the 
parent company of another business. And that this prevented N Ltd from opening a bank 
account. N Ltd claims compensation is due.
What happened
N Ltd is represented in this complaint by a director, Mr S 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again
here. The facts are not in dispute so I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
 Experian is a credit reference agency. It reports data that is provided to it by financial 
businesses or which is available as a matter of public record through sites such as 
Companies House. 
 Experian reported that N Ltd was the parent company of another business which Ill refer to 
as ISLS. This was factually incorrect. This information had been obtained from the 
Companies House entry relating to ISLS.
 As it doesnt create or own the data it reports, Experian cant simply amend information it 
holds. On receiving the complaint from N Ltd, it referred it to Companies House and 
explained that it (Experian) was only reporting what was contained within a public record.
 Companies House explained to Mr S that it doesnt verify the accuracy of information that 
is sent about companies. It confirmed that ISLS had listed N Ltd as being the sole 
shareholder on a Confirmation Statement submitted in March 2019.
 In June 2020 Companies House received a further Confirmation Statement relating to ISLS 
on which N Ltd was no longer recorded.
 Following the reporting of this amendment, Experian updated the credit report of N Ltd to 
remove any reference to ISLS.
I understand it would be disappointing for Mr S to see, on behalf of N Ltd, that inaccurate 
information had been reported. Im satisfied that the error was not due to any failings by 
Experian. It simply reported information that was contained within a public record. And when 
it was provided with updated information correcting the previous report it took the required 
steps to amend what it recorded. Accordingly I dont find that Experian has done anything 
wrong here. And Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask N to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman