DRN-3071088
The complaint
Miss M complains BISL Limited didnt set up an insurance policy which she bought online.
What happened
In February 2021, Miss M completed an online application for car insurance with BISL via a 
comparison website. She says she gave her bank details for the first payments to be taken 
and to set up a direct debit. Miss B thought she had purchased the policy and was insured. 
In April 2021, Miss M was stopped by the police for not being insured. She says she was 
shocked by this as she believed she was insured. Miss M tried to contest this, but her car 
was seized. She was charged to get it back and was given penalty points.
Miss M complained to BISL. BISL responded saying it could see Miss B had applied for a 
quote online. But the policy was never purchased. It explained that if the policy had been 
purchased then payment wouldve been taken, and it wasnt. And it said it wouldve sent 
Miss M policy documents, which it didnt. 
Unhappy with this response, Miss M referred the complaint to us where one of our 
investigators looked into it. Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She 
said the evidence suggested Miss B had never completed the online application so hadnt in 
fact bought the insurance policy.
Miss B asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. So its been passed to me to 
consider and make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BISL has explained that there are nine stages to the customer journey and that Miss B never 
got past stage eight. Its shown us the digital footprints as evidence of this. 
Miss B has provided us screen shots of what she was shown when she tried to purchase the 
insurance policy. From these, it looks as though there were further stages beyond what 
shes taken screen shots of. It seems likely to me that, had Miss B completed the process 
and bought the policy, shed have further screen shots including confirmation that the 
purchase of the policy had been successful.
The screen shots Miss M has provided show that she put in details for the first payment to 
be taken in order to take out the insurance policy. But this payment was never taken. Miss M 
says that her bank has confirmed that it had pre-authorised the payment and this must show 
that there was an error by BISL. But I dont agree. BISL has explained its checked its 
systems logs and there were no problems with its website on this day. Its also said that the 
amount of the first payment is pre-authorised at this stage, but it isnt taken until the 
customer has completed the journey through its website and clicked the Pay Now button. I 
think its likely Miss B didnt click this button which is why the policy remained as a quote 
rather than purchased and live. 
Furthermore, had Miss B taken the insurance policy then the initial payment wouldve been 
taken, as would future monthly payments. It was some months after Miss M believed shed 
taken the policy that the police stopped her. No payment had been taken and no policy 
documents had been provided. So, I think she shouldve reasonably known something had 
gone wrong. 
I want to make it clear that I dont doubt Miss B thought she had bought the insurance policy, 
but I think the mistake in not purchasing it was hers  not BISLs. And because of this, Im 
not going to ask BISL to take any further action. 
 
My final decision
Whilst I understand how disappointed Miss M will be, my final decision is I dont uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 November 2021.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman