DRN-2557547
The complaint
Mr A and Mrs A are unhappy with the way Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead) handled, 
and then declined, their claim for water damage.
What happened
Mr A and Mrs A had buildings and contents insurance underwritten by Fairmead, which they 
bought via the administrator named on their policy. The policy was in joint names but, for 
ease, Ill refer only to Mr A throughout my decision. When I refer to Fairmead, it also includes 
any actions taken by its representatives.
Mr A made a claim under his insurance for damage to his hallway caused by an escape of 
water from his en-suite bathroom. He explained he had refitted his bathroom a few months 
earlier, but he had only just become aware that water had seeped through the wall to the 
hallway, damaging the floor and wall decoration.
Fairmead asked for photos of the damage, which Mr A supplied. It then asked for a 
plumbers report to confirm the cause of damage. Mr A obtained and supplied a report from 
the plumber who had fitted his bathroom, which said the source of the leak was the shower 
waste disposal. 
Fairmead declined Mr As claim before receiving the report because it said the photos 
confirmed the damage was due to wear and tear.
Mr A complained to Fairmead because it declined the claim based on information he 
supplied before it asked for the report; it disregarded the plumbers report; it didnt respond 
to his request for an on-site assessment or other correspondence, and because he believed 
the whole claims process was flawed.
Fairmead issued a final response saying that Mr A hadnt demonstrated that an insured peril 
had occurred; he had already completed repairs, so the claim was compromised, and during 
his initial call he confirmed there was wear and tear to his shower. Fairmead apologised for 
the delays responding to him but Mr A remained unhappy with the way it handled his claim.
Our investigator upheld Mr As complaint about the way Fairmead handled his claim, but he 
thought it had fairly declined the claim for water damage. Our investigator thought the photos 
of water damage were consistent with sealant and grout failure, and Mr As policy didnt 
cover wear and tear. But because of the way it had handled the claim, our investigator 
thought it was reasonable that Fairmead should pay Mr A £150 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Mr A didnt think the compensation was enough to address all the shortfalls and the time 
taken. He still thought Fairmead should send an assessor to determine the cause of the 
damage and prepare a schedule of work to complete repairs. 
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mr As complaint about the way Fairmead handled his claim but, for 
broadly the same reasons as our investigator, Im satisfied that Fairmead fairly declined his 
claim for water damage. Ill explain.
Firstly, I think its important to set out what my decision covers. Ive looked at the evidence 
available and listened to recordings of calls between Mr A and Fairmead, and his 
conversations with our investigator. Im not going to talk about every piece of evidence as 
both parties are well aware of the circumstances and I see no benefit in repeating everything 
here. Its not my role to determine the cause of the leak  I dont have the relevant expertise 
and nor am I expected to. My decision is based on the expert reports and other evidence Ive 
seen relating to the leak; how Fairmead interpreted that information; whether, on balance, its 
decision to decline was fair, and whether it shouldve done more in the circumstances.
Mr A is unhappy Fairmead declined his claim despite providing an expert report stating the 
cause of the leak and the resulting damage to his hall. For clarity, Mr As claim is not for any 
work done to his bathroom.
Mr A replaced his bathroom because it was old. The photos he supplied were taken during 
that refurbishment and show that, where his shower tray had been, the corner of the floor 
and wall up to the level of the sealant was wet. The shower waste disposal pipe is visible 
with a small amount of water evident around it. So, its clear that water had escaped from the 
shower over time and was only evident after the shower tray was removed because all the 
damage was under the sealant level. Mr A hasnt claimed for this damage. His plumber 
repaired everything as part of the bathroom refurbishment.
The disputed claim is for the other side of the bathroom wall which is in the hallway. After 
having the bathroom refurbished, Mr A noticed water damage around his hallway radiator 
and assumed it was leaking. It was only when he saw the damage to the floor (under the 
carpet), the wall and skirting board that he realised the leak in the bathroom mustve come 
through. This is the damage for which Mr A claimed.
In his call to Fairmead, Mr A said the water hadnt come from a pipe. He said the shower 
was old and the water had come through the sealant and grout. Fairmead asked for photos, 
which he supplied. After receiving the photos, Fairmead asked for the plumbers report and 
this is where one of the key claim handling issues arose. During the claim call, Mr A said 
hed had the leak repaired. I think he meant the original leak in the bathroom had been 
repaired as part of the bathroom refurbishment. It seems Fairmead understood this to mean 
Mr A had the leak in the bathroom repaired because of the hallway damage and before he 
made the claim. 
Based on this misunderstanding, I can see why Fairmead asked for a plumbers report; why 
it questioned the date, and why it questioned the content. But I dont think anything Mr A 
said, in his original claim call or the subsequent call during which he explained the origin of 
the leak, was ambiguous. So, the way Fairmead handled this part of the claim couldve been 
better. I dont think it was reasonable to expect Mr A to have a plumbers report detailing an 
escape of water identified during a bathroom upgrade for which he wasnt making a claim. 
The photos of the damaged area under the shower tray were incidental to the work and I 
think this was clear in Mr As call.  Moving on to the cause of the damage, Mr A supplied photos and a plumbers report as 
evidence. Fairmead provided call recordings. When making an insurance claim, its the 
policyholders responsibility to show that an insured peril has occurred. Theres no dispute 
that Mr A has suffered water damage, but Fairmead wasnt satisfied that he had 
demonstrated it was caused by an insured event. Fairmead placed greater weight on the 
photos and calls than on the plumbers report and declined the claim under the following 
exclusion:
12. Wear, Tear and Gradually Operating Causes:
We will not pay for damage caused by wear and tear or any other gradually operating 
cause.
Looking at the evidence, and on balance, I think Fairmeads decision to decline the claim 
was fair. Thats because the photos and call provide a consistent explanation for the cause 
of the leak, and one which is reasonable looking at the location of the damage on each side 
of the adjoining wall, typical of sealant and grout failure.
While I have no reason to doubt the plumbers recollection that the shower waste disposal 
pipe had leaked, theres no secondary evidence to support that. I wouldnt have expected 
any given that, at the time of the work, Mr A wasnt making a claim under his insurance. But I 
dont think Fairmead has done anything wrong by accepting two pieces of consistent 
evidence to inform its decision, rather than a single piece of evidence prepared some 
months after the event.
Its notable here that the plumbers report indicates there was evident water damage in the 
bathroom before the refurbishment, and that the hallway was also repaired. The report says:
To fully establish the extent of the damage it was necessary to removing the exiting (sic) 
shower tray and lower level shower tiles. This revealed extensive water damageto the en-
suite bathroomalso extended to the walls and sub floor areas of the hallwayThe leak 
was caused by the failure of the shower waste disposal pipework.
The pipework was completely removed to prevent any further leakage/damage and works 
carried out to ensure a thorough repair and re instatement of the en-suite bathroom, hallway 
and toilet.
Mr A says his hallway floor is still damaged and needs to be repaired, but the plumbers 
report contradicts that. Overall, I think the plumbers report created confusion and doubt 
about the situation rather than providing a clear cause of damage which can be relied upon.
Turning to Mr As complaint that Fairmead didnt send anyone to assess the damage, he 
believes that, if it had, this matter couldve been dealt with far more easily. I think hes 
correct to some degree because it mightve helped Fairmead explain why it couldnt assess 
the cause of the damage, or at least reassure him it was looking into his claim. But I dont 
think an on-site assessment wouldve given Mr A the outcome he wanted. In order to 
determine whether the damage was caused by an insured event  a leaking shower waste 
disposal pipe - Fairmead wouldve needed to see it before the repair. As Ive already 
explained, Mr A was having work done to his bathroom before he knew his hallway was 
damaged, so he hadnt repaired the leak to prevent Fairmead seeing the cause. But that 
does mean there was no evidence of the cause left on-site for Fairmead to assess, so a visit 
wouldnt have helped in the circumstances. Im satisfied Fairmead explained that to Mr A.
Ive considered the way Fairmead handled this claim overall, and its clear that there have 
been shortfalls. Mr A complained that Fairmead declined his claim before it received the 
plumbers report and I can see why that would be frustrating. Hed gone to the trouble of getting the report and keeping Fairmead informed, yet it declined his claim without waiting 
for it. While I dont think Fairmeads decision was unreasonable, it asked for the evidence, so 
I think it mightve been fairer to wait for it in the circumstances before issuing its decision. Or 
at least told Mr A that it no longer needed the evidence.
Mr A provided details of several occasions when he called Fairmead and it didnt return his 
call, and he was unhappy that it didnt respond to his emails. This matter has been ongoing 
for quite some time now, so I can see why those issues wouldve caused Mr A frustration 
and inconvenience. Fairmead acknowledged that it hadnt handled the claim as well as it 
couldve done and apologised, but I think compensation is warranted.  
Mr A doesnt think the proposed compensation of £150 is enough. In deciding whether its 
fair Ive thought about Fairmeads delays; whether Mr A contributed to the delays; whether 
information sharing on both sides has been prompt; whether communication was clear, and 
whether the way Fairmead handled Mr As claim contributed to or caused any loss. Mr A 
said his main complaint was with the claims process rather than the outcome, but his 
hallway still needs repairing. As Ive decided that Fairmeads decision to decline the claim 
was fair, I dont think it has contributed to Mr As loss. However, I think its likely that he 
hoped Fairmead would change its decision if it visited his home to assess the damage, or if it 
decided the plumbers report carried more weight overall, so I can see why he didnt 
complete the repairs. 
On balance, I think Fairmead contributed to some of the delays, and there were times when 
it couldve done more to keep Mr A informed about the progress of his claim, and why it 
needed the information it asked for. Also, it couldve taken greater care to understand the 
sequence of events which led to Mr As claim which may have prevented the unnecessary 
dispute about the date of the plumbers report. Our investigator proposed compensation of 
£150 for the shortfalls in Fairmeads claim handling. Ive thought carefully about the overall 
complaint and nothing in the evidence persuades me that a different amount is warranted.
In summary, Im satisfied that Fairmead declined Mr As claim fairly and in line with the policy 
for the reasons it gave. But, because of a general misunderstanding and overlooking key 
information, the matter became protracted, causing Mr A inconvenience and frustration. That 
said, Fairmead didnt contribute to, or make worse, Mr As loss and Im satisfied that 
compensation of £150 is reasonable. 
I realise Mr A may not be happy with this outcome, but I hope he can understand why Ive 
reached my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr As complaint about claim 
handling. Fairmead Insurance Limited must:
pay Mr A £150 by way of apology for the delays handling his claim, its failure to 
respond to emails or return calls on occasions, and for failing to properly explain to 
Mr A why it didnt wait, or need to wait, for his plumbers report.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman