DRN-3752193
The complaint
Mr K, through his representative, complains that Morses Club PLC, lent to him when he 
could not afford it.  
What happened
Using information from Morses records here is a brief loan table, into which I have added 
the information Morses obtained from Mr K about his income and his expenditure.
Loan Approved Capital Settled Repayment 
and termsWeekly 
incomeWeekly 
expenditure
1 23 Oct 2015 £200 5 Feb 2016 20 x £15 £200 £142.50
2 5 Feb 2016 £300 13 Sept 2016 33 x £15 £200 £150
3 16 June 2016 £200 27 Jan 2017 33 x £10 £200 £150
4 13 Sept 2016 £200 17 March 2017 33 x £10 £200 £166.50
Short break in lending
5 25 May 2017 £600 16 April 2018 33 x £30 £200 £148
Second short break
6 22 June 2018 £200 26 November 
201833 x £10 £313.95 £189.39
7 26 Nov 2018 £500 31 July 2017 33 x £25 £279.07 £170
In its final response letter, Morses did not uphold Mr Ks complaint. After it had been referred
to the Financial Ombudsman Service, one of our adjudicators looked and thought as follows:
With this in mind I think from the point of loan five you shouldve reasonably
questioned whether continuing to offer further loans to a customer who appears to be
reliant on this form of lending was unsustainable or otherwise harmful. I say this
because: Mr K had taken five loans in around 18 months; the amounts he was
borrowing increased over this period and for the rest of his borrowing relationship
with you; by loan five, Mr Ks borrowing had increased three times from loan one:
Mr K was taking new loans when a previous loan was repaid and on occasions was
repaying more than one loan at the same time. So in my view, the pattern of lending
itself shows that the loans from here where unsustainable  so I dont think you
should have given Mr K any of loans five onwards.
Morses disagreed and I have summarised some of its points here:
Its not unreasonable for loan capital amounts to increase after being a customer for 
19 months
Mr K had repaid all previous loans well and without any undue hardship
forbearance was built into the loans and so the fact loan 5 was repaid a little late has 
little bearing
Mr K did not inform Morses he was experiencing any financial hardship
there was a break in the lending  2 months between loans 4 and 5 and another  
almost three months  between loans 5 and 6. Morses says this shows Mr K was not 
dependent on the lending.
Loan 6 was £400 less than the previous loan of £600. The committed weekly 
repayment reduced at loan 6 from £30 a week to £10 a week and the records show 
Morses Mr K repaid it 10 weeks early.
Loan 7 was higher at £500 but with the good record Mr K had and the checks it 
carried out means that Morses considers its lending decision for £500 reasonable.
Mr Ks representative wrote to say Mr K agreed with our adjudicators view.
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision on 
4 November 2022 in which I gave reasons why I was planning to uphold loan 4 only. Morses 
agreed with that and we have not heard from Mr K, although his representative has 
acknowledged receipt of my provisional decision. 
The reply date has passed and so I have duplicated my provisional decision findings in this 
final determination and it can be read in the next section. It is in smaller type to differentiate 
it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about high cost, short-term and home
credit lending - including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our
website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Mr K could afford to pay back the amounts hed
borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to
the circumstances. Morses checks could have considered a number of different things, such
as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Ks income and
expenditure.
I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks might have been
proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done more to establish
that any lending was sustainable for Mr K. These factors include:
- Mr K having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
- The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
- Mr K having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of 
time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had 
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
- Mr K coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr K. Our adjudicator considered this to
be the case for Mr K and loans 5, 6 and 7.
Morses was required to establish whether Mr K could sustainably repay the loans  not just
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough moneyto make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr K was able to repay his
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and without
having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised,
that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, then it
follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
my provisional decision findings dated 4 November 2022 
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and thought 
about what this means for Mr Ks complaint.
Loans 1 to 4
Mr Ks representative has told us that Mr K has agreed with the outcome by our adjudicator. So, 
I have kept loans 1 to 3 in my mind when reviewing the whole complaint but I do not need to make 
any findings on loans 1 to 3.
However  as the complaint is on my desk then I have noticed some elements of loan 4 which has 
given me a reason to be concerned. And I have come to a different view on loan 4 which I set out 
later in this decision.
Loans 5, 6 and 7 and repeat lending
Having considered everything carefully I agree with some parts of Morses submissions. In addition, 
I do not think that circumstances surrounding the approval of loans 5, 6 and 7 were such that they 
would demonstrate that Mr K was reliant on the lending and was in a position where hed not be able 
to repay them sustainably or that the loans may have caused him harm.
One of the reasons Ive come to that view are the gaps in the lending between loans 4 and 5 and 
loans 5 and 6. These are not significant enough to break the lending relationship, but they are long 
enough in my view to demonstrate that Mr K was able to pay off a loan and then return two or three 
months later for another.
Another reason is simply that Ive received no information at all about Mr Ks financial situation from 
Mr K for any of the loans and not for loans 5, 6 and 7 apart from the information that he gave Morses 
at the time of lending. And so, without more from Mr K, Ive relied on the information he gave to 
Morses at the time.
I note that the income levels for loans 6 and 7 increased and after the expenditure figures had been 
deducted it left Mr K with disposable income figures of £125 and £109 respectively for loans 6 and 7.
So, in the absence of any further information from Mr K, which he is welcome to send to me  I plan 
not to uphold loans 6 and 7 as it seems he was able to afford the repayment sums.
Loans 4 and 5
I do have a different view in relation to loans 4 and 5. And again, despite limited information, but using 
Morses figures based on what Mr K had given it at the time, Mr K had very little disposable weekly 
income for loan 4 - it was just over £33 a week. And for loan 5 it was £52.
The £33 sum was certainly too low for this lending to be considered responsible. Loan 4 was used to 
pay off loan 2 from the records I have seen and Mr K already had loan 3 which remained open at the 
same time he was repaying loan 4. So, I am planning to uphold loan 4 on the information Morses had 
at the time and which I have been given.
Loan 5 was for a large sum - £600. The income and expenditure figures Morses had resulted in a 
relatively low disposable income using Morses own figures. But £52 a week does translate to be about £200 a month and so on balance, although I dont consider that comfortable, on current 
evidence it does appear that Mr K may have been able to afford it. I plan not to uphold it.
However, at loan 5, after a short gap in lending (not one Id consider that breaks the lending chain) 
then Morses ought to have carried out a full financial check. Loan 5 was for a large sum  the most he 
had applied for- and Mr K had been borrowing from Morses since October 2015 which was quite 
some time. I do not think Morses did carry out a full financial review as I think would have been 
proportionate to this loan at this stage in the lending relationship.
As I have no information about Mr Ks financial position (over and above what he gave to Morses at 
the time) from Mr K for any of the loans or for loan 5 then I am not able to see what Morses may have 
seen if it had carried out that full financial review in May 2017. On current evidence, I plan not to 
uphold Loan 5.
So, my provisional decision is that Morses ought not to have approved loan 4 for Mr K.
My final determination 
As Morses has agreed to the complaint being uphold for loan 4 and as I have received 
nothing further from Mr K, then I see no reason to alter my view on the complaint.
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ks complaint in part. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might
have happened had not lent Mr K loan 4. Clearly there are a great many possible, and all
hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Mr K may have simply left matters there, not
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed
between him and this lender which they may not have had with others. If this wasnt a viable
option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that
was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct.
From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real
and substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Mr K in a
compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable 
to conclude that Mr K would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options.
So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses liability in this case for what Im satisfied it has
done wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have given Mr K loan 4.
A) Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr K towards interest,
fees and charges on loan 4, including payments made to a third party where applicable,
but not including anything it has already refunded.B) Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr K
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr K originally made the
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Morses should pay Mr K the total of A plus B.
D) Morses should amend the payment information on Mr Ks credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should
give Mr K a certificate showing how much tax Morses has deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ks complaint in part and I direct that Morses Club PLC 
does as I have outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman