DRN-3499306
The complaint
Mr B complains that a used car he acquired with finance from PCF Bank Limited (PCF) is 
of unsatisfactory quality. 
What happened
Mr B got this car under a conditional sale agreement (CSA) he took out with PCF in March 
2021. In July 2021 (after the car had travelled 2,400 miles or so) Mr B noticed smoke coming 
from the exhaust and the car rattled and struggled to start and stalled. He contacted the 
supplying dealer but it said a three month warranty had expired and wouldnt help, so Mr B 
complained to PCF.
PCF arranged for an independent expert to inspect the car near the end of July 2021. The 
expert found faults present that he thought were unlikely to have been there at the point of 
supply. PCF didnt think it was responsible in the circumstances. PCF felt it was unlikely the 
car would have been able to travel the distance covered since supply if the current faults 
were there when Mr B got it and rejected his complaint.
Mr B referred the matter to our service and one of our investigators considered the evidence. 
He was satisfied theres something wrong with the car. He acknowledged the expert said the 
most likely explanation is low compression in multiple cylinders due to normal wear and tear 
and loss of compression is normally related to valve seat wear, head gasket defects or 
piston damage due to abnormal combustion. But, the investigator thought the experts 
inspection was very limited and he wasnt satisfied that durability was considered.
The investigator accepted the car wouldnt have been in its current state exactly when it was 
supplied. But he considered Mr B was entitled to expect a reasonable period of use from this 
eight year old car with relatively low mileage - and a fair minded person would not expect to 
experience this sort of problem after only four months and around 2,400 miles of use. On 
balance, the investigator found the car wasnt reasonably durable and it was of 
unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied.
The investigator thought repairs would likely cost more than the value of the car so it 
wouldnt be fair to require PCF to pay for the car to be fixed. He recommended Mr B should 
be allowed to reject the car instead and have his £500 deposit back. He was satisfied Mr B 
hasnt used the car since 21 July 2021 - because of the faults present - and its fair that PCF 
should refund any monthly payments made from that date for loss of use. He said PCF 
should also pay interest on the refunds, pay Mr B £100 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience - and remove any adverse information from his credit file.
Mr B accepted the investigators recommendations but PCF didnt. PCF said (in summary) 
an expert cant always say whats wrong with a vehicle exactly but they can narrow down 
potential causes and - with the benefit of expertise and experience - determine if any of 
these are likely to have been developing or present at the point of sale in light of symptoms, 
the point of onset and use. PCF thinks the expert would therefore have taken into account 
the fact that Mr B noticed the issues here more than three months and some 2,000 miles 
after supply - when he concluded that current problems are unlikely to have been there at 
the outset. PCF also suggested that repair might be a viable option and asked for time to 
look into things further with the supplying dealer. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his mind. He didnt think the experts report 
was sufficient to show that the car was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied but he 
allowed PCF some more time to consider repairs - or arrange the further investigations the 
expert recommended - and provide additional evidence. PCF didnt supply anything else and 
the matter was passed to me for a decision. 
My provisional decision
Having considered the evidence available I was minded to uphold the complaint but my 
reasons werent quite the same as the investigators. I issued a provisional decision on 28 
April 2022 to let the parties see my provisional findings and make further submissions (if 
they wanted to) before I made my final decision. In my provisional decision I said :- 
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach 
my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
PCF supplied this car to Mr B under a CSA so it was required - under the Consumer Rights 
Act 2015 (CRA) - to ensure that the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. 
What amounts to satisfactory quality will vary depending on individual circumstances. In 
the case of a used car, I think its reasonable to take the age, cost and mileage into account.
Mr Bs car was eight years old with around 40,000 miles on the clock when he got it and cost 
about £6,500. As such, I think a reasonable person would accept some parts would be worn 
and likely need to be repaired or replaced sooner or later  which is reflected in the lower 
price paid for a used car compared to the price of a brand new vehicle. But, thats not to say 
Mr B didnt have a reasonable expectation that this car would be reasonably durable  taking 
its age, cost and mileage into account.
There seems to be no dispute that the car had a fairly significant problem about four months 
after Mr B got it. Mr B describes trouble starting the car and smoke coming from the exhaust 
as well as a tendency to stall. PCF appointed an independent expert to inspect the vehicle in 
July 2021. I think that was fair and I have considered the experts report carefully. I can see 
he found evidence of low compression in multiple cylinders and considered this is normally 
related to valve seat wear, head gasket defects or piston damage due to abnormal 
combustion. The expert considered possible causes of this issue - in general terms. He says 
it often suggests a valve seating issue, piston or ring defect, or head gasket breachesas a 
complete loss of compression often indicates a valve burnt out e.g. broad face burning, 
guttering or chordal failure. 
I dont think theres any dispute however that the expert wasnt able to reach a definite 
conclusion about went wrong with this car. It wasnt running when he saw and the expert 
makes it clear in the report that his inspection was very limited as a result. I accept the 
expert did go on to conclude that, in his opinion, the issues present were probably wear and 
tear related and wouldnt have been there when the car was supplied. I also acknowledge he 
seems to have appropriate experience and qualifications and its reasonable to take what he 
says into account. But, Im satisfied the expert also says (in his final conclusion) the vehicle 
requires further stripping and more in depth diagnostics to be carried out under workshop 
conditions to confirm the exact condition of the internal components. And, taking all the 
evidence into account, I find it difficult to see why the expert considered the issues present 
were likely the result of wear and tear - with a reasonable degree of certainty. He doesnt 
explain, for example, why the head gasket would have failed as a result of normal wear and tear in this situation  when this part is not a service item and it would usually be expected to 
last much longer than the 40,000 miles or so Mr Bs car had covered.
The CRA says (broadly speaking) any fault that appears within six months of supply is 
deemed to have been present at the point of supply - unless theres evidence to the 
contrary. I dont think a reasonable person would expect to have the sort of issue thats 
appeared here after four months and some 2,000 miles in the usual course of events  given 
the cars age, price and mileage at the outset. And Im minded to conclude, on balance, its 
more likely than not this car was of unsatisfactory quality when Mr B got it.
Putting things right
Under the CRA a supplier usually has one chance to fix things, in this situation - but thats 
only if repairs wont cause undue delay or significant inconvenience to a consumer like Mr B.
It looks as if Mr B contacted the supplying dealer when the issue first appeared - so the 
dealer had the chance to check the car and resolve things then but refused. I can see the 
investigator also gave PCF some additional time to consider his recommendations. So, PCF 
had the opportunity to refer back to the supplying dealer and/or arrange further checks and 
provide more evidence if it wanted to. PCF could have supplied further clarification from the 
expert, for example - or information about the likely cost of repairs - but it hasnt done so.
I havent seen an estimate of the likely cost of fixing the car. I note the expert says even 
investigating this issue will require extensive dismantling. And Mr B told us his mechanic 
thinks the car probably needs a new engine  which will be costly. On the current evidence, I 
have no reason to doubt what Mr B says. And, taking everything Ive seen so far into 
account, I cant safely conclude that whatever is wrong with this car is likely to be able to be 
fixed in a timely manner at a reasonable cost.
Im satisfied that Mr B has probably experienced a good deal of inconvenience and upset 
already as a result of being supplied with this faulty car. I can see hes been without his own 
transport for some time. And hes explained how thats caused problems with his job (as an 
essential worker) and other difficulties for him and his family. I dont think its fair to expect 
Mr B to wait any longer for repairs in these particular circumstances. Im minded to find it is 
reasonable for PCF to end the CSA and arrange to take the car back and refund the deposit.
As far as I can see the car hasnt been in a driveable condition since 21 July 2021 because 
of the faults present. I consider it is reasonable for PCF to compensate Mr B for this loss of 
use. And I find it is fair that he should have any monthly payments made towards the finance 
refunded from that date. Im satisfied that Mr B has likely been put to some trouble and 
experienced frustration and upset as a result of what happened. I think it is fair and 
reasonable for PCF to pay him £100 compensation to reflect that. And, if PCF has recorded 
any adverse information on Mr Bs credit file, I think it is right that should be removed as well.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I invited the parties to consider my provisional findings and let me have any further 
comments or information by 19 May 2022. And I explained that Id review all the evidence 
available after that and make my final decision.
Mr B accepted my provisional conclusions and PCF hasnt made any further submissions. I 
see no reasonable grounds to depart from my provisional decision in these circumstances. For the reasons Ive given, I remain of the view its more likely than not this car was of 
unsatisfactory quality when Mr B got it. And I find it is fair and reasonable that PCF should 
take the steps set out in order to put things right.  
My final decision
My decision is I uphold this complaint and I require PCF Bank Limited to:-
1. End the finance agreement and collect the car, at no additional cost to Mr B;
2. Refund the deposit paid along with monthly payments made from 21 July 2021;
3. Pay interest at 8% simple a year on any refunds from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement;
4. Pay Mr B £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience; and
5. Remove any adverse information from Mr Bs credit file.
If PCF considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
the interest part of my award, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It should also give 
him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman