DRN-3198522
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Telefonica UK Limited (Trading as O2) offered him a credit 
agreement without authorisation from his deputy.
What happened
Mr W lacks capacity to deal with his financial affairs. He is represented in this case by his 
deputy under a Court of Protection order.
Mr Ws deputy says it was made aware O2 had allowed Mr W to enter into a fixed sum loan 
agreement in 2020 to buy a mobile phone. This took place in one of the O2 stores. Mr Ws 
deputy complained to O2 to say it was unhappy O2 had offered credit to Mr W without 
contacting it first. It highlighted Mr W didnt have capacity to manage his own finances and 
that a court had appointed it to act as his deputy as a result of that. It said it had previously 
told O2 this and provided a copy of the court order.
Mr Ws deputy also had concerns that there was no spending cap on the mobile phone, and 
it said Mr W didnt understand how the borrowing would fit in to his budget. So Mr Ws 
deputy wanted O2 to indemnify Mr W for any losses  including his legal costs. 
O2 said it was required to allow vulnerable customers to access its services. And it said 
sales in its stores continue as normal if there are no obvious signs of vulnerability. And that if 
an order is placed online, the agreement is sent to the email address on file  Mr Ws 
deputys. However, O2 did place a £5 spending cap on the phone for certain things and 
removed a password from the account to try to prevent this happening again. 
Mr Ws deputy didnt agree with the response. It said the sale shouldnt have gone ahead 
without the deputy being contacted. And it also said there were notices on Mr Ws credit file 
to tell lenders no facilities should be provided without prior approval from the deputy.
To resolve the complaint Mr Ws deputy requested:
O2 agree to consult the deputy before offering Mr W any more credit. 
O2 cover the deputys costs for complaining (£811.44).
A conciliatory gesture. 
Our investigator ultimately upheld the complaint. He didnt think O2 should have offered the 
credit without first speaking to the deputy. So he didnt think it was fair that Mr W was losing 
out as a result of that  by way of the deputys fees for complaining. But upon reviewing the 
deputyship order he noted it said:
The deputy is entitled to receive fixed costs in relation to this application and to receive fixed
costs for the general management of [Mr Ws] affairs. If the deputy would prefer the
costs to be assessed, this order is to be treated as authority to the Senior Courts Costs
Office to carry out a detailed assessment on the standard basis.
And he noted the deputy had said:
the order gives the deputy the authority to either charge fixed fees to [Mr W] or alternatively 
to charge him on a time costs basis and then to have the file assessed annually by the 
Senior Courts Costs Office (SCCO).
Our investigator said that under normal circumstances, our service wouldnt recommend a 
consumers legal fees are covered. But, in this case he thought that if Mr Ws deputy could 
demonstrate the costs it had claimed for had been agreed by the SCCO, O2 should pay 
them. But without that, he didnt think O2 needed to take any action, because he thought that 
would indicate Mr Ws deputys costs were already covered by the fixed costs.
O2 said it agrees with the recommendation. But Mr Ws deputy didnt. In summary it said:
Deputy fees are completely different to solicitors fees. Deputy fees are incurred by 
someone who has a deputy appointed because they lack capacity to manage their 
affairs. 
It didnt think the investigator understood the charging clause in the court order. It 
said the deputy has the authority to recover costs from Mr W and this is what O2 is 
being asked to pay.
The investigator hadnt addressed the request to ensure Mr Ws protective notices 
are recognised going forwards. 
As things couldnt be resolved, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W bought the phone using a regulated fixed sum loan agreement from O2, and our 
service is able to consider complaints relating to these sorts of agreements. 
A court has already decided that Mr W lacks capacity to make various decisions in relation to 
his affairs. This means his deputy is authorised to make those decisions for him. Ive taken 
that into account when deciding this complaint. 
Mr Ws deputy was in contact with O2 as far back as 2018 ensuring it was in receipt of the 
deputyship order. So Im satisfied O2 was aware of the situation. 
O2 has said it is required to allow customers to access its services if there are no obvious 
signs of vulnerability. But given it knew there was a deputyship order in place I think this was 
a clear indication that Mr W was a vulnerable consumer. So O2 should have spoken to the 
deputy before offering credit. I accept the salesperson in the store may not have known 
about the deputyship order but it doesnt seem like a very difficult thing to have noted on 
Mr Ws record somewhere given he was an existing customer of O2s. Im also mindful that 
there are notices on Mr Ws credit file saying that no facilities should be extended to him 
without prior approval by his deputy. I dont know if O2 completed a credit check, but its very 
common practice for a lender to do so before offering credit to customers. So I think 
opportunities were missed by O2.
Mr Ws deputy spent time contacting O2 because it was understandably concerned O2 was 
providing credit without approval. And its sent us a breakdown of costs for its work that its 
looking to charge. Seeing as those costs wouldnt have come about if, in my view, O2 had 
done what it should have done I dont think its fair that they fall on Mr W.However, from looking at the deputyship order I agree with the investigator that its not clear 
the costs are recoverable at this stage. The order weve been provided says the deputy is 
entitled to fixed costs for the general management of Mr Ws affairs (or to have the costs 
assessed by the SCCO). The order doesnt say much more than that about costs.  
Mr Ws deputy has highlighted Practice Direction 19B, which supplements Part 19 of the 
Court of Protection Rules 2017. This direction gives more detail on the fixed costs that 
deputies are entitled to recover while they manage a persons affairs. It sets out that the 
deputy can charge certain fixed costs in relation to their role as deputy. And where fixed 
costs arent appropriate, it says, under certain circumstances, professionals can choose to 
apply to the SCCO for a detailed assessment of costs. So, like the deputyship order, this 
also seems to say that costs that arent fixed should be agreed via the SCCO. 
I am, however, aware that there are other provisions for deputies to be reimbursed for 
reasonable expenses in discharging functions and, if the court directs, for remuneration out 
of the consumers property for doing so. But the breakdown of Mr Ws deputys fees looks to 
be about management of Mr Ws affairs. So its not clear that an expense as such has been 
incurred, or that the fees shouldnt fall under the fixed costs that are already taken care of. 
Taking all this into account, I agree it would be unfair for Mr W to lose out as a result of 
something that I think O2 has done wrong. But I dont think I have the grounds to ask O2 to 
pay his deputy its fees without some sort of agreement from the SCCO. So, as per the 
investigators recommendation, Im only going to direct O2 to pay the fees upon receipt of 
reasonable evidence the SCCO has agreed for them to be recoverable. 
I appreciate that Mr Ws deputy wants to ensure O2 heed the protective notices going 
forward. Its difficult for me, via this decision, to ensure that something will never happen in 
the future. But I would ask O2 to make sure the protective notices are suitably noted on 
Mr Ws record.
For completeness sake, I also note Mr Ws deputy has more recently said that it has 
concerns around a further sale of a mobile phone to Mr W. But as this likely relates to a 
separate agreement, and O2 hasnt had the chance to respond to this complaint, I think 
Mr Ws deputy may wish to take it up with O2 in the first instance. And if its unhappy with the 
response, it may be something our service is able to consider. 
Putting things right
I think O2 should pay Mr Ws deputys fees in relation to this complaint upon reasonable 
evidence the Senior Courts Cost Office has agreed they are recoverable. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Telefonica UK Limited (Trading as 
O2) to put things right as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2022.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman