DRN-3516573
The complaint
Mr H has complained about how Think Money Limited (TML) responded to a claim for 
money back in relation to a purchase hed made on his debit card. Hes also complained 
about ongoing service issues. 
What happened
Mr H paid £27.50 to a firm for a fit to fly antigen test in October 2021 using his TML debit 
card. I understand Mr H quickly realised this wasnt what he wanted, so tried to cancel the 
order, which was unsuccessful. When the item was received Mr H said he returned it to the 
merchant and asked for a refund. 
As he wasnt getting anywhere, later in October 2021 Mr H spoke to TML and asked it to 
reverse the transaction under chargeback. He also told TML he was thinking of closing his 
account. TML said it could take around five working days to respond. And it told Mr H he 
should leave the account open while the dispute is ongoing. TML raised the chargeback. 
Expecting a response, Mr H spoke to TML at the end of October 2021 and was told the 
merchant had 45 days to respond to the chargeback. TML said if there was no response 
Mr H would be reimbursed the following day. TML explained it would be in touch with Mr H. 
Mr H reiterated he wanted to close the account and TML explained that it may be able to 
refund the monthly fees for the account if Mr H didnt use it. 
The merchant defended the chargeback on 15 November 2021 saying Mr H returned the 
goods without any complaints or defects. It said Mr H had contacted it to say hed placed the 
order by mistake, but the goods were as described and not defective. And it also highlighted 
terms in the check-out process that said I understand that once the kits are dispatched by 
[the merchant] after I have placed an order, the sale is non refundable. 
Again, expecting a response, and after the 45-day period, Mr H spoke to TML in mid-
December 2021 about the chargeback and was told it had been defended by the merchant 
because the goods were non-refundable. So it said it didnt have grounds to dispute this 
further. Mr H was unhappy with this. Mr H complained about how TML was dealing with 
things and was unhappy TML hadnt told him of his rights to refer the complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman. The agent told Mr H hed be contacted within a couple of days. 
TML sent its final response letter to Mr H saying it was unable to pursue the chargeback 
further and letting him know it didnt think the service it provided earlier on in the month was 
unreasonable either. 
Mr H wasnt happy hed not received a call from TML to discuss the complaint so he could 
explain things in detail. He explained he was unhappy TML hadnt taken distance selling 
regulations into account when considering the chargeback. He thought TML had accepted 
evidence that was incorrect. He asked TML to send information it held about him. And he 
also asked again about the monthly fee for the account, and what would happen if he were 
to close the account. Mr H complained that the agent said the fees would be payable, unless 
an exception was agreed with another department. 
Mr H brought the complaint to our service. He also complained about the service provided by 
TML when trying to obtain his documentation. 
Our investigator looked into things but thought TML had done enough to resolve the 
complaint. He thought TML had handled the chargeback fairly. He said the goods werent 
defective or not as described and that chargeback doesnt cover situations where the 
customer changes their mind. He also didnt think these types of goods were covered by the 
regulations for distance selling.
He also thought about the monthly account fee. He said hed spoken to TML about it and 
that it had agreed to refund the fees from the time Mr H stopped using the account, whilst 
waiting for his complaint about the chargeback to be resolved, which he thought was fair. 
Mr H didnt agree with the assessment. He said his complaint was not about getting money, 
it was to do with the principle. He didnt think the investigator had listened to the calls hed 
had with TML. He says there were clear inconsistencies regarding the information he was 
given. He said no one explained his consumer rights and that his complaint hadnt been 
handled properly. 
Our investigator said hed listened to the calls between Mr H and TML that covered the 
raising of the chargeback; discussion of fees for the account; the reason for the chargeback 
being declined; and the raising of a complaint. He said hed not heard anything that would 
have changed the decision of the chargeback. And he said he acknowledged Mr H felt there 
were inconsistencies in the information provided by TML, but that hed tried to clarify things 
in his assessment. 
Mr H responded to say he understood the investigators explanation regarding his consumer 
rights and the chargeback, but he didnt accept why TML didnt inform him of this or try to 
explain it to him. Mr H also said the investigator had ignored the issues he had obtaining a 
password to access the documents TML sent him. He sent us a phone call recording relating 
to this. And he also highlighted hed made a complaint and was unhappy TML closed it 
before contacting him. 
Our investigator sent another response to say the call Mr H had with merchant took place 
after the complaint had been raised with our service which is why hed not considered it. But 
having said that he acknowledged there was a misunderstanding of Mr Hs request by TML 
but this was corrected later on in the call, and Mr H was given his password. He also said 
TML was able to complete its complaint investigation without having to call Mr H, and that it 
sent a final response letter as is required. 
Mr H was unhappy our investigator wasnt making any recommendations and so the 
complaint was passed to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision that said:
I want to acknowledge that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any 
discourtesy by this  it just reflects the informal nature of our service. I want to assure Mr H 
and TML that Ive reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment on something, its not 
because I havent considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on what I think are the key 
issues. Our powers allow me to do this.
Chargeback
Mr H has explained he understands and accepts our investigators view on the chargeback. 
So Im not going to go over everything again in detail. But Ive thought about how TML 
handled things. The chargeback scheme is one which TML may have been able to recover 
funds for Mr H. But it is limited by the particular scheme rules that apply. So Ive thought about those rules when deciding if TML has treated Mr H fairly. TML did raise the 
chargeback but didnt take further action when it was defended. 
Mr H hasnt said the goods werent as described, or that they were defective. I can 
appreciate why he is unhappy given he says he changed his mind straight away. But a 
consumer changing their mind wont always lead to a successful chargeback. 
Ive thought about whether theres a reason code that couldve been used given Mr H 
returned the goods. But the evidence Ive seen indicates Mr H was warned the purchase 
was non-refundable. So even if I were to find the merchants term relating to refunds was 
unfair, I have to take into account what the chargeback rules say. And I think they would take 
account of the merchants disclosed refund policy. 
Therefore, while I know it disappointed Mr H, I dont think TML acted unfairly by not pursuing 
the chargeback further. Moreover, I appreciate Mr H is unhappy TML didnt go through his 
statutory rights when he contacted it. But Im not sure thats what TML needed to do in this 
case. TML needed to decide whether there was a reasonable prospect of success taking 
into account the relevant card schemes rules  thats the method TML could help him claim 
his money back. And I think TML acted fairly by submitting the chargeback in the first place. 
Service received
Mr H has also complained about the service received. In particular, he says hes unhappy 
with the inconsistencies on the phone calls; the way his complaint was dealt with; and the 
service received when trying to obtain his documentation. 
Ive reviewed the correspondence and phone calls that have been sent in up to the point of 
the complaint being referred to us. Broadly, I think the agents at TML were courteous and 
did try to help Mr H. But, based on the evidence Ive seen, I think there have been a few 
things that couldve gone better. And I think this has caused Mr H some frustration. 
When Mr H first raised the chargeback, the agent indicated it should take around five days 
for him to receive a response. It looks like this was incorrect, and so I think TML shouldnt 
have told him this in the first place. Mr H chased up TML around ten days later and was told 
the merchant would have 45 days to respond to the chargeback and if no response was 
received, hed be refunded. The agent also told Mr H that hed receive a response if the 
merchant disputed things. 
It looks like the merchant responded on 15 November 2021, and the deadline for 
chargeback response was 3 December 2021. But as Mr H hadnt heard anything, he chased 
up TML again. So while I accept TML didnt tell him how long it would take to contact Mr H, I 
can understand why he was disappointed he had to chase TML when it had received a 
response around a month earlier. Moreover, when he did speak to TML to complain it looks 
like he was told hed be contacted within a couple of days. But from what I can see, it took 
longer than that before he received the final response letter. 
So I think there were a few occasions here where TML couldve been clearer on its 
timescales, or not promised Mr H something it was never likely to be able to deliver. I think 
this has led to Mr Hs disappointment and frustration. And Mr H had to chase TML when he 
wasnt receiving responses as expected. 
Mr H has also complained about how his complaint was dealt with. Im not persuaded TML 
acted unfairly by not calling Mr H, when I cant see this is what was promised. But I can 
understand why Mr H was unhappy as he felt hed not had the chance to explain everything 
he wanted to complain about. However, TML did send a final response as expected with our referral rights, and Mr H ultimately had the option to bring the complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman if he didnt agree with it. 
Ive also thought about the fees for the account. Around the time he raised the chargeback, 
Mr H enquired about closing the account but was told it would need to remain open while the 
claim was considered. TML indicates it was willing to waive or refund fees taken while the 
dispute was ongoing, and the account wasnt being used. I think this is fair in the 
circumstances.  
Finally, I can see Mr H is unhappy with the way TML dealt with his request for information. I 
can no longer access the call Mr H sent in where he discussed the password, but Ive 
reviewed our investigators notes on the call. Moreover, like our investigator pointed out this 
happened after the complaint was referred to our service, so does not technically form part 
of the original complaint. But from what I can see it looks like Mr H was provided with the 
password on the call, despite some initial confusion, so Im not intending to make any further 
recommendations on that point. 
However, given I think there were a few occasions TML didnt give Mr H the correct 
information. In all the circumstances I think it fair it pays him some compensation in 
recognition of the impact of that. So Im intending on directing TML to pay him £50 
compensation. I think that is fair in the circumstances. 
Mr H agreed with the provisional decision. But TML didnt. In summary, TML said:
Mr H raised his complaint in December 2021 and that it related to TML not pursuing 
his chargeback further. So it didnt consider other aspects that hadnt been raised 
with it. 
It sent Mr H an email regarding the chargeback which gave details of the process.
It didnt give Mr H a timescale for certain responses. 
It had refunded fees despite there being no error.
It hadnt received a complaint about the way TML dealt with Mr Hs request for 
information.
Its not a fair outcome because Ive investigated issues which Mr H hadnt raised with 
TML directly.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to thank both parties for their responses. Having considered everything thats been 
said, Im not minded to change the outcome I reached in my provisional decision. 
TML has indicated its unfair to investigate complaint points that Mr H didnt specifically raise 
with it. Ive thought about what it has said. As TML knows, we have an inquisitorial rather 
than an adversarial remit at the Financial Ombudsman Service. So although Mr H may have 
only made certain allegations in his complaint to TML, Im able to look at things quite broadly 
when deciding whether or not things went as I think they should have done. 
Moreover, from listening to the calls that took place before TML said Mr H raised his 
complaint, I think it was clear he was expressing dissatisfaction with the service. So Im not 
going to discard what happened in those calls. And for the reasons I gave in my provisional 
decision, while I agreed TML on the whole tried to help Mr H, I think there were some things 
that could have gone better which ultimately caused some inconvenience. This is why I felt a 
modest amount of compensation was reasonable. TML has also said it gave Mr H fair warning of how the chargeback process would work. It 
provided correspondence it sent Mr H. In summary, TML told Mr H it would submit the 
chargeback for him and that the merchant has 45 days to challenge. If successful, this could 
result in TML not making the refund. I agree TML hasnt given timescales in writing. But 
again, as Ive set out in my provisional decision, I think some of the information he received 
over the phone wasnt quite correct, which I think caused him frustration. In the round, I still 
think £50 compensation is fair in all the circumstances. For the avoidance of doubt, Im not 
directing TML to compensate Mr H for something that happened after it had responded to 
the complaint or in relation to what it offered to do with the account fees.     
My final decision
My final decision is that uphold this complaint and direct Think Money Limited to:
Pay Mr H £50 compensation. 
To the extent its not done so already, make sure the account fees are waived or 
refunded from the time the dispute was raised covering the period the account wasnt 
used. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2022.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman