The complaint
Mr F complains that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited deducted the excess due under his private 
medical insurance policy twice for the same claim. Reference to AXA includes reference to 
its predecessors.
What happened
Mr Fs policy renews annually on 1 July. The excess due under his policy is £500. 
In May 2019, Mr F told AXA that he needed an operation on his knees. AXA authorised the 
claim and told him that if his treatment continued beyond the policy renewal date, the excess 
would be charged again. 
I understand that Mr F had an initial consultation and treatment in May 2019. AXA deducted 
the excess due under Mr Fs policy. On 1 July 2019, Mr Fs policy renewed. In July and 
August 2019, Mr F had follow-up physiotherapy. AXA applied the £500 excess again and, as 
the cost of the physiotherapy was less than the excess, Mr F was liable to pay the 
physiotherapy fees. 
Mr F says that AXA charged the excess twice for the same condition. He doesnt think thats 
fair. 
In response to Mr Fs complaint, AXA said that it had assessed Mr Fs claim correctly, in 
accordance with policy terms and conditions.  
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He didnt think that AXA had treated 
Mr F unfairly. The investigator said that AXA acted within the policy terms and conditions 
and had bought the matter to Mr Fs attention when he first made the claim. 
Mr F didnt agree with the investigator. He said that he knew about the £500 excess due 
under the policy, but he didnt know that it would apply twice to the same claim. Mr F 
provided his benefit statement which showed that the dates of the treatment were just after 
the renewal date of his policy. He said that if hed realised he was going to have to pay the 
excess again, he would have waited under after 1 July, which he could have done easily.    
 Mr F said that AXA doesnt appear to take that into account, nor the fact that hes had the 
policy for many years. He asked that an ombudsman consider his complaint, so it was 
passed to me.
DRN-1488750 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, which says: 
5.4 > Paying your excess
[]
We only take off the excess once per person per policy year. So even if you claim 
several times, we will only take the excess off once. It does not matter whether you 
claim several times for the same medical condition, or for several medical 
conditions.
It also applies for each policy year. This means that if you incur costs during this 
policy year, we will take the excess off what we pay for your claim. If you then incur 
more costs in the next policy year, even if its for the same condition, we will take the 
excess off that claim.
 
has the claim been assessed unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that AXA has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly.
Im not upholding Mr Fs complaint because I dont think that AXA treated him unfairly. I say 
that because:
The policy terms, which Ive set out above, provide that if costs are incurred over two 
policy years, AXA will charge the excess in each policy year, even if its for the same 
condition. I dont think its unfair for AXA to rely on the terms of the policy in this case.
Ive listened to Mr Fs initial phone call with AXA. AXA bought this to Mr Fs attention 
when he first made the claim. 
Mr F says that if he had realised that AXA would charge the excess in each policy 
year for the same condition, he could have delayed all treatment until after                  
1 July 2019. But thats not what happened here. I think that AXA brought the relevant 
information to Mr Fs attention and I dont think that it was AXAs fault that Mr Fs      
treatment occurred over two policy years.                                                              
Im sorry to disappoint Mr F, but there are no grounds on which to uphold his 
complaint. 
 
 
 
 
 My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2020.
Louise Povey
Ombudsman