DRN-2804554
The complaint
Mr R complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) have unfairly declined his claim for loss 
of rent and have ignored his claim for legal expenses under his landlords insurance policy.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
In terms of Mr Rs claim for loss of rent, the policy states that it will only cover such 
claims as a result of damage caused to the property (defined as accidental loss or 
destruction or damage to the property). Given that Mr Rs loss of rent was not caused 
by any damage to the property, it wouldnt be covered under this section of the 
policy, so I do not think AXA have acted unfairly by declining this claim.
I appreciate that Mr R raised a legal expenses claim with AXA as well, which he feels 
they overlooked. But it wasnt after he brought his complaint to this service that the 
insurer became aware that he wanted to pursue any such claim. Ive considered the 
correspondence between Mr R, his broker and AXA, and I acknowledge that he did 
title his email [Mr Rs] legal claim. But in the body of the email, he goes on to say, I 
am claiming for loss of rent 2 months 23 Jan to 24 March 1,000pcm. So, AXA only 
considered Mr Rs claim to be for one of loss of rent rather than legal expenses as 
well. I appreciate there has been some miscommunication here. But given that Mr R 
said it was loss of rent that he wanted to claim for, I dont think the insurer has 
acted unreasonably by considering it under the rent protection section of the policy, 
rather than considering it as a legal expenses claim. 
Given that Mr R does have legal expenses cover, AXA has said it can consider 
whether his claim against his neighbour for damages would be covered. But they 
would first need to pass this to their intermediaries (Arc Legal) to determine whether 
it meets the requirements for cover under the policy. It wouldnt be fair for me to pre-
judge the underwriters decision with regards to coverage until theyve had the 
chance to fully assess the claim, so I will not be directing them to pay the claim. 
However, should AXA later decline Mr Rs legal expenses claim, he can raise this as 
a separate complaint if he remains unhappy, and this service will then be able to 
consider if they have declined it fairly. 
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr R, who understandably wants a 
resolution as soon as possible with regards to the loss of rent he has suffered. But now that 
AXA is aware of Mr Rs desire to pursue a legal expenses claim, they should now pass this 
on to their intermediaries to assess as soon as possible.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman