DRN-1488861
Complaint
Mr K complained about a number of loans he took out through a company called Elevate 
Credit International Limited, trading at the time as Sunny. Mr K says he was lent to 
irresponsibly and the loans caused him financial problems.
To keep things simple Ill refer mainly to Sunny throughout this decision.
Background
We now know that Mr K took out 59 loans in total from Sunny: 1 running credit loan followed 
by some 58 instalment loans, all between November 2014 and May 2019. Ive enclosed a 
summary of Mr Ks early borrowing with Sunny, based on the information it provided to us. It 
can be found in the appendix at the end of this decision. 
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint and said they thought it should be upheld 
from the point of loan number 7 onwards. Sunny made an offer to otherwise settle the 
complaint but Mr K doesnt agree to this. So the complaint has come to me for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. Ive followed this approach when thinking about Mr Ks 
complaint.
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that Mr K could 
repay all the loans he was given in a sustainable manner. These checks ought to have taken 
into account a range of different factors, such as the amounts being lent, the total repayment 
amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. However, certain factors might point to the fact that 
Sunny should have fairly and reasonably done more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).There may even come a point where the lending history or pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. So, Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mr K could sustainably repay the loans; not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan being affordable on this basis might be an indication that Mr K could 
sustainably make the repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular, the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. So, it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought to have fairly and 
reasonably realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
they are unlikely to be able to make them without borrowing further.
Sunny told us it carried out certain affordability and credit checks before agreeing to lend to 
Mr K. Ive thought about this and Ive also looked at the overall pattern of lending history with 
a view to seeing if there was a point at which Sunny should reasonably have seen that 
further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. Ive considered whether, at some 
point, Sunny should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
The running credit loan worked in a similar manner to a credit card in that it had a credit limit 
from which money could be withdrawn. Each withdrawal was then required to be repaid 
within a certain time. Mr K made only one such withdrawal and the facility was closed the 
next month. 
So bearing in mind what Ive said above, about the length of the lending relationship, I think 
the checks which Sunny most likely carried out at the beginning of Mr Ks borrowing would 
have been quite basic ones. But I also think these would have probably been proportionate 
for the running credit account (loan number 1) and also for loan numbers 2 and 3. I think 
these levels of checks, together with the income and expenditure details provided by Mr K 
himself, would have made those particular early loans appear affordable. 
For loans 4, 5 and 6 I can certainly see that Sunny ought to have been enhancing the 
checking process to ensure the borrowing was still sustainable and I havent seen evidence 
that this was done. However, whilst its possible Mr K may have been experiencing 
difficulties at that point, I have been presented with any evidence that this was the case. So 
theres nothing for me to think that more detailed checking would have actually changed 
anything. I think Sunny would have probably still thought it was safe to lend him money. I 
therefore dont uphold the complaint in respect of loans 1  6.
However, I think the emerging pattern of repeated lending from the point of loan 7 onwards 
in this case would have looked different and therefore required a more responsible 
approach. The overall pattern of Sunnys lending to Mr K at the point of loan 7 should have 
caused it to see, in my view, that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
This is because this was Mr Ks seventh short-term loan application with Sunny in 7 months. 
Sunny ought to have realised that Mr K wasnt merely borrowing to deal with short-term 
cash-flow problems; he was borrowing regularly, to address shortfalls in his income and to 
meet an ongoing need. He was having to consistently take out high interest, short-term 
lending over a sustained period and the indebtedness caused by this type of borrowing was 
harmful, in my view. Sunny should have realised Mr K was at risk of not managing to repay 
the loans sustainably or getting into financial difficulties. 
So Im upholding this complaint in respect of loans 7 - 59. Sunny repeatedly lent to Mr K in 
an unsustainable manner because:these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging his indebtedness by allowing him to 
take expensive credit intended for short-term use, over an extended time period; and
the length of time over which Mr K borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on his ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market 
for these high-cost loans
 
Putting things right  what Sunny needs to do
refund all interest and charges Mr K paid on loans 7 - 59;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement
the number of loans taken from loan 7 onwards means any information recorded 
about them is adverse. So all entries about loans 7 - 59 should be completely 
removed from Mr Ks credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr K a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I partly uphold Mr Ks complaint. Elevate Credit International Limited 
should put things right for Mr K as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2020.
 
Appendix  only first 7 of 59 shown
LoanDate Taken
OutDate Repaid Type of Loan AmountHighest
Repayment
1 30/11/2014 20/12/2014 Running Credit £350 £140.28
2 30/12/2014 30/01/2015 Instalment £350 £116.31
3 07/02/2015 27/02/2015 Instalment £350 £109.54
4 08/03/2015 31/03/2015 Instalment £350 £110.77
5 03/04/2015 29/05/2015 Instalment £350 £113.99
6 26/05/2015 07/06/2015 Instalment £150 £164.02
7 07/07/2015 13/10/2015 Instalment £350 £113.14
 
 
Michael CampbellOmbudsman