DRN-4359939
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Thinc Group Limited transferred her pension and its advice caused her 
significant losses.
What happened
Mrs H says that she received advice from an adviser who worked for Beeches Property & 
Finance who were an appointed rep of Thinc Group. She was advised to transfer her 
personal pension with Skandia to a Transact Personal Pension.
She says her funds were mostly invested in Sterling Mortimer alongside other investments.
Mrs H brought a complaint to Thinc Group through a professional representative who said 
they were concerned with the advice given to Mrs H. Her attitude to risk was low and the 
investments made were not compatible with this.
Thinc Group responded, it didnt uphold the complaint. It agreed at the time of advice the 
adviser was a representative of theirs, but they had no paperwork or information about the 
advice given. It had got information from the previous provider who confirmed the pension 
transferred was a personal pension with protected rights attached. And that when it initially 
went to Transact the funds were held in a number of investments. The investments in 
Sterling Mortimer were made in 2009 but the adviser had left their group in 2007. So they 
believed based on the evidence that any losses were suffered after the adviser was no 
longer a representative of the business.
Thinc Group also felt that Mrs H was out of time to complain to it. It said the closure of the 
Sterling Mortimer fund in 2010 meant that Mrs H ought to have known then she had cause 
for complaint. And as she didnt complain until 2022. This was more than three years after 
she ought to have known.
Our investigator looked into matters, he explained that he felt the complaint had been made 
in time, but that Thinc Group wasnt responsible for the losses suffered by Mrs H so 
shouldnt be upheld. Thinc Group accepted this explanation.
The investigator explained that there wasnt much evidence to go on. And as the complaint 
was largely about the losses suffered in relation to Sterling Mortimer (which wasnt an 
investment made whilst the representative was linked to Thinc Group) he wouldnt be 
upholding the complaint.
Mrs Hs representatives agreed that the Sterling Mortimer losses happened after the 
involvement of Thinc Group but asked for a final decision in any event.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusion of the investigator, Ill explain why.
Ive included a timeline of key events here to help frame the complaint.
September 2006
Letter from Skandia to Mrs H confirming cheque sent to Transact for £23,446.36.
August 2007
Adviser in question leaves Thinc Group  Mrs H stays with this adviser and leaves Thinc 
Group.
December 2009
£13,194.89 transferred in to Transact from Phoenix Life
February 2010  
Purchase of Stirling Mortimer No.9 Fund UK Land 2
June 2014
Mrs H starts taking her benefits from the pension in the form of tax-free cash and regular 
monthly withdrawals.
May 2017
Transact write to Mrs H providing review of capped drawdown arrangement. Said Mrs H was 
then taking £200.55 per month gross and this would be reduced to £122.82 per month gross. 
January 2021
Mrs H wrote to Transact referencing call with it on 23 December 2020. Where she was 
informed that her Flexi-Access Pension, some of which held in Stirling Mortimer No9 Fund 
UK was closed and in administration and so no more payments would be made.
jurisdiction
I agree with the investigator that the complaint has been made in time. The investigator 
explained the Sterling Mortimer fund still showed a value, although reduced, when Mrs H 
started taking her benefits from the Transact Pension in 2014. And he said there was no 
evidence she was given any information about the performance or closure of the fund. So, 
he felt there wasnt enough to say Mrs H ought to have complained at that point.
However, I think the key point is that the investment in Sterling Mortimer was made after 
Thinc Groups involvement. So information or knowledge of the issue with the Sterling 
Mortimer fund wouldnt bring about knowledge that the transfer advice given by Thinc Group 
was likely unsuitable. Thinc Group arent responsible for the advice to invest in Sterling 
Mortimer, therefore knowledge of its inappropriateness for Mrs H, does not directly relate to 
the complaint we can consider here. Which is about the original transfer advice. Ive seen 
nothing else to suggest Mrs H ought to have complained about the transfer advice more than 
three years before she did. So Im satisfied the complaint has been made in time.
the merits of the complaint
As Ive said above I can only consider the advice given by the adviser whilst he was part of 
Thinc Group. It seems the same adviser gave Mrs H the advice to invest in Sterling Mortimer 
but he was no longer a representative of Thinc Group at that point. 
We have very little evidence to go on in relation to the transfer from Skandia to Transact. 
Thinc Group has no evidence regarding the advice and Mrs H hasnt been able to supply us 
with anything either.Mrs Hs complaint isnt particularly specific and she and her representatives have provided 
very little in the way of evidence or testimony for us to consider. Mrs Hs pension payments 
stopped in 2020 and I can see that Mrs Hs holdings included Sterling Mortimer and a couple 
of other Unregulated Collective Investment Schemes (UCIS). And it was due to the liquidity 
issues within these investments and the losses they suffered that her pension could no 
longer support her income withdrawals. Considering the transfer occurred in 2006 and she 
didnt complain until 2022, I suspect it is these issues that brought her to contact the 
professional representative. The complaint brought by the professional representative cites 
the result of these investments as the cause of Mrs Hs substantial losses and the advice 
being neglectful.  
Due to the lack of evidence it is difficult to make any conclusions about the reason for 
transfer and therefore its suitability. The evidence we do have suggests Mrs H transferred 
from one personal pension with standard investments to not too dissimilar holdings in terms 
of risk profile with another provider. And the statements from the time show us that Mrs H 
had received a small gain in value between the transfer date and date the adviser departed 
Thinc Group. So, there isnt anything here to say the advice was obviously unsuitable. Nor is 
there anything to say the advice was beneficial to Mrs H either. But I think what were being 
asked to do here, is carry out an analysis of a transfer some seventeen years ago without 
any evidence of the original advice, and without any real reasoning to do so that is relevant 
to Thinc Groups involvement.
If I were to uphold this complaint (because the evidence led me to consider the advice 
unsuitable) a fair and reasonable calculation would have to be capped at a date before the 
change of investment occurred or at the date the adviser left Thinc Group. Meaning the key 
cause of the complaint, the poor performance/high risk investments, wouldnt form part of the 
redress. And without prior knowledge it would largely come down to a toss of a coin as to 
whether at the date chosen the investments within the old Skandia pension wouldve 
outperformed the investments within Transact. So I dont think this would be a fair and 
reasonable way to resolve this complaint.
Mrs Hs representatives said they wished to take this case to decision following the 
investigators view, as safeguarded benefits were lost. However, the evidence shows there 
were no safeguarded benefits lost on transfer and all the pension had attached to it was the 
right to a spouses pension. Mrs Hs original pension provider Skandia confirmed that the 
fund being transferred was protected rights and therefore it carried a right to a 50% spouses 
pension. But Transact have confirmed that this spousal benefit did carry over to its personal 
pension but this was lost in 2012 when protected rights were abolished. However, this 
wouldve been the same had Mrs H remained with the original provider. So Mrs H didnt lose 
out here.
After consideration, I think the complaint and the losses suffered largely stem from 
investment in high-risk funds which arent attributable to Thinc Group, so I dont think it 
would be fair and reasonable to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint and make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2023.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman