DRN-3798937
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy Covea Insurance plc didnt renew her pet insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs B took out pet insurance some years ago through a business which Covea is 
responsible for (all references to Covea include its agents). The policies covered her dog 
and cat. In November 2021 Covea told Mrs B it wouldnt be renewing these policies as it had 
decided to withdraw from the market. It advised her to seek cover elsewhere.
Mrs B was able to obtain alternative cover for her dog but couldnt find an insurer who would 
cover her cat as it had an existing health condition. She complained to Covea which said it 
didnt have to offer a renewal and could cancel at any time with 14 days notice; in this case it 
had given two months.
Our investigator accepted the policy wording and information Mrs B would have seen as part 
of the sales process did make clear ongoing cover was conditional on renewal being offered. 
But she noted the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) described the policies as 
a lifetime product. She thought it was misleading to suggest these policies offered lifetime 
cover when that wasnt the case. She recommended Covea pay Mrs B £350 to recognise 
the distress and inconvenience caused when she realised she would need to take out 
alternative cover.
Covea didnt agree. It said it was entitled to cancel the policy and had provided more notice 
than was required to give Mrs B additional time to find alternative cover. Mrs B didnt agree 
either. She believed shed paid extra for lifetime cover and outlined the costs she was having 
to pay for her cats ongoing treatment. She said if shed chosen a different company she 
wouldnt have had to pay these costs
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint last month. In summary I said:
Standard pet insurance policies usually wont cover any medical conditions a pet had or had
received treatment for when the policy was taken out or renewed. So ongoing or recurring
medical conditions wont be covered. But some pet insurance policies will continue to cover
any medical conditions claimed for in previous years, provided the policy is renewed each
year.
These are sometimes referred to as lifetime policies, as ongoing or recurring conditions will
continue to be covered for the lifetime of the pet, if premiums carry on being paid. And if an
insurer decides to stop offering cover we wouldnt generally say its fair existing consumers
should be left with no cover for a pre-existing condition their pet might have developed and
which would otherwise have been covered by the lifetime policy. Thats because the policy
will normally have been marketed to a consumer as a product which will continue to provide
cover for as long as a consumer continues to pay the premiums.
However, Ive reviewed the policy information and Im satisfied this policy isnt one where
Covea made that promise. The policy document says This is an annual policy which means
that each policy year you can claim for the cost of treatments that are covered by this policy
until the veterinary fee limit is reached. If we offer and you accept our renewal invitation, your
veterinary fee limit will be reinstated and covered treatment payments can continue to be
paid for a further period of insurance..
Ive gone on to look at the other information Mrs B would have seen as part of the sales
journey to see what she was told about that. A Before you start your pet insurance quote
screenshot says Please note that this is a 12 month policy which may be rolled on for
further periods of 12 months if renewed. And another page included a section headed
Things you need to know which said The policy is for a 12 month period  future periods of
insurance cannot be guaranteed.
Taking that information into account I cant say Covea did make a promise to Mrs B to
provide ongoing cover for her pets. I think it explained future cover would be subject to a
decision to offer renewal which wasnt guaranteed. That was the basis on which Mrs B
agreed to take out the policy. And I think she had the information she needed to decide if this
was the right policy for her. So while I appreciate funding the ongoing cost of treatment for
her cat is difficult for Mrs B I cant say thats something Covea should be responsible for.
Mrs B says she paid extra in order to take out lifetime cover but I dont think that is the case.
I can see there were different cover options available from Covea with a price differential
between them. But that reflected the limits on treatment costs the policies would provide;
Mrs B appears to have taken out a level 3 policy which offered up to £6000 worth of cover
annually (while the policy was in place).
Ive also taken into account the IPID our investigator referenced. I appreciate that did
describe the policy as offering lifetime cover and I think that was misleading. In my
experience lifetime policies are normally ones where, if the consumer renews and pays the
premiums, the insurer will continue to provide cover. Thats also in line with the description of
lifetime pet insurance provided by the Association of British Insurers.
That wasnt the position with this policy. However, its not clear to me this was information
Mrs B saw as part of her initial sales journey. The IPID containing that wording is dated
October 2020 which is some years after Mrs B took her policy out. Ive seen earlier versions
of the document which dont contain that wording. Even if Mrs B did see this at a later date I
havent seen evidence to show this was something she relied on when deciding to renew her
policies. And, in any case, Ive already concluded the other information Covea provided
made clear the basis on which cover was being provided.
Im also satisfied Covea acted in line with the policy terms when informing Mrs B it wouldnt
be renewing her policy. The terms say We shall not be bound to accept renewal of any
insurance and may at any time cancel any insurance policy by giving 14 days notice where
there is a valid reason for doing so. And I think Covea gave Mrs B reasonable notice that it
wouldnt be renewing cover. So, while I understand it would have been distressing for her to
learn about that (and I understand the implications for her cat), I dont think that was caused
by anything Covea got wrong. That means there arent grounds on which I can ask it to pay
her compensation.
Reponses to my provisional decision
Covea didnt respond to my provisional decision. Mrs B did provide further comments. In 
summary she said:
She hadnt seen the change in the wording of the IPID because this hadnt been brought 
to her attention. And she assumed when taking out the policy the position on cover wouldnt change. If it had been made clear Covea could withdraw from the market 
because it was losing money she would have looked for cover elsewhere.
She thought it was unprofessional of Covea to leave her without insurance for a cat that 
had a pre-existing condition and couldnt be switched to another provider. She thought 
Covea should have transferred her to a provider that would have accepted her cat 
regardless of its medical condition.
And she highlighted the potential impact on her cat of not having cover and the ongoing 
distress this matter was causing her.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do understand the distress this matter is causing to Mrs B and the difficulties shes now 
facing in funding treatment for her cat. But the question for me is whether thats come about 
because of anything Covea got wrong. I dont think it has. 
For the reasons Ive explained I dont think Covea did make a promise to provide ongoing 
cover for her pets. I think it explained future cover would be subject to a decision to offer 
renewal which wasnt guaranteed. And the IPID which Mrs B would likely have seen when 
taking out the policy didnt describe the policy as offering lifetime cover (and shes now 
indicated she didnt see the subsequent version which did). I think if Mrs B had wanted a 
policy which did provide lifetime cover it would have been open to her to opt for that with a 
different provider at the point of sale. 
And its for Covea to decide whether it wants to continue to offer pet insurance cover or not. I 
appreciate that does leave Mrs B in a difficult position but, as Ive explained, its acted in line 
with the policy terms in providing her with notice about this. And Covea didnt market this 
policy as one which would continue to provide cover as long as a consumer continues to pay 
the premiums. So there arent grounds on which I can ask it to provide or arrange ongoing 
cover for her cat. Im sorry to bring Mrs B what I appreciate will be disappointing news.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2022.
 
James Park
Ombudsman