DRN-3116471
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as T has complained that Society of Lloyds took too long to deal with 
a claim on its fleet insurance policy and charged a contribution to the repair. 
Mr D, a director of T, has brought the complaint on Ts behalf. 
For ease of reading any reference to Lloyds includes its agents and the underwriters.
What happened
Ts pick-up was damaged, so it claimed on its policy to repair the damage. Lloyds accepted 
the claim and inspected the pick-up. Due to the damage sustained it was decided the engine 
needed replacing. Lloyds let T know that it may need to contribute to the repair but didnt 
confirm this or the amount. 
The repairs were then carried out and T was told it needed to pay £2,754.01 towards the 
cost of the replacement engine. It said this was because T had been put into a better 
position by having a new engine installed. T didnt think this was fair and complained, it said 
if it had been given the choice it would have been happy with a second-hand engine. 
Lloyds looked into the complaint and upheld it. They agreed T hadnt been told how much it 
would need to contribute and offered £300 compensation. T didnt think this was good 
enough and brought its complaint here. It said the repair had taken too long and didnt think 
the compensation offered was good enough. 
Our investigator looked into Ts complaint and recommended it was upheld. He found that T 
would have accepted cash in lieu of repairs so he could have put in a second-hand engine 
and therefore not had to make the contribution. As he wasnt given this option our 
investigator recommended Lloyds cover the full cost of the new engine. He also found there 
had been delays in dealing with the claim and recommended Lloyds increase its 
compensation to £500. 
Lloyds didnt agree. They said T had been told it might need to contribute to the cost of 
repair and the policy terms and conditions allowed it. So, they didnt think it was fair to cover 
the cost of the new engine. But they did agree to increase the compensation to £500. 
As Lloyds didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Ts policy say:
We will not pay the cost of any repair or replacement which improves 
your vehicle or accessories to a better condition than they were in before 
the loss or damage. If this happens, you must make a contribution 
towards the cost of repair or replacement.
I can see the terms allow Lloyds to charge T if the repair puts its pick-up into a better 
position. However, Ive looked to see whether it was applied in a fair and reasonable way in 
this case, and Im not persuaded it was. 
I say this because whenever a part is changed for a new part there is the argument that its 
better than the previous part. However, that is just sometimes how it is, and it wouldnt be 
fair to charge for this in every situation. 
In cases where there is an option available it would be fair and reasonable to discuss that 
with the policyholder and let them know the costs involved beforehand so they can make an 
informed choice. In Ts case as the pick-up needed a replacement engine, there would 
have been the option of a second-hand or reconditioned engine. T has also said it would 
have been happy to have a second-hand engine installed. And therefore, wouldnt have 
incurred the additional cost. 
As Lloyds didnt give T that option its caused T to incur a cost it wouldnt have had. It 
follows that its not fair and reasonable for Lloyds to charge T £2,754.01 towards the repair. 
So, to put things right Lloyds need to waive this cost. If T has already paid it, Lloyds should 
refund T that money and apply 8% simple interest to the amount, calculated from the date T 
paid it until the date they make payment to compensate T for not having the money. 
Ive also considered the delays in the claim and can see Lloyds took too long to deal with 
the claim and authorise the repairs. I agree that £500 is fair compensation for the 
inconvenience T has suffered for not having its pick-up for longer than it should have. 
Therefore, Lloyds needs to increase the compensation offered from £300 to £500.   
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Society of Lloyds to:
Waive the £2,754.01 contribution for the repair. If T has already paid this Lloyds 
need to pay T this amount plus 8% simple interest per annum, calculated from the 
date T paid it until the date they make the payment
Pay T a total of £500 for the inconvenience suffered
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2022.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman