DRN-4138894
The complaint
Mr C complains Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream unfairly defaulted his loan 
account. Mr C says he didnt receive the notice of default because he wasnt living at the 
registered address Lending Stream had for him.
Mr C also says the loan wasnt sustainable for him.  
What happened
Mr C was advanced two loans from Lending Stream, but the default was applied to the 
second loan only. Mr Cs second loan was for £900 taken in January 2019. Mr C was due to 
make five monthly contractual payments of £312.41 and then a final payment of £237.95.  
Mr C successful paid his first three payments before having repayment difficulties. As a 
result of these difficulties, Mr Cs second loan account was reported as being in default with 
the credit reference agencies.  Mr C settled the loan in October 2022. 
Following a complaint to Lending Stream it sent a final response letter (FRL) in 
October 2022  concluding no error was made. In summary it made the following findings.
It had previously issued a FRL about the affordability of the loans in March 2021. 
Mr C missed payments towards loan 2 and Lending Stream sent reminders to him.
Unhappy with this response, Mr C referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. As 
part of the referral, Mr C said that he didnt think Lending Stream had checked to see 
whether the payments he was due to make were sustainable and he provided details of 
circumstances at the time. 
Before the adjudicator assessed the complaint, he let Mr C know that based on the 
information in the FRL it is possible a complaint about irresponsible lending may be time 
barred. Mr C responded to say that while the affordability of the complaint may be time 
barred, he still wanted the sustainability of the loan to be considered. 
An adjudicator then reviewed the complaint, and he didnt uphold it. Firstly, he said that he 
wouldnt be looking at the affordability of the loan as part of this complaint because its 
possible the complaint is time barred and Mr C seemed to accept that. 
In relation to the default, the adjudicator was satisfied that the required notices had been 
sent to the address that Lending Stream held for Mr C at the time. And as there was no 
response to the notice, it was reasonable for Lending Stream to report the default with the 
credit reference agencies.  
Mr C didnt accept the outcome, in response he made the following comments:
He accepted the affordability element of his complaint was time barred but he wanted 
the sustainability element of it to be considered. 
the default notice was issued one day early. 
the default on his credit file should be back dated to 4 August 2019 and not the date 
which shows as 27 November 2019. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me to resolve. After the 
complaint was passed to me, I asked an adjudicator to let Mr C know what would and would 
not be considered as part of this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C does seem to accept that the affordability of the complaint is likely time barred  but to 
be clear no formal finding has been made in relation to this. However, Mr C says that he 
wants the sustainability of the loan(s) considered. 
I can understand why Mr C wants this reviewing, but these are two sides of the same coin. 
As part of any affordability complaint, the Financial Ombudsman would consider whether the 
loans were or werent sustainable. And as no formal assessment has been undertaken to 
assess a complaint about the affordability of the loans maybe time barred, I am not, as part 
of this decision going to address it. If Mr C wants to continue that element of his complaint, 
he will need to let us know so a new complaint can be set up for him. 
Instead, this decision will focus on Lending Streams actions in relation to the default that 
has been applied in relation to Mr Cs second loan with the credit reference agencies 
(CRAs). 
Before I look at the circumstances of Mr Cs complaint it is worth considering what the 
Information Commissioners Office (ICO) says. The ICO is the body set up to monitor 
personal data and how it is used. 
The ICO has issued a paper entitled Principles for the Reporting of Arrears, Arrangements 
and Defaults at Credit Reference Agencies. This sets out standards and guidance as to 
when a default can or cant be reported and so I consider this to be good industry practice. 
And Ive reviewed what it says in order to establish whether Lending Stream has made an 
error in this complaint. 
Principle 2 (outlined blow)  explains that if payments arent made as expected adverse 
information can be recorded. So, in Mr Cs case that would be in line with the payment 
schedule in the credit agreement. 
2. Should a payment not be made as expected, information to reflect this will be 
recorded on your credit file 
If you do not make your regular expected payment by the agreed time and/or for the 
agreed amount according to your terms and conditions, the account may be reported 
to the CRAs as being in arrears. 
If this continues over time, the level of reported arrears will increase, which may 
result in the lender taking some form of action. This could include notification of their 
intention to report the account as defaulted (see Principle 4 below).
Turning to principle 4, which says:4. If you fall into arrears on your account, or you do not keep to the revised terms of 
an arrangement, a default may be recorded to show that the relationship has broken 
down. 
As a general guide, this may occur when you are 3 months in arrears, and normally 
by the time you are 6 months in arrears.
The ICO is clear, that should payments continue to be missed, then a default can be sought 
from as little as three months of the account being in arrears but normally this is done by the 
time the account is six months in areas. Ive kept these principles in mind when thinking 
about Mr Cs complaint. 
I can see from the loan 2 statement of account that Mr C made his contractual repayments 
due in February, March and April 2019. After April 2019 no further payments were made to 
the loan account until Mr C cleared the balance in October 2022. 
I can see that shortly after the May 2019 payment was missed on 1 June 2019, a Notice of 
Sum arrears was emailed to Mr C. Its worth noting here that the email address 
Lending Stream says this notice was issued to is the same one that Mr C provided the 
Financial Ombudsman when he referred his complaint here. 
A further email was sent to Mr C on 29 June 2019 when the contracted June 2019 payment 
was missed. This set out the arrears that Mr C owed, and it also provided a factsheet issued 
by the industry regulator that signposted Mr C to any appropriate help and support. 
Mr C also didnt make his July 2019 payment, which meant by the start of August 2019, 
Mr Cs account was three months in arrears and there didnt appear to have been any 
contact from him to discuss his situation. 
Therefore, on 4 August 2019  a default notice was sent to Mr Cs registered address  this 
is the same one that he provided the Financial Ombudsman as part of his complaint. Mr C 
has said that he told Lending Stream he wasnt living at the address where the default notice 
was sent. Whereas Lending Stream says that it wasnt notified of a change of address. 
However, its also worth noting that the notice was also emailed to Mr C.
No changes have been made to Mr Cs address, so I think its reasonable to conclude that 
Lending Stream was unaware of the change of address. But I also must consider that 
Mr C received his arrears notices in June and July 2019 to his email address and these 
notices contained the address that Lending Stream held for him at the time. 
So, Mr C ought to have been aware before the default notice was issued that 
Lending Stream didnt have the correct address for him. But whether an error was made in 
the posting of the default notice or not, a copy of the notice was emailed to Mr C  to the 
correct email address, which I deal with below.   
Ive reviewed the contents of the default notice to ensure it complies with what a default 
notice should contain. Mr C had until 23 August 2019 to remedy the situation and the letter 
also explained the consequences of not taking any action  which included Register your 
default with the credit reference agencies to which we subscribe. 
The default notice also gave Mr C  close to three weeks  to 23 August 2023 to bring the 
account up to date. This is more than prescribed by Section 88(2) of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974. The default notice contained what it needed to, in order to be a valid default 
notice. I accept Mr C may not have actually seen or received the posted copy of the default notice 
but as Ive said above, Im satisfied the account was at least three months in arrears when 
the notice was sent as well as emailed. 
Mr C has said that the email notices werent received and may have been routed to his spam 
/ junk folder. While that may have been the case, I cant fairly hold Lending Stream 
responsible for how Mr Cs email account filters messages. Lending Stream has fulfilled its 
obligation by sending such notices. 
So, I am satisfied, that Mr Cs account was sufficiently in arrears for the default notice to 
have been issued  as per the ICO principles. The notice was sent to the address 
Lending Steam held for Mr C  which is where it ought to have been sent. It was also 
emailed a copy of it to the correct address. And Im satisfied the default notice contained all 
that it needed to do in order to be deemed a compliant default notice. I therefore cant say an 
error was made by Lending Stream in the process of defaulting the account. 
Mr C has queried that the termination notice was sent on the last day that the default notice 
gave him to remedy his account  and so has said Lending Stream issued this notice a day 
early. While that maybe the case, it has ultimately, had no impact on Mr Cs ability to either 
repay the loan or on any decisions he made at the time. This wouldve only become a 
potential issue, if Mr C had attempted to make a payment to Lending Stream on 
23 August 2019. Given this, I am not going to be asking Lending Stream to do anything to 
rectify that. 
It does seem that around this time Mr C was personally having a difficult time and I am sorry 
to hear of this but it sounds as if things have improved for him now. But, there isnt any 
evidence that he made Lending Stream aware of these difficulties and so it couldnt make 
any adjustments or come to an agreeable repayment plan with him in order to prevent the 
default form being applied. 
Mr Cs credit file shows the default was applied from 27 November 2019 and so it will be 
removed from his credit file from 27 November 2025. In addition, as Mr C has now paid the 
outstanding balance due for this loan his default should now be marked as satisfied. I 
appreciate Mr C wants the default backed dated to 3 August 2019  but the account wasnt 
defaulted on that date. That was only the day the notice was issued. 
It isnt clear why there appears to be a small delay from when the account was terminated 
and why the default was applied. Its possible, this is due to the reporting delays with the 
CRAs or perhaps Lending Stream was providing Mr C with additional time to repay the 
balance. Whatever the reason for the default being recorded in November 2019, overall, Im 
satisfied that a default notice is correct and its not so long after the notice was issued for me 
to consider it to be unreasonable for Lending Stream to wait a little before registering the 
default.   
I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2023.
 
Robert WalkerOmbudsman