DRN-3373387
The complaint
Ms H complains about credit card interest charged by NewDay Ltd trading as Amazon 
Platinum Credit Card (Amazon). 
What happened
In May 2021 Ms H opened an Amazon credit card that had a 0% promotional interest rate. 
Ms H transferred a balance to her card and began making monthly payments to repay it 
before the end of the promotional rate. Ms H also used her credit card for purchases. 
In July 2021 Ms H noticed shed been charged interest by Amazon and contacted it to ask 
why. Amazon agreed to refund the interest applied to the credit card. But a few months later 
Ms H noticed more interest charges and complained. 
Amazon sent Ms H a final response but didnt uphold her complaint. Amazon said interest 
was charged in line with the terms and conditions. Amazon explained that interest was 
payable on purchases if the full balance of the credit card isnt cleared each month. 
An investigator at this service looked at Ms Hs complaint but thought Amazon had dealt with 
it fairly. Ms H asked to appeal and says she feels Amazon misled her. As Ms H asked to 
appeal, her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms H has told us she feels misled by Amazon as she thought no interest would apply during 
the promotional period of her credit card. Ms H has also told us she feels Amazons reliance 
on its terms and conditions is unfair. I can see the credit card doesnt operate as Ms H 
thought. Ive looked at the information Amazon gave when advertising the balance transfer 
promotion and when Ms H agreed to proceed with the credit card. 
The promotional information gives general details about the interest charged and when the 
rate ends. It says no interest will be applied to balance transfers that are made during the 
promotional period. Whilst I agree theres a lot of information in the terms and conditions, I 
havent found that details of how interest is charged were buried in the small print. In the 
section How do we work out the interest you pay? Amazon explains it doesnt charge 
interest on purchases made during the previous statement period if the borrower repays the 
outstanding balance including balance transfers This is the first bullet point and 
specifically confirms that purchases will incur interest if the balance transfer amount 
remained outstanding. Im sorry to disappoint Ms H but I havent been persuaded that 
Amazon hid the information or misled her. 
As Im satisfied Amazon has correctly applied interest to Ms Hs credit card and dealt with 
her complaint fairly, Im not telling it to do anything else. 
  
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Ms Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman