DRN-3654895
The complaint
Mr A complains that Santander UK Plc made an entry on the CIFAS fraud prevention 
database in connection with a mortgage application he made.
What happened
Mr A applied for a mortgage with Santander. Santander refused his application. Some time 
later, Mr A learned that it had also made an entry on the CIFAS database about him. 
Mr A complains. He wants the marker removed. He says that he gave true information in 
support of his mortgage application. Santander didnt contact him to clarify anything at the 
time, but if it had done so he would have been able to provide any supporting information it 
needed. He said that he had been refused applications for other credit and had found the 
whole situation very stressful.
Santander said that it hadnt acted unfairly in putting the marker on the database. It said that 
it found discrepancies in the information Mr A had given about his income in support of his 
application. And it was unable to verify what he had said. When he complained, it asked him 
for further information about his finances to carry out further checks. But Mr A brought his 
complaint to us instead.
Our investigator looked into Mr As complaint. She noted that Santander had found 
inconsistencies in the mortgage application. And she also found that what Mr A had said in 
support of his mortgage application was inconsistent with what Mr A had told Santander in a 
current account application the following year.
Mr A didnt agree, and asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering a mortgage application  like all lenders  Santander will review the 
application and supporting evidence. It considers whether its lending criteria are met, but 
also carries out various underwriting checks to confirm the accuracy of what its been told 
and to decide whether the mortgage would be affordable and sustainable. And where it finds 
something of concern, it reports that to one of the fraud prevention databases.
CIFAS is one of the cross-industry databases. It enables the sharing of information across 
the financial services industry in the interests of fraud prevention. This is an important 
function. But as there are consequences for an individual in having an entry on the database 
about them, CIFAS requires that its members meet the required standard before doing so. 
Before making an entry, a firm must meet the standard of proof  which is that there must be 
clear relevant and rigorous evidence of fraud, such that a report could be made to the police 
or authorities for further investigation (whether or not such a report has actually been made).
The standard is not therefore that fraud has been proved. It is that there is reasonable 
suspicion that fraud has been committed or attempted. And in considering this complaint, I 
am deciding whether it was fair for Santander to decide that threshold had been met  and 
whether there is further evidence available now such that it ought fairly to remove the marker 
because the standard is no longer met.
Mr A applied for this mortgage, jointly with another party, in 2020. He declared that he was in 
employment, earning around £85,000. He said his employment had begun earlier that year, 
a few months before the application. He provided payslips and bank statements in support of 
the application.
The payslips Mr A has provided match the salary he declared, and his bank statements for 
the time show the salary on the payslips being paid into his bank account.
However, Santander was unable to verify Mr As income independently. Thats not 
necessarily surprising where the employment is recent. There might be other reasonable 
explanations for a failure to verify too. And for that reason, CIFAS has given guidance to its 
members that a mere failure to verify is not sufficient to justify a marker on the database  it 
should be a prompt for further enquiries to see if there is a reasonable explanation or not. 
In this case, I cant see that Santander carried out any further enquiries. It simply declined 
Mr As mortgage application and made an entry on the CIFAS database because of the 
failure to verify. 
Santander was entitled to refuse the mortgage application. No lender has to accept an 
application or lend money. But I dont think recording the CIFAS marker was the fair thing to 
do, given the guidance CIFAS has given to its members. Santander should have carried out 
further investigation before deciding that a marker was justified.
Ive therefore gone on to think about what Santander would have found had it carried out 
that further investigation at the time.
When Mr A complained, Santander said it would reconsider the marker if Mr A provided 
further financial information, including payslips and bank statements for the six months 
leading up to the application, as well as proof of his earnings for the last two years from 
HMRC.
Mr A did not give that information to Santander. And when our investigator asked for it, Mr A 
did not give it to her either. He said that he had given accurate information with the mortgage 
application, and the investigator should focus on what he had given Santander at the time. 
Anything else was not relevant as it was not part of his application.
Mr A did, however, provide a letter from HMRC setting out his proof of income. This letter 
sets out Mr As employment history and income sources for the tax years 2019-20 and 
2020-21. The letter shows income from the firm Mr A declared on his application and 
provided payslips for. It shows that this employment began in February 2020, around four 
months before the mortgage application, and that it ended in September 2020, two months 
after the application. The letter does not give any other employment income for those two tax 
years, and also says We have not got a record of any taxable income for you as a 
self-employed individual.
In 2021, Mr A made a separate application to Santander for a current account. In that 
application, he declared that he earned £65,000 and had been in employment since July 
2019. The employer he declared was different to the employer declared in the mortgage 
application in 2020.Mr A told our investigator that he was a director of this other company and on its payroll. 
However, he said that there was no record of it on the HMRC letter and it wasnt mentioned 
on the 2020 mortgage application because my wages for those years were below payroll 
threshold which do not need to be processed for payroll with HMRC I could legally have 
more than one source of income but use the one which was sufficient enough to full fill 
Santander requirements. 
Ive checked Companies House records, and Mr A was a director of this other company at 
the time. But if Mr A was receiving any income from this other company in 2020, whether 
below payroll threshold or not, I would expect it to be shown on the HMRC letter setting out 
his taxable income for that year  since the employment which is included has the full 
personal allowance associated with it, any further income from this other firm would be 
taxable however little it was. But the HMRC letter doesnt show any employment income 
from this firm, or any self-employed income, including after his employment with the firm 
declared on the mortgage application ended. 
And, as our investigator also pointed out, the mortgage application asked Do you have any 
other income besides your basic salary. Mr A answered No.
As I say, when Santander was unable to verify Mr As income as part of its consideration of 
his mortgage application, Id have expected it to carry out further enquiries before putting an 
entry on the CIFAS database. But I also need to think about what it would have found had it 
carried out those enquiries  and about whether its fair to ask it to remove the marker now. 
It would only be fair to do so where Im satisfied that its clear the threshold is not met. 
Ive taken into account Mr As reluctance to provide further evidence when asked both by 
Santander and by our investigator. Ive taken into account the contradictions between what 
he said on the 2020 mortgage application and the 2021 bank account application, as well as 
the other matters Ive set out above. And, in all the circumstances, I dont think I can fairly 
ask Santander to remove the marker now.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman