DRN-3653749
The complaint
Mr B and Mr Ms complaint is about the level of service they received when they made a 
mortgage application to Barclays Bank UK PLC in 2021. They have said they were told they 
would be eligible for rates available to premier banking customers, but when they applied, 
they were told they werent and so the application had to be resubmitted for a different 
amount. They were then unhappy about the valuation process, which they consider could 
have been dealt with more efficiently and at less cost to them. In addition, theyre unhappy 
with how their complaint was dealt with and the timescales involved.
In settlement of the complaint, Mr B and Mr M want significantly more compensation than the 
£200 Barclays offered. In addition, they want the cost of a final engineering investigation 
report to be refunded. They also asked that Barclays waived the remaining early repayment 
charge (ERC) on their mortgage to allow them to take a new mortgage with a different 
lender.  
What happened
Mr B and Mr M took out a mortgage with Barclays in 2017. They attached an interest rate 
product to the mortgage, which expired at the end of May 2022. An ERC was payable if all or 
part of the mortgage was repaid before that date.
At the beginning of April 2021 Mr B spoke to Barclays and they were upgraded to premier 
banking. From the information on Barclays file, it appears this was done based on what 
Mr B told Barclays about their incomes and was dependent on that amount being paid into 
their accounts with it. One of the benefits of premier banking was that it allowed access to 
different interest rate products and allowed higher income multiples for mortgages  up to 
5.5 times income as opposed to a maximum of 4.5 times income for non-premier banking 
customers. 
Later that month Mr B and Mr M applied for a new mortgage with Barclays to enable them to 
move home. They applied to port the existing interest rate product to the new mortgage, 
which would have meant they avoided paying an ERC. It appears that at that time it was 
noted that the income being paid into Mr B and Mr Ms account with Barclays was less than 
would be expected for premier banking. Mr B told Barclays that the amount paid into the 
account for his salary was lower than it would be expected, as he sacrificed some of his 
salary to his pension arrangements, but their income was enough for them to qualify for 
premier banking benefits. Barclays was willing to consider this, but Mr B was told that it 
would need three payslips (to show consistency of income) evidencing the salary sacrifice. 
Due to the timescales in which Mr B and Mr M wanted the mortgage to go through in, theyve 
said they werent able to provide that evidence in time. 
As such, the mortgage application seems to have been assessed on the criteria that applied 
to non-premier applications. The application failed as the income multiples were too high. 
Mr B and Mr M complained at the end of April 2021. The complaint was acknowledged.  
Mr B contacted Barclays a week later for an update on the situation and again just under a 
week after that. At the later point he asked what the maximum loan Barclays would lend 
them.  He was told to go back to his broker to have that discussion, as it wasnt something 
that Barclays would answer in the circumstances. A new application was then submitted for 
a lower amount. 
Barclays responded to the complaint on 15 May 2021. It apologised if it had caused any 
confusion over the income multiples available to Mr B and Mr M when they initially discussed 
the mortgage. It offered them £200 compensation. It was also confirmed that the application 
was progressing following the amendment in the amount required.
Barclays commissioned a valuation on the property Mr B and Mr M wanted to buy. This 
identified that there was longstanding structural movement in the property, which was shown 
by distortion to/around openings, uneven/sloping floors and cracked render. The valuer 
required a report from a structural engineer on the condition of wall ties in all exterior cavity 
walls. It also said that all recommended remedial work should be undertaken. As it was, at 
that time, the value of the property was considered to be zero. 
Mr B and Mr Ms broker was told this on 20 May 2021 The following week Mr B asked 
Barclays exactly what was required from the inspection - a visual inspection report or a full 
wall tie inspection. They said that the latter was invasive and pointed out that they didnt own 
the property. That fact also meant that they would be unable to do any remedial works 
recommended. Mr B also asked for a copy of the valuers findings, as theyd taken a builder 
with them when viewing the property, and the builder hadnt noticed any issues. Mr B chased 
a response later that day and at the end of the following week. 
On 7 June 2021, a few days after Mr B chased for the second time, he informed Barclays 
that due to the lack of response theyd had a visual inspection done. The structural 
engineers report was attached to his email. He explained to Barclays that he had been 
unable to upload it through the broker mortgage system, as it had been down for the last 
week. 
Barclays acknowledged receipt the same day and there was a discussion about getting the 
report uploaded to the correct system. Mr B complained about his emails not being 
responded to. He said that the customer service was atrocious, he pointed out that he was 
still waiting to be told exactly what the valuers actually required and felt like he was being 
fobbed off when he was asking.
The engineers report was reviewed by the valuer a couple of days later. It was confirmed 
that the valuer required the wall ties to be fully investigated. 
Mr B raised additional complaint points the same day, about the requirement for further 
engineering evidence and that his questions about what was needed from the engineer 
hadnt been answered. He complained that they had received terrible customer service and 
were now likely to miss the stamp duty holiday deadline at the end of June 2021 due to what 
they considered was Barclays incompetence.
Barclays issued a response to the new complaint points on 3 August 2021. Barclays didnt 
consider that it had made any further errors since its previous complaint response and so 
didnt change its decision. It explained it didnt manage the surveys and inspections; it 
employed specialists and so had no control over how that played out, what the decision 
would be or the ability to make predictions of what might happen. It simply acted on the 
advice it was provided with. Barclays acknowledged that the process had taken longer than 
normal timescales, but said it couldnt have done anything to change that. 
The property purchase didnt proceed because when the valuation came in it was for 
significantly less than Mr B and Mr M had agreed to pay for the property. They told Barclays that, had they known this would be the outcome, they wouldnt have wasted their time 
proceeding with the engineering reports. 
Mr B and Mr M subsequently referred the complaint to us. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint. He explained that we couldnt interfere 
with the processes and procedures Barclays had in place to process a mortgage application. 
This included Barclays following the advice of the valuers as to what needed to be done to 
assess whether the property Mr C and Mr M were proposing to buy was suitable security for 
the loan. However, he concluded that the communications throughout could have been 
better and so recommended that Barclays pay an additional £200 for the upset and 
inconvenience suffered because of this.
Barclays accepted the investigators conclusions. Mr B and Mr M didnt. They questioned not 
being given an answer about having been denied access to premier banking mortgage rates, 
despite having been told they qualified for them. Nor did they think that the investigator had 
responded to the point theyd made about being required to have pointless surveys 
completed. Furthermore, they didnt think that the compensation was fair or reasonable. 
Mr B and Mr M reiterated that theyd lost out on the stamp duty holiday and had needed to 
pay for three surveys when they considered only one was needed. 
The investigator clarified how the valuation process worked  that Barclays took direction on 
what was needed from the valuers and it wasnt wrong to do so. He also reiterated that we 
were not able to require a financial business to change its processes and procedures, and 
so he had considered the level of customer service Mr B and Mr M had received. He 
remained satisfied that the compensation amount he had recommended was appropriate. 
Mr B and Mr M remained unhappy with the investigators conclusions and asked that the 
complaint be referred to an ombudsman.
I issued a provisional decision on 6 August 2022, setting out my conclusions and reasons for 
reaching them. Below is an excerpt.
I am aware Mr B and Mr M are unhappy with how their complaints were handled. Our rules 
also set out the matters that we can look at as being; regulated activities, payment services, 
lending money, paying money by plastic card, and ancillary banking services. In addition, we 
can consider complaints about ancillary activities carried on in connection with the above.
The handling of complaints is not itself a regulated activity. Its something that the regulator 
requires financial businesses to do, but that isnt enough to make it a regulated activity within 
the meaning of the rules and our jurisdiction. While we are able to consider concerns about 
complaint handling in some limited circumstances, I dont consider that the circumstances 
here allow it. As such, I wont be commenting on the complaint handling aspect of Mr B and 
Mr Ms concerns.
Mr B and Mrs Ms initial complaint related to being denied premier banking products and 
income multiples on their mortgage. Barclays has confirmed that it doesnt record the calls to 
and from the relevant team, and so I cant be sure what was discussed. However, piecing 
the information I have together, it appears that the premier banking status was added to 
Mr B and Mr Ms account based on an oral confirmation that they had the required income of 
£75,000. This was subject to evidence of enough money being paid into their Barclays 
accounts each month and could be removed if the payments into the account werent 
sufficient. There then appears to have been a discussion about the mortgage options available to Mr B 
and Mr M as premier banking customers. However, when the mortgage application was 
assessed, it appears that the income being paid into their Barclays accounts didnt support 
them qualifying for premier banking.  There was then a discussion about Mr Bs income with 
him explaining that his net income was lower than it otherwise would be, because he made a 
salary sacrifice to his pension arrangements. Mr B was given the option to provide three 
payslips to evidence his salary being higher than the net income indicated, but due to the 
timescale Mr B and Mr M wanted to complete their purchase in, they instead decided to alter 
their mortgage application to fit with normal lending multiples, rather than the enhanced ones 
available to premier banking customers.
So to answer Mr B and Mr Ms question about whether they qualified for premier banking 
and the associated benefits, it would appear that they didnt, based on the information 
Barclays had at the time. When they disputed this, they were given the option to evidence it, 
which is was a reasonable approach. That said, because Barclays didnt have recordings of 
the calls available to it when Mr B and Mr M complained, it took the approach that they might 
have been given incorrect information about qualification for premier banking and/or the 
income multiples they could have on their mortgage. This was in light of Mr Bs comment 
that hed been told income didnt matter if a mortgage was being applied for. As such, 
Barclays offered £200 compensation for any upset or inconvenience that any error in the 
information they were given might have caused. I consider this was a reasonable approach 
and sum in the circumstances.
Once the mortgage application was resubmitted it appears to have progressed satisfactorily, 
up to the point where the property valuation was done. I would explain to Mr B and Mr M at 
this point that lenders are not property experts. As such, they will commission an external 
third-party expert to complete the property assessment to determine whether it is suitable 
security for the mortgage applied for. As long as the lender commissions a suitably qualified 
expert it is entitled to rely on its advice and opinion. In this case Barclays commissioned a 
RICS surveyor to complete the valuation and so it was entitled to rely on its advice that 
further investigations into the structural stability of the property Mr B and Mr M wanted to buy 
were needed. 
The valuer decided, due to the evidence of structural movement, a report from a structural 
engineer was needed. This was to report on the condition of the wall ties in all exterior cavity 
walls. It was also confirmed that any remedial works the structural engineer recommended 
needed to be undertaken.  It appears that Mr B contacted a firm of surveyors about 
arranging the inspection needed, and having done so, reverted to Barclays to ask if visual 
inspection would be sufficient or whether physical investigations would be needed. Barclays 
wouldnt have been able to answer that question and it doesnt appear that the valuers 
provided an answer in the timescale that Mr B and Mr M felt they needed to take action, so 
they arranged for a visual inspection only. They were later told that wasnt sufficient and had 
to pay out for a further inspection. 
It was entirely reasonable for Barclays to follow the advice of the expert it commissioned to 
value the property, so there was nothing wrong with it asking for the engineering report to be 
commissioned. In addition, Barclays couldnt answer the question that Mr B and Mr M asked 
about that report. It also had no control over the timescales for the valuers to take action, as 
it was a completely separate business. It was Mr B and Mr Ms decision to move forward 
with the engineering inspection without receiving an answer, which I can entirely understand 
given how busy lenders and surveyors were at the time. This would of course also explain 
the slow response from the valuers to Mr Bs question. However, in the circumstances, I 
cant find that Barclays was responsible for the additional costs incurred because Mr B and 
Mr M moved forward with the engineer before receiving the clarification they wanted. Mr B and Mr M have suggested that even before the engineering report was requested, the 
valuers knew that the property wasnt going to be valued at the amount Mr B and Mr M had 
agreed to pay for it. As such, requesting the report was pointless and a waste of money. I 
cant comment on the actions or conclusions of the valuers as it doesnt fall within my 
jurisdiction, and, as I have explained above, Barclays isnt responsible for its actions or 
findings.  As I have seen nothing that indicates that Barclays knew before the final valuation 
came in that the property wasnt worth what Mr B and Mr M had offered to pay for it, I cant 
find that it did anything wrong in that respect. 
That said, Barclays doesnt appear to have communicated particularly well. While Mr B may 
have been expecting responses to his emails in shorter timescales than were necessarily 
reasonable, responses werent always received, werent as clear as they could have been 
when they were, and were often not, provided in a reasonable time. This clearly added to the 
stress that would have already accompanied the normal process of buying a house, 
especially one where there were potential structural problems with the property they were 
proposing to buy. I can only award compensation for the additional stress and inconvenience 
Barclays caused Mr B and Mr M due to the poor communication. I have thought about this 
carefully and I am satisfied that the additional £200 our investigator recommended is the 
appropriate amount in this case. 
Mr B and Mr M asked Barclays to waive the ERC so that they could take a mortgage 
elsewhere. It declined to do so, and I dont think it was inappropriate for it to have done so. 
Whilst its communications were not what they should have been, I dont consider that it did 
anything materially wrong in its handling of the mortgage application. 
Mr B and Mr M didnt accept my provisional decision. They said that what I have failed to 
recognise was that there was nothing wrong with the property they had proposed to buy. The 
reason for the complaint is that the structural engineers found that there was nothing wrong 
with the property, but it was still down-valued by 18%. They consider that the valuer would 
have known that it intended to down-value the property and could have highlighted that fact 
before any of the further inspections were arranged. This delay in them being informed 
meant that they had to pay £16,000 in stamp duty by the time they manage to buy a new 
property, which they wouldnt have had to have paid if they could have started looking 
earlier.
As for the matter of the issue about premier banking, Mr B and Mr M said that I was wrong in 
my conclusions and that even with the salary sacrifice their net incomes were more than 
enough to qualify for premier banking and their payslips had shown that. The point they had 
wanted to make was that Barclays had been allowed to pick and choose when they were 
considered to be premier customers. They also disputed Barclays statement that the calls 
werent recorded. 
Barclays confirmed that it agreed with the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I set out in my provisional decision, I cant comment on the actions or conclusions of the 
valuer as it doesnt fall within my jurisdiction, and, Barclays isnt responsible for its actions or 
findings.  There was nothing in the evidence that indicated that Barclays knew before the 
final valuation came in that the property wasnt worth what Mr B and Mr M had offered to pay 
for it, so I cant find that it did anything wrong in that respect. In relation to the matter of premier banking, I simply set out the information that was 
available from the time, which showed that Barclays hadnt been satisfied with the evidence 
it had about their incomes at the time. As such, it doesnt appear that Barclays was picking 
and choosing as Mr B and Mr M put it, but rather not allowing them benefits it wasnt certain 
they were entitled to. 
While I have considered Mr B and Mr Ms further comments, they havent persuaded me to 
alter my conclusions. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement, I require 
Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mr B and Mr M a total of £400 compensation, inclusive of the 
£200 already offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr B and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 September 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman