DRN-2900463
The complaint
Mrs A complains Acromas Insurance Company Limited have unfairly turned down her claim 
on her parts and garage cover element of her roadside assistance policy.
Other companies have been involved in this complaint, but as Acromas are responsible for it 
Ive just referred to them in this decision. 
What happened
Mrs A says on 4 September 2020 her car broke down and when taking it to her garage was 
told a nitrogen oxide (NOx) sensor was required. Mrs A made a claim under the parts and 
garage element of her roadside policy. For successful claims Acromas will contribute up to 
£500 towards the cost of repairs at a garage.
But Acromas turned down Mrs As claim, explaining they felt the NOx issue had been 
established during a breakdown two months earlier on 30 June 2020 which theyd already 
paid out a claim on  including the maximum of £500 under the policy limit.
Mrs A disputed this. She said the only issue picked up by the garage during the 
30 June 2020 breakdown was the exhaust gas recirculation (EGR) valve which was claimed 
for  the NOx sensor wasnt. Mrs A also asked why Acromas would cover the breakdown for 
the EGR valve in June 2020s breakdown when this wasnt picked up by the patrol and was 
only picked up by the garage.
Acromas said they could see on the breakdown record, and the report that was emailed to 
Mrs A at the time of the breakdown on 30 June 2020, the NOx sensor was mentioned. They 
added when the garage contacted them to ask for authorisation on the repairs, the garage 
told them the fault was with the EGR valve and the NOx sensor was as a result of the EGR 
fault.
They added they could see Mrs A had two further breakdowns on 22 July 2020 and again on 
4 September 2020 for the same issue  suggesting the work done on her car following the 
30 June 2020 breakdown didnt repair the fault. Acromas added as the fault was identified on 
the initial diagnostic, and should have been fixed on the initial repair, this isnt a new fault so 
wouldnt be considered as a separate claim.
Acromas said its apparent the investigation, diagnostic and repair didnt fix the fault, and as 
the contract of repair was between Mrs A and the garage, they suggested she contact them.
Unhappy with Acromas reply she asked us to look into things. 
One of our investigators did so, and he found that the garage were aware of the NOx issue 
when carrying out repairs following the first breakdown. So, he felt it wasnt a separate claim, 
and because of that Acromas didnt need to do anything further as theyd already paid up to 
the £500 limit per claim as set out in the policy terms.
Mrs A didnt agree, in summary she said:
She wasnt told by Acromas or the garage the faults were related so as a minimum 
shed expect to have been told whatd been approved and the conditions relating to 
it.
She also felt it unfair she could be penalised in future if no one is required to tell her 
about what repairs have been carried out  here she felt this meant further repairs 
werent carried out that should be.
She felt the garage were only aware of the EGR valve issue because Acromas had 
cleared the faults  so they didnt know about the NOx and thats why they didnt fix 
it.
Acromas insisted on her having a diagnosis at a garage, which didnt show the NOx 
issue, so why is it then OK to rely on their own diagnosis and disregard the garage 
one to turn down her claim from September?
She didnt think the comment from the conversation between Acromas and the 
garage of I asked of O2 sensor and NOx sensor were faulty or just codes due to 
EGR valve faultthought just consequence was enough to say the garage were 
aware of the NOx issue.
She didnt agree the NOx issue was the same issue, and said it was a separate 
issue.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that Acromas policy only allows for up to £500 per repair. The dispute in 
Mrs As case is whether the issue that caused her breakdown in September, is one thatd 
been diagnosed following the 30 June 2020 call out.
Acromass viewpoint is that this is the same issue, and therefore as theyve already met a 
claim up to the limit theyd pay theres nothing more theyre required to do.
While I understand Mrs A will be disappointed, I do agree with this.
Itll help to explain that generally speaking Acromass technicians are going to be more 
limited in the actions they can take than a fully stocked garage will be. Roadside assistance 
is designed to get someone back moving and / or take them to a garage to get any issues 
investigated.
Ive seen the diagnostic notes from 30 June 2020, and the September breakdown Mrs A 
says is a different event. Both of these say NOx sensor 2 bank 1 Error Message. 
And although I know Mrs A doesnt agree  I do find the conversation between the garage 
and Acromas to show the garage were aware of the NOx sensor issue. Acromas asked them 
about it, and their response was to say they thought it was a consequence of the EGR valve.
Ultimately, Acromas responsibility (unless theyve made an error) for identifying any faults 
and ensuring theyre fixed ends at the points Mrs As car is passed over to the garage.
Im satisfied the garage were aware of the faults from the first breakdown that seem to have 
caused the later breakdown Mrs A is claiming for  based on the diagnostic tool information. 
With that in mind Im satisfied Acromas have acted fairly and reasonably in turning the claim 
down.Ive noted Mrs As concerns about Acromas clearing the codes. But as I think Acromas 
fulfilled their responsibility by getting her car to be assessed by a garage, I dont think this 
changes anything. Ive also noted what Mrs A said about being told about the issues, and 
her question about why is it OK to rely on their own diagnosis  but as Ive concluded the 
fault she broke down for in September was the same as the one in June (which had a claim 
paid up to the limit) she wouldnt have been eligible for any further contribution towards the 
cost of the repairs in any event.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman