DRN-2758752
The complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) sold in 2000, by 
Lloyds Bank PLC, trading as Cheltenham & Gloucester. Mr T says this PPI cover was mis-
sold to him because he never wanted or agreed to it.
For consistency Ill refer mainly to Lloyds in my decision.
What happened
I see Lloyds has already offered to pay back Mr T some money, in relation to part of the 
commission it received from selling him the PPI. However, one of our adjudicators said the 
complaint about the policy being mis-sold shouldnt be upheld. 
Mr T still thinks the PPI cover was mis-sold in the first place and so the complaint has been 
passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done this, Ive decided not to 
uphold the complaint. 
I can see Mr T feels very strongly about his complaint. He was sold a policy which covered 
his mortgage repayments in the event of him being unable to work or losing his job. Mr Ts 
central point of complaint is that he never asked for, or agreed to have, such a policy with his 
mortgage and he certainly doesnt agree with Lloyds which says he did consent. 
Id like firstly to place on record that I dont doubt that Mr T honestly and genuinely believes 
now, that the policy was mis-sold to him. However, Im afraid I cant agree with Mr T on this, 
because I think the evidence that he did agree to take out such a policy is very strong.
I see, for example, that in his mortgage application, Mr T was confronted with a section 
about either having  or not having  this type of insurance. There were two choices, fairly 
obvious ones in my view, contained in either yes or no boxes. The yes box was ticked 
indicating that Mr T wanted to have this type of PPI protection with his new mortgage. He 
then signed the mortgage application form.
Ive given thought to the possibility of this being a mis-understanding. But a second step was 
needed for the PPI to be added, so Im afraid I find this quite unlikely. Mr T filled out a 
specific application form confirming he wanted PPI. He specified the cover he wanted, and 
he signed this form too. He also completed a direct debit instruction authorising the PPI 
monthly premiums to be taken from his bank account.
I see Mr T was sent a confirmatory letter after the sale and also a policy schedule. This letter 
was clear, in my view. It set out what was covered, who was covered, the mortgage that was 
covered  and the cost of the PPI policy. The letter said he could cancel the PPI within 30 
days if he wanted to, and it told him how this could be achieved.
All these events were some 20 years ago and its possible Mr T may have forgotten about 
the documents Ive described above. However, Im satisfied he would have known of the 
policys existence at the time and he took the PPI cover out knowing it was optional and 
without any undue pressure being applied. I think Lloyds properly obtained Mr Ts consent.
Its not disputed that the PPI was recommended as part of an advised sale. This means 
Lloyds had a duty to ensure the policy was suitable for Mr T. I think it was suitable.
I think this because Mr T was eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the major 
exclusions we tend to see in these types of policy. He was employed and may have had 
some sickness protection with his job. The mortgage, on the other hand, was secured 
against his home and so the consequences of not being able to make the repayments could 
have been serious. And in the event of a successful claim, the PPI would have paid the 
mortgage for up to 12 months. This would have been in addition to the other means Mr T 
already had in place. 
I therefore dont think recommending PPI was unreasonable in this case.
Lloyds also had to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading. I obviously 
cant confirm what would have been said at the meeting(s) and its possible Lloyds could 
have done a better job in explaining things. But from what Ive seen, I think the disclosure of 
information looks relatively comprehensive. It would also have been easy for Mr T to see the 
cost of the monthly PPI premiums. So I think Mr T had enough information on which to make 
an informed choice about what he wanted to do.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr T, but I dont think the PPI policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
I do not direct Lloyds Bank PLC to do anything to put matters right.  
Its my understanding Mr T has already been paid the commission element Ive mentioned 
above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 May 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman