DRN-3263841
The complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC  trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) defaulted 
his account.
What happened
Mr M had a Barclaycard and in September 2019, the limit was £12,000 and the balance 
£11,857. The minimum payment of £324.30 wasnt paid on 11 October 2019 as the direct 
debit was unpaid. No more payments were made after that time. On 16 March 2020, 
Barclaycard sent Mr M a Notice of Default with the arrears at £1,962.37 and the balance 
£13,038.77. On 1 April 2020, they sent Mr M an income & expenditure form to complete and 
placed a hold on the account for 30 days. On 21 May 2020, Barclaycard registered a default 
on Mr Ms credit file  the balance was still £13,038.77. It was passed to a debt collection 
agency.
Mr M complained. He said hed tried to contact Barclaycard many times to agree an 
arrangement, but without success. And theyd promised him call-backs which didnt happen. 
He said he was told by the call handlers that the default was an error and it should be 
removed. The impact on his credit records were now affecting his ability to get credit and 
was also affecting his business account.
Barclaycard said theyd acted reasonably. They said the last payment to Mr Ms account was 
received in September 2019, and his account therefore went into their collections process. 
They could see that theyd called Mr M on several occasions, and he had also called them a 
number of times, without success.  They apologised for that and offered a compensation 
payment of £150. On 11 March 2020, a call back was arranged.  On 1 April 2020, an income 
& expenditure form was sent to Mr M for completion and a 30-day hold placed on his 
account, with interest and fees suspended. A default notice was issued on 16 March 2020 - 
asking for payment of the arrears by 16 April 2020. On 21 April 2020, in response to Mr Ms 
request, Barclaycard declined to agree to a payment holiday under the pandemic support 
scheme. As Mr M didnt comply with the default notice, a default was registered on 21 May 
2020. After that, they tried to call Mr M on 2 June 2020 and 5 June 2020  but without 
success. 
Mr M brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said Barclaycard had acted reasonably. 
She said theyd issued the default notice when Mr M was in arrears, and the registered the 
default in line with their processes. Barclaycard correctly declined to agree to a payment 
holiday as Mr M was already in arrears.  She could see that the service that Barclaycard 
gave was below its normal standards, and for that, the payment offered of £150 was right. 
But  she said the default was fair and should remain.
Mr M didnt agree. In particular, he asked that the calls between him and Barclaycard were 
listened to. He asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has asked that I look at the communications between himself and Barclaycard  as he 
says that shows that he tried to come to an arrangement with Barclaycard. And if that had 
been agreed, he wouldve avoided the default. So  I have done that, while also looking at 
what happened in the round.
Mr M made his last payment to Barclaycard in September 2019. The payment in October 
2019 was returned unpaid  and so between then and when the account was defaulted in 
May 2020, Mr M made no payments to hisaccount. Barclaycard issued a Notice of Default in 
March 2020 with the arrears at £1,962.37. This wasnt paid and so the default was registered 
in May 2020.
I looked at what happened between November 2019  after Mr Ms last payment had failed 
and the time of the default in May 2020. 
I listened to the call that Barclaycard made to Mr M on 8 January 2020. They wanted to 
speak to him about the arrears on his account (which I could see were then £980.99). Mr M 
couldnt speak then and said he would call back tomorrow. I looked at Barclaycards call 
records and unfortunately Mr M didnt call back then. 
I listened to the call from Barclaycard to Mr M on 19 February 2020  they said they wanted 
to speak to him because of the arrears. Mr M offered to make a payment of £350 that day 
and then get up to date next month. He said he didnt have time to discuss an arrangement 
on the call. He then said he would pay £100 now and had pension fund monies of over 
£900,000 due to him.  The call became heated and Mr M said he would call to make an 
arrangement next week. No payments were made by Mr M and I noted that he said, this is 
unsecured borrowing, you cant touch me. I looked at Barclaycards call logs and Mr M 
didnt call as he said he would.
I listened to the call on 11 March 2020. Barclaycard called Mr M. He offered a payment of 
£200 that day  but this was less than the arrears which I can see were then £1,630.46. So  
the call handler said Barclaycard would arrange a call back for the next day  I can see that 
this didnt take place.
I reviewed Barclaycards call records  and they show that they called Mr M 14 times, 
without success, between November 2019 and March 2020. So  I think its fair to say 
Barclaycard did try to contact Mr M to try to sort things out.  I can see there were five 
successful calls with Mr M (three of which I have described). Barclaycard cant provide 
recordings of the other two calls  which were on 15 November 2019 and 27 January 2020, 
so I cant comment on those. But as Mr Ms arrears only started in October 2019  I assume 
the call in November 2019 wasnt significant  and only lasted seven minutes. And the call 
on 27 January 2020 only lasted for less than two minutes  so again I assume it wasnt a 
significant call. 
So  while Barclaycard didnt call back Mr M after 11 March 2020 as theyd promised, I think 
it is reasonable to say that they did make efforts to contact him and discuss his account. 
Mr M called Barclaycard on 1 April 2020. This call isnt available to listen to. But the notes of 
the call record that Mr M was expecting money from trading and a court settlement. 
Barclaycard sent him an income & expenditure form to complete in a letter sent on that day  
so they could understand more about his circumstances. They placed a 30-day hold on his 
account in the meantime. But I cant see that Mr M returned the form. After that time, Mr M contacted Barclaycard via its secure messaging service. On 21 April 
2020, he asked for a payment holiday under the FCAs pandemic support scheme. In April 
2020, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) announced guidance to lenders in response to 
the effects on customers of the COVID-19 pandemic. All lenders, including Barclaycard, had 
to put in place payment holidays on many credit agreements, including credit cards  to 
help customers who were affected. Customers could ask for a total of two payment holidays 
each of three months  whereby payments could be suspended. Missed payments would not 
be reported to credit reference agencies, although interest would still be debited to accounts. 
This support was provided by firms up to the end of October 2020. 
The intention was to provide short term support  where customers problems stemmed from 
the pandemic. And so  where a customers situation was that they were already in difficulty 
before the pandemic - then payment holidays under this scheme werent normally agreed. 
And in Mr Ms case  he was already in arrears before the pandemic - and so Barclaycard 
correctly declined his request for a payment holiday.
I accept that Mr M did try to get through to Barclaycard to discuss his circumstances, and 
that Barclaycard failed to call him back on one occasion as theyd promised to do. But its 
also clear that Barclaycard did try to contact Mr M on a number of occasions. And placed a 
hold on his account to give him time to consider his situation. And I also think its reasonable 
to say that with the arrears at such a high level (by March 2020, he was six months in 
arrears) - and given that he had been sent regular statements and the Notice of Default  it 
was Mr Ms responsibility to make sure he got through to Barclaycard to deal with his debt. 
In other words, I dont think the failure of Barclaycard to call Mr M back is a sufficient reason 
to say the default should be removed.
And so  while I know this will be disappointing for Mr M, I am not going to ask Barclaycard 
to do anymore here. They offered Mr M compensation of £150 for some of the poor service 
he received  its not clear if this has been paid. If it hasnt, and if Mr M wishes to receive it, 
he should get in touch with Barclaycard to arrange for it to be paid to him.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman