DRN-3618300
The complaint
Miss D is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt advise her that they would be undertaking 
a hard credit check when she applied for a new bank account, and shes also unhappy with 
the service she received from HSBC surrounding that application.
What happened
Miss D applied to switch her bank account to a HSBC Advance Account to take advantage 
of a promotional offer that HSBC were advertising at that time. Miss D wasnt happy with the 
switch application process, including that she didnt receive confirmation that her application 
hadnt been accepted until several days later, and that HSBC didnt inform her that they 
would undertake a hard credit check  which would leave a record on her credit file  as 
part of the application process. So, she raised a complaint.
HSBC looked at Miss Ds complaint. They didnt feel that theyd acted unfairly towards    
Miss D and noted that an explanation that a credit check would be undertaken was given 
during the application process. So, they didnt uphold Miss Ds complaint, although they did 
offer Miss D a payment of £40 for her trouble as a gesture of goodwill.
Miss D wasnt satisfied with HSBCs response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they also didnt feel that HSBC had 
acted unfairly towards Miss D in how theyd managed the situation, and so they also didnt 
uphold the complaint. 
Miss D remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I note that the application process which Miss D completed does advise 
that a credit check will be undertaken as part of that process, as follows:
A record of our search will be held with the CRAs. If you make several applications 
for credit within a short period of time, this may temporarily affect your ability to 
obtain credit. Well continue to share information with the CRAs on the conduct of 
your account.
Miss D feels that the above notice contains jargon that a layperson wouldnt necessarily 
understand, and also doesnt specifically confirm whether a hard or soft credit search  
which either will or wont be recorded on a credit file  will be undertaken.
I can appreciate Miss Ds position here, and I accept that the acronym CRA may not be 
readily understood as meaning Credit Reference Agency. However, it is widely understood 
that applications for accounts that offer a credit facility  such as the overdraft facility present 
on a HSBC Advance Account  do entail a credit check being carried out. And indeed, I note 
that this is confirmed by HSBC in the Advance Account literature, including the Who can 
Apply section, which is visible online, and which confirms that applicants must be happy for 
a credit check being undertaken on them.
I also feel that the context of the quoted text above strongly implies that a CRA has some 
connection with a credit file. In part this is because the middle sentence of the above text 
confirms that an applicants ability to obtain credit may be temporarily affected, and because 
the final sentence confirms that ongoing records of a successful applicants account conduct 
will continue to be shared with the CRAs. As such, while I accept that a layperson may not 
know exactly what the letters CRA stand for, I do feel that a layperson should reasonably 
understand the context of the paragraph quoted above.
Miss D has herself explained that she was aware that a credit check would be undertaken 
but wasnt sure whether it would be a hard or soft credit check. But I feel that the phrase a 
record of our search will be held with the CRAs strongly suggests that the credit check in 
question will be a hard search, given that its only a hard credit search that would result in a 
record of its taking place being maintained.
Importantly, if Miss D wasnt sure what kind of credit check would be undertaken, then I feel 
that it was Miss Ds responsibility to have clarified with HSBC what kind of credit check 
would be undertaken before submitting the application. And by submitting the application 
before obtaining such clarification, I feel that Miss D tacitly accepted the consequences of 
that application, including the presence of HSBCs credit search on her credit file.
Miss D is also unhappy that HSBC didnt immediately resolve her application and that she 
only learnt that it hadnt been successful several days later. HSBC have confirmed that this 
was because checks needed to be completed as part of the application process  including 
the credit check discussed above  and before a decision could be made. This seems 
reasonable to me, and I dont feel that its unusual or unfair for such an application to not be 
resolved immediately. I also note that Miss D was given a reference number by HSBC when 
she submitted her application which she could have used to chase the status of her 
application with HSBC if she wanted to do so.
Finally, Miss D is unhappy that her application for a HSBC Advance Account wasnt 
approved, and she wants to better understand why this was the case. Banks such as HSBC 
have their own internal application scoring mechanisms which influence whether theyll be 
willing to approve an account application. And it wouldnt be expected that a bank would 
provide detailed information as to exactly why an application hadnt been approved as Miss 
D would like here. This is because if such information were made public, it might allow the 
workings of a banks scoring mechanism to be understood, which might in turn allow future 
applicants to deliberately circumnavigate that mechanism  which would compromise its 
function and efficiency.
I realise this wont be the outcome that Miss D was wanting, but it follows from all the above 
that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing HSBC to take any further action here. I 
hope that Miss D will understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final 
decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 November 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman