DRN-2903100
The complaint
Mr H and his daughter, Miss H complain about the time it took Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc, 
trading as Post Office (PO) to open a joint savings account, and the customer service they 
received. Mr H complains on behalf of his daughter. 
 
What happened
On 10 December 2020 Mr H tried to open a joint PO savings account with his daughter, Miss 
H. He sent a cheque for £1,000.  Mr H didnt hear anything back so in January he chased up 
the application on the phone. He was told that a letter had been sent requesting more 
information, but it hadnt been received. Over the course of January Mr H kept chasing 
letters he was told were being sent and re-sent but didnt receive. Mr H also confirmed over 
the phone the missing information which was his daughters occupation. 
Later in January Mr H was told during one of his calls to the PO that further information by 
way of documents was needed concerning the source of funds. Mr H became frustrated that 
he wasnt receiving any communication from the PO so on 2 February he cancelled the 
application and asked for his money to be returned. 
Mr H complained to the PO. In its final response the PO apologised for Mr H not receiving its 
letters but said they were sent through the postal service in good faith and that it has no 
direct control over the delivery process. So, it was unable to investigate why Mr H hadnt 
received them. 
Due to the convenience of his local Post Office branch Mr H submitted a second application 
for a savings account later in February, again with a £1,000 cheque. He completed the form 
at his local branch. Mr H then chased up this application a week later as he hadnt heard 
anything and was again told a letter had been sent which he hadnt received. Mr H cancelled 
this application because he didnt want to go through the same problems hed had previously 
and asked for his money to be returned. Mr H brought their complaint to this service. 
Our investigator understood that the process wasnt as streamlined as Mr H would have 
liked and accepted that the PO should have called Mr H back when it said it would. But she 
could see the letters had been sent and didnt consider that the PO had been unfair. 
Mr H wasnt happy with this view and asked for a decision from an ombudsman. He said the 
information regarding his daughters application had been resolved earlier on and reiterated 
his concern about the lack of promised return calls and the fact that letters were apparently 
addressed correctly but failed to arrive. He said he continually pointed out to the Post Office 
the letters failed to arrive, even offering to pay for them to be sent recorded. He said the 
hours wasted by the POs many inefficiencies was totally unacceptable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail and in my own words. Im not going 
to respond to every single point made by Mr H. No discourtesy is meant by this. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual point to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
I realise this will come as a disappointment to Mr H and Miss H but having done so I wont 
be asking PO to do anything further.
Ive read Mr Hs timeline of events and listened to several phone calls between the PO and 
Mr H. Its clear Mr H tried hard to open a savings account on behalf of himself and his 
daughter. I can understand why it was frustrating for Mr H when although the PO kept saying 
letters were being sent Mr H wasnt receiving them. 
I can see there were two issues with Mr Hs first application; his daughters occupation was 
missing and then the PO required documentary evidence of Miss Hs income to support 
source of funds. It seems that the letters the PO was sending regarding these issues were 
not arriving, which caused Mr H to have to chase the progress of the application. Ive seen a 
copy of the letters and checked the address of them and they are addressed correctly. And 
Im satisfied they were sent. 
Mr H has said that none of the letters were received, by this I assume that his daughter 
didnt receive them as all were addressed to her, at a different address. I can fully 
understand why this would be very frustrating for Mr H and he hasnt complained that his 
daughter had any other issues with her post delivery. But as Im satisfied they were sent, 
and Ive seen dated copies of them, it wouldnt be fair of me to hold the PO responsible for 
them not arriving.
During his calls to the PO Mr H asked several times for the letters to be sent by email or 
recorded delivery. The PO would not do this as there was no mechanism for that in their 
application process. Its not my role to investigate a businesss process. Their process is to 
send the letters by first class post which would reasonably be a reliable way of delivery. I 
cant say why Miss H didnt receive these letters, but Im satisfied the PO followed its 
process. 
Mr H has also said he was able to give the information required over the phone.  On one of 
the calls I noted he called his daughter simultaneously so that she could confirm her 
occupation. While I can see this matter concerning her occupation was settled over the 
phone, the matter concerning outstanding documentation required for proof of source of 
funds wasnt. Financial businesses have regulatory obligations to put in place anti-money 
laundering measures. And requesting such documents would be reasonable for the opening 
of an account. So, while it led to a further letter which delayed the application, especially as 
the letter wasnt received, Im satisfied the PO hasnt done anything wrong. 
Mr H has said he spent many hours trying to resolve the problems and feels hes been lied 
to and misled. Ive listened to a number of calls between Mr H and the PO and while I do 
understand the situation was frustrating, Im not persuaded Mr H was lied to or misled. This 
situation has understandably led to Mr H withdrawing the application which he is of course 
within his rights to do.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Miss H to accept or reject my decision before 3 January 2022.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman