DRN-3966024
The complaint
Mr L and Mr S on behalf of T a non-profit association complain that Nationwide Building 
Society (Nationwide) closed its account in 2010 without the signatories to the accounts 
knowledge and they didnt find out about this until April 2022. They want Nationwide to pay 
the missing balance of around £17,000 to T or provide evidence that this balance was paid 
out and to who.
What happened
T held a bank account with Nationwide. Mr L was a signatory on the account along with two 
others. The account was migrated over from another building society around May 2007. 
In October 2007 Mr S says that he and another signatory attended a branch of Nationwide to 
update the signatories list on the passbook (adding Mr S to the signatories). For reasons that 
are unclear the signatorys list wasnt updated but a new passbook was sent to Mr S 
showing a balance in the account of £16,188.65. Around the same time the tax status of the 
account was changed to Comp/Charity/Non-Indi.
Nationwides records show the account was closed on 21 October 2008 with a balance of 
£16,628.65 (made up of balance of £16,188.65 plus closing interest of £440). And that a 
cheque was issued to Mr L and sent to his address (the same one he has provided to this 
service) on 7 April 2010 for £16,716.66 (made up of balance of £16,628.65 plus interest of 
£88.01). Nationwide say that this cheque is not listed on its outstanding cheques list  which 
suggests that it was cashed but due to the passage of time it is unable to see where or how 
it was cashed, or if it was replaced with another cheque.
Mr S and Mr L complained to Nationwide that they werent told the account was closed and 
that T never received the balance of the account.
Nationwide say it has not found any evidence of any errors made by it and did not uphold the 
complaint. Mr S and Mr L were dis-satisfied with this and brought Ts complaint to this 
service.
One of our adjudicators looked into their concerns and reached the conclusion that due to 
the time that had passed since the account was closed and the cheque was issued and the 
limited information available, they were unable to say that Nationwide had done anything 
wrong.  
Mr L and Mr S disagreed and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It might help if I explain that my role is to look at the problems T has experienced and see if 
Nationwide has done anything wrong. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put T back in 
the position it wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And, where theres a 
dispute about what happened  as in this case  Ill base my decision on what I think is more 
likely to have happened in light of the evidence.
In this case Nationwide say that the account was closed in 2008 and a cheque was issued 
for the balance in 2010 to Mr L. Nationwide have provided internal screen shots that show 
that the account was closed, closing interest applied and the balance moved to a holding 
account on 21 October 2008. 
Nationwide have also provided evidence to show that a cheque was issued and sent to Mr L 
a signatory of the account (at the registered address held for him), for this balance plus 
further interest on 7 April 2010. 
Nationwide have told us that the cheque is not on its list of outstanding cheques which 
suggests it was cashed. Unfortunately, due to the passage of time it cant see where or how 
or whether it was replaced. I think it is important to note here that although the records show 
Mr L was sent a cheque, it is possible that this was replaced with another. 
So based on the evidence I think it is likely that the account was closed and the balance of 
the account was paid out to someone and Nationwide no longer holds those funds. I simply 
havent seen enough to conclude any other outcome.
Im also unable to make a finding, based on the evidence, whether Nationwide made an 
error in the process it followed when closing the account and paying out the balance. Simply 
too much time has passed and it wouldnt be fair to penalise Nationwide for not holding on to 
information or being able to produce information for a longer period than it is obliged to.
So it follows  and I appreciate this will be not only disappointing but also deeply 
unsatisfactory for Mr L and Mr S  that as I havent seen any evidence to show me that 
Nationwide made a mistake or did something wrong I do not uphold this complaint.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Ive decided not to uphold Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman