DRN-3830428
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the way U K Insurance Limited (UKI) handled a claim he made on his 
motor insurance policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the main points:
Mr S got in touch with UKI about a problem with his car windscreen. UKI appointed a 
company, A, to handle the claim.
Mr S had to wait five weeks for an appointment to repair the windscreen. He took 
time off for the appointment, but it was cancelled on the day.
A apologised for the inconvenience caused and offered a total of £50 compensation.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought the service UKI had offered 
had been lacking but was satisfied £50 compensation was fair in the circumstances.
Mr S didnt think this was a fair outcome. He said hed had to use a half days holiday 
unnecessarily. And if he hadnt done so, he could have taken the holiday as cash 
from his employer. Taking into account his effective hourly rate of pay for the half day 
and other time spent on the matter, he thought £500 would be fairer compensation.
I understand A was out of stock for the windscreen and had to order one. This 
caused the initial delay but I dont think its an unreasonable one.
However, A made an appointment with Mr S and only cancelled it on the day  after 
Mr S was already on his way to the appointment. So the cancellation was very late. 
Im not satisfied that treated Mr S fairly. A ought to have known at least the day 
before that the windscreen hadnt been delivered. It should have let Mr S know and 
made a new appointment at a suitable time. That way he could have avoided wasting 
his time and a half days holiday. I think its right for A, on behalf of UKI, to 
compensate Mr S for this.
As our investigator has explained, our compensation awards for non-financial loss 
arent based on units of time spent by a consumer. Nor are they based on the hourly 
rate someone may receive from their employer. Theyre based on what we consider 
to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. Weighing up what 
happened, Im satisfied £50 is reasonable compensation for Mr S wasted time and 
loss of enjoyment of his half days holiday.
Mr S argument is that hes suffered a financial loss by losing a half day he could 
have exchanged with his employer for cash. Our investigator asked for relevant 
information to show this was the case. Mr S hasnt provided it. So I dont make an 
award for financial loss.
Overall Im satisfied that £50 compensation and an apology is a reasonable response 
to As failings. So Im not going to ask A. on behalf of UKI, to pay anything further.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman