DRN-2642775
The complaint
Mr W complains about end of contract charges when his agreement with Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited ended.  
What happened
In June 2017 Mr W was supplied with a car and entered into a hire agreement with MBFS.
In June 2019, prior to the return of the car, MBFS arranged for the car to be inspected. 
During the inspection, damage was identified which MBFS said fell outside of reasonable 
wear and tear.
The car was left with Mr W so that he could arrange to rectify the damage. Mr W arranged 
repairs and the car was collected in July 2019. Following collection, MBFs asked Mr W to 
pay charges for damage. Mr W contacted MBFs to dispute the charges. He said that all 
damage listed on the invoice had been rectified following the inspection. 
In response MBFS said it would only waive the charges if Mr W provided invoices to prove 
that hed carried out the repairs. 
Mr W provided invoices for the repairs together with photos hed taken before the car was 
collected.
MBFS looked at the information provided by Mr W. It agreed to remove the charges for the 
windscreen but said it was still charging Mr W for damage to the rear bumper and right-hand 
rear quarter panel. 
Mr W remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He didnt think MBFS had done enough to show that 
there was damage beyond reasonable wear and tear when the car was returned. He said he 
would expect MBFS to provide evidence that the damage went beyond reasonable wear and 
tear in the form of a report with photos. The investigator said that MBFS should waive the 
charges and compensate Mr W for trouble and upset.
MBFS didnt agree. It said it had provided evidence showing the repair work to the damaged 
areas had been carried out after the car was collected.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of the agreement say that Mr W must return the car in good 
condition and that any damage which exceeds fair wear and tear is the customers 
responsibility. 
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been issued by the BVLRA and these are accepted as an 
industry standard in determining whether damage exceeds fair wear and tear.
Ive looked at the inspection report. This identifies damage which MBFS says goes beyond 
reasonable wear and tear. 
I understand that the car was left with Mr W following this inspection so he could arrange for 
the damage to be rectified. The nub of this complaint is whether there was still damage 
which went beyond reasonable wear and tear following the repairs which were arranged by 
Mr W. 
In order to decide whether the charges for damage are fair, I need to be satisfied that there 
was damage exceeding fair wear and tear at the point when the car was returned.  Id expect 
MBFS to be able to demonstrate that chargeable damage existed by reference to evidence 
such as an inspection report and images.
MBFS has advised that it didnt carry out a further inspection when the car was collected. 
This was (it said) in line with its procedures at the time. It said that instead, it relied on 
customers to provide evidence that they have rectified any damage previously identified.
I appreciate that MBFS was following its own policy here. However, I dont think MBFS has 
done enough to show that there was damage exceeding reasonable wear and tear when the 
car was returned. In circumstances where a finance provider has a right to charge for 
damage, the onus is on the finance provider to show that the damage exists.
MBFS has provided job cards showing that work was carried out on the car after collection. 
However, I dont think this evidence is enough to prove that the damage exceeded fair wear 
and tear. Whilst the job cards show that work was carried out before the car went to auction, 
this could have been work to improve the condition of the car. It doesnt prove that there was 
damage which exceeded fair wear and tear.
Ive looked at the invoices and images provided by Mr W to prove that he had the damage 
rectified before the car was collected. The work relates to the same areas which were 
identified on the inspection. Whilst the burden of proof here is on MBFS to show that 
chargeable damage exists, on balance, Im satisfied that Mr W had repairs carried out.
Putting things right
Based on everything Ive seen, I dont think MBFS has acted fairly. It hasnt done enough to 
show that there was damage exceeding fair wear and tear when the car was collected. I don 
think its fair to charge Mr W for damage in these circumstances. The charges should be 
waived.
In addition, I think MBFS should pay Mr W compensation for trouble and upset. Its clear that 
Mr W has been caused concern by the charges and hes made efforts to resolve things by 
providing evidence of the repairs and images of the car prior to collection.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK 
Limited must waive all the charges for damage and pay compensation of £100 to Mr W for 
trouble and upset.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman