DRN-4048665
The complaint
F complains Soteria Insurance Limited changed the terms of their motor insurance policy, 
wont delete data theyve asked it to, and have delayed replying to them.
What happened
In August 2020 F took out a policy with a company Ill refer to as C. They were taken over by 
Soteria in December 2020, and F was told their policy wasnt affected by the changes.
But, when the renewal of the policy came up in July 2021 this included a number of incorrect 
pieces of information, and a question regarding Fs personal relationship status. This wasnt 
a question F was prepared to answer, but itd been pre-populated with an answer now. F 
specifically took out the policy with C because thats a question theyre unwilling to discuss. 
F said this was a big problem because Soterias documents says it shares data with other 
insurers. 
So, in July 2021 F wrote to Soteria to ask it to delete / amend its records and asked for 
confirmation it hadnt shared the data. F wrote again on 13 August 2021, and when they 
didnt get a reply complained on 31 August 2021. F then wrote again expressing their 
concerns about the lack of answers to their letters, and the issues theyd raised, on 
22 September 2021. F said because of these issues they couldnt get cheaper annual motor 
insurance, as they were concerned by the data sharing, and had to take out more expensive 
short-term policies instead.
In its response dated 1 October 2021, Soteria said F is unhappy with inaccurate data in their 
renewal documents, there isnt a proper correspondence address to write to, some terms 
and conditions have changed without their knowledge, and theyre unhappy theyd not 
received replies to their letters.
Soteria said it was sorry there was inaccurate information in the policy renewal documents. It 
said as F was aware C was sold in December 2020, and it needed more information C didnt 
previously ask for  so information was pre-populated to allow the policy to migrate on to the 
new system. It understood F wanted this data removed, but that could only have been done 
at renewal, and as thatd passed, Soteria said it couldnt make the amendments. Regarding 
the address, it said it had a contact centre and included a phone number for people to deal 
with matters. In respect of the terms and conditions Soteria said itd always asked about 
marital / relationship status. Soteria was though sorry F had to write multiple times  and for 
this it sent them a cheque for £30.
F said they received the cheque on 4 October but hadnt actually received Soterias reply to 
the complaint at this point. F said the response was only posted on 20 October 2021, even 
though the letter was dated 1 October 2021.
When the response was received, F said the letter didnt even give much information about 
the central issues, let alone resolve them. So, they wrote to Soteria again in the hope of 
getting matters resolved. 
Ive seen a copy of a letter dated 5 November 2021 in which Soteria provided a further reply 
which said the pre-populated details arent related to the terms and conditions, it doesnt 
share this data with other companies, and F can get a quote with confidence the policy 
migration issue wont have affected this. Soteria also added that, although it cant amend the 
pre-populated details, it could look into deleting Fs records completely. 
F though referred the matter to our service to consider  saying theyd only had one reply 
from Soteria  the 1 October 2021 letter. 
Our Investigator ultimately didnt uphold the complaint. F disagreed and, as a result, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide. F provided a substantial amount of detail in 
response  Ive addressed the points I consider relevant below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to firstly explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information 
provided by both parties, in reaching my decision. I say this as Im aware Ive summarised 
Fs complaint in considerably less detail than they have. If Ive not reflected something thats 
been said its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to the crux of 
the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to reflect my 
informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I dont think 
its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question raised unless I 
think its relevant to the key issues of the complaint.
The key issues in this case in my view are:
Has Soteria changed the terms and conditions of the policy?
Has Soteria handled Fs contact regarding the data fairly?
Has Soteria deliberately hidden who is responsible for the issues, and who to write 
to?
Has Soteria changed the terms and conditions of the policy?
F says Soteria have changed the terms and conditions of the policy, by now including 
additional information that wasnt previously asked.
While I understand Fs point of view, Im afraid I cant agree. The terms and conditions of the 
policy set out on what basis motor insurance cover will be provided. Although I do appreciate 
additional information was input on Soterias systems after it acquired the policy from C, I 
cant see thats resulted in any material change in the terms or benefits offered under the 
policy.
From what I can see, the recording of the data was administrative in nature only, so I dont 
agree the terms and conditions of the policy taken out have been changed. And, the letter 
Soteria sent to F, explicitly says this as well.
Has Soteria handled Fs contact regarding the data fairly?
I do agree with F that Soteria initially hasnt handled things fairly. It seems unreasonable to 
me that F could write to Soteria asking for changes to their policy, and those changes not be 
made because of an error (which Ill discuss more in the next section) Soteria made.So, I do accept F asked Soteria to make changes to their policy in July 2021, before the 
policy renewal date in August 2021. And I think Soterias initial response on 1 October 2021 
saying the data couldnt be changed wasnt helpful.
But the letter of 5 November 2021 does explain that the data hasnt been shared  and it can 
potentially be deleted.
Ive seen F has concerns over the 5 November 2021 letter, and whether it was even sent, as 
they say they didnt receive it. Our Investigator made F aware of this letter and sent them a 
copy in March 2022. The letter is correctly addressed. So, like Ive accepted F wrote to 
Soteria in July 2021 because it was correctly addressed, I think its likely Soteria wrote to F 
on 5 November 2021  because its correctly addressed.
So, in accepting the letter was sent, I have to be satisfied Soteria fulfilled its requirements 
here. In thinking about the content of the letter I know F was asking about whether the data 
has been shared because Soterias data processing policy says it does share this kind of 
information, and this policy references several different companies. But our service has to 
accept information in good faith from both parties. Here, Soteria have told F in the 
5 November 2021 letter it hasnt shared the data with anyone  and Soteria told F its happy 
to look into resolving the issues with the incorrect data by deleting Fs records entirely. 
Im not sure how I could reasonably ask Soteria to prove it hasnt shared this information  or 
what evidence would likely achieve this. So, at face value I think its reasonable for me to 
accept this. I appreciate F feels very strongly about this point, in which case they may want 
to ask the Information Commissioners Office to look into their concerns further.
In relation to the incorrect data remaining on its records, Soteria have explained F can 
contact them to look into deleting the policy records completely from its system. Ive seen Fs 
comments that this is vague and given previous issues F thinks Soteria is unhelpful so wants 
us to be involved in resolving this issue.
But our service can only look into the complaint raised and recommend appropriate steps to 
resolve things. Sometimes thatll be a compensatory amount, a direction for a business to 
take a specific action, or an apology. But, well naturally need to factor in what the business 
in question has already looked to do to sort things out.
Here, Soteria has offered to look at deleting Fs policy records entirely. I cant know currently 
whether that will or wont be successful  but in the circumstances it does seem like a 
reasonable offer to have made. So, again, I think Soteria has looked to put matters right.
Has Soteria deliberately hidden who is responsible for the issues, and who to write to?
F has characterised their contact with Soteria as unhelpful, lacking in specifics and like it is 
trying to deliberately be difficult about what address to write to  and even what company is 
responsible for the issues.
I do think the December 2020 letter was clear in saying Soteria is the company responsible 
for providing Fs insurance. Insurance generally though can be very confusing  you have 
lots of different parties regularly involved in insurance such as brokers, loss adjusters, claims 
handlers, insurers, underwriters, and agents  amongst others. And some of those terms 
refer to the same entities  such as insurer and underwriter  even though theyre still used 
separately.So, I understand Fs frustration about the different companies. But ultimately, Fs complaint 
is correctly set up against Soteria for it to deal with it. And from what I can see, Fs written to 
Soteria at the correct addresses. 
Soteria has accepted it hasnt replied to F at times when it should have done, because it 
sent Fs letters to the incorrect departments. The internal notes Ive seen from Soteria 
support this. So, Fs concerns about Soteria not replying to them isnt because the letters 
werent sent to the correct address  its because Soteria made mistakes in replying. For 
this, Soteria offered F £30, and I understand this offer remains available. Although 
frustrating, I think overall this is fair for this issue.
Summary
F has claimed for losses as theyve said they had to take out temporary insurance while the 
impact of this incorrect data is resolved.
But I think this was a choice F made, rather than a necessary option they were forced into by 
Soterias actions.
I say that because when F first took out the policy in August 2020 with C, they specifically 
chose an insurer who didnt ask about their personal relationship status. F explained this is 
very important to them, is the reason they chose C initially, and is the reason theyve been 
prevented from taking out new insurance.
F previously chose an insurer who didnt ask about the personal relationship status  and 
have been very clear on many occasions this isnt information they ever wish to disclose  
so its reasonable for me to assume theyd do so again. So, following that logic through, in 
choosing another insurer who doesnt ask about that question, I simply cant see how itd 
have an impact  because if that insurer doesnt ask about it, then it cant be a factor in the 
provision of the insurance with that company. I also cant ignore that Soteria said it hasnt 
shared that information with anyone  and Ive not been provided with any evidence to 
suggest that isnt correct.
Overall I think its fair to say Soteria could have handled things better. It has taken too long 
to reply to letters, has at times given incorrect information, and F has found it difficult to deal 
with. But, in thinking about the issues raised, Ive seen nothing to suggest the data has been 
shared as F was concerned about, I cant see that Soterias actions have led to F incurring 
costs they didnt need to, it has offered to look at deleting the data and it has awarded F £30 
for the delays in replying to the issues they raised. Although I understand F wont agree, I do 
think Soteria put matters right for the errors it has made.
If F now wishes for the cheque to be reissued, Id recommend they contact Soteria to ask for 
this. While doing so, they may wish to engage with it about its offer to look at deleting the 
policy data  as I think arranging this does specifically need Fs engagement, and isnt 
something our service needs to be involved in.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 May 2023.
 
Jon PearceOmbudsman