DRN-1879467
The complaint
Company R complains about TSB Bank Plc and their administration of its business account.
What happened
In 1990, Company R set up an account with TSB. At the time, accounts set up for 
organisations such as Company R were set up as a personal account, but marked as 
business account on TSBs system.
In 2018, TSB took a decision to upgrade their system and contacted organisations such as 
Company R to offer to transfer its account onto a business account platform. Company R 
initially set up a new account, before closing the original account and moving from TSB 
entirely due to the difficulties it had encountered. It also raised a complaint, made through its 
representative Mr M.
Mr M complained that because the account was set up as a personal account, Company R 
experienced problems receiving postal correspondence. He explained that TSB used both 
the incorrect salutation and address, despite his requests for them to be updated. He 
explained because of this, he also found it difficult to manage the account in his local branch. 
 Company R also complained that itd been told it was ineligible for internet banking, but 
thought this information was incorrect. And it was also unhappy that it wasnt sent a 
confirmation letter that the account had been closed.
TSB partially upheld the complaint. They explained Company Rs account was set up 
correctly at the time it was opened and hadnt been impacted by being classified as a 
personal account. They explained it was still treated as a business account internally. But, 
they agreed that this caused a problem with their system when it was updated in 2018 which 
meant some correspondence may not have been delivered correctly. 
They also explained they were unable to locate when Company R was told it was ineligible 
for internet banking. They said it wouldnt have been eligible until a new account was created 
as part of the 2018 upgrade. But, as they couldnt be sure that Company R hadnt been 
misinformed, they upheld this aspect of the complaint. Finally, they explained Company R 
had been sent their standard closure statement and that individually tailored letters werent 
provided. So, they offered Company R £15 to recognise any difficulties it faced and advised 
theyd consider reimbursing them for any financial losses, such as phone calls, theyd 
incurred if Company R could supply evidence. Company R didnt agree so Mr M referred the 
complaint to us on their behalf.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She agreed Company R had 
most likely encountered difficulties in receiving the postal correspondence. But she thought 
Company Rs decision to ask the postal service to redirect any post that didnt have Mr Ms 
name included may have contributed to this. She didnt think TSBs decision to set up the 
account on a personal platform had impacted Company R and TSB had offered a fair 
alternative to create a new account following their system upgrade. She also thought TSBs explanation regarding the internet banking had been reasonable and 
that offering a new account with the online banking facility was fair. Finally, she thought TSB 
had made Company R aware the account had been closed. So, she didnt think TSB needed 
to do anything further. Company R didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me for 
a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I dont uphold the 
complaint for broadly the same reasons as the investigator.
Im aware Company Rs complaint has been brought by its representative, Mr M. And Im 
aware handling this complaint and the issues Company R faced would have had an impact 
on Mr M. But, as it is Company R who is the customer of TSB, Im only able to consider the 
impact Company R has suffered. As Company R is an organisation, this impact is limited to 
any financial losses or reputational damage the actions of TSB may have caused.
TSB have explained when Company Rs account was created, any account for similar 
organisations were set up on a personal platform. But, the accounts were still managed by 
their business banking team. So, I dont think they did anything wrong by setting the account 
up in this way.
But, they havent disputed that this caused difficulties when they upgraded their systems in 
2018. Theyve admitted this caused a problem with how Company Rs contact information 
was generated into letters, and that this may have led to issues with postal delivery. So, 
even though Company R set up a request with the postal service not to deliver any post 
without Mr Ms details, I think TSB were responsible in part for Company R not receiving all 
their statements. Theyve also admitted an error with the salutation included on the letters 
they sent, although I think that even if this had been correct the postal issues wouldve 
remained. TSB offered Company R £15 to recognise these failings. As Ive seen no 
evidence to show any financial loss Company R incurred due to the postal difficulties it 
faced, I dont think it would be fair for me to say TSB needed to offer anything more.
TSB have also confirmed that the original account Company R held wasnt eligible for online 
banking. But, Im aware that for a short period of time, Company R agreed to open a new 
account as part of TSBs system update. This account wouldve been eligible. As Im unable 
to say for certain when Company R were told it couldnt use an online banking platform, I 
cant be certain the information it was given was correct. But, Company R shortly after 
opening a new account decided to close its accounts and switch provider. So, I dont think 
Company R was impacted in a way that required TSB to offer anything further than their 
explanation.
Company R also raised concerns about TSBs failure to provide it with confirmation that the 
account had been closed. But, Ive seen on 2 October 2019 TSB issued Company R with a 
closing statement and cheque for the final amount being withdrawn. Although I understand 
there were intermittent postal issues, Company R havent raised concerns about not 
receiving this cheque. So, I think its reasonable for me to assume the cheque and the 
closing statement were received. And I think this closing statement makes it reasonably 
clear that the account had been closed as per Company Rs request. I wouldnt expect TSB 
to provide any further confirmation so I cant agree that theyve done anything wrong in this 
instance.
So, I recognise Company R were left unhappy with the service provided by TSB after their 
system update in 2018 and I can understand why Mr M wouldve been frustrated at the difficulties this created for him trying to manage the company accounts. But, without any 
evidence to show any financial losses Company R incurred, I dont think it would be fair for 
me to direct TSB do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Company Rs complaint about TSB Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2020.
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman