DRN-2965810
The complaint
Mr K complained that Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday Loans) lent to him 
irresponsibly and provided him with loans that were unaffordable.
What happened
Everyday Loans provided loans to Mr K as follows: 
Loan Date 
takenAmoun
tTerm Monthly 
repaymentTotal 
payableLoan status
1 6 November 
2019£1500 18 
months£133.95 £2,411.10 Paid 
2 6 January 
2021£2500 18 
months£208.19 £3,747.42 Outstanding
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint. He didnt think Everyday Loans should 
have provided Mr K with the loans and he asked Everyday Loans to pay redress for this. 
When our adjudicator didnt hear anything back from Everyday Loans he thought that this 
meant it had agreed with his uphold view. 
But Everyday Loans didnt in fact agree with the adjudicators assessment. 
It mainly said:
it had worked out Mr Ks year to date salary using information it saw on his pay slip 
rather than just relying on the two months worth of figures it saw on his bank 
statements as it thought this gave a more realistic figure for his overall earnings
Mr K had explained that the loan was for home improvement work and that other 
bank loans he had taken out were for this purpose also
his bank statements showed his account was well run with no evidence seen of 
gambling or payday loans
loan 2 was used to repay loan 1 and pay for repairs to a leaking wall
Mr K had overpaid on a bank loan that was now due to finish early in a few months 
time. 
As the complaint hasnt been settled, it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending complaints 
on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. 
Ive kept all this in mind when deciding Mr Ks complaint. 
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about 
when deciding Mr Ks complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. 
This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. And its important to keep in mind that when working 
out if a loan looks likely to be affordable a lender must take a borrower focussed 
approach and think carefully about the impact of the lending on the customer. The lending 
decision shouldnt just be about the business risk to the lender of not getting its money 
back.
A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the borrower can sustainably 
repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. 
For example, when thinking about what a borrower has left to spend on a new loan after 
paying other expenses, as well as taking into account the loan amount, the cost of the 
repayments and how long the loan is for, a proportionate check might mean a lender should 
also find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers 
overall financial situation.  
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is 
required to make repayments for an extended period).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ks complaint. 
For both loans, Everyday Loans gathered information from Mr K by asking him about his 
income and expenses before it agreed to lend to him and looking at some of his recent bank 
statements. 
It also checked Mr Ks credit file to understand his existing monthly credit commitments and 
credit history. Everyday Loans said that based on these checks it was satisfied that these 
loans were affordable for Mr K. But, whilst I've thought carefully about what Everyday Loans has said, including the 
comments it has made in response to our adjudicators view, I dont think that Everyday 
Loans made fair lending decisions when it provided these loans. 
I dont think Everyday Loans thought carefully enough about what Mr Ks credit history and 
the information it saw in the bank statements revealed about his overall financial situation. 
It isnt unusual for applicants for this type of high cost loan to have a credit history showing 
other borrowing or an impaired credit record  and these things wouldnt necessarily be 
reasons to prompt a responsible lender to decline a loan application. 
But I think Everyday Loans should have been concerned to see the extent Mr Ks existing 
borrowing. Leaving aside a bank loan he had just sent a final repayment on and a payday 
loan that was due to be cleared with the next repayment of £550.80, this still left Mr K with 
three bank loans and a loan with a communications supplier that amounted to £ £2,979 in 
total. 
As well as this Mr K had three credit card accounts with outstanding balances owing totalling 
£10,707.00. With two cards more or less at their credit limit and one of the cards over limit, it 
was evident that he had used all the available credit on those accounts. Mr K was using 
most of his arranged overdraft at the bank  and Everyday Loans was able to see on the 
bank statements it obtained that despite this Mr K was still incurring bank fees for returned 
unpaid direct debits due to insufficient funds in the account. 
I think Everyday Loans couldve seen that at least three loans had been taken out within the 
previous 12 months. And despite what Mr K had told Everyday Loans about his reasons for 
needing to borrow these loans, I dont think anything Mr K said was enough to satisfactorily 
explain what Everyday Loans was able to see in its own background checks about his use of 
credit.  
Like our adjudicator, I think the information Everyday Loans gathered overall painted a 
picture of someone struggling to manage money problems effectively and it included clear 
warning signs that Mr K was already experiencing financial difficulty  so it shouldve 
realised that further lending was unlikely to be sustainably affordable for him. 
I think its also relevant to note that Mr Ks average take home pay was significantly less than 
the figure Everyday Loans worked out. 
In its affordability assessment it assumed that Mr K would be able to rely his net pay being 
around £2,754. But Everyday Loans was able to see that his actual average take home pay 
for the three months running up to him taking out loan 1 was significantly less than this  
just £1,842 based on his monthly take home pay in September 2019 and October 2019 
(shown as £1,870 and £1,826 on his bank statements and £1,830 on his November 2019 
payslip that Everyday Loans saw). 
Whilst Ive taken into account why Everyday Loans worked out Mr Ks net pay the way it 
chose to, I dont think it was reasonable to ignore the evidence of his actual pay. In 
particular, Everyday Loans had no way of knowing whether the year to date figures it relied 
on were typical of Mr Ks earnings over a full year  and the information it obtained 
suggested this wasnt so. 
When Everyday Loans had carried out credit checks to see what Mr K was paying to service 
his existing debts it noted his creditor repayments were around £1,733. And Everyday Loans 
relied on statistical information to assess what someone in Mr Ks particular situation would be likely to spend each month and allowed a figure of £798 for his spending on general living 
costs  which seems reasonable to me. 
But on these figures, this meant that it was likely that Mr K wouldnt in reality have any 
surplus income at all. 
And even allowing for the fact that Mr K had made a final repayment on one bank loan and 
on his car finance and he expected to make a payment to close another loan account in the 
near future this still left him with an unsustainable amount of credit to repay. I say this 
because, even using Everyday Loans figures (including its estimate of his salary which 
I think was over inflated) and discounting the items mentioned above, it looked like Mr K 
would still need to spend more than half his take home pay servicing his existing debt  and 
more than this once the monthly repayments on his new loan from Everyday Loans was 
taken into account. 
I think that this was such a significant proportion of Mr Ks monthly income Everyday Loans 
couldnt reasonably say it was likely that Mr K would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way. So I dont think it shouldve provided loan 1.
And it follows that I dont think Everyday Loans made a fair and reasonable lending decision 
when it decided to top-up Mr Ks loan and provide him with more money. I think it shouldve 
been apparent that this borrowing looked like a continuation of the pattern of reliance on 
expensive payday and unsecured loans that Everyday Loans could see on its credit checks. 
There were clear signs that Mr K was still struggling to manage his money  Everyday Loans 
saw that he had a number of returned unpaid direct debts shown on his recent bank 
statements and some other new credit accounts. His spending seemed to be a lot more than 
Everyday Loans had allowed for. 
Yet by taking out loan 2, Mr K was signing up to make increased monthly repayments to 
Everyday Loans. 
And he would still be committed to making monthly repayments to creditors of around 40% 
of the net monthly pay figure Everyday Loans relied on which I dont think was a sustainable 
position for Mr K  especially as his actual pay still fell short of the amount Everyday Loans 
assumed it could rely on in its affordability calculations.  
The fact that Mr K had repaid some other credit didnt mean that he was able to do so in a 
sustainable way. All the signs were that Mr K was over stretched financially and unable to 
effectively manage debt he was already responsible for paying and he was relying on taking 
out new credit to supplement his income in order to be able to make the monthly repayments 
he owed. This makes it hard to understand why Everyday Loans thought Mr K would be able 
to sustainably afford its loan. 
So, for all these reasons, to my mind, it was reasonably foreseeable that both these loans 
wouldnt be sustainably affordable for Mr K and Everyday Loans ought reasonably to have 
been aware that taking further, costly lending was unlikely to help Mr K and serve only to 
increase his indebtedness over the longer term. 
This is why I am upholding Mr Ks complaint that he should not have been given the loans.
Putting things rightI think it is fair and reasonable for Mr K to repay the capital amount that he borrowed, 
because he had the benefit of that lending. But he has paid extra for lending that should not 
have been provided to him. In line with this Services approach, Mr K shouldnt repay more 
than the capital amount he borrowed. 
If Everyday Loans has sold any outstanding debt it should buy this back if able to do so and 
then take the following steps. Otherwise, Everyday Loans should liaise with the new debt 
owner to achieve the results outlined below and do the following:
add up the total amount of money Mr K received as a result of having been given the 
loans. The repayments Mr K made should be deducted from this amount.
If this results in Mr K having paid more than he received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
If any capital balance remains outstanding, then Everyday Loans should attempt to 
arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Mr K keeping in mind its obligation 
to treat him positively and sympathetically in those discussions.
Remove any negative information recorded on Mr Ks credit file regarding the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to deduct tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans should give Mr K a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if 
he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ks complaint and direct Everyday Lending 
Limited (trading as Everyday Loans) to take the steps set out above to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman