DRN-3840886
The complaint
Mr M complains The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) unfairly blocked his account. He 
says he missed important payments and couldnt access his benefits. He also says that 
when they closed his account they used the balance in the account to offset a personal loan 
he holds with them. And, he is unhappy that he had difficulty logging a complaint and getting 
a final response. He wants compensation for how his and his sons lives were affected.
What happened
Mr M has disclosed that he is severely disabled and has several health conditions which 
impact his day to day life and well-being. I thank Mr M for letting our service know this 
information, and I have borne in mind what he has said when considering this complaint.
Mr M held a current account with RBS. In May 2022 RBS blocked his account. They 
subsequently unblocked his account in June 2022 and gave him 60 days notice that the 
account would close.
Mr M complained to RBS, who said they could block his account in line with their legal and 
regulatory obligations and the terms and conditions of his account, and they were under no 
obligation to reveal their reasons. Unhappy with RBS response Mr M brought his complaint 
to our service.
Our investigator upheld Mr Ms complaint in part. They concluded:
Banks can usually block accounts to carry out their legal and regulatory obligations 
and they dont need to provide their reasons to their customer. They can also decide 
to terminate their relationships with customers, and again they dont need to tell their 
customer why.
However, RBS had failed to provide adequate reasons and evidence for blocking and 
then closing Mr Ms account to our service. Neither had they explained why they 
didnt allow Mr M access to the funds in his account which represented his benefit 
payments during the time the account was blocked. So, it was not possible to fairly 
conclude RBS had treated him fairly. As a result, they should pay him £150 for the 
losses he experienced. It was no doubt stressful for him to not have access to 
important benefit payments, for certain payments to be missed, and to have to 
borrow money.
RBS had already issued an FRL to Mr M in May 2022 when he first complained 
about his account being blocked. So, while Mr M felt like RBS hadnt logged his 
complaint when he communicated with them further, they had complied with their 
responsibility to provide an answer to his complaint, even if he found that answer 
unsatisfactory.
The information available showed RBS hadnt used the balance in Mr Ms account to 
offset his loan, and after the account was unblocked the direct debit loan payment 
resumed. No adverse information had been reported to Mr Ms credit file by RBS 
during the time the account was blocked.
RBS disagreed with the findings our investigator reached but agreed to accept the 
recommendation to pay £150 compensation. Mr M didnt find the outcome satisfactory and 
asked for a final decision from an ombudsman, so his complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ms complaint in part, but I am not directing RBS to pay him more 
compensation than £150. Ill explain why.
RBS has important legal and regulatory obligations to fulfil when providing accounts. Those 
obligations are ongoing and dont only apply when an account is opened. They can broadly 
be summarized as a responsibility to monitor accounts, know their customer, and where 
possible to detect and prevent wider harm.
Sometimes, to ensure they dont breach their obligations, RBS will need to block an account 
to carry out a review, and this isnt unusual within the retail banking industry. They also have 
the commercial discretion to end a relationship with a customer as long as they comply with 
their terms and conditions. They are under no legal obligation to reveal the reasons behind 
their decision to block or close an account to a customer, and there are often good reasons 
for this, such as their reasons being commercially sensitive.
But, while RBS don't need to provide reasons to Mr M about why they blocked or closed his 
account, they do need to provide information to our service which is needed for us to fairly 
decide his complaint. They have failed to do so on this occasion, so I cannot fairly conclude 
that they were reasonably complying with their legal and regulatory responsibilities when 
blocking his account. Neither can I fairly conclude that they closed his account for a 
legitimate reason. 
I have considered what RBS has said about why they havent provided further information to 
our service. But as a firm subject to our services compulsory jurisdiction, I am not 
persuaded they dont still need to comply with our evidential powers under the dispute 
resolution rules (DISP) in terms of providing the information we require.
RBS agreed to pay £150 following the recommendation of our investigator. I find this is a 
reasonable sum to make up for the loss Mr M experienced by having his account blocked 
and then closed, which includes not having access to his funds (including the funds which 
represented benefit payments), needing to borrow money, and the distress this situation 
caused him, particularly in view of what he told our service about his health. I dont find awarding a larger sum would be proportionate. While I understand Mr M said his 
son was also affected, I can only consider losses he experienced as RBS customer. Only he 
is the eligible complainant for this complaint, and it is not within my power to award losses to 
third parties.
I dont find the evidence shows RBS offset the balance in Mr Ms account against his 
personal loan. Instead I can see multiple payments debited his account after it was 
unblocked which reduced his balance during the notice period before the account closed. 
Neither can I see that RBS reported negative credit information about him during the time 
the account was blocked. So, I am not upholding his complaint on these points. I see Mr M 
has received letters from RBS letting him know there are arrears on his personal loan, but 
the information doesnt show his loan has been defaulted.
RBS issued Mr M with a final response letter in May 2022. While I appreciate he may not 
have been satisfied with their response, RBS had fulfilled what was required of them, and 
this enabled him to bring his complaint to our service, which he duly did. So, I am not 
upholding this part of his complaint.
Putting things right
Subject to Mr M accepting my final decision, I direct The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to pay 
him £150 compensation for blocking and closing his account.
My final decision
I have decided to uphold Mr Ms complaint. The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc should pay him 
compensation according to my direction above
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2023.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman