DRN-2763092
The complaint
Mr R has complained that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited trading as Very was 
irresponsible when it increased the credit limit on his catalogue shopping account. 
What happened
Very opened an account for Mr R in September 2014 with a credit limit of £600. This type of 
credit was an open-ended or running account which Mr R used to pay for goods bought from 
Verys online catalogue. Within a year Very had increased Mr Rs credit limit by £1,000. After 
another six months Very increased Mr Rs limit by another £1,050. Ive summarised the 
account limit variations below.  
Increase 
numberDate Increase Decrease Limit
11/09/2014   £600
1 25/04/2015 £500  £1,100
2 15/08/2015 £500  £1,600
3 05/12/2015 £750  £2,350
4 26/03/2016 £300  £2,650
14/06/2016  £350 £2,300
09/09/2017  £375 £1,925
30/12/2017  £200 £1,725
Mr R says that Very shouldnt have increased his limits because of his financial 
circumstances. He says The amount I took out lead to me paying high monthly interest on 
the account, to a point where I was only paying the interest and not chipping away at the 
amount issued.
Very says that it wasnt irresponsible to have provided credit for Mr R and that hed managed 
his account well. It says that prior to August 2017 Mr R had occasional arrears but rectified 
these quickly and that he usually paid more than the required minimum monthly payment. 
Mr R entered into a repayment plan in September 2017 to clear his arrears, which he did by 
June 2018. The account was paid in full and closed by April 2019.
Our investigator assessed the complaint and found that Very should have gone further in its 
affordability checks when it opened Mr Rs account and each time it increased his credit 
limit. They concluded that, had proportionate checks been carried out on each occasion, 
Very would have learnt that Mr R wasnt likely to be able to repay credit sustainably when it 
increased his account limit above £1,600 in December 2015. They recommended that Very 
pay Mr R compensation for this. 
Very didnt agree with the recommendation. It said that it would have been disproportionate 
to carry out further checks before increasing Mr Rs account limits and noted that he never 
spent his maximum credit limit. Very said that our investigators references to Mr R spending 
money on gambling wasnt relevant as its credit couldnt be used in this way. Very also said 
that based on its checks any difficulties Mr R had repaying credit was down to his poor 
money management and not his lack of means. 
As the complaint hasnt been resolved informally its now come to me, as an ombudsman, to 
review and resolve. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time. Having done so, I am upholding Mr Rs complaint. I appreciate this will 
be disappointing for Very and I hope my explanation below makes it clear why I have come 
to this conclusion.
Very needed to check that Mr R could afford to meet his repayments sustainably before 
agreeing credit for him, either by providing the facility in the first place or increasing his limit. 
The regulations set out in the Financial Conduct Authoritys consumer credit handbook 
(CONC) are specific in that lenders needed to take into account more than assessing the 
customer's ability to repay the credit. Very needed to check Mr R could do so within a 
reasonable period of time, without having to borrow further and without experiencing adverse 
consequences. The checks needed to be proportionate to the nature of the credit and Mr Rs 
circumstances, both of which might change over time.
CONC 5.3.1G(9) states that For a regulated credit agreement for running-account credit the 
firm should set the credit limit based on the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment 
required  in particular, the information it has on the customer's current disposable income.
CONC referenced the previous regulators Irresponsible Lending Guidance (ILG), specifically 
ILG 4.6, which said We consider that the credit limit should have been set by the creditor 
(presumably aware of the borrower's current disposable income and any reasonably 
foreseeable future changes in the level of his disposable income ) on the basis of having 
undertaken an appropriate affordability assessment.
Let me start by saying that I dont think the checks Very carried out were proportionate from 
the outset. In order to assess whether Mr R could meet his repayments sustainably I think it 
needed to understand that he had the means to do so, in other words sufficient disposable 
income. I havent seen evidence that Very gathered information about Mr Rs income, for 
example, until he had difficulty meeting his repayments in 2017. I understand Very checked 
Mr Rs credit file when it opened his account and regularly thereafter to check how much 
he was spending on repaying debt but didnt look into his expenses in any detail beyond this. 
As time went on, I think Very should have enquired further into Mr Rs finances before 
increasing his credit limit, and verified the information he gave, to satisfy itself that he would 
be able to repay the money he borrowed within a reasonable period of time given his 
account balance was building up. I can see from the account history Very provided that 
Mr Rs balance had increased from zero in May 2015 to over £1,250 that November. I 
acknowledge that Mr R didnt utilise his account up to the maximum credit limit - his account 
balance was above £1,600 for most of 2017 but never went above £2,000. Ive also noted 
that, as Very mentioned, Mr R usually paid a bit more than the required monthly minimum 
payment though I note that he reached a zero balance on two occasions only; in May 2015 
and October 2018, having paid lump sums which he says his parents provided. 
However, concluding that Very ought to have done more before lending to Mr R doesnt 
automatically mean his complaint should succeed. To decide this, Ive considered what information a reasonable and proportionate check would likely have yielded. Ive looked 
through the bank statements Mr R provided (for his main bank account) and considered 
what hes said about his costs at the time. To be clear, Im not suggesting Very ought to 
have done this, but these give me some understanding of Mr Rs expenses and how he was 
managing his money. The bank statements show that Mr R was regularly incurring 
unplanned overdraft charges and spending money on gambling. 
Having considered the matter carefully, I think its more likely than not that Very would have 
learnt or reasonably ought to have suspected through proportionate checks that Mr R was 
having problems managing his money to the extent that it was unlikely hed be able to repay 
further credit sustainably. I think it wouldnt therefore have increased Mr Rs credit limit for a 
third time in December 2015 or again a few months later. It follows that I think it did so 
irresponsibly. 
Very says that Mr Rs gambling spend is irrelevant because its credit couldnt be used for 
gambling. From what Ive seen Mr Rs spending on gambling was regular and sustained and 
was likely impacting on the money he had available to meet his repayments and would do so 
going forward. So I cant agree that it was irrelevant in this case. 
Very also said that based on its checks any difficulties Mr R had repaying credit was down to 
his poor money management and not his lack of means. By this I understand the lender to 
mean that that Mr R was earning enough to afford to repay a higher level of credit but that 
his spending patterns meant that he wouldnt have enough disposable income left to meet 
his repayments. As Ive explained, I think Very would likely have learnt this through further 
checks and not increased Mr Rs limit in December 2015. 
Putting things right
Ive concluded that Very was irresponsible when it increased the credit limit on Mr Rs 
account beyond £1,600 in December 2015. In order to put Mr R back into the position he 
would have been in had this not happened means he shouldnt have to pay any interest or 
charges on amounts he borrowed above £1,600. It is fair that hes repaid the capital 
borrowed, as hes had the use of these funds to buy goods. 
In summary, Very should:
- Rework Mr Rs account to ensure that from 5 December 2015 onwards interest is 
only charged on the first £1,600 outstanding on the account to reflect the fact that no 
further credit limit increases should have been provided; and
- Apply Mr Rs repayments to this adjusted balance.
- Any remaining amounts paid by Mr R should be treated as overpayments and 
returned to him along with 8% simple interest* on the overpayments from the date 
they were made until the date of settlement. Very should remove any adverse 
information about the account from Mr Rs credit file.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Very to take off tax from this interest. Very must give 
Mr R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
My final decision
  As Ive explained above, I am upholding Mr Rs complaint about Shop Direct Finance 
Company Limited (trading as Very)  and it needs to put things right as Ive set out.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2021.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman