DRN-3252205
The complaint
Mr A and Miss W complain that National Westminster Bank Plc, (NatWest) mis-sold them
a mortgage payment protection insurance, (MPPI), policy.
What happened
Mr A and Miss W took out a joint mortgage with NatWest in 2002. At the same time they
purchased a monthly-premium MPPI which covered them both for accident, sickness and
involuntary unemployment.
In their complaint about the sale, Mr A and Miss W said that Mr A was self-employed at
the time of the sale. If this had been the case this would have mattered to them as
NatWest said that, the terms on which someone who was self-employed could claim for
unemployment, were onerous, (the onerous terms). In these circumstances NatWest
said that it should have pointed these out to them. NatWest said it couldnt demonstrate
that it had done this adequately. So NatWest said that it shouldnt have sold the policy to
Mr A. And it refunded half the premiums paid for the policy, together with interest. As
Miss W was employed she wasnt affected by the onerous terms. And NatWest said that
there was no evidence of any failings regarding the sale of the policy to her, so it didnt
agree that the full amount paid by Mr A and Miss W should be refunded.
Our adjudicator disagreed and felt that if NatWest had made the onerous terms clear, Mr A
and Miss W wouldnt have bought the policy. And she recommended that NatWest should
reimburse to Mr A and Miss W the remaining part of the premiums paid by them, together
with interest.
As NatWest disagreed with this view, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
On 8 November 2021 I issued a provisional decision in which I provisionally decided not to 
uphold Mr A and Miss Ws complaint. None of the parties to this complaint has made any 
further comments or supplied other evidence about it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of payment protection
insurance on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr A and Miss Ws
case.
Neither Mr A and Miss W nor NatWest have made any further comments or supplied any 
more evidence following receipt of my provisional decision. So I see no reason to vary my 
findings and the decision I set out in it.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr A and Miss Ws complaint. I explain why below.
Miss W says that she had no memory of MPPI being sold. She thought that she was just
signing for the mortgage. But I think that Mr A and Miss W knew that the MPPI was optional
and that they chose to take it. I say this because Ive seen a letter NatWest sent to them
after the mortgage had been completed. This said that it noticed from their original
application that they had requested MPPI. And the letter went on to say that the signed
direct debit authority for it had not been received, and a further form for completion was
enclosed. As the policy commenced a few weeks later, I find it reasonable to assume that
this further form was signed and returned to NatWest. And, as this was after the mortgage
was already in place, Im satisfied this shows that there was no obligation to take the cover
in order to get the loan. Because of the time that has passed, I can understand why Mr A
and Miss W no longer remember this.
From the information Ive seen, Im satisfied that both Mr A and Miss W were eligible for the 
policy.
NatWest didnt advise Mr A and Miss W to take the MPPI. This means it was up to them to
decide whether they needed it, in the light of their circumstances at the time. But NatWest
did need to give Mr A and Miss W clear, fair and not-misleading information about the
insurance so that they could make their decision in an informed way. Because of the time
that has passed, I dont know what information NatWest gave them. But, based on what I
know about the terms and conditions of the policy and Mr A and Miss Ws circumstances at
the time of the sale, I find that it was suitable for them both. I say this because:
Ive seen a letter from a company which used Mr As services at the time of the initial
sales meeting. Although this said that he was at that time working on a self-employed
basis, it said that he was going to be employed on a PAYE basis within some three
weeks. So, had NatWest given clear information about the onerous terms, I dont find
that these, of themselves, would have put off Mr A and Miss W from taking the policy.
Miss W was employed at the time of the sale and therefore the onerous terms wouldnt
have affected her;
I havent seen anything to suggest that Mr A or Miss W were affected by any of the
policys other limitations or restrictions  such as those affecting someone with a pre-
existing medical condition;
Miss A has told us that she already had a payment protection policy but was only
entitled to statutory sick pay. And Im not aware of what sick pay, if any, Mr A was
expecting to receive from his employment. But, in any event, following a successful
claim, the policy would have paid out in addition to any other payments. The payments 
from the MPPI would have been £600 a month if theyd both been off work because of 
accident, sickness or involuntary unemployment. And, if only one of them hadnt been 
able to work, the payments would have been a percentage of this amount. (The 
percentages payable were such that, the percentage payable if Mr A had been off work 
and the percentage payable if it had it been Miss W who had been off work, added to 
100%) The payments would have been made for up to 12 months. So I find that the 
MPPI could have been of use to Mr A and Miss W;
The policy cost about £30 a month. And was competitively priced by reference to other 
similar policies available in the market at the time. And I havent seen anything to 
indicate that it was unaffordable for them. In any event, had they later felt that they no 
longer wanted or couldnt afford the policy, they could have cancelled it at any time, as it 
was paid for monthly.
So as it seems that Mr A and Miss W wanted the policy. And, as I find it was suitable forthem, I dont think that clearer information about it would have put them off taking it out. I
think that they would have felt that it was good value. I say this particularly bearing mind the
serious consequences that could have arisen had they been unable to make their mortgage
repayments which were secured on their home. This means that I dont think that Mr A and
Miss W have lost out because of anything that may have been wrong with NatWests sales
process. So, I dont require NatWest to do anything further.
As Ive said above, Ive considered everything Mr A and Miss W have told us, including that
Miss Ws family would have helped her make her mortgage repayments had she been
unable to work. As we explain on our website, we dont usually take this into account
because circumstances change  and such assistance isnt guaranteed. Theres nothing Ive
found in Mr A and Miss Ws case to make me think its reasonable to deviate from this
approach. So this and Mr A and Miss Ws other comments dont change my provisional
decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my decision  is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Miss W 
to accept or reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Ros Barnett
Ombudsman