DRN-2854219
The complaint
Mr H complains that he paid Lloyds Bank PLC a fee for services that he didnt receive. 
Mr H would like a refund of his investment and compensation. 
What happened
Between January and March 2018, Mr H was advised to invest around £76,000 in an 
Individual Savings Account (ISA), an Open Ended Investment Company (OEIC) and a 
Stakeholder Pension Plan. 
Mr H paid £2,000 for the advice he received. He believes that this included ongoing (annual) 
reviews and advice. 
Mr H says hes unhappy that he didnt receive this service and a meeting that was set up to 
discuss his issues was cancelled.
Lloyds didnt uphold the complaint. In short, it said that Mr H only paid a fee for the 
investment advice he received. The fee wasnt for ongoing advice or services and therefore 
it wasnt obliged to provide annual reviews. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
It seems that discussions took place about ongoing advice, but the option for ongoing 
reviews was discounted. In other words, Mr H didnt want to go ahead with the 
service. 
There were various references within the paperwork to indicate that the fees werent 
for ongoing advice. 
It was recorded that the Investor Portfolio Service (IPS) was declined based on 
additional cost and not needing the service.  
The executive summary of the financial planning report made clear:
oThe cost of my advice reflects the infrastructure and support that allows me 
to give you advice and also the preparation and documentation of appropriate 
solutions to meet your needs, and 
oThe advice fee covers the cost of preparing and documenting my advice.
The benefits and value of my advice section stated: 
oI recommend that you review your plan on a regular basis to ensure it stays 
on track to meet your objectives.
A breakdown of the advice fee showed that £500 was charged for the pension 
advice, £500 for the OEIC advice and £1,000 for the ISA advice. 
Its likely that there couldve been a misunderstanding on Mr Hs part, but theres 
nothing to suggest that the fee was charged for ongoing advice. The evidence 
suggests that the fee was charged for the advice at the time. 
Although Mr H mightve wanted ongoing advice to begin with, he changed his mind 
because of the additional costs. 
Its unlikely that the adviser wouldve agreed to additional services without additional 
fees.  
The advice to invest was suitable.   
For the reasons set out above, he wont be asking Lloyds to pay any compensation.
Mr H disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
summary he said:
He was told by the adviser that she would be back in 10 weeks time to look at his 
other investments and that he would have yearly reviews. 
He only paid the fees because he thought someone would manage his finances. 
Otherwise, he wouldnt have paid so much money for opening two accounts. 
Having considered the additional points, the investigator wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. In short, he maintained that hed seen nothing to suggest that the fee was charged for 
ongoing advice.  
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr H says Im unable to safely 
say that the business behaved unreasonably by not providing him with ongoing advice. 
Despite what Mr H says, Im unable to safely say that the adviser agreed  as a result of the 
fees paid and because he had dyslexia  to meet with him every year to go through his 
finances and investments. 
Before I explain my decision, I think its important for me to note Mr Hs strength of feeling 
about this matter. Hes provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive 
read and considered carefully. However, I hope he wont take the fact my findings focus on 
what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mr H and Lloyds, and reach what I think is an independent, fair 
and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation 
and best industry practice. But its for me to decide, based on the information Ive been 
given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
As I understand it, this complaint is about the fees charged and not about the suitability of 
the advice. I note that during the complaint, Mr H has made some comment, potentially, 
about suitability of the advice. If thats something that hes unhappy about hed need to first 
raise the complaint with Lloyds and give it an opportunity to consider the suitability of the 
advice and respond in due course. If Mr H remains unhappy with Lloyds response, he can 
then refer the complaint to our service. On the face of the evidence, and on balance, I think its likely that Mr H thought he would 
receive ongoing advice for the fees that he paid, but I cant blame the business for this. Ive 
seen nothing to persuade me that Mr H was told, or led to believe, that he would receive 
ongoing advice as a result of paying £2,000 in fees. 
I note the documentation provided and referred to by the investigator, including the executive 
summary of the financial plan dated February 2018, which suggests that fees were paid in 
relation to preparing and documenting the advice at the time. 
I note under the heading The cost of my advice, in the executive summary, it states:
The cost of my advice reflects the infrastructure and support that allows me to give you 
advice and also the preparation and documentation of appropriate solutions to meet your 
needs. 
The confirmation letter sent to Mr H dated March 2018 also made clear that it was very 
important that he keep his financial plans under review, to ensure that they continue to meet 
his needs. So, it made reasonably clear that the onus was on him to review his finances and 
wasnt something that the business would provide in relation to this investment.  
I note on page two of two of the same document, under the heading Regular reviews it 
states:
As you will be aware, your circumstances can change and it is very important that you keep 
your financial plans under review to ensure that they continue to meet your needs.
I note Lloyds said that it didnt offer ongoing advice unless a client was invested in the IPS. I 
note that during discussions the IPS was considered and the option for ongoing advice 
declined on the basis that Mr H didnt need the discretionary fund management. 
I note Mr H says that he wasnt told hed have to invest £100,000 in order to receive ongoing 
management and advice. But whether (or not) he was, I note that during discussions, it was 
recorded he declined additional advisory services mainly based on cost. This would suggest 
that he knew, or ought reasonably it have known, that hed have to pay Lloyds an ongoing 
fee for management and ongoing services rather than a one-off fee.  
I note the financial plan, in reference to the IPS states:
Whilst I considered this option for you, I have discounted this because you do not need the 
additional features and benefits that the IPS service provides such as discretionary fund 
management, as you feel able to manage these investments yourself. In addition to this you 
do not want to incur a service charge of 1% plus VAT.
Contrary to what Mr H now says, it seems he felt that he could manage the account himself 
and didnt want to incur a service charge of 1% plus VAT either. 
The Advice Quotation document detailing the fee breakdown, made clear the following 
message, situated just above the table of fees: 
Based on the recommendation(s) provided, the following outlines the fees 
chargeable in relation to the advice I have provided to you.
The document accounted for the £2,000 fee, it made no reference to any ongoing services 
being provided for this fee.  Despite what Mr H says, Ive seen no evidence of an agreement or undertaking by Lloyds to 
provide ongoing advice or annual reviews. It doesnt seem that this was even an option in 
relation to the ISA and OEIC investment. Despite what Mr H says, in the circumstances, and 
on balance I think its unlikely that the adviser wouldve undertaken to provide ongoing 
advice.    
Im mindful of Mr Hs comments about the September meeting that was cancelled. But 
whether (or not) a meeting was arranged, and then cancelled, doesnt change my decision 
as I dont think this is evidence of an undertaking by Lloyds to provide ongoing financial 
advice. 
I note the adviser says that she tried to call Mr H in April and May 2019 to talk to him about 
moving money from his OEIC and ISA, and the pension contribution. Im aware Mr H says 
that this is a lie. I note that the adviser eventually got through to Mr H and made an 
appointment for 23 September 2019. But Lloyds says that the appointment had to be 
cancelled due to circumstances beyond the advisers control. 
I appreciate that if Mr H still wanted to have a meeting to discuss his investments or fees, he 
couldve made a new appointment when the adviser called up to cancel the September 
appointment. I note Lloyds says that the adviser called Mr H in October  presumably after 
her return  to organise a new appointment but was unable to get hold of Mr H. Either way 
this isnt a reason to uphold this complaint. 
Im mindful of Mr Hs comments about being dyslexic but Ive seen no record of this within 
the business file. Its only mentioned in the complaint to our service. In any event, in the 
circumstances, and on balance, Im unable to say that this meant he wasnt presented with 
the correct information regarding the fees. If there was something that he didnt understand 
or was unsure about he couldve sought clarification.  
I note in the letter from Lloyds dated 25 March 2020, in addition to confirming the fees, the 
adviser also apologised for causing confusion about matters mentioned in the financial plan 
dated 28 February 2020. This would suggest that Mr H raised, and could raise, concerns 
about points he was unsure of. 
Its likely that Mr H didnt think he had anything to complain about regarding the fees. But in 
the circumstances, on the face of the evidence, and on balance, I cant hold Lloyds 
responsible for any misunderstanding. 
   
I appreciate that Mr H will be unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. 
Furthermore, I realise my decision isn't what he wants to hear. But on the face of the 
available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give him what 
he wants.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 July 2021.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman