DRN-3581135
The complaint
Mr R complains that Intrum UK Limited are pursuing him for a debit which he disputes.
What happened
In November 2019 a credit card debt in the sum of £3,739.46 in Mr Rs name was sold to 
Intrum.
Mr R contacted Intrum and disputed the debt. He requested a copy of the credit agreement 
and sent a subject access request. Intrum placed the account on hold pending receipt of 
documents from the original creditor.
In March 2021 the documents were sent to Mr R. In July 2021 Mr R advised Intrum that he 
had made a complaint against the original creditor. Mr R also complained that Intrum had 
obtained a fiduciary gain by purchasing the debt from the original creditor, and that Intrum 
had ignored notes relating to his vulnerability.
In response, Intrum said it wasnt aware of any vulnerabilities which affected Mr Rs ability to 
communicate with them or to manage his finances. Intrum stated that the debt had been sold 
to it on 28 November 2019 and that at the time, there were no outstanding disputes relating 
to the account. Intrum said that it wrote to Mr R requesting payment of the outstanding 
balance and, having received no response, instructed solicitors to commence proceedings. 
Intrum said it hadnt commenced proceedings to obtain a fiduciary gain but simply to recover 
the balance due.
Mr R was unhappy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said it was standard industry practice for 
debt collectors to buy a debt for less than the sum owed, and that it wasnt the role of this 
service to change how the industry operated.
Mr R didnt agree. He said he didnt think that collecting the full amount of the outstanding 
debt was a fair outcome. He also said he didnt think his subject access request had been 
answered correctly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr R feels very strongly about this. He feels that Intrum is trying to obtain a 
fiduciary gain and that it has failed to provide information which would assist him in his 
complaint against the original creditor.
Ive reviewed all of the available information to decide whether Intrum has treated Mr R fairly. 
In relation to Mr Rs request for information, I can see that Intrum has provided Mr R with a 
copy of his agreement and a history of payments made on the account following its default in 
January 2012. I can see that it took Intrum several months to provide this information, and I 
understand that this wouldve been frustrating for him. However, Intrum was reliant on the 
original creditor to provide the documents. I havent seen anything to suggest that the delay 
was down to Intrum.
I can see that Intrum  purchased the debt from the original creditor in November 2019. It 
wrote to Mr R seeking payment but received no reply, so it started legal proceedings. Mr R 
has said that Intrum is seeking to obtain a  fiduciary gain by its actions. Either because its 
seeking  to recover the full outstanding amount (which is likely to be more than it purchased 
the debt for), or because it hasnt offered Mr R the option to pay a reduced sum in 
settlement.
I dont hold any information about how much Intrum paid for the account. However, even if 
Intrum is asking  Mr R to repay an outstanding balance which is more than the purchase 
price of the debt, Im unable to say that Intrum has done anything wrong. I agree with the 
investigator that it is industry practice for debt collectors to buy debts at less than the 
balance owed. This reflects the risk of being unable to collect in all of the debt. This service 
isnt able to change jhow the industry works. 
Ive taken into account the comment made by Mr R about paying a reduced lump sum. This 
isnt something Im able to oblige Intrum to agree to. However its open to Mr R to contact 
Intrum and make an offer.
Based on everything Ive seen, Im unable to say that Intrum has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably here. I wont be asking  it to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman