DRN-3619762
The complaint
Mr S complains that Lloyds Bank plc (Lloyds) didnt raise two direct debit indemnities (DDI) 
for him. He would like the disputed payments refunded.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here, instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
Mr Shad an issue with two different direct debits. He has also referred to an 
international money transfer issue but as this didnt form part of his original complaint 
to us we havent investigated this. As our investigator advised, if Mr S remains 
unhappy about this issue, he can consider putting in a separate complaint to us 
about it.
The DDI that Mr S wanted Lloyds to use on his behalf offers protection if a mistake is 
made with the direct debit payment -  for example the direct debit is taken on the 
wrong day or for the wrong amount.
Lloyds turned down Mr Ss indemnity claims based on the fact both were regular 
payments , taken at the same time , over a period and for the same amount. Lloyds 
felt Mr S must have been aware of these payments. Lloyds has evidenced one of 
these payments to us which shows a regular payment for a regular amount. I would 
agree that Mr S would have been aware of this payment.
I havent seen the details of the other direct debit payment in dispute. However as 
this was for a regular council payment I am inclined to think this was also a regular 
payment Mr S must have been aware of .
However, for both payments Mr S hasnt given any evidence of a mistake which 
would fall under the DDI. Also, I have seen Lloyds customer notes which record a 
telephone conversation with Mr S in March 2022 which notes Mr S was going 
through the court system in relation to both payments. As the DDI specifically 
excludes using the DDI scheme to address contractual disputes, on that basis alone, 
I think Lloyds were not at fault in turning down Mr Ss DDI claims.
As I dont believe Lloyds was wrong to turn down Mr Ss DDI requests I cant 
reasonably ask Lloyds to refund the payments as Mr S has requested.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2022.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman