DRN-3444953
The complaint
Mr D complains that AJ Bell Asset Management Limited didnt set up his fixed term savings 
account as he requested. 
What happened
On 29 December 2020, Mr D applied online to deposit £85,000 into a two-year fixed term 
savings account. On the 30 December, he received notification from AJ Bell of the account 
being open, the interest rate payable and the maturity date of 3 January 2023. Mr D 
contacted AJ Bell by email the next day to say he no longer wanted to enter into the 
transaction and asked for his account to be switched to a one-year option. He also contacted 
AJ Bell by phone on 2 January 2021 to attempt to cancel the transaction. 
On 4 January, AJ Bell responded to Mr D but didnt agree to cancel the transaction. It said 
the account was funded and opened at the point he attempted to cancel. It clarified that the 
terms and conditions say, once the account is funded, you are unable to withdraw the cash 
until the maturity date. Mr D didnt accept this so submitted a formal complaint.  
AJ Bell responded to the complaint. In summary it said:
It would not be able to close the original account and transfer the money to a new 
one-year account. 
The account factsheet provided online when setting up the account confirms that 
withdrawals are not permitted before the maturity date. 
It acknowledged that Mr D had made contact shortly after receiving the account 
opening notification but referred to its online FAQs that confirm that once money is in 
transit, it will automatically move this into the chosen savings account. And as Mr Ds 
money was already in transit before he requested the transaction be cancelled it was 
too late. 
It also clarified the opening and maturity date of the account. It said whilst the 
account was opened on 31 December 2020, the end date isnt 31 December 2022 as 
this is not a business day and therefore the maturity date falls on the next working 
day. This meant Mr D would be able to withdraw funds from his account on 3 January 
2023. 
It doesnt  accept  Mr D was told the application  would  be cancelled  during  the 
telephone  call of 2 January  2021,  just that it would  investigate.
It acknowledged that there was an administrative error in an email it sent Mr D. In 
recognition of any stress and inconvenience caused by this, it offered Mr D £50 as a 
gesture of goodwill.
Mr D referred his complaint to this service for an independent review. One of our 
investigators looked into the complaint. She didnt think it should be upheld. In summary, she 
concluded that AJ Bell hadnt done anything wrong. She said, while unfortunate that Mr D 
applied for a two-year account rather than the one-year account he wanted, AJ Bell had 
acted correctly and within the terms when it refused to cancel the transaction. She said AJ 
Bell agreed to look into Mr Ds concerns but didnt find evidence that it said it would cancel 
the two-year account. 
Mr D didnt accept the investigators assessment and asked for a decision to be made by an 
ombudsman. 
Mr D provided further submissions for consideration by the ombudsman. In summary he 
said:
- He spoke to AJ Bell before the start of the contract and it was fully aware that he 
didnt want a two-year investment, but it still proceeded to invest the funds. 
- AJ Bell were advised before the start of the contract he only wanted a one-year 
investment but did not contact him until the contract had commenced.
- The contract was advertised as a two-year contract. The investigator has stated the 
contract commenced on 31 December 2020, if this is the case why is the contract 
end date 3 January 2023? The advertising of this contract did not state it was two 
years and three days. The reference to working days is not accepted and is 
misleading.
- The comment in the terms and conditions that says once a cash savings account is 
funded we can no longer cancel is totally at odds with the paragraph following that 
does allow it to be cancelled if it is not funded. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear Mr D has very strong feelings about how AJ Bell has handled the situation and he 
has raised several complaint points. Ive read and considered all of the concerns he has 
raised. However, I trust he wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the 
central issues, and that theyre expressed in less detail, as a discourtesy. The purpose of my 
decision is not to address every point raised in detail, but to set out my conclusions and 
reasons for reaching them.
Mr D has ended up with an account he didnt want. I havent seen evidence to suggest it was 
an error by AJ Bell that led to Mr D opening a two-year account. AJ Bell says the online 
application process is automated based on the information selected by the applicant. In a 
telephone call to AJ Bell after applying, Mr D conceded that he was unsure if he applied for a 
two-year or one-year account. So, on balance, I think whether mistakenly or not, Mr D 
applied for a two-year account.
At the crux of the complaint is that Mr D believes, on discovering a two-year account had 
been opened, he should have been able to amend his application to a one-year account. His 
submissions indicate this he believes this should have been possible as the account contract 
hadnt started at the time he requested the switch. 
Ive looked at the timeline of events. After applying online for a savings account, on the 30 
December Mr D received an email from AJ Bell to confirm that the account was now open. 
AJ Bell has further clarified this email was sent as the funds required to open the account 
were in place in Mr Ds transit account and this meant it was able to open the account. It has 
confirmed that the actual opening account was on the 31 December 2020. Mr D did contact 
AJ Bell by email on this day (having been unable to get through on the telephone) and then 
again on the 2 January 2021 by telephone. Mr D maintains as the account wasnt open when 
he made these two contacts, he should have been able to cancel the transaction. 
Mr D says as the account matured on the 3 January 2023 and was a two-year account, it 
didnt open until 3 January 2021. Ive considered whether Mr Ds understanding is supported by the evidence. Having looked at the evidence, it indicates the account was already open 
when Mr D made his request to cancel the transaction.  The evidence Ive seen doesnt 
indicate an opening date of 3 January 2021. I appreciate why Mr D has said this based on 
the maturity date of his account being the 3 January 2023 and term. But I dont think it 
follows that the date of the maturity means the opening date must be the 3 January 2021. I 
says this because all of the other evidence Ive seen points to the account being open before 
then. The confirmation email AJ Bell sent Mr D makes a clear statement that says the 
account is open. I dont think this statement gives any impression the account would have a 
delayed opening. It does give a term of 24 months and a maturity date of 3 January 2023  
but there is nothing to suggest an opening date of the 3 January 2021. I accept AJ Bell has 
provided some unclear information during the course of the complaint (in email 
correspondence and telephone calls responding to Mr Ds queries) but Im satisfied based 
on what Ive seen that the account was already open when he requested a cancellation.
Mr D has questioned AJ Bells explanation around the reason why the maturity date of the 
account is 3 January 2023, if the account actually opened on 31 December 2020 and had a 
two-year term. AJ Bell say the reason for this is because 31 December 2022 (two years from 
the opening date) is not a business day and therefore the maturity date falls on the next 
working day  which is 3 January 2023.  I find AJ Bells explanation reasonable. I dont think 
it would be fair to say Mr D has been disadvantaged by the maturity date being set at the 
next available working day. AJ Bell has also confirmed that interest would be paid up to the 3 
January 2023 (as opposed to just to the 31 December 2022). So again, I dont think Mr D 
has been treated unfairly in this respect. 
In light of the findings Ive made above, Ive considered whether AJ Bell has treated Mr D 
fairly in its refusal to cancel the account and move it to a one-year account. AJ Bell has 
provided details of the FAQs section on its website that explains the scenario where a 
customer changes their mind about a savings account. Within this it confirms that once an 
account is funded the application can no longer be cancelled. AJ Bell says Mr Ds account 
was funded by the time he attempted to cancel in  initially by email on 31 December 2020 
and then later by phone on 2 January 2021. I have seen a copy of Mr Ds transit account 
statement  and can see on the 29 December 2020 it was funded with the required funds to 
open the new savings account. So as the evidence supports that Mr Ds account was funded 
when he made his application, I dont find AJ Bell acted unfairly when it commenced the 
opening of the account on the 31 December 2020. It follows that as the account was funded 
and open by the time Mr D requested a switch to a one-year account  in line with the terms 
of the account - it wasnt possible to cancel the original contract.  
Ive also considered whether Mr D had any right to cancel the contract. Mr Ds account is a 
deposit account with a fixed rate interest over a set term. There is no right to cancel or 
cooling off period for the type of contract. So, this again supports that AJ Bell hasnt done 
anything wrong by not agreeing to cancel the contract when Mr D attempted to withdraw 
from it. 
Mr D says when he spoke to AJ Bell on 2 January 2021, he was left with the impression that 
he would be able to switch his account. AJ Bell doesnt agree and say it only agreed to 
investigate the matter for him. Even if I accept that Mr Ds understanding of the call, this 
doesnt lead me to a conclusion that would require AJ Bell to amend or cancel the account. I 
say this because AJ Bell contacted Mr D again (as agreed) after the weekend (on 4 January 
2021) and explained it wouldnt be possible to cancel the account. This effectively clarified 
AJ Bells position and quickly corrected any uncertainty about whether Mr Ds request would 
be actioned. So, I dont think the evidence supports that AJ Bell should be required to 
honour Mr Ds request. Having considered everything, I dont find that AJ Bell have treated Mr D unfairly or in an 
unreasonable way by not allowing him to cancel his account. I do appreciate Mr Ds 
frustration with the situation but in order to uphold his complaint, I would need to be 
persuaded that there had been errors by AJ Bell  which I dont think there have been. So, it 
follows that I wont be asking AJ Bell to cancel the transaction or amend Mr Ds account.
Finally, I note that AJ Bell did make Mr D a goodwill offer of £50 to compensate him to 
recognise any stress and inconvenience caused by an administrative error in its email of 4 
January 2021 detailing the incorrect start date of the account. AJ Bell has confirmed that this 
offer is still open for Mr D to accept. If he wishes to accept this offer, he will need to contact 
AJ Bell directly.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman