DRN-4348638
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Mortgage Express overcharged them interest on their 
mortgage. Theyve also said they were mortgage prisoners and Mortgage Express hasnt 
taken steps to treat them fairly. 
What happened
In 2006, Mr and Mrs W were offered a residential mortgage with GMAC-RFC (mortgage 1). 
The mortgage was taken out on interest only terms over 25 years with an initial fixed interest 
period lasting until 31 December 2007. 
In April 2006, mortgage 1 was transferred to Mortgage Express  a wholly owned subsidiary 
of Bradford & Bingley (B&B)  the terms of the mortgage remained the same. 
In late 2007, Mr and Mrs W underwent a mortgage review with Mortgage Express. They 
redeemed mortgage 1 and took out a new mortgage which went live on 1 January 2008 
(mortgage 2). The mortgage was initially taken on a discounted variable interest rate of 
1.21% below Mortgage Express standard variable rate (SVR) until 30 November 2010. After 
which, the mortgage would revert to Mortgage Express SVR for the remainder of the 
mortgage term. 
Following the global financial crisis in 2008/2009, B&B was nationalised and, along with 
Mortgage Express as its subsidiary, stopped offering new mortgage products. This meant 
that when Mr and Mrs Ws discounted rate came to an end in 2010, they were unable to 
apply for a rate with Mortgage Express. Mr and Mrs W say that due to their circumstances 
and tighter lending conditions, theyve been unable to remortgage with a different lender. As 
such, they remained on Mortgage Express SVR. 
In September 2021, Mr and Mrs Ws representative raised this complaint with Mortgage 
Express on their behalf. The complaint letter set out in summary:
Mortgage Express withdrew from the mortgage market in 2009 and stopped offering 
new interest rate products. Because of tighter rules around affordability checks 
introduced as part of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) review in 2014, 
Mr and Mrs W became mortgage prisoners as they were unable to move their 
mortgage to another lender, with no choice but to remain on Mortgage Express SVR. 
The SVR charged by Mortgage Express since Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage reverted 
was unfairly high, especially in these circumstances where they were unable to re-
mortgage to another lender. 
In 2007, Mortgage Express website said the margin between its SVR and the base 
rate would be no more than 1.5-1.75%. The margin on Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage has 
been much higher than this and the way it has increased over the years is unfair. 
Mortgage Express discretion to set and vary its SVR was subject to an implied term 
that it could not be exercised dishonestly, for an improper purpose, capriciously, 
arbitrarily or in a way that no reasonable lender acting reasonably would do. 
Mortgage Express actions constitute a breach of Principle 6 of the FCAs Handbook 
whereby a firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly. And a breach of MCOB 11.8.1 which provides that in situations where a 
customer is either unable to enter into a new regulated mortgage contract with their 
existing lender or a new mortgage lender, the existing lender should not take 
advantage of the customers situation or treat them differently to other customers with 
similar characteristics. 
GMAC-RFC actively targeted customers who were looking to remortgage on the 
expiry of their deal as documented by its marketing of the time. Switching at the end 
of a deal was also industry practice. So, Mr and Mrs W had a reasonable expectation 
that at the expiry of their fixed term deal, they would be able to switch. 
Mr and Mrs W seek to claim the difference between the amount of interest they paid 
on their mortgage and the amount they would have paid had it been subject to what 
they deem to be a reasonable rate. 
Mortgage Express responded to the complaint on 1 November 2021. In summary it said it 
did not uphold the complaint for the following reasons: 
Part of the complaint about events that occurred more than six years before the 
complaint was made, had been brought too late. 
The SVR is not a base rate tracker. The mortgage offers state the SVR is variable. 
The applicable terms and conditions set out when the SVR may be varied. When 
Mortgage Express exercised its right to vary the SVR, it did so in accordance with the 
terms and conditions. 
The alleged implied term derived from case law does not apply here. The mortgage 
terms and conditions relevant to Mr and Mrs Ws mortgages expressly set out the 
basis on which Mortgage Express can vary its SVR, it is therefore not necessary to 
imply any further terms into the mortgage agreements. Even if it is wrong about this, 
at all material times when it exercised its power to vary the SVR, it did so in 
accordance with the express terms and it had genuine and proper business reasons 
for doing so. 
There was no express guarantee in the mortgage offers that Mr and Mrs W would be 
provided with a new mortgage in the future. Neither was there any obligation on 
GMAC or Mortgage Express to provide a new mortgage. 
Mortgage Express provides details of a comparison tool on its website to make it 
easier for customers to compare deals and switch to another lender if they wish to do 
so. 
At all relevant times, Mortgage Express has acted as a responsible lender and 
complied with all of its regulatory obligations, whether under the principles set out in 
the FCA Handbook, MCOB or otherwise. 
MCOB 11.8.1E is not engaged here  Mortgage Express has treated all its 
customers in the same way. 
Unhappy with Mortgage Express response, Mr and Mrs Ws representative referred their complaint to our service and provided further submissions.
Our investigator issued his opinion on the limitations to our jurisdiction and what this meant 
for Mr and Mrs W. In summary he said:
The complaint was raised on 7 September 2021, so he concluded that the complaint 
about all of the interest charging events that took place within six years prior to that 
date, had been raised in time. Which would be from 7 September 2015 onward. So, 
he was satisfied that he could consider whether the sums charged from 7 September 
2015 onward were fair and reasonable. 
That under DISP 2.8.2R where the consumer seeks to bring a complaint more than 
six years after the event complained of, such a complaint must be brought within 
three years of when they became aware, or ought reasonably to have become 
aware, of cause to complain. The investigator explained why he thought 
Mr and Mrs W ought reasonably to have been aware of their cause for complaint 
more than three years before making their complaint. So, he didnt think this part of 
the rule gave them any more time to complain. 
When considering the fairness of the interest rate charged from 7 September 2015 
onward, he would need to take account of previous variations of the interest rate to 
determine whether the rate charged during the period he can look at is fair. In 
addition to considering the fairness of the express terms of the contract, he would 
also need to consider whether  as suggested  Mortgage Express has breached an 
implied term of the mortgage contract. He concluded both of these things were part 
of all the circumstances of the case that he is required to consider under the DISP 
rules and are relevant to whether the interest charged from 7 September 2015 
onward is fair and reasonable. 
In the event he recommends any redress, he would only be able to award for the 
period that is in scope of this complaint  7 September 2015 onward. 
Our investigator then went on to provide his opinion, not upholding the merits of the part of 
Mr and Mrs Ws complaint that had been brought in time. In summary he said:
Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage contracts did not commit to maintain a fixed margin above 
base rate.
The investigator was not persuaded Mortgage Express varied the rate unfairly.
The difference between the SVR and the base rate largely occurred in 2009. The 
investigator set out that this was a time of significant change in the wider market as a 
result of the financial crisis. This impacted on the funding costs of businesses and 
was reflected in changes to a number of lenders interest rates.
Overall, the investigator didnt think there was anything to suggest that Mortgage 
Express has acted unfairly or unreasonably. 
Mr and Mrs Ws representative said it disagreed with the investigators opinion. In summary 
it said it didnt agree with the investigators view that we can only consider events occurring 
in the six-year period before the complaint was made. It disagrees that Mr and Mrs W being 
in receipt of mortgage statements detailing the applicable interest rate was grounds on which 
they ought to have been aware they had cause to complain. 
In response, the investigator confirmed that he would pass the case to an ombudsman for adecision  inviting both parties to provide any further comments or information they
would like the ombudsman to consider. Neither party made any further
representations.
Mr and Mrs W did not accept the investigators opinion relating to what part of the complaint 
we can and cant consider. As such, before proceeding to consider the merits of this 
complaint, I issued a decision setting out which parts of Mr and Mrs Ws complaint our 
service has the power to consider.
In summary I said that our service can only consider whether Mortgage Express has treated 
Mr and Mrs W unfairly by overcharging them on their mortgage, during a period when it was 
no longer offering new mortgages  from September 2015 onwards.  Mr and Mrs Ws 
complaint about events that occurred before this date had been brought too late. Ill now 
issue my decision on this part of the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case, Im 
required by DISP 3.6.4R of the FCA Handbook to take into account the relevant law, 
regulations, and good industry practice, when reaching my decision.
Ive considered all the submissions made by both parties, but I wont address each and 
every point that has been raised. Ill focus on the matters that I consider most relevant to 
how Ive reached a fair outcome.
Having done all that, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. I realise this will be 
disappointing for Mr and Mrs W. But I hope the reasons I have set out below will help them 
to understand why I have come to this conclusion.
Mr and Mrs Ws representative has raised many individual complaint points. However, 
I consider the overall complaint to break down into two key points:
Mr and Mrs Ws inability to access a new interest rate with Mortgage Express, which 
they say, by definition, made them mortgage prisoners.
Mr and Mrs W have paid an unfairly high rate of interest compared to what they 
should have paid. The way in which Mortgage Express has exercised its discretion to 
set and vary its SVR is in breach of an implied term.
I will deal with each point in turn. 
Access to interest rates
As explained, our service can only consider Mr and Mrs Ws complaint about their access to 
interest rates from 7 September 2015 onwards. That said, when considering this part of the 
complaint, I think its necessary for me to set out the background to Mortgage Express 
lending structure.
Mortgage Express is a closed book lender. Its parent company B&B collapsed and was 
nationalised in 2008. Because B&B is government owned, it cant offer new interest rates 
that would compete with other lenders. The same applies for its subsidiary, Mortgage 
Express. After this date and after any customers fixed term products ended, all B&B and Mortgage Express customers were charged the same SVR rate. Its part of the terms of the 
nationalisation that B&B (and Mortgage Express as its subsidiary) only offer a standard 
variable rate  which is comparable to the SVRs of other lenders. 
I have considered the representatives point that Mortgage Express has breached Principle 6 
of the FCA Handbook and MCOB 11.8.1  by not offering Mr and Mrs W a new interest rate. 
Having done so, Im not persuaded it has. All of Mortgage Express customers are in the 
same position, and Mr and Mrs W are not being treated any differently to them.
It is generally expected that new interest rates are available when an old one expires
 but theres no regulatory or contractual right to a new rate. So, in light of all of the above, 
I dont think Mortgage Express has done anything wrong in not offering a new rate to 
Mr and Mrs W. 
That said, in these circumstances I think it would be fair  and in line with the good practice 
offered by other lenders dealing with closed and nationalised loan books  for Mortgage 
Express to direct its customers to seek independent mortgage advice so they can explore 
whether its possible to switch their mortgage to a different lender with more preferential 
interest rates. Mortgage Express provides details of a comparison tool on its website to 
make it easy for customers to compare deals and switch to another lender if they wish to do 
so. 
For the reasons given, I dont uphold this part of the complaint. 
The fairness of the interest charged on Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage
Mr and Mrs W took out two mortgages in close succession  as mortgage 1 was redeemed 
before it reverted to the SVR, I have focused this decision on the history of mortgage 2 given 
this was the only mortgage contract that was subject to Mortgage Express SVR. 
The mortgage terms and conditions set out that when the initial discounted rate expired in 
2010, the mortgage would revert to the lenders SVR and that the SVR could be varied in 
line with terms of the mortgage1. I havent seen any evidence that persuades me that 
Mortgage Express was obligated, contractually or otherwise, to have its SVR track the base 
rate. Theres also nothing in the terms and conditions that entitled Mr and Mrs W to a new 
interest rate. To that extent, the mortgage has operated as it should.
Ive also considered whether the terms in Mr and Mrs Ws agreement go further than 
reasonably necessary to protect Mortgage Express legitimate interests and whether the 
variation clauses are sufficiently transparent.
Taking everything into account, I am not satisfied that the terms themselves necessarily 
meet the wider transparency requirements. While grammatically they are easy to follow, the 
terms allowing for the SVR to be varied are broad, and the circumstances in which changes 
might be made give Mortgage Express significant discretion about when it can make 
changes to the SVR and by how much.
That said, this alone is not determinative for the case. The central issue I need to decide is
whether there has been any unfairness to Mr and Mrs W from September 2015 onwards. 
The fairness of the underlying variation clauses will not of itself properly answer that 
question.
1 I have not set out the terms and conditions here as the terms are not in dispute and have been 
made available to both parties. Our service is required to consider what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. That 
includes, thinking more broadly about whether the way, and the extent to which, the terms 
have been used has resulted in unfair treatment for Mr and Mrs W. I think that is the ultimate 
question I need to answer in deciding whether to uphold this case.
When considering everything Im satisfied Mortgage Express has operated within the 
relevant terms and conditions, Ill explain why.
Has Mortgage Express exercised the terms fairly?
In answering this question, I have explained that although Im only able to consider the
fairness of interest charged to Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage since 7 September 2015, why its
necessary for me to consider historic changes to Mortgage Express SVR.
As previously explained, changes made to Mortgage Express SVR were decided at B&B 
Group level. Throughout my decision, when referring to variations made to the SVR, for ease 
I will refer to Mortgage Express as setting the SVR.
Ive considered all the available evidence and all of the changes Mortgage Express has 
made to the SVR since Mr and Mrs W took their mortgage. Having done so, I am not 
persuaded that anything Mortgage Express has done in varying the rate has led to 
Mr and Mrs W being treated unfairly in the period I can consider. I have set out why below.
For reasons of commercial confidentiality, I havent set out in detail the evidence the 
B&B Group has been able to provide in full. Nor has our service provided copies of it to 
Mr and Mrs W. Our rules allow me to accept information in confidence, so that only a 
description of it is disclosed, where I consider it appropriate to do so. In this case, I do 
consider it appropriate to accept the information and evidence the B&B Group has provided 
in confidence, subject to the summary of it I have set out in this decision.
Mr and Mrs W took out mortgage 2 with Mortgage Express in January 2008, by March 2009 
the difference between the base rate and the SVR increased from 2.00% to 4.34%. Whilst 
the SVR did reduce during this period, it didnt reduce by the same proportion as the 
reduction in the base rate.
Ive already set out that Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage was not a lifetime tracker mortgage, so 
Mortgage Express was not contractually obligated to set its SVR at a level that tracked the 
base rate for duration of the mortgage term. Nor is it the case that Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage 
had a cap preventing Mortgage Express SVR from increasing beyond a certain margin 
above base rate. So, there was nothing in the contract that expressly prohibited Mortgage 
Express from setting the SVR at a level whereby the margin between the SVR and base rate 
would change. But that doesnt mean that it could set the SVR at whatever level it chose. 
The term enabling Mortgage Express to vary the SVR itself has to be fair (to prevent 
businesses taking advantage of customers), and Mortgage Express had to ensure that in 
varying the SVR it only did so for one of the reasons set out in the contract.
I consider the main variations to the SVR to have taken place in 2009. At that time, the 
mortgage market was going through a period of significant change due to the global financial 
crisis. This impacted the funding costs of businesses, including B&B and was reflected in 
changes to a number of lenders interest rates charged across the market at the time. This 
was clear at the time and has been the subject of analysis by both the Bank of England2 and 
2 Quarterly Bulletin, Q4 2014, Bank of England  Bank funding costs: what are they, what
determines them and why do they matter?the FCA3 since. Whilst the base rate did reduce significantly during this period, the cost to 
lenders of funding their businesses changed, as did their prudential requirements. These 
were made up of several factors that are not directly linked to base rate. There was a 
substantial risk to all lenders during this period and they all had to find ways to mitigate that 
risk while balancing the need to treat customers fairly.
The B&B Group has told us that, like many lenders at the time, B&B was predominantly 
funded by wholesale funding. The cost of which was in the most part, contractually defined 
by reference to LIBOR and LIBOR generally followed base rate prior to the financial crisis. 
As a result, changes in base rate tended to result in changes to cost of funding. Before the
financial crisis, changes in costs of its retail funding also tended to correspond to changes in
base rate. 
However, during the financial crisis, there was a significant dislocation between LIBOR and
base rate, such that reductions in base rate were not matched by commensurate reductions
to LIBOR or to B&Bs cost of wholesale funding. In addition, access to wholesale funding 
became harder to come by as lenders became more concerned at the risk of default  B&B 
in particular has shown how its credit rating was impacted and the implications this had on 
its ability to raise funds and the cost of its funding  including how this impacted the cost of 
the inter-company loan it provided to Mortgage Express.  
To avoid collapse, State Aid in the form of a Working Capital Facility loan was extended to 
B&B from September 2008. With the aid came several conditions on how B&B could operate 
and obligations on how and when it should look to repay the loan. Understandably, this 
significantly impacted its commercial strategy and with it, the cost of funding mortgages like 
Mr and Mrs Ws. To add to this, B&B was nationalised in September 2008 and its entire 
share capital was transferred to HM treasury (such that B&B became a wholly owned 
subsidiary, and Mortgage Express an indirect subsidiary of HM Treasury).
So, whilst the State Aid extended to B&B also benefitted Mortgage Express, it came with 
certain obligation on B&B which also filtered through to the operation of Mortgage Express 
and as such are relevant factors when considering the impact this had on the setting of 
Mortgage Express SVR. 
Given the documented increase in cost of funding across the industry, including the B&B 
Group specifically, the obligations surrounding Government requirements and the Working 
Capital Facility loan, I am satisfied Mortgage Express decision to only pass on partial 
reductions to its SVR was in line with its terms and conditions and a fair and reasonable 
response to the wider market conditions. 
While I note and have considered the submissions of Mr and Mrs Ws representative,
I am not persuaded they outweigh the business specific evidence provided by the Group on 
the impact of the financial crisis on its own cost of funding. In addition, as I have said above, 
I have considered other sources such as the Bank of England that leads me to a different 
conclusion from Mr and Mrs Ws representative.
I have not seen any evidence to suggest the changes Mortgage Express made to the SVR 
were arbitrary, excessive, or unfair. Rather, the evidence I've seen satisfies me that 
Mortgage Express acted to protect its legitimate interests while balancing its obligation to 
treat Mr and Mrs W fairly. And, as explained, I'm further satisfied that the evidence Mortgage 
Express has provided is corroborated by evidence of wider market conditions at the time.
3 May 2018 Guidance Consultation GC18/2 Fairness of Variation terms in financial services
consumer contracts under the Consumer Rights Act paragraphs 2.8 to 2.10To conclude, I am not persuaded that Mortgage Express operated the terms in an unfair 
manner when setting and varying the interest rate that applied to Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage. 
Its decision to vary the SVR due to cost of funds was permitted within the terms and 
conditions of the mortgage and for the reasons set out above, Im satisfied it exercised those 
terms fairly.  
 
I dont think there is any basis to say that Mortgage Express somehow contributed to Mr and 
Mrs W being charged an unfairly high rate of interest on their mortgage during the period I 
can consider, and Ive seen no evidence to say that the interest they were charged during 
that period was unfair for any other reason.
From 2009 onwards, the only changes Mortgage Express made to the SVR were made soon 
after changes were made to the base rate and by the same amount.
Finally, I note that Mr and Mrs Ws representative argues that Mortgage Express has 
breached what it says was an implied term, not to exercise its discretion to vary the SVR 
arbitrarily, capriciously, perversely or irrationally. For the reasons set out above, if there was 
such a duty in the present case, Im satisfied that Mortgage Express did not breach it since it 
approached the question of varying the SVR fairly and in line with the terms of the contract.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint and I make no award against 
Mortgage Express
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 23 November 2023.
 
Lucy Wilson
Ombudsman