DRN-4051046
The complaint
Mr C has complained about his home buildings insurer Accelerant Insurance Limited 
regarding a claim made following a fire at his home. He thinks it has caused delays and its 
offer of settlement is too low.
Accelerant used a loss adjuster to manage the claim. Accelerant is liable for the actions of 
the loss adjuster.
What happened
There was a fire at Mr Cs home in the early hours of 21 February 2021. Combustible 
materials on decking at the rear of the property ignited, damaging the decking and brickwork 
on the rear elevation, as well as breaking the kitchen and bedroom windows. There was 
damage to the guttering also, and soot damage internally. Mr C made a claim to Accelerant 
and appointed a loss assessor to act for him.
Accelerant had a loss adjuster visit the property to assess the damage and a forensic report 
was also completed. The loss adjuster had some concerns about detail Mr C had given 
when arranging the policy and Accelerant considered whether this would affect its liability. 
Accelerant determined that it wouldnt, and the claim was accepted on 30 March 2021.
The claim progressed over the following months, with the loss adjuster completing a 
schedule of works which was reviewed by a surveyor linked to the loss assessor. In late 
October 2021 the loss adjuster gave his agreement for work to go ahead, based on an 
agreement reached with the loss assessor and surveyor. 
On 21 November 2021, in response to a complaint Mr C had made, a final response was 
issued which stated there had not been any delays in handling the claim and an agreement 
to progress the work had been reached in October 2021. The final response referenced that 
repairs were now starting.
However, work had not started. In December 2021 the loss assessor told the loss adjuster 
that repair of the property could not progress. This was because the agreement reached was 
based on variations to the scope being undertaken during the repair programme, despite 
evidence of what was needed having already been provided. In February 2022, Mr C 
complained to this service. 
Mr C explained his concerns over the scope of and cost for the work agreed, that overall he 
would likely have to take out a loan to cover a likely large shortfall. He said he wanted 
certain temporary repairs to be covered too, as well as the cost for damaged appliances. He 
also noted that no offer had been made for the family to be rehoused during the works  and 
that theyd been living in the property in unsatisfactory conditions for a long time. Mr C said 
he had suffered financial losses including the extra cost for heating and lighting the partially 
boarded up property, and lost wages for time spent trying to deal with the claim. 
Our Investigator felt that Accelerant should be paying Mr Cs costs for repair  but that its 
agreement to review what was needed as the repair programme progressed was 
reasonable. So he wasnt minded to uphold the complaint. Mr C was unhappy with the 
outcome. Following some further correspondence our Investigator confirmed that the 
complaint would be forwarded for review by an Ombudsman. 
I considered the complaint, focusing on the situation at hand as complained about by Mr C in 
2021 and responded to by the loss adjuster on behalf of Accelerant on 21 November 2021. 
My views on the complaint differed to those expressed by our Investigator, and I felt some 
awards should be made. So I issued a provisional decision to share my views with both 
parties. My provisional findings were:
Claim handling
I know Mr C thinks that the forensic report should have been shared with the loss assessor 
straightaway, the fact that it wasnt caused a delay. I dont think that is the case. The forensic 
report was requested to determine the cause of the fire  and Accelerant never sought to 
dismiss liability for the loss on the basis of the findings of the forensic report. However, 
around the time Mr C was waiting for a copy of the forensic report, I do think Accelerant 
caused delays in other respects.
The loss adjuster raised a concern about detail Mr C had given when the policy had been 
arranged  that he hadnt declared claims which had been made on a separate home 
contents policy. I know Mr Cs view was that he had indicated that claims had been made. 
And having seen the details of the policy application I can see why Mr C thought that. But 
I think this was still something that the loss adjuster reasonably needed to refer back to 
Accelerant for it to consider in more detail. And when Accelerant did consider this issue it 
determined it was happy to accept the claim. My view though is that the process of referral 
and an answer being given took too long. It was around a month from the date of the loss 
adjusters first visit until the claim was accepted. I think that should have taken two weeks at 
most, especially in light of the damage to the property. So Accelerant, in my view, caused a 
two week delay here.
There was also a further delay in April. At that time the loss adjuster was trying to arrange for 
a scope of work to be completed but the contractors instructed to do that werent cooperating 
and it was 19 April 2021 before an appointment to visit the property was made (for the 
following week). I think the lack of cooperation delayed the claims progress in April 2021 by 
two weeks. 
I think the claim was handled reasonably during May 2021 and until 22 June 2021. In May, a 
scope produced following the April 2021 visit was provided, shared and discussed. The 
discussions led to a revision of the scope being required. This was produced at the 
beginning of June 2021 and shared again for review. I think matters were handled 
reasonably by Accelerant during this time and Im satisfied that there was no delay by 
Accelerant during this period. 
On 22 June 2021 the loss adjuster put forward an offer to settle the claim in cash. The sum 
offered was £32,403.73. No explanation or detail of how that cost had been reached was 
given. But the loss adjuster knew that this sum was less than even the cost of work set out in 
the initial scope shared in May 2021, which had been revised in terms of work and cost by 
the June scope. To me that sum, put forward in that way, amounted to an unfair and 
unreasonable offer. I can understand why the loss assessor requested a breakdown of it and 
I think that should have been given.
In saying that I dont mean that the adjuster should have shared the fully costed scopes of 
work with the loss assessor. That detail is something insurers dont have to share with their 
policyholders or their representatives, as it is commercially sensitive information. But the offer put forward was less than the cost of work set out in either scope and the adjuster had 
a reason for putting that lower sum forward. It is that reasoning for the cash figure being 
proposed that should have been explained as part of that proposal. And the loss adjuster did 
not do that until September 2021. Email correspondence in September, culminating with an 
email from the loss adjuster on 21 September 2021, set out a clear explanation for the June 
offer and what was alternatively available as a way forward for the claim. Theres no reason 
that could not all have been set out on 22 June 2021. And in my view, that is exactly what 
should have happened. As such I think Accelerant delayed the claim unfairly and 
unreasonably by three months between 22 June 2021 and 21 September 2021.
After the end of September, the parties discussed the clarified and revised offer. And an 
agreement for settling the claim was reached at the end of October 2021. With Mr Cs 
concerns about claim handling being raised around that time and then answered by the final 
response of 21 November 2021. Im satisfied that the claim was progressed fairly and 
reasonably in this period.
Accelerants final response though said it had not caused any delays. My assessment here 
shows that I think it was wrong in this respect. I think it caused a total of four months of delay 
between the claim being made in February 2021 and the final response being issued in 
November 2021. Which means that the situation has been unreasonably prolonged by 
Accelerant for four months. I dont doubt that has caused upset and frustration to Mr C.
Was the home uninhabitable?
I also bear in mind that the conditions at the home were far from ideal. The home was not 
uninhabitable in the general sense often relied upon by insurers  it had basic, necessary 
facilities like heating and lighting, and the family could wash and cook. But the conditions in 
which they were having to cook were less than sanitary and I dont doubt they had to adapt 
how they normally use the kitchen, likely cooking less and quite likely different things, in 
order to cope with its poor condition. Im also mindful that the loss adjuster did offer 
alternative accommodation to Mr C and his family at the outset, but this was turned down. 
So I think Accelerant acknowledged that the condition of the property meant the family 
shouldnt really stay there. Whilst the adjuster clearly felt cleaning would make the home 
habitable, Im not really persuaded by that  a simple clean could not have removed all of 
the soot present in the property. For example, that ingrained in the kitchen cupboards or on 
the walls or ceilings. Further the kitchen was dark and draughty. I accept that the property 
was colder than it should have been and was lacking in light due to the damaged and 
boarded up windows. All in all I think its fair and reasonable to say that the property was 
uninhabitable. 
Compensation and a disturbance allowance
Taking everything into account, I think that Accelerant should pay Mr C £500 compensation. 
This is for his distress and inconvenience caused by it handling the claim such that it caused 
unfair and unreasonable delays. 
I also think Accelerant should be paying a disturbance allowance to Mr C. Insurers will often 
pay a disturbance allowance, usually at a rate of £10 per adult living at the property, per day, 
to policyholders, where they choose to stay in an uninhabitable home and likely incur some 
costs as a result of living in the damaged property. Mr C did initially choose to stay in the 
property and I dont doubt that in doing so he incurred extra costs. I accept that it most likely 
cost more to heat and light the home during this period of the claim. And there were likely 
other extra costs too  such as for eating differently, or even incurred whilst spending extra 
time outside of the home. Its unlikely Mr C could evidence all of his extra costs  and 
I understand that he is even having difficulty obtaining past copies of his utility bills, which might have helped establish costs for extra heating and lighting. So I think a fair and 
reasonable way to resolve this issue is by an award of a disturbance allowance. Therefore, 
I think Accelerant should pay Mr C £10 per adult, per day living in the uninhabitable home 
during the period 21 February 2021 to 21 November 2021 inclusive. The latter date is the 
date of the final response, but this is also about one month after the claim settlement was 
agreed  which should have been ample time for some work to be done. I know none was, 
but I explain below why I think the claim settlement was fair and reasonable. As such I dont 
think it would be reasonable for me to make awards against Accelerant that are linked to 
upset, disruption and loss beyond 21 November 2021.  
October 2021 claim settlement
Mr C appointed a loss assessor at the outset. The role of the loss assessor was to handle 
the claim for Mr C. And the loss assessor recommended the involvement of a surveyor to 
assist. So when the issues arose about what repairs were needed, and at what cost, it was 
the surveyor who dealt with that on behalf of Mr C.
It is certainly the case that from early on in the claim the damage to the external brickwork, 
and what was needed to reinstate that, was often disputed. But Mr Cs loss assessor and 
surveyor, in October 2021, agreed that the reasonable way forwards to deal with this was for 
work to start, including cleaning of the brickwork, and then for the area/brickwork to be 
reassessed. And it was on the basis of this agreement, from experts working on behalf of 
Mr C, that the loss adjuster gave his agreement for the works to go ahead. That was an 
agreement, by professionals, working for the respective parties to the claim. As such Im not 
persuaded it was an unfair or unreasonable position.  
I know Mr C is also concerned about the sum agreed for the kitchen. He has a quote for 
about twice the provisional sum agreed for replacement units in the agreed scope. However, 
just as the surveyor assessed the situation regarding the brickwork, he considered the cost 
put forward for the kitchen replacement. He was satisfied that the sum included was fair and 
reasonable, and the contractors working for the loss assessor agreed they could meet this 
price  albeit a provisional or guide price. The loss adjuster had agreed to consider 
additional costs as necessary as the work progressed. So if the work had gone ahead, and 
the contractor which had agreed the sums, had found it could not replace the kitchen for that 
price, the actual expected costs could have been reviewed. I think that was a fair and 
reasonable position. And in saying that Im also mindful that the sum for the kitchen, just like 
the brickwork, was just another part of the larger scope of work agreed by the professionals 
working for the parties to the claim. 
I know Mr C thinks the settlement should have included an allowance or means by which the 
family could move out of the property for the duration of repairs. I know the loss adjuster 
thinks that no alternative accommodation is needed because Mr C, initially, said none was 
required. Im not really persuaded by that answer  Mr C is entitled to change his mind. And 
he clearly has done just that. Im also mindful of what Ive said above about the home not 
really being suitable to live in, and that it certainly wont be during repairs. In that situation, 
the policy, I think, should respond. Accelerant should, therefore, work with Mr C now, as the 
claim resumes and progresses, to make sure it handles his request for alternative 
accommodation fairly and reasonably. 
But, returning to the issue of whether the 2021 settlement was fair and reasonable  I have 
to look at the situation as it was, at that time. In 2021, the loss adjuster thought Mr C did not 
want to move out of the home and, whilst the surveyor initially stated that accommodation for 
the repair period would be required, that was before the claim was accepted or any 
settlement negotiations began. Once the professionals began discussing settlement, neither 
the surveyor nor loss assessor requested that the cost for alternative accommodation for the repair period were paid as part of the settlement. So I cant fairly and reasonably say that 
Accelerant was at fault for not offering alternative accommodation costs as a part of the 
2021 settlement. 
Im also aware that Mr C thinks the settlement offer should include the cost of a contract 
administrator. And in this respect the surveyor and loss assessor did ask for the surveyors 
involvement to remain as part of the work programme at the outset. The loss adjuster though 
declined this request and the claim progressed from there. I think the loss adjusters decline 
in this respect was reasonable. The policy doesnt offer to cover the cost of generally 
overseeing the repair works. There is cover for reasonable and necessary fees of surveyors 
and the like. But the fees of a surveyor would be necessary, for example, when structural 
issues or work at a property need considering or overseeing. The work expected and then 
accepted here did not entail an element of structural work. Potentially reinstating the 
damaged brickwork might make the involvement of a surveyor and/or other expert necessary 
 and if the work had gone ahead, as agreed was appropriate by the professionals involved, 
that need could have been reviewed as and when the brickwork had been cleaned. Im 
satisfied that the claim settlement, in this respect, was not unfair or unreasonable. 
I appreciate that Mr C is worried about the ultimate cost for the work. But I dont see why he 
would think the agreement as reached in 2021 would leave him needing to fund a shortfall 
for the cost of necessary work. The scope for reinstatement was agreed and contractors 
were waiting to do that work at an agreed price. The work may have had to stop whilst, for 
example, the cleaned brickwork was assessed, and if the contractor had needed the cost for 
the replacement kitchen to be reviewed. But that wouldnt be unusual in a claim like this. Im 
satisfied that the October 2021 agreed claim settlement was fair and reasonable.   
Temporary repairs
Mr C has said that temporary repairs to the guttering and loft hatch should have been 
agreed. I appreciate Mr Cs concerns in this respect. However, such costs were not put 
forward by his loss assessor, or the surveyor, as being necessary in the early stages of the 
claim. In the circumstances I cant fault Accelerant for not proposing temporary work. 
The claim settlement mentioned above did include costs for permanent repairs in these 
respects. And it was only two days before the settlement was reached that the loss assessor 
first broached the idea of reinstating the gutter, or at least temporarily repairing it, separately 
to the main body of work. But I think its fair to say that with the agreement on works being 
reached so soon after this request was made, the loss adjuster felt all work would shortly be 
progressing, such that doing something separately with the guttering was not reasonably 
required. I think that was fair and reasonable.
Appliances
Mr C has said appliances need replacing. But he hasnt shown any evidence that the 
appliances in place at the time of the fire were damaged as a result of it. And Im mindful that 
whilst he had the loss assessor and surveyor debating the necessary repairs on his behalf, 
neither raised damaged appliances as being missing from the reinstatement scope. If Mr C 
wants Accelerant to consider these items further he should send it evidence of the damage 
so it can consider its liability for replacing them.
Loss assessor fees
Mr C has asked for Accelerant to be made to cover the cost of his loss assessor fees. Im 
not persuaded I can fairly and reasonably require Accelerant to pay these. The policy does 
not allow for such costs, and Mr C chose to appoint the loss assessor at the outset.Inflation costs
Mr C is concerned that the cost of work has increased. Hed like Accelerant to pay more to 
cover increased costs. Whilst I understand why Mr C would want that, Im satisfied that 
Accelerants settlement  agreed in October 2021 and bearing in mind that it was agreed 
between professionals, with contractors in place, who were waiting to start work having 
agreed to do the job at the agreed costs  was fair and reasonable. So the fact that the work 
did not start, and that when it does go ahead it will likely cost more due to inflation, is not 
Accelerants fault. As such it would not be fair or reasonable for me to make an award in this 
respect against Accelerant.
Lost wages
It is quite usual for a policyholder to have to spend time dealing with a claim. And I can see 
that here Mr C was quite involved in considering the repair scopes  and he likely had 
meetings with his loss assessor and/or surveyor going through things. And I dont think 
Accelerant did anything wrong which caused Mr C to need to have more meetings or spend 
more time than he otherwise would have done trying to progress the clam. Whilst Ive noted 
some delays by Accelerant above, I think its fair to say that, during these periods little 
meaningful was happening; Ive certainly seen nothing in those periods from the loss 
assessor which suggests a lot of extra activity had been occurring with Mr Cs involvement, 
with a view to trying to progress matters, which was then thwarted or wasted because of the 
delays. Im not persuaded to require Accelerant to compensate Mr C for lost wages.
Accelerant did not reply to my provisional decision.
Mr C asked that I include certain things in my final decision. He also made a number of 
points in reply to my findings. In summary:  
Hed asked for alternative accommodation as part of the settlement in early 
October 2021. If Accelerant had reconsidered its position on alternative accommodation 
at that time, he wouldve reviewed his position about allowing the work to start. So any 
delay in the work being done is down to Accelerant  the work would definitely have 
started if its position had changed. But he couldnt agree to the building work starting 
without that. He feels the disturbance allowance should, therefore, be extended beyond 
November 2021. And Accelerant should also cover inflation costs and reimburse him 
£200 for a temporary repair to the gutter.
Regarding what happens now with alternative accommodation; he asked if it should be 
like his property, and situated within 1 mile of it? And he asked that I confirm exactly 
what the basis is for the accommodation within my decision.
Would the cost of alternative accommodation reasonably include moving and necessary 
storage costs, and insurance?
His youngest child is 17 years old  he asked if she would be considered an adult, if so 
there were five adults living at the property. 
Given five adults, and the period I set out, which he calculated as totalling 273 days, he 
thinks the disturbance allowance Accelerant should pay is £13,650. He asked I confirm 
that figure and require Accelerant to pay it within 14 days.
Any cleaning of bricks will be futile. He finds Accelerants view in this respect 
outrageous.
Accelerants failure to properly assess the damage and authorise appropriate repairs 
demonstrates a neglect on its part to fulfil the policy terms.
Without proper assessment, the necessary period away from the home cant be planned.
Accelerant should be made aware of the extra costs that progressing the work in this 
way will undoubtedly cause.Hed like me to acknowledge the findings of his brickwork report in this decision and 
require Accelerant to reimburse its cost. Hed like to know why its findings havent been 
taken into account in my provisional decision.
I should investigate why Accelerant did not undertake such a report in 2021.
Should replacement kitchen units be like those that were in place before? Accelerant 
only allowed a PC (provisional) sum for unit replacement so this was always subject to 
change.
The claim for appliances reflects those that are integrated in the kitchen. They wont be 
compatible with a new kitchen as they will have been superseded or discontinued. And 
they cant fail but to have been affected by the fire and its extinguishment. If the units 
require replacement, and all nearby electrical contents items were replaced under a 
claim on the contents policy, it is unclear why the integrated appliances would not be 
treated the same.
Accelerants lack of transparency by refusing to share a breakdown of its contractors 
costs is deeply concerning.
It is essential that a contract administrator is appointed. The brickwork repairs will 
definitely require oversight and the policy allows for that.
Hed like me to review my findings on his lost wages as the time he put in was far in 
excess of what was expected.
Hed like me to stipulate that Accelerant pays for all work in a speedy and diligent 
manner, in line with any payment terms of suppliers, sub-contractors and contractors 
instructed to do the work, such that the work is not delayed and he is not put at financial 
risk.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that Mr C did email Accelerant in early October, copying in his loss assessor. And he 
did raise the point that an agreement in principle for alternative accommodation was 
required. But it was after this, at the end of October, that the professionals, working for the 
parties, came to the agreement for works without reaching an agreement on alternative 
accommodation. I think its also fair to say that the thrust of Mr Cs contact shows that Mr C 
was generally unhappy with the proposed restoration method i.e. starting the work 
programme on the basis of the bricks being cleaned, and only reviewing the condition of the 
bricks after that. Which the professionals later reached an agreement on. Mr C also says in 
that letter that a contract administrator must be agreed to. This did not form part of the 
agreement for works reached by the professionals. I note that those two issues remain a 
cause for concern for Mr C. Im not persuaded that even if a proposal for alternative 
accommodation had been put forward, that alone would have changed anything. I remain of 
the view, as stated provisionally, that Accelerant was not at fault for not offering alternative 
accommodation costs as part of the October 2021 agreement. It follows that my views on the 
period of the disturbance allowance, the cost for temporary work and inflation costs have not 
changed either. 
However, Ive provisionally said that, going forwards, Accelerant should consider the familys 
alternative accommodation needs. That is because part of Mr Cs complaint to this service 
was, as noted above, about its refusal to offer alternative accommodation. And my resolution 
in this respect is that, going forwards, it should. So that sets things back to consideration of 
this being progressed as a claim. As such it isnt appropriate for me to put further stipulations 
on that consideration. Not least as whilst a property for alternative accommodation should be 
reasonably like that insured, what is reasonable in practice will likely depend on many 
factors, not least what property is available in the area. Further what other costs an insurer might be reasonably expected to pay in such a claim, other than for rent, will also depend on 
the circumstances relevant at the time the arrangement is made/is being made, including the 
property found. So it isnt appropriate for me here, before any of those factors are known, to 
offer further comment. But I will reiterate that Accelerant should now work with Mr C to 
handle his request for alternative accommodation fairly and reasonably.
I am satisfied that the formula I have provided for the disturbance allowance is clear. I think 
its fair to say that most insurers would view a 17-year old as akin to an adult when looking at 
something like disturbance allowance. So Im happy to say that Mr Cs 17-year old should be 
classed as an adult. But Im not going to confirm more than that here. Simply put Mr C and 
Accelerant will have to liaise about the award if Mr C accepts my final decision within the 
deadline set.
I understand Mr Cs view on brick cleaning. And I explained provisionally that I had to focus 
on what was known and happening at the time of the agreement reached in October 2021 
between Accelerant and professionals acting for Mr C. Mr Cs report only came much later, 
in 2023. And when the agreement was reached in 2021, as I said that was discussed and 
considered between Accelerant and expert professionals acting for Mr C. In light of that, and 
whilst I know Mr C thinks Accelerant should have done more, I remain of the view that the 
position taken in the agreement reached about how the repair works should progress was 
not unfair or unreasonable. Mr C can still submit his report to Accelerant for consideration as 
part of the resumed, progressing claim.
The cost to replace the kitchen, with something like Mr C had before, was agreed on the 
basis of a provisional, or PC sum. A PC sum is generally accepted to be an indicative 
amount usually somewhere in the ballpark of likely expected costs. So it is open to variation 
 but usually if it was felt to be wholly unsatisfactory those involved in implementing the 
repair scheme would challenge it. My points remain here that the surveyor had not said the 
PC sum was entirely inadequate, contractors were ready and waiting to start work on the 
basis of agreed, albeit provisional, sums and work could have been halted if the contractor 
had felt that the costs agreed needed to be reviewed. 
As professionals were handling the claim for Mr C, I dont think it was unreasonable for 
Accelerant to respond to the claim put before it. And the professionals did not make a claim 
to Accelerant for the appliances. I dont think Accelerant did anything wrong, therefore, in not 
considering these items earlier and Ive said that Mr C can approach Accelerant regarding 
claiming for the appliances if he wishes to. With no claim for this currently having been 
considered by Accelerant, it isnt appropriate for me to comment further on the queries 
raised in this respect by Mr C.
I commented provisionally about Accelerant not sharing its cost breakdown for the work and 
set out my views on Mr Cs request for a contract administrator to be appointed, as well as 
for lost wages to be compensated for. I note Mr Cs points in reply on these issues, but they 
add nothing new, so Ive nothing further to add.  
I cant reasonably dictate a payment programme for Accelerant to abide by as the claim 
resumes and work begins. In short, I am not a claim handler. But also I simply dont know 
what will be happening as the claim progresses, including what trades will be appointed to 
carry out work or what their terms may be. 
Having reviewed Mr Cs response to my provisional findings, Im not persuaded to change or 
move away from what I set out provisionally. As such my provisional findings, along with my 
comments here, are now the findings of this my final decision. Putting things right
I require Accelerant to:
Pay Mr C £500 compensation.
Pay a disturbance allowance to Mr C, at a rate of £10 per adult, per day, for the period 
21 February 2021 until 21 November 2021 inclusive.
Consider Mr Cs request for alternative accommodation required by the family as the 
claim resumes and progresses following my final decision.
Consider liability under the claim for appliances Mr C says were damaged, subject to him 
providing evidence in this respect.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Accelerant Insurance Limited to provide the redress set out 
above at Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman