DRN-1820422
 
The complaint
Miss M complains that PSA Finance UK Limited (PSA) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out with a hire purchase agreement in 2006. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Miss M didnt agree with the 
adjudicators view, so the case has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ms case. Having done so, Im not upholding it 
for reasons that Ill explain.
PSA has provided a copy of the hire purchase agreement which Miss M signed in 2006 
when she was buying a car. Theres a section on this agreement which deals with PPI. And I 
can see that life and disability cover has been pre-selected and Miss M has signed 
separately below the statement I confirm that I wish to take out the Credit Protection 
Insurance indicated above. 
Ive also seen a copy of a Needs statement which appears to have been completed at the 
time of the sale following a discussion with Miss M. Several additional insurance products 
are shown as having been recommended to Miss M by the sales representative she met 
with. But the PPI recommendation is the only one which appears to have been accepted by 
her.  And PSA have also provided a copy of a Welcome letter sent to Miss M thanking her 
for choosing the PPI. 
So these documents make me think that PSA made it clear to Miss M that the PPI was 
optional and that she chose to take it.
Miss M says she was made to think that she needed to take the PPI policy to get the finance 
for her car. And I accept that its possible that the representative she spoke to did wrongly 
give her this impression. But I dont think it would be fair for me to conclude that this is what 
is most likely to have happened based only on what Miss M thinks she remembers being 
said to her then. This sale took place a long time ago and memories of such discussions do 
tend to fade over time. On balance, I think its more likely that Miss M actively decided to 
take the PPI knowing she could choose not to. But I can understand why Miss M might not 
be able to recall this now.
PSA says it recommended the PPI to Miss M and, from what Ive seen, I think this was the 
case. This means PSA needed to ensure that the policy was suitable for her.  I dont know all 
the steps it took to do this. But from what I know of Miss Ms circumstances at the time, I 
cant see any reason why it wouldnt have been suitable. I say this because:
Miss M appears to have been eligible for the policy and doesnt seem to have been 
affected by any of its main exclusions or limitations.
Miss M says she didnt need the policy because she was entitled to sick pay and also 
had some savings she could have used to make her loan repayments if she was unable 
to work because of a disability. But this policy would have paid out in addition to her 
other means. And she chose the policy, so it appears that she valued the extra 
protection it gave her if things went wrong.
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Miss M. And as the premiums 
were paid monthly, she could have cancelled it if it no longer met her needs.
PSA also needed to ensure that it gave Miss M enough information for her to decide if she 
wanted to take the PPI policy. I think its possible that the information Miss M received could 
have been better than it was. But for much the same reasons that I dont think the policy was 
unsuitable for Miss M, I dont think better information would have changed her mind about 
taking it. I think shed still have thought it gave her useful cover at an affordable cost.
Ive thought carefully about the reasons why Miss M still thinks the PPI was mis-sold, but this 
hasnt changed my mind about not upholding her complaint. I still dont think that Miss M has 
lost out by anything that PSA may have done wrong when it sold her this PPI policy.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint against PSA Finance UK.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 August 2020.
 
Simon Furse
Ombudsman