DRN-3670150
The complaint
Mr S complains about the way CIGNA Europe Insurance Company SA-NV handled a claim 
he made on a travel insurance policy.
When Ive referred to CIGNA, Im also referring to the claims handling company which dealt 
with Mr S claim on its behalf.
What happened
Mr S took out a travel insurance policy in November 2016, through a broker. The policy was 
underwritten by CIGNA. Mr S travelled abroad in December 2016 and was due to return to 
the UK in February 2017. As part of his holiday, Mr S had arranged two boat trips to take 
place in January 2017. 
However, the boat trips never took place and Mr S later learned that the boat trip operator 
had become insolvent. He pursued the matter through the relevant countrys legal system 
and was able to obtain a partial refund of his live-aboard trip costs. And in November 2020, 
he made a claim on his travel insurance policy for the remaining balance.
CIGNA turned down Mr S claim and concluded it wasnt covered by either the cancellation 
or abandonment sections of the policy. In January 2021, while CIGNA initially informed Mr S 
that he didnt have end supplier failure (ESF) cover on his policy, it later suggested that he 
should make an ESF claim to a separate ESF insurer, which Ill call P. 
When P told Mr S it couldnt help him, CIGNA suggested that he should contact another 
insurer which Ill call A. But despite repeated requests from Mr S as to why hed been 
directed to P and then to A, CIGNA didnt provide a detailed response to his questions. Mr S 
got in touch with A, which also let him know that it wasnt able to help him. Mr S was 
unhappy with CIGNAs administration of his policy and he complained.
CIGNA acknowledged that it shouldnt have directed Mr S to P and so it sent him a cheque 
for £100, as compensation for its mistakes. But it still failed to respond to Mr S queries as to 
why hed been directed to A until October 2021, when it acknowledged that this had been a 
mistake. Remaining unhappy with CIGNAs handling of his claim, Mr S asked us to look into 
his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think CIGNAs compensation was enough to reflect the impact of its 
errors on Mr S. He thought it had been unreasonable for it to direct Mr S to two insurers 
when he thought it ought to have been clear that Mr S wouldnt be able to successfully claim 
from either. And he felt it hadnt dealt with his queries in a timely way. So he recommended 
that CIGNA should pay Mr S a total of £200 compensation to reflect its mistake.
CIGNA agreed with the investigators recommendation.
Mr S didnt accept the investigators assessment. He didnt think the compensation the 
investigator had proposed made up for the series of CIGNAs mistakes which had caused 
considerable inconvenience and distress, and which had taken months to resolve. He also 
noted that hed had to provide us with some evidence, which CIGNA didnt have available 
and its final response had been issued some time after our deadline.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr S, I think that CIGNA has now made a fair 
offer to settle his complaint and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. In 
this case, CIGNA already acknowledges that it didnt handle Mr S claim promptly or fairly. It 
assessed Mr S claim in line with the cancellation and abandonment sections of the policy 
and concluded that it wasnt covered. Mr S seems to have broadly accepted that decision 
and so I havent addressed this point specifically here. I would add though that as CIGNA 
underwrote those sections of the policy, I think it was appropriate for CIGNA to assess the 
claim under those headings.
However, its common ground that after its decline of the claim, CIGNA made a number of 
mistakes when it handled Mr S claim. Ive looked carefully at the policy terms which applied 
to Mr S claim  the February 2016 version of the contract. This did not include any ESF 
cover. While Mr S provided CIGNA with a screenshot indicating that he did have ESF cover, 
this appears to have been included with a later version of the brokers branded policy, which 
wasnt underwritten by CIGNA. In my view, from assessing Mr S contract terms, it shouldve 
been clear to CIGNA that not only did he not have ESF cover, but that he wouldnt be able to 
make a claim with P. So it shouldnt have directed him to get in contact with it.
Similarly, while Mr S did have legal expenses cover included as part of his policy and this 
was underwritten by A, this clearly only covered claims for incidents causing bodily injury or 
death. So it shouldve been apparent to CIGNA that Mr S circumstances were highly unlikely 
to be covered by this section of the policy and that a claim was unlikely to be successful. 
Therefore, it seems to me that CIGNA shouldnt have directed Mr S to make a claim with A.
Instead, Mr S spent unnecessary time and effort in contacting both P and A and in 
investigating whether his loss would be covered by either insurer. And I think that this led to 
Mr S expectations being wrongly raised and ineffectively managed. I dont doubt that 
learning that neither P nor A would be liable for his loss after Mr S had spent time in 
contacting them caused him frustration and inconvenience.
It's clear too that Mr S asked CIGNA to explain its misdirections on a number of occasions. 
But CIGNA didnt respond to Mr S complaint as a whole and it never really explained why it 
had suggested that he got in touch with A. I think this wouldve added to his inconvenience 
and frustration when he was already upset by CIGNAs handling of his claim.
This means that I agree with our investigator that £100 compensation isnt enough to 
recognise the impact CIGNAs errors had on Mr S. They were ongoing over a period of 
months and its clear that Mr S was engaged in the process and wanted an understandable 
explanation as to what had gone wrong. In my view, a total of £200 compensation is a fair 
award to recognise the overall impact of CIGNAs mistakes on Mr S. I appreciate he feels 
that a higher award is warranted, and Ive thought about this. But Im mindful that CIGNAs 
errors didnt lead Mr S to suffer any actual financial loss and he hasnt been left out of pocket 
as a result of its actions. So I find that CIGNAs earlier apologies, together with an overall payment of £200 is fair compensation to acknowledge the frustration, upset and 
inconvenience I think Mr S was caused by its mistakes. I was pleased to note that CIGNA 
has now agreed to pay this award.
CIGNA previously sent Mr S a cheque for £100, which I understand he didnt cash. It seems 
likely that the original cheque will now have expired and it isnt clear whether the cheque was 
re-issued. If it has been and if Mr S has cashed the cheque, CIGNA may deduct £100 from 
the total compensation it pays. If not, CIGNA will need to pay Mr S a total of £200 
compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that CIGNA has now made a fair offer 
to settle Mr S complaint.
I direct CIGNA Europe Insurance Company SA-NV to pay Mr S a total of £200 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman