DRN-3785259
The complaint
Mrs A complains that she called Scottish Widows Limited (Scottish Widows) to make a 
pension contribution during its published opening hours, but the offices were closed. And this 
meant she couldnt contribute for that tax year and lost out on tax relief and other tax 
planning benefits. She would like compensation for the lost relief and tax exemptions.
What happened
Mrs A is represented by her son (Mr A) in her complaint, but for ease of reading I will just 
refer to Mrs A in this decision except where necessary.
Mrs A says she called Scottish Widows shortly after 5.00 p.m. on 5 April 2022 to make a 
pension contribution for that tax-year, but the call centre was closed despite its literature 
advising it was open to 6.00 p.m. She wanted to pay a net contribution of £2,880 but says 
she lost the opportunity to do so, as this was the last day of the tax year. Mrs A raised a 
complaint online about this the same day.
Mrs A said shed lost £720 of tax relief on the contribution. Lost future tax-free investment 
growth and could also incur inheritance tax of £1,152 as the funds were still in her estate. 
She said the total losses could be £11,000. Mrs A then called Scottish Widows on 8 April 
2022 to query what options her plan offered post age 75. She subsequently transferred her 
plan to another provider later in April 2022.
Scottish Widows looked into her complaint and agreed its service had fallen short of the 
usual standard. It called Mrs A and offered her £75 in compensation, which it felt she 
accepted. It wrote confirming this and said its normal hours were 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. but with 
many staff still working from home due to covid it had reduced opening times. It said that 
although Mrs A hadnt been able to contribute for the 2021/22 tax year it could advise she 
would be able to make contributions with unused allowances from previous tax years by 
using Carry Forward Allowance (CFA). And that she should contact her new pension 
provider about this. It paid the £75 compensation into Mrs As bank account.
Mrs A said she hadnt agreed to the £75 compensation. She said Scottish Widows wasnt 
authorised to give advice about CFA and that she couldnt benefit from this. It apologised 
and said it hadnt given any advice merely information about CFA. It said its letter had been 
poorly phrased using the word advise when an expression like I can inform you or similar 
should have been used instead. 
Mrs A said this didnt reflect the severity of the problem and shed missed out on making an 
important transaction after being misled about Scottish Widows opening hours. She said it 
had accepted responsibility for this by offering £75 but this was a derisory figure, given the 
losses.
Scottish Widows said to consider the issue further it would need details of any pension 
contributions made in the 2021/22 and 2022/23 tax years. Mrs A said no contribution was 
paid in 2021/22, but £3,600 gross had been paid in 2022/23 to her new provider. In a call 
with Mr A, Scottish Widows asked for evidence of this but as this wasnt provided, said it 
couldnt consider the issue any further.
Mrs A referred her complaint to our service and our investigator looked into it, but she didnt 
uphold it. 
Our investigator said Scottish Widows was free to change its opening hours if it wanted to. 
And the revised opening hours were shown on its website, and it was still open for nine 
hours a day. She said the contribution could have been paid at any time during the tax year. 
So, if it was important, leaving it until after 5.00 p.m. on the last day possible meant there 
was no certainty that a contribution could have been successfully made. So, Scottish 
Widows wasnt responsible for the contribution not being paid in time.
Our investigator said Scottish Widows letter about CFA could have been more clearly 
worded. But she didnt think it was offering advice as it concluded by suggesting Mrs A 
contact her current pension provider about it. And she said if Mrs A was unable to make use 
of CFA, as she stated, then the comments about it hadnt impacted her in any case. Our 
investigator said the £75 Scottish Widows had already paid in compensation was fair and 
reasonable.
Mrs A disagreed and made further points that Scottish Widows had:
Acted outside its regulatory authorisation in giving advice,
Provided advice, which was incorrect,
Had shouted at her son on the telephone,
Lied about her son not wanting to provide evidence of a contribution being paid.
Our investigator said it wasnt the role of our service to fine or punish a business and her 
view of the complaint hadnt changed. Mrs A asked if it was fair and reasonable for Scottish 
Widows to act in this manner and that it was perplexing that our investigator wouldnt 
explain herself further. She asked for a final decision on the matter which would address 
these points. 
As Mrs A doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding the complaint.
I understand Mrs As frustration about what has happened. However, the role of our service 
is to resolve complaints impartially, we dont regulate businesses, which is the role of the 
Financial Conduct Authority. That means I cant tell Scottish Widows or other businesses to 
change administrative procedures or impose sanctions on it even if I think there have been 
failings. What I can consider is whether a businesss mistakes caused someone a financial 
loss and/or distress and inconvenience and, if so, what the business needs to do to put 
things right.
As there are several aspects to Mrs A complaint, Ill address these in turn.
Contact centre opening hoursScottish Widows sent Mrs A annual statements about her plan. The most recent statement 
before she tried to call Scottish Widows on 5 April 2022 was dated 27 September 2021. This 
states the opening hours of the contact centre were Monday to Friday 8am-6pm. However, 
this was more than six months before Mrs A made her call and any business is free to vary 
its opening times at any point. And it did advertise its revised opening hours on its website 
and remained open during normal business hours. 
So, I dont think Scottish Widows treated Mrs A unfairly or unreasonably here. It wasnt 
responsible for Mrs A leaving paying a contribution towards the end of the last day possible. 
In doing so, Mrs A gave herself no time to resolve any other issue that might have occurred. 
So, I dont think it is reasonable to say it was responsible for any loss that may have been 
incurred. And some of the losses Mrs A has identified are potential, rather than actual, and I 
havent seen any evidence in support of them.
Compensation offered of £75
Scottish Widows accepted that the out-of-date opening times on the statement had caused 
Mrs A distress and inconvenience. Ive listened to the call of 6 May 2022 where Scottish 
Widows offered £75 compensation to resolve the complaint. Part way through the call Mrs A 
passes the phone to her husband to speak for her. The call is a little confused, but I 
understand why Scottish Widows thought the £75 compensation offered was accepted. And 
in any case, any confusion here didnt prevent Mrs A from referring her complaint to our 
service, as she has done. 
And I think the £75 already paid by it is fair compensation for what happened here and is in 
keeping with awards our service would make in similar circumstances.
Did Scottish Widows give advice
I dont think Scottish Widows offered advice, rather it was trying to be helpful, and its 
comments were poorly phrased. It provided limited details of CFA  something provided for 
in tax legislation that most people can make use of. And Scottish Widows does caveat its 
comments by saying Mrs A should speak to her current provider about CFA. 
I havent seen any evidence that Mrs A couldnt make use of CFA as she says. But, if so, 
she was very soon aware of this having challenged Scottish Widows on it within a few days 
of it being suggested, so I dont think this caused any real inconvenience or upset.
Conduct on the telephone calls and the provision of evidence
Our service cant usually consider complaints about how complaints have been dealt with, as 
complaint handling isnt a regulated activity. But here Mrs A has said that Scottish Widows 
havent considered things fairly, lied about her refusing to provide evidence to enable it to 
further consider her complaint and shouted during calls. So, I think it is reasonable for me to 
consider these aspects here. 
Ive listened to the further calls with Mrs A and her son (Mr A) from 11 and 12 May 2022, 5 
June 2022 and the four calls on 16 September 2022. The last call on 16 September with Mr 
A appears to be the contentious exchange, as I dont think there were raised voices before 
then.
In this call Scottish Widows speaks with Mr A at Mrs As request. It is seeking to confirm 
whether a contribution has been made with the new pension provider in the tax year 
commencing 6 April 2022, and if so when. Mr A is clearly knowledgeable about financial 
matters, and the strength of his feelings about what had happened are clear. Mr A wanted to know why this information was required. Particularly, if it was being 
requested to make a compensation offer on a loss of interest basis. That is if the contribution 
had been paid, say a week later, would it offer seven days interest. Mr A said if so this, as 
hed previously explained, was unacceptable given the complaint was about the lost 
opportunity to contribute given the investment and actual and potential tax consequences of 
that.
Initially the Scottish Widows call handler said he didnt know why the information was 
wanted. But under pressure about this from Mr A, he did briefly raise his voice, which Mr A 
was quick to challenge him on. It was then confirmed that the compensation basis it was 
considering was a loss of interest calculation. Mr A again confirmed this wasnt acceptable 
and was merely wasting time. 
The call concluded with Scottish Widows to come back to Mr A with further comments. And it 
wrote to Mrs A on 16 September 2022 saying it still wanted evidence that a contribution had 
been paid, but as Mr A was unwilling to share this, it was unable to change its decision. But 
it said if it had misunderstood or there were further queries Mrs A should contact it to discuss 
them. 
So, the call handler did briefly raise his voice, but I dont consider he was shouting. I think Mr 
A was very much in control of the conversation throughout, and I dont think there was any 
distress caused to him by a briefly raised voice. And I dont think it is fair to say that Scottish 
Widows has lied about Mr A being unwilling to provide evidence. Because on the evidence 
of this call, he wasnt willing to do so other than on his own terms. And the call handler did 
state on several occasions he didnt have the authority to agree what Mr A wanted. 
As I have said I dont think Scottish Widows was responsible for Mrs A not being able to pay 
a contribution before the end of the tax year, but it does appear that it was considering a 
further offer on top of the £75 compensation already paid. So, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for it to request proof that she had subsequently made a pension contribution. 
Without proof and perhaps evidence of funds showing that two contributions could have 
been paid, it wouldnt be clear that any loss had been suffered. Mrs A had already confirmed 
that she didnt have any other pension plans. And she hadnt contributed to her Scottish 
Widows plan since 2016, so there was no pattern of her making contributions. 
I think Mr A could have provided details of the contribution made to the new provider and 
remade his points about what he considered would be required to provide fair redress. 
Things might have been different if he had, but it doesnt appear that this evidence was 
provided. And I dont think Scottish Widows was being unreasonable in saying it couldnt 
consider the matter further without it. 
So, I think Mrs A did suffer some inconvenience over the call centre being closed when she 
called, but I dont think Scottish Widows can reasonably held responsible for any wider 
implications that may have had. And as I think the £75 Scottish Widows has paid in 
compensation for the inconvenience is fair under the circumstances of the complaint, it need 
not do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman