DRN-4008448
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L are unhappy with the settlement amount provided to them by Great Lakes 
Insurance SE, for a claim they made under their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs L purchased an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy, covering them for 
various pre-departure and post-departure risks, between 1 November 2021 and 31 October 
2022.
During this period of cover, Mr and Mrs L had a cruise holiday booked. With the cruise being 
from 25 December 2021 to 8 January 2022. Mr and Mrs L boarded the ship, and shortly after 
were informed that they were identified as close contacts of someone who had tested 
positive for Coronavirus. Because of this, they were told they needed to self-isolate. And had 
to remain confined to their cabin for seven days. 
During this confinement, Mr L tested positive for Coronavirus. Mrs L remained negative. This 
extended their cabin confinement - Mr Ls confinement being 26 December 2021 to 9 
January 2022. And Mrs Ls being 26 December 2021 to 6 January 2022  with her being 
able to leave her cabin on 7 January 2022.  
As their trip was due to end on 8 January 2022, Mr and Mrs L have explained that they 
werent able to participate in their holiday as planned. They werent able to use the ships 
facilities or take part in any planned excursions. And, because Mr Ls period of quarantine 
was lasting longer than the holiday, he was swapped to another ship to complete his 
quarantine. Whilst Mrs L had to disembark on 8 January 2022 and travel home alone.
Because Mr and Mrs L were confined to cabins during their trip, they contacted their insurer, 
Great Lakes, to make a claim under their insurance policy.
Great Lakes considered their claim and accepted it. Great Lakes confirmed there was cover 
under Section 21 of the policy for cabin confinement, due to Covid-19. And confirmed this 
was a benefit of £300 each. So, it agreed to pay Mr and Mrs L £600 in total.
Mr and Mrs L didnt think this settlement was correct. They thought the correct settlement 
under the policy was £1,700. They said this was because there were two relevant sections of 
the policy, for the situation they found themselves in. The first being section 19 for cabin 
confinement. They said Mrs L should have received a benefit under section 19, of £100 for 
every 24 hours confined, up to £1,000. As Mrs L was confined to the cabin for 12 days, she 
considered she should be paid the full £1,000 available.
And they said that Mr L should have received the section 19 cabin confinement benefit for 
four days, where he was confined to his cabin and testing negative for Covid-19. Equalling 
£400. And that following his positive test, section 21 of the policy, which was for instance 
relating to Covid-19, should come into operation for him  meaning he would receive a 
further £300.
Great Lakes didnt agree. It said that section 19 of the policy didnt apply to Mr and Mrs Ls 
case, as it required Mr and Mrs L to be confined because of their own bodily injury and 
illness. They said Mrs L wasnt confined because of this  and neither was Mr L, until he 
tested positive for Covid-19, at which point section 21 of cover applied. So, Great Lakes 
maintained its position on the matter.
As Mr and Mrs L remained in disagreement, they referred their complaint to this service, for 
an independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint, and though there was something more Great 
Lakes needed to do. The investigator said there was further cabin confinement benefits 
under the policy that were due to Mr and Mrs L. And they noted that the curtailment section 
of the policy should also respond. 
Great Lakes didnt agree. It maintained that it had acted correctly, in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy. 
Because Great Lakes didnt agree this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. In this I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not intending on requiring Great Lakes to pay any more than the £600 it 
has already offered. 
I appreciate this is going to come as a disappoint to them. But Id like to reassure the parties 
that I have considered all information submitted to this service when arriving at my intended 
decision. Ive explained the reasoning for my intended decision below.
When considering complaints such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and 
industry guidelines. The relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct Authority, say that 
an insurer must deal with a claim promptly and fairly, and not unreasonably decline it. So, 
Ive thought about whether Great Lakes acted in line with these requirements, when it 
agreed to settle Mr and Mrs Ls claim with £600. And Im satisfied it did.
There are two relevant areas of the claim, and so Ive dealt with these separately, below.
Cabin confinement 
Mr and Mrs L have said they feel the settlement provided to them under the cabin 
confinement sections of the policy is incorrect. So, Ive considered whether the £600 offered 
to Mr and Mrs L in this respect is fair and reasonable, and in line with the policy terms. And 
Im satisfied it is.
Section 21  which is named Covid-19 cover, is the relevant section of the policy in this 
instance. This section explains that it provides the following:
4. Confinement benefit: a benefit payment of £30 for each complete 24-hour period up to 
£300 where You are ordered into self-isolation in Your holiday accommodation by a relevant 
government authority, as a result of You contracting Covid-19.
Great Lakes has accepted Mr and Mrs Ls claim under this section, and provided them with 
the maximum benefit, given the amount of days they were confined to the cabin. As Great 
Lakes has offered the maximum benefit under this section, I dont require it do anything 
more in relation to this section of the policy. Mr and Mrs L had mentioned other sections of the policy, which discuss cabin confinement. 
But other sections relating to cabin confinement dont apply in this instance. Thats because 
those sections exclude anything mentioned in the general exclusions part of the policy. And 
the general exclusion part of the policy notes that Coronavirus isnt covered, except for 
under the COVID-19 cover or Enhanced COVID-19 protect sections of the policy. 
This is also made clear on the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID), under the 
what is not insured column. 
So, whilst I appreciate Mr and Mrs L have raised other sections of the policy, and the cabin 
confinement benefits noted under those, Im satisfied those dont apply. Given that no other 
sections in relation to cabin confinement apply, and Great Lakes has offered the maximum 
settlement under section 21s cabin confinement provisions, I dont require it to pay any 
more in this respect.
If Great Lakes hasnt provided Mr and Mrs L with the £600 already agreed, it should do so 
now. 
Curtailment 
Our investigator considered whether this policy provided any other cover for Mr and Mrs L. 
And they considered that section 3 of Mr and Mrs Ls policy  the curtailment section, also 
applied. So, they recommended a payment was made under this section.
Great Lakes didnt agree. So, Ive reviewed this, to decide what I consider to be fair and 
reasonable in these circumstances.
And based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Great Lakes acted fairly in noting it wouldnt 
be providing any settlement under this section. I say this because this section also excludes 
anything mentioned in the general exclusions part of the policy. And as above, the general 
exclusion part of the policy notes that Coronavirus isnt covered, except for under the 
COVID-19 cover or Enhanced COVID-19 protect sections of the policy. Im satisfied this 
is made clear in the IPID provided with the policy. So, I dont intend on requiring Great Lakes 
to do anything differently here.
The Covid-19 cover does extend the curtailment cover under the policy, but only to provide 
cover for curtailment in certain circumstances  such as the death of a relative or member of 
the policyholders household, as a result of catching Covid-19. The circumstances in that 
section dont apply to this case, as none of those listed happened to Mr and Mrs L. So, Im 
satisfied this part of the policy doesnt apply, and so doesnt alter the outcome of this 
complaint. 
Great Lakes responded and agreed. Mr and Mrs L didnt respond. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided Great Lakes should pay Mr and Mrs L the £600 it has already 
offered. But I dont find it needs to do anything more than that. There hasnt been any further comments or evidence from either party, to alter my findings 
on this complaint, or the reasoning for it. And so, my decision remains the same as that in 
my provisional decision, and for the same reasons.
My final decision
Given the above, my final is that Great Lakes Insurance SE should provide Mr and Mrs L 
with the £600 settlement it already agreed to. I dont require it to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 April 2023.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman