DRN-3406201
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Pinnacle Insurance Plc (Pinnacle) declined a claim on his motor 
warranty insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Ms vehicle suffered a failed diesel particulate filter (DPF) regeneration. It was discovered 
that the DPF wouldnt regenerate as one of the cylinder head ports had an excessive carbon 
build-up. The garage has pointed to a technical bulletin from the vehicle manufacturer which 
says that this specific cylinder head is prone to carbon build-up and that the manufacturer 
has now modified or changed the design of the cylinder head to stop this from happening. 
Pinnacle say that the carbon build-up has caused the problem. It says as this is a recognised 
flaw in the design of the cylinder head that required a manufacturers modification, its 
excluded from cover.
Mr M says this isnt fair, so he brought a complaint to our service. He says the failed parts 
are all covered under the policy and the parts have failed through no negligence on his part. 
He says even if the manufacturer has a role to play in putting this right its up to Pinnacle to 
deal with this. Mr M wants Pinnacle to honour the cover hes paid for and to get his vehicle 
back on the road. Alternatively, he wants his premiums refunded.
An investigator looked at the complaint and said that Pinnacle hadnt done anything wrong.
But Mr M doesnt agree, and hes asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. Ill explain why.
This motor warranty insurance policy provides cover for the sudden and unexpected failure 
of a part arising from any permanent mechanical, electrical or electronic fault, which causes 
the part to stop working, and means that it needs repairing or replacing before it will work 
properly.
The failure of the DPF is specifically covered on this policy, once a specialist cleaning 
procedure has been carried out. And thats not in question. Mr M says he had the DPF 
cleaned at his own expense. The cylinder head is also covered. Under the heading of 
engine it says all components are covered and the cylinder head isnt listed as excluded.
However, Pinnacle says the reasons for the component failures are excluded. It says the 
DPF failed to regenerate because of a carbon build-up. And it says it will not pay costs 
where a failure has occurred due to a build-up of carbon. Pinnacle also says the carbon 
build-up was caused because of a design flaw. And it wont pay for costs caused by any 
form of faulty design.
Theres no argument about what happened. The engineers report states that the garage 
used a bore scope to demonstrate the carbon build up and it included these pictures of the 
excessive carbon in the engine port in its report. The report has also quoted from the 
manufacturers technical bulletin. And Im satisfied from what Ive seen that there was a 
design flaw on this specific cylinder head and the manufacturers recommended fix is to 
replace it with a modified cylinder head that has the port re-routed to prevent a carbon build-
up.
Mr M says that Pinnacle has interpreted the exclusion to its advantage. He says hes not 
demanding it to replace the cylinder head, but for Pinnacle to work with the manufacturer to 
help find a common-sense fix to get the vehicle on the road again. He says he was sold this 
warranty to replace the manufacturers warranty he had previously. And given the cost of this 
warranty, Pinnacle should be doing more to look for an alternative solution as opposed to 
looking for excuses not to pay.
I agree that as the underwriters of this policy Pinnacle could be deemed to have an 
advantage over Mr M. Its fully aware of all the exclusions in its own policy, and it may be that 
Mr M is not. And if I felt Pinnacle was interpreting its policy definitions or exclusions unfairly 
or unreasonably than I would ask it to reconsider the claim. But from what I can see its not. 
An independent engineer has set out the cause of failure supported by photographs. This is 
accompanied by a technical bulletin from the manufacturer. So, Im satisfied Pinnacle isnt 
misinterpreting the policy terms to get out of paying the claim. Its applying the policy terms 
correctly.
I know the engineer has detailed a temporary fix which is to clean out the port and refit the 
cylinder head. And this is what Mr M has done. But this is only a temporary fix and the 
engineer says given the design of the cylinder head, the fault is likely to occur again. 
Because the repair is only temporary this isnt something a motor warranty product like this 
would cover. The policy does cover repairs, but it doesnt cover a temporary repair as it 
doesnt want to have to pay for the same repair a number of times. The policy says the 
damaged component, needs repairing or replacing before it will work properly. For the DPF 
to work properly the proper fix for this specific issue is a new cylinder head, not a clean out. 
As such, even though Mr M would like Pinnacle to help out with the repair, this is not 
something Pinnacle would do, nor would I expect them to.
Further to this the policy doesnt allow Pinnacle to step-in and talk to the manufacturer. 
Pinnacle has no contract with the manufacturer, only with Mr M, especially when a claim is 
excluded. As such it would be Mr Ms responsibility to liaise with the manufacturer. All 
Pinnacle has to do is treat Mr M both fairly and reasonably as per its policy terms and 
conditions and I think that this is what it has done. 
I know Mr M will be disappointed with my decision. But I wont be asking Pinnacle to 
reconsider the claim or refund the policy premium. Mr M has and continues to have cover in 
place for a sudden and unexpected breakdown as set out in the policy terms and conditions. 
Just not for this specific failure. So, it wouldnt be fair to ask Pinnacle to now refund any 
premiums already paid for this cover. As such I dont uphold this complaint and I wont be 
asking Pinnacle to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I don't uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman