DRN-2754469
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE refused to refund their premium in 
relation to their travel insurance policy. Reference to Great Lakes includes reference to 
its agents. 
What happened
On 27 February 2020, Mr and Mrs W took out an annual, multi-trip travel insurance policy 
with Great Lakes. They intended to travel to the USA in May 2020. The policy was due to 
start and end on 10 May 2020 and 9 May 2021 respectively. The policy provided cover for 
up to a total of 183 days of travel with a maximum of 35 days in one trip. Mr and Mrs W paid 
a total premium of £822.96, which included a medical premium in relation to declared 
medical conditions and an additional premium of £36.65 for optional travel disruption 
extension cover. Ill refer to this policy as the first policy.      
On 16 March 2020 the government of the USA imposed a travel ban which included 
travellers from the UK. On 17 March 2020, the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) 
advised against all but essential travel abroad. On 19 March 2020, Mr and Mrs W contacted 
Great Lakes in order to cancel the first policy. Great Lakes said that as the 14-day cooling off 
period had passed, it couldnt offer a cash refund, but as the policy hadnt started it offered a 
voucher for the full amount of £822.96, valid for 36 months. 
On 1 July 2020, Mr and Mrs W used the voucher to purchase an annual, multi-trip travel 
insurance policy. The policy was to start and end on 28 February 2021 and                          
27 February 2022 respectively. The premium was £982.47, including a medical premium in 
relation to declared medical conditions and an additional premium of £19.43 in relation to 
terrorism cancellation cover. Mr and Mrs W used the voucher of £822.96 and paid the 
remaining £159.51 by card. Ill refer to this as the second policy.
On 11 July 2020, Mr and Mrs W contacted Great Lakes in order to cancel the second policy. 
As the cancellation was within the 14-day cooling off period, Great Lakes refunded £159.51 
to the card used for payment and issued a voucher for £822.96, valid until 1 July 2023.  
Great Lakes says that the current options are:  
a 15-month annual policy for the price of 12, at current market rates;
a 12 month, deferred annual policy, at current market rates, so cover could start  
within 12 months of purchasing the policy;
a  UK only, annual, multi trip policy - the destination area may be upgraded later, 
subject to the policy terms and conditions.
Great Lakes said that the above options remain available but may be withdrawn at any time. 
It said that in the particular circumstances of this case, as Mr and Mrs W say they wont 
travel again, they can transfer the voucher to a relative or friend.    
Mr and Mrs W werent happy with Great Lakes offer and pursued their complaint. They say 
that they dont want a voucher as they are unlikely to travel. They want a refund of their 
premium. Mr and Mrs W say that Great Lakes gave them incorrect information about 
transferring the voucher to a relative or friend. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She set out the details of the 
relevant cancellation rights and how they applied in the circumstances of this case. The 
investigator explained that Great Lakes wasnt obliged to refund the premium paid for the 
first policy, as Mr and Mrs W didnt cancel it within 14 days. But she thought that             
Great Lakes had acted fairly in refunding the premium for the first policy and that it wasnt 
obliged to offer a cash refund. 
The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of covid-19. 
She thought that Great Lakes offer of a pro rata credit for part of the premium for one of the 
three options it offered was a fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of this 
complaint.
In relation to the second policy, the investigator didnt think it was unfair for Great Lakes to 
deal with the refund in the way that it had  part cash and part voucher, in the same way as 
Mr and Mrs W had paid. She didnt think that Great Lakes had misled Mr and Mrs W about 
the terms of the voucher. 
Mr and Mrs W didnt agree with the investigator and asked that an ombudsman consider 
their complaint, so it was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the relevant rules, regulations and law. I agree those 
are the relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
The policy terms and conditions for both the first and second policies say: 
Cancellation provisions
Your right to cancel this policy
Date of effect of cancellation made by you
If you ask us to cancel your policy in writing or by telephone, such cancellation shall take 
effect on the date the notice is received, or on the date specified in the notice, whichever is 
later. 
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt of 
your documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any premium you have paid, 
less any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or intend to make a 
claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14 day cooling off period, no premium 
will be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional circumstances such as 
bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us declining to cover your medical 
conditions.Im not upholding this complaint because: 
The first policy was cancelled outside the cooling off period, so theres no 
requirement under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a 
refund.
As Ive outlined above, the contract of insurance says that where cancellation is more 
than 14 days after the cooling off period  as it was here in relation to the first policy - 
Great Lakes isnt obliged to give a refund of the premium but has a discretion to do 
so in exceptional circumstances. Looking at how the policy is worded, I dont think its 
fair to ask Great Lakes to consider exercising its discretion in this case. Thats 
because I dont think this type of situation is one which the discretion in the policy 
terms is designed to cover  it specifically mentions bereavement or a change in its 
willingness to cover medical conditions and thats not what happened here. 
Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
complaint including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding  
covid-19. In the circumstances of this case, I think Great Lakes offer of a voucher in 
relation to the first policy was fair and its more than it was obliged to do under the 
terms of the policy. Mr and Mrs W entered into an annual contract with Great Lakes 
then, for reasons I quite understand, wished to cancel the policy. The offer          
Great Lakes made was more than its obliged to make.  
Mr and Mrs W used the voucher for part payment of the second policy. Great Lakes 
was obliged to refund the premium for the second policy in accordance with the 
policy terms and conditions, as it was cancelled within the 14-day cooling off period. I 
dont think it was unreasonable for Great Lakes to refund partly in cash and partly by 
voucher, as thats how Mr and Mrs W paid for the second policy. 
 
I appreciate that future travel plans are uncertain for everyone. Mr and Mrs W say 
that they dont know if they will travel again. But I dont think that means that the offer 
from Great Lakes is unfair or unreasonable. The offers are available over an 
extended period and are flexible. The voucher can also be used towards the 
purchase of a UK only, annual, multi trip policy.
Mr and Mrs W say that Great Lakes gave them incorrect information about 
transferring the voucher to a relative or friend. Ive listened to the phone call on        
23 March 2020 between Mr and Mrs W and Great Lakes. Mr and Mrs W were 
frustrated in that call, but I think that Great Lakes gave them correct information and 
dealt with the matter courteously. 
In all the circumstances and bearing in mind that Great Lakes wasnt obliged to offer 
a refund in relation to the first policy and isnt obliged to offer a total cash refund in 
relation to the second policy, there are no grounds on which to direct Great Lakes to 
give Mr and Mrs W a cash refund.  My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. 
If Mr and Mrs W wish to take up Great Lakes offer, they should contact it direct. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 15 June 2021.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman