DRN-4180491
The complaint
Mr K complains about the way Great Lakes Insurance SE dealt with a claim on his pet 
insurance policy.
Where I refer to Great Lakes, this includes its agents and claims handlers acting on its 
behalf.
What happened
In December 2022, when Mr Ks pet dog had a problem with lameness, his vet carried out 
some investigations to see what was causing the problem. This included a fine needle 
aspiration (FNA) on a lump on his dogs leg. In January 2023 the vet referred his dog to 
another vet for a second opinion. 
Mr K made a claim on his policy in January 2023 for the initial investigations, followed by a 
number of further claims as further vets fees were incurred. Sadly, in February he was 
advised his dog had a terminal condition that couldnt be treated.
Great Lakes accepted the claims and made payments, but in March 2023 told Mr K it would 
need to deal with the claim for the FNA as a separate claim. This was because the vet had 
noted that the lump was not related to the lameness, so it couldnt be paid as part of the 
same claim. Great Lakes also said it was still waiting for some information from the vets. On 
20 March Great Lakes wrote to say it had paid the claim but not the fee for the FNA.
Mr Ks vet wrote to Great Lakes explaining that it carried out the FNA to see if the lump was 
related to the lameness and so, as it was part of the same investigation, thought it would be 
fair to pay it as part of the same claim.
Mr K complained that Great Lakes took 12 weeks to deal with the claim and rejected part of 
it despite the vet saying this was part of the same claim. He was also unhappy at the way he 
had been treated by some staff when he called to discuss the claims.
Our investigator said it was fair for Great Lakes to deal with the claim for the FNA as a 
separate claim, given what was recorded in the vets notes. But after considering further 
comments from Mr K he said there had been unnecessary delay and Mr K had been caused 
some distress and inconvenience. He asked Great Lakes to pay compensation of £250.
Great Lakes accepted there had been some delays but said it wasnt responsible for all of 
this, as some delay was due to it waiting for information. It offered to pay £125. Mr K didnt 
accept the offer and said £250 was more reasonable. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant industry rules and guidance say insurers must deal with claims promptly and 
fairly; provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate 
information on its progress; and not unreasonably reject a claim. They should settle claims 
promptly once settlement terms are agreed.
The claims Mr K made were covered by his policy and thats not in dispute. The complaint is 
essentially about how long it took Great Lakes to handle the claims and the way it dealt with 
Mr K. 
Great Lakes didnt refuse to deal with the costs claimed for the FNA procedure. It simply said 
that would need to be dealt with as a separate claim. I know Mr K questioned why that was 
necessary since it would end up paying the same amount. But the vets notes made at the 
time clearly said the lump was definitely not related to the lameness. If it wasnt part of the 
same issue then it was appropriate to deal with it separately. So I agree it was reasonable 
for Great Lakes to do that.
But I also agree the claims could have been dealt with more quickly. Great Lakes has 
pointed out that some of the delay was due to it waiting for information from the vets, which 
is true. And once it had all the information it needed, it did pay the claims. But there were 
also occasions where it told Mr K it was waiting for information which the vets had told him 
theyd already provided. He has also explained how difficult that time was for him, facing the 
sad loss of his pet, and that he had some difficult calls with Great Lakes claims handlers. 
Ive listened to a recording of a call he made following his complaint where he explained all 
of this. 
He had recently lost two other pets and now had to face the fact this pet had a terminal 
condition. The delays, extra chasing for information and the way some calls were handled 
added greatly to his distress. In the circumstances I think a payment of £250 is fair.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and direct Great Lakes Insurance SE to pay compensation of £250 to 
Mr K for the distress and inconvenience caused to him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2023.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman