DRN-1615529
The complaint
This complaint is about two monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policies 
taken out in June and November 2002. Mr G says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) 
mis-sold him the PPI. 
What happened
Mr G  complained his PPI policies had been mis-sold on 2 loans taken out in 2002. Our 
adjudicator rejected Mr G's complaint. Mr G disagreed with our adjudicator's view and asked 
for the matter to be looked at again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Gs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Having seen a sample of the type of loan application Mr G would have seen in June 
1992 and having seen a copy of the actual loan application he signed in November, I 
think Bank of Scotland made it clear on the loan application forms in respect of both 
PPI policies that Mr G didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  
although I can understand why he cant remember this.
Bank of Scotland recommended both PPI policies to Mr G, so it had to check that the 
PPI was right for him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, 
I think that it was when I looked at the main things the policy didnt cover. 
I did note however, that Mr G said he had a pre-existing medical condition, but he 
didnt say what it was or when he was diagnosed with it. He added that he only took 
3-4 weeks off work for it and didnt say it was a recurring condition, so I can 
reasonably assume Mr G was unlikely to want to claim again for his pre-existing 
medical condition. So  if either policy didnt cover him for a pre-existing medical 
condition - I dont think this would have caused him great concern as it doesnt look 
like he was likely to make a new claim for that condition.    
Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Mr G about PPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. But I think he chose to take it out on both occasions - so it looks 
like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems like both policies would have been 
useful for him if something went wrong. It also looks like they were affordable. So I 
dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off taking out the 
cover. 
 
Ive thought about everything Mr G has said - including what he said about his savings, 
employee benefits and medical condition. But these points dont change my decision.In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about the 
non-disclosure of commission where PPI was sold. 
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties. So to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should pay back the amount of commission and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
But these rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship provisions 
in the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions  which were added to 
the Consumer Credit Act in 2006  came into force on 6 April 2007. The changes made in 
2006 explained that the unfair relationship provisions would only apply to credit agreements 
taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements taken out before then, which were still 
running on 6 April 2008. 
Bank of Scotland said Mr Gs first loan ended in 2002 and the second ended in 2007. So 
based on what Ive said above, I dont think the unfair relationship provisions in the 
Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment, or the rules and guidance made by the 
FCA in relation to the non-disclosure of commission apply here.
So Bank of Scotland doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr G paid for the PPI he 
had with his loans. 
I have had to send this decision by email as we cannot send out post in the current 
circumstances.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2020.
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman