DRN-3775548
The complaint
Mr I complains about British Gas Insurance Limiteds (British Gas) handling of a claim made 
under his home emergency policy.
What happened
In April 2022, Mr I made a claim on his home emergency policy. He experienced a problem 
with his boiler and says he was without heating or hot water for six days.  An engineer 
attended his property to carry out a repair but Mr I says there were further problems with the 
engineer, and that he damaged Mr Is parked car. 
Mr I complained to British Gas. It reviewed what had happened and on 15 July 2022, a total 
payment of £80 for the damage to the car and a £90 compensation payment was offered to 
Mr I. 
Unhappy with this, Mr I referred his complaint to this service. It was considered by one of our 
investigators who said she thought the compensation offered represented a fair outcome. As 
Mr I didnt agree, this matter has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While Ive considered the information provided by both sides, Ive only included a brief 
summary here. This isnt intended as a discourtesy, but instead reflects the informal nature 
of this Service. 
As both sides are aware, I dont consider the complaint about the damage to Mr Is car 
(whether it occurred before or after the boiler repair) to be something this service can look 
into. I dont consider this is a regulated activity or that I could say it was ancillary to the 
regulated activity of carrying out a contract of insurance  which here is the boiler repair. 
So, my decision focuses on Mr Is comments about the delay in British Gas attending his 
property. Ive reviewed the notes made by British Gas when Mr I called and logged his 
concerns about the boiler. These notes reflect in the first call, Mr I was taken through various 
checks to make sure the boiler was safe. When Mr I called back the following day, he said 
he turned the boiler off due to the noise it made.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied British Gas took adequate steps to assess the 
urgency of the situation around Mr Is boiler. Having done so, it decided there was no 
vulnerability and scheduled the next available appointment  several days later. But Mr I 
chose not to use his boiler until British Gas attended his property. I havent seen anything to 
suggest he did so based on advice from it. So, while I accept there was some inconvenience 
experienced by Mr I, I consider this stems from the decision he made to go without heating 
and hot water, rather than any action British Gas took. 
Mr I also says British Gas didnt communicate with him within a timeframe he thinks was 
reasonable. A financial business has eight weeks in which to respond to a complaint from a 
consumer. Mr I says it took over four weeks for his complaint to be acknowledged. I can 
understand this was frustrating but against this background Im mindful that there wasnt any 
outstanding repair required. While I can see there has been some level of frustration and 
inconvenience, Im satisfied the £90 offered by British Gas in respect of this is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. Im not going to require British Gas to increase its 
payment. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2022. 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman