DRN-3698063
The complaint
Miss S has complained that Society of Lloyds (SOL) unfairly refused to pay her claim under 
her horse policy. 
References to SOL include all its agents. 
What happened
Miss S vet made a claim to SOL on 10 September 2020 for vet costs in relation to a 
diagnosis of bone spavin which occurred to her horse. SOL decided that because Miss S 
had made a claim for a sprained ligament on 10 February 2020 to the previous underwriter 
of her policy, this claim was related to that ligament condition and it refused to consider it.
The cover for this claim, the subject matter of this complaint, started on 28 February 2020. 
SOL said in its final response letter of March 2021 that as the previous underwriter agreed to 
cover this as a continuation of the ligament claim that appeared to show the previous 
underwriter was of the view it was a continuation claim. It also said its policy didnt provide 
cover for the consequences of that have occurred as a result of a previous condition. A 
condition is only valid for any claim payment when it occurs as the direct result of an 
accident, injury, illness, or disease first occurring and first manifesting during the period of 
insurance. 
Miss S and her vet said there was nothing to indicate when treating the horse for the 
ligament issue that this bone spavin was in existence. Further the horse had recovered from 
the ligament sprain and was sound before developing the symptoms of the bone spavin.
SOL continued to refuse to deal with Miss S claim so she brought her complaint to us.
The investigator was of the view it should be upheld. SOL disagreed so Miss S complaint 
has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done, Im upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why.
 
Its irrelevant what any other or previous underwriter might have thought about Miss S claim, 
as this policy and therefore this claim isnt underwritten by that underwriter. Further whatever 
that underwriter might have thought initially doesnt absolve the underwriter in this claim from 
doing coherent investigation of its own also. Not indeed does it show the previous 
underwriter had fully investigated the claim.
This policy in common with most other policies merely wishes to cover claims that happened 
in this policys year. Therefore, the first thing to do is to establish that. The only way to 
establish that is look at the vet evidence. I dont agree with SOLs view that Miss S vet is 
lacking in independence to decide such matters. Its Miss S duty to prove her claim, the only 
way she can do that is by her own vets evidence. There is no requirement in this policy that 
she is under any duty to use an independent vet to verify her claim. Furthermore, as SOL is 
fully aware this service finds such expert evidence to be persuasive because that vet has 
examined the animal and indeed treated it. 
Also, once SOL decided not to pay this claim, then the burden of proof shifts to it in proving 
its refusal to pay was reasonable.
Miss S vet provided two letters to explain his diagnosis. The first one on 3 October 2020 
where he was the of the view that SOLs refusal to pay the claim for bone spavin was 
unreasonable. He explained that as regards the previous ligament injury [in the previous 
years policy and underwritten by a different underwriter] that it had been successfully 
treated and the horse had returned to full soundness by 17 April 2020. Exercise was 
gradually increased and at examination on 19 May 2020 the horse was further confirmed to 
be sound. He also explained the horse suffered a minor setback in early June which settled 
rapidly. 
On 21 July 2020 the horse was found to have a flexion positive lameness to both hind legs 
isolated to the tarso-metatarsal joints on 24 July with an intra-articular local anaesthetic. It 
was confirmed at the time this was unrelated to the previous ligament injury. So, the vet is of 
the opinion the claim for bone spavin is a separate claim. 
On 11 January 2021 Miss S vet wrote another letter dealing with the fact that SOL said the 
vet history comments didnt match what the vet had said previously about the horse being 
completely healed. He explained he never said the horse was completely healed he said 
the horse had returned to full soundness as his detailed examinations showed. The vet 
history explains that the lesion on the ligament might not return to 100% normal due to scar 
tissue. But that doesnt mean the horse wouldnt be completely sound.
 
He explained that as the horse was completely sound after the previous ligament issue, he 
suffered another unsoundness this time related to the bone spavin which is completely 
unrelated. He remained of the view the claim should be paid. 
SOLs vet said on 12 October 2020 so in response I presume to Miss S vets first letter 
above. He felt the policy wording made this one condition not two conditions. He then went 
on about Miss S said on social media which contradicted her vet saying Miss S vet was 
sound in between the ligament injury and the bone spavin symptoms. SOL has provided no 
evidence of anything said on social media platforms by Miss S, so I cant consider those.
So instead SOLs vet cast dispersions on Miss S vet statement that the house was sound 
in between both issues. I not entirely sure why from a medical perspective, as this vet 
doesnt discuss the issue at all from a medical point of view. I find his evidence lacking in 
sufficient vet expert detail to explain his opinion that the horse wasnt sound in between both 
issues. The vet history records it as such, namely being sound. Therefore, I am more 
persuaded by Miss S vet conclusions on the matter. More so since he was scanning this 
horse, watching him trot etc and examining him too at the time. 
In the final response letter dated 16 March 2021 SOL concentrated wholly on the fact the 
ligament condition and the bone spavin condition were linked as in the bone spavin condition 
was simply a continuation of the ligament issue. And it said on the balance of probabilities it 
was a continuation claim. However, theres no medical evidence of that so as to find 
anything on the balance of probabilities, let alone this. The only medical evidence on the 
matter is from Miss S vet who clearly details why the bone spavin wasnt related to the previous ligament injury. SOL also relies heavily on what the previous underwriter said. But I 
dont consider thats relevant at all, as I discussed above. 
In response to the investigators view. SOL again relied on what the previous underwriter 
said which I dont consider to be relevant here. More so since the previous underwriter was 
in no position to comment since it wasnt insuring Miss S horse at the time her vet made this 
claim, given for some reason there was a change of underwriters. Theres also no evidence 
of any investigation it might have done either.
So, in conclusion I dont consider SOL has adequately shown me why it was refusing to pay 
this claim. On that basis I dont consider its decision to refuse to pay this claim for this 
condition to be either fair or reasonable. 
Miss S has produced further vet invoices for this condition to us, which have yet to be seen 
by SOL. However, I would generally expect SOL to assess them in the usual way under the 
remaining terms and conditions having regard to this decision. But obviously I can make no 
finding on these further invoices as SOL hasnt seen them, so the issue of those further 
invoices is not part of this decision.
My final decision
So, for these reasons its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. 
I now require Society of Lloyds to do the following:
Reconsider Miss S claim under the remaining terms and conditions and settle her 
claim. 
Interest of 8% simple per year should be added from the date Miss S paid her vet 
fees to the date it reimburses her. If income tax is to be deducted from the interest, 
appropriate documentation should be provided to Miss S for HMRC purposes. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman