DRN-1486133
The complaint
Mr A complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco) lent to him in an irresponsible 
manner.
What happened
Mr A took out an initial loan with Tesco in October 2013 for £15,000. He also opened a credit 
card around a year later in October 2014 with a credit limit of £8,200, and later applied for a 
second loan on 7 November 2014 for £25,000 in order to pay off the first loan in full. 
Mr A complained that Tesco acted irresponsibly by allowing him to take out the £25,000 
loan. He says he was using the credit card to fund his gambling, which resulted in him 
building up a large debt, and that they should not have lent to him in November 2014 as this 
allowed him to refinance his debts to carry on gambling. Mr A says that Tesco should have 
seen the gambling transactions on his credit card statements and believes they have 
breached their duty of care by allowing him to refinance. 
Mr A subsequently entered into an IVA in August 2015 as he was unable to repay his debts. 
He says that this has caused his mental health to suffer, and that he wants Tesco to pay 
compensation and apologise for lending to him irresponsibly.
Tesco said it had no reason to suspect that there were any concerns with Mr As financial 
status as he had maintained all his previous payments and his credit checks proved 
satisfactory. It said it had no indication that Mr A had a gambling problem at the time, and 
that he made no attempt to ask for any help or support. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She was satisfied that Tesco had no cause for 
concern when agreeing to lend Mr A the £25,000 in November 2014, so she didnt think they 
had to do anything further. Mr A disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me to 
determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have decided not to uphold it. Weve set out our approach to 
unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website and Ive kept this in mind while 
deciding Mr A s complaint.
Best practice at the time Tesco gave the loan to Mr A suggested it should carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he owed 
in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Tesco had to think about whether repaying 
the credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr A. In practice
this meant that Tesco had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt cause Mr A undue 
difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for Tesco to simply 
think about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of any 
repayments on Mr A.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact that 
the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to make 
repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about whether Tesco did what it needed to before agreeing to 
lend to Mr A in November 2014.
Tesco gathered some information from Mr A before it agreed the loan. It asked him for 
details of his income, and his normal expenditure, and identified that his net income was well 
above the cost of living threshold and had also recently increased due to an uplift in his 
monthly income. 
Tesco also checked Mr As credit file to assess how he was managing his finances, and the 
results dont appear to show that Mr A was facing any problems managing his money. His 
debt to income ratio was relatively low and did not raise concerns, and he had also 
maintained his first loan account well  making all payment to Tesco on time. There also 
doesnt appear to have been any adverse information found during the credit searches, such 
as defaults or delinquent accounts, so there was no indication of any significant repayment 
problems in the past. So I think the results of the credit check might reasonably have 
reassured Tesco about Mr As financial circumstances. 
Mr A says that he was using his credit card (also held with Tesco) to fund his gambling habit, 
which he says ought to have put it on notice that he was spending compulsively, such that it 
shouldnt have lent him the £25,000. But at the point Mr A applied for the loan, his credit card 
with Tesco had been open for less than a month and wouldve only shown a few 
transactions along with his initial balance transfer. 
I can see from Mr As October 2014 statements that there were five separate payments 
made to a gambling company, as well as two amounts being credited (which were 
presumably winnings). But these transactions were for relatively low amounts, and also 
spaced over several days from 24 October 2014 to 2 November 2014. And I dont think Tesco ought to have realised from this activity alone that Mr A had a problem with gambling, 
rather than simply playing for entertainment. 
Mr A also didnt tell Tesco about his gambling problem when applying for the loan  and 
neither have I seen any evidence to suggest that he made them aware of this at the time or 
asked for help. So, in the circumstances, I dont consider there was enough to put Tesco on 
notice that he was vulnerable and would likely use the loan to fund further gambling. 
Given everything Ive seen Im not persuaded that Tesco has lent to Mr A irresponsibly. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman