DRN-3553242
The complaint
Mr E is unhappy with HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) after falling victim to an authorised push 
payment (APP) cloned investment firm scam, whereby he sent money to an account held 
at HSBC.
What happened
The details and facts of this case are well-known to both parties, so I dont need to repeat 
them at length here. 
In summary, Mr E fell victim to a cloned investment firm scam. As part of the scam, Mr E 
made a series of five payments / transfers of £20,000 from his bank account, to an account 
held at HSBC in July 2021. Four of the transfers were stopped but the first transfer Mr E 
made, was debited and processed.
The scam was uncovered, and Mr E raised the matter with his Bank. Mr Es Bank refunded 
him the £20,000. Mr E also raised concerns about HSBC, where the receiving bank account 
was held. 
Mr Es Bank and HSBC are both signed up to the Lending Standards Boards voluntary 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code). 
The CRM Code was implemented to reduce the occurrence of APP scams. It sets out what 
is expected of the Sending Firm when payments are made which includes a consideration 
of whether a customer met their requisite level of care when making the payment. And it also 
sets out the obligations for the Receiving Firm to prevent, detect and respond to the receipt 
of funds from APP scams in order to prevent accounts from being opened, or used, to 
launder the proceeds of APP scams. Where there is a failing by either the Sending Firm or 
Receiving Firm, they may be required to reimburse the customer. And the customer may 
also be required to share some responsibility for the loss if it is determined that they also 
failed to meet their requisite level of care under the CRM Code.
HSBC, in its capacity as the Receiving Firm, looked into the matter and issued a final 
response letter to Mr E. It didnt agree that it was liable for any loss Mr E incurred. It said that 
the beneficiary account had been opened correctly in line with its procedures. It explained 
that it could not disclose full details of what steps it had taken, due to data protection, but 
advised that it considered it had taken the appropriate actions once notified of the fraud.
Unhappy, Mr E referred his complaint about HSBC to our service. Broadly summarised, Mr E 
considers HSBC didnt carry out sufficient checks as it allowed an account to be opened and 
used fraudulently. Mr E considers HSBC should compensate him as its failures meant it was 
complicit in allowing the facilitation of fraud. Mr E says HSBC would have been aware of the 
cloned investment firm scam as the details of the scam were available on the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) website and it therefore hadnt acted appropriately as 
it allowed consumers to send funds to a fraudulent account.
One of our Investigators looked into things and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld 
and that HSBC didnt need to do anything further. 
Overall, they were satisfied HSBC had met the standards required of it under the CRM Code 
and wasnt responsible for Mr Es losses as it couldnt reasonably have done more to 
prevent Mr Es loss. He was also satisfied it had responded appropriately to the notification 
of fraud. 
Mr E disagreed and remained of the opinion that HSBC was at the very least both complicit 
and negligent in facilitating fraud and considered that by pursuing and raising the issue it will 
hopefully force HSBC to change its procedures to reduce other consumers falling victims to 
scams.
As Mr E disagreed with the Investigators opinion, and as the matter hasnt been resolved, it 
has been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint and the responses briefly, in less detail 
than has been provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, 
Ive focussed on what I think is the heart of the matter here  which is to determine whether 
HSBC should have done more to prevent Mr Es loss under the CRM Code. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the 
right outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our 
service as an alternative to the courts.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr E but Im not upholding his complaint about HSBC. I know hes 
been the victim of a cruel scam and I dont doubt that these events have had a significant 
impact on him. And I do fully understand that, despite receiving a full refund from his Bank, 
he wants to ensure that proper procedures are in place / have been followed in order to 
prevent fraudsters from being able to open accounts.
In this case, I dont consider HSBC has acted unfairly or unreasonably in its answering of the 
complaint. Im satisfied HSBC has met its requirements under the CRM Code and therefore 
isnt liable and doesnt need to do anything further or pay any compensation to Mr E. Ill 
explain why.
Among other things, regulated firms receiving payments like HSBC, are required to
conduct their business with due skill, care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2)
and to comply with legal and regulatory anti-money laundering and countering the financing
of terrorism requirements.Those requirements include maintaining proportionate and risk-sensitive policies and
procedures to identify, assess and manage money laundering risk  for example through
customer due diligence measures and the ongoing monitoring of the business relationship
(including through the scrutiny of transactions undertaken throughout the course of the
relationship).
And, more generally given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, as
a matter of good industry practice at the time, I think firms should reasonably have had
measures in place to detect suspicious transactions or activities that might indicate fraud or
financial abuse (something also recognised by the Banking Standards Institutes October
2017 Protecting Customers from Financial harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse 
Code of Practice).
And Im satisfied that this good practice requirement meant not just looking out for situations
where a customer might be the victim of fraud, but also situations where the customer might
be the perpetrator of fraud or a money mule.
Also relevant in this case, as mentioned earlier, is the CRM Code that HSBC has signed up 
to.
The relevant considerations for Receiving Firms under the CRM Code sets out the following:
CRM Code: Payment Journey  Receiving Firm
 
SF2 Receiving Firms should take reasonable steps to prevent accounts from being 
used to launder the proceeds of APP scams. This should include procedures 
to prevent, detect and respond to the receipt of funds from APP scams. 
Where the receiving Firm identifies funds where there are concerns that they 
may be the proceeds of an APP scam, it should freeze the funds and respond 
in a timely manner.
Prevention
SF2(1) Firms must take reasonable steps to prevent accounts being opened for 
criminal purposes.
Detection
SF2(3) Firms must take reasonable steps to detect accounts which may be, or are 
being, used to receive APP scam funds.
Response
SF2(4) Following notification of concerns about an account or funds at a receiving 
Firm, the receiving Firm should respond in accordance with the procedures 
set out in the Best Practice Standards.
In considering all of the above, and to determine if HSBC met the standards required of it 
under the CRM Code, I have looked at whether HSBC opened the receiving account 
correctly, whether there was anything in the way the account was being used that should 
have given HSBC any cause for concern and finally; once notified of fraud did it act 
appropriately and in a timely manner. And if I consider there were failings in relation to any of 
the above, I have to consider whether HSBCs acts or omissions fairly resulted in Mr Es 
loss.  I would like to point out to Mr E at this point, that while HSBC has provided our service with 
information about the receiving bank account  it has done so in confidence. This is to allow 
us to discharge our investigatory functions and HSBC has provided that which is necessary 
for the determination of this complaint. Due to data protection laws our service cant share 
any information about the beneficiary, the receiving bank account or any investigation and 
action HSBC subsequently took. However I would like to assure Mr E I have thoroughly 
reviewed and considered all the information provided before reaching my decision.
Prevention - The account opening process
To help decide whether or not a bank failed to prevent the loss of an APP victim when
opening the beneficiary account, we would generally ask to see evidence that; it correctly
followed its account opening procedures; carried out checks to verify the identity of the
named account holder; and did its due diligence when opening the account.
I appreciate Mr E has said he doesnt think HSBC did enough here, as an account was 
opened and was subsequently used fraudulently. And Mr E considers HSBC would have 
been aware of the cloned investment scam as details of the cloned investment firm scam 
were on the FCA website and so it should have taken steps sooner than it did. 
I can understand why Mr E may think this. However while the details of the cloned 
investment firm scam were available on the FCA website, the fraudsters operating the scam 
most likely used multiple accounts when duping innocent consumers.
And in the circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied that HSBC carried out checks to 
verify the identity of the named account holder and did its due diligence when opening the 
beneficiary account. There wasnt anything at the time that I think reasonably couldve 
alerted HSBC that the account it was opening would later be used fraudulently. 
So Im satisfied HSBC had taken reasonable steps to prevent the account being opened for 
criminal purposes and it didnt miss an opportunity to prevent Mr Es loss when opening the 
account.
Detection - Account activity
The primary duty of a bank is to follow their customers instructions and make payments as
directed in line with the mandate  which is usually set out in the terms and conditions of the
account. The CRM Code sets out that Firms must take reasonable steps to detect accounts 
which may be, or are being, used to receive APP scam funds. This ties in with long standing 
regulatory and legal obligations Banks and Building Societies have to monitor their business 
relationships and to be alert to other risks - such as fraud, which would include giving 
consideration to unusual and out of character transactions.
Ive looked at the account history for the beneficiary account and I cant say there was any 
account activity that I think would reasonably have stood out to HSBC as suspicious or 
significantly outside of what might be expected for an account of that type. Im also satisfied 
there was no notification of fraud on the account prior to the payment Mr E made into the 
account and no other red flags where it could reasonably be argued that HSBC might have 
had sufficient grounds to suspect fraud and refuse execution of their customers payment 
instructions.So, from what Ive seen, Im satisfied HSBC has demonstrated that it has taken reasonable 
steps to detect accounts which may be, or are being, used to receive APP scam funds. I also 
dont think HSBC ought reasonably to have had concerns where I would have expected it to 
have intervened, so I cant fairly say that it could have prevented Mr Es loss in this way 
either.
Response to notification of fraud
The Best Practice Standards set out that a Receiving Firm must take appropriate action, in a 
speedy manner, upon notification of APP fraud and notify the Sending Firm if any funds 
remain for recovery. Here, once notified that the account had received funds as a result of 
fraud, Im satisfied HSBC took the necessary actions required of it and did so in a timely 
manner. HSBC inhibited the account and then undertook an investigation  the details of 
which I cant provide due to data protection laws.
So, taking the above into consideration Im satisfied, following notification of APP fraud, 
HSBC responded in accordance with the procedures set out in the Best Practice Standards. 
And I dont think I can fairly say HSBC didnt do enough to respond to the alleged APP fraud.
Overall, while Mr E was the unfortunate victim of a scam, Im satisfied that HSBC met the 
standards required of it under the CRM Code. I also dont think HSBC couldve done 
anything more as the Receiving Firm to have prevented the loss of Mr Es money. And it 
responded appropriately once notified of the fraud. So, it follows that I dont think they are 
liable under the CRM Code or otherwise and I dont direct it to do anything further or pay any 
compensation to Mr E.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2022.
 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman