DRN-1433098
 
The complaint
Mrs L has complained that Mobile Money Limited (MML or the lender) was irresponsible 
to have agreed credit for her. She also complained that MML didnt treat her fairly when she 
got into difficulty with her repayments.
Mrs L has mentioned that a dealership to which she sold her car prior to repossession action 
by MML has been threatening to her and shes reported this to the police. This complaint is 
about the actions of MML and I dont think it is appropriate for me to comment on the actions 
of a third party, particularly when this matter may be the subject of a police investigation.
What happened
MML provided Mrs L with four loans from December 2014 to August 2017. Each was a log 
book loan, in other words it was granted on the basis that Mrs L provided MML with a bill of 
sale for her car. This meant that if Mrs L didnt make her loan repayments MML could 
potentially recoup its losses through the sale of the vehicle. Ive summarised some of the 
information MML provided about these loans in the table below (with figures rounded to the 
nearest pound). 
No. Start Closure Capital (£)Put to 
previous loan 
(£)Monthly 
repayment 
(£)Term (m)
104/12/2014 05/06/2015 1,500 - 167 36
205/06/2015 08/08/2017 4,375 1,375 277 36
307/12/2015 08/08/2017 1,500 0 178 12
409/08/2017 outstanding 5,000 2,028 412 18
 
Mrs Ls first loan was for £1,500 to be repaid over three years with a monthly repayment of 
£167. She made several payments, and then took out a second loan six months later. This 
was for the increased amount of £4,375, some of which was used to repay her first loan. The 
repayments for this loan were higher at £277.
Mrs L then took out a third loan after another six months. This was for £1,500 which she 
kept, leaving her second loan running alongside this third loan. Her combined monthly 
repayments for loans 2 and 3 came to £455. It seems she first had problems making her 
repayments for these two loans in September 2016. In August 2017 Mrs L took out her final 
loan. This was for £5,000, some of which was used to pay off her second and third loans. 
Mrs L again had problems with her repayments starting in December 2017, about four 
months later. 
Mrs L said that MML didnt carry out proper checks when making its lending decisions. She 
said that, had it done so, it would not have agreed credit for her as she couldnt afford to 
repay it. Mrs L said that she has a history of struggling with money, having been in an Individual Voluntary Arrangement and had a previous vehicle repossessed, all of which was 
evident on her credit file.
Mrs L also explained that during the time she borrowed from MML she was in a vulnerable 
position due to her mental health and the loss of her job. She says that MML didnt treat her 
fairly when she had difficulty meeting her loan repayments. 
MML says that it carried out proportionate affordability checks when Mrs L applied for each 
of her loans. These involved gathering evidence of her salary, asking about her expenses 
and checking her credit file. It has provided the salary slips and credit file results. The lender 
also says that it did treat Mrs L fairly when she had problems with repayments. And that 
when it learnt that she had sold her car in June 2018, it worked with her to set up a 
repayment plan to avoid repossessing  the car from the third party.
MML says that there is an amount outstanding on the fourth loan which it is willing to waive 
as settlement of the complaint. Mrs L says this amount is due to interest unfairly added to 
her loan as further interest shouldnt have been added after it was recorded as being in 
default.
One of our adjudicators has looked into Mrs Ls complaint already. She recommended that it 
be upheld and that MML refunds the interest and charges Mrs L paid for her loans. 
MML didnt agree with our adjudicators recommendation and said (in summary) that:
It hadnt been irresponsible to agree Mrs Ls first two loans. It accepted that Mrs Ls 
credit file showed that shed had problems with credit, but shed explained why and 
her more recent credit appeared to have been managed well. It generally agreed 
loans for people who had outstanding historic defaults and it took Mrs Ls good 
payment history on her first loan into account when agreeing her second. 
It was evident however that during this loan, Mrs [L] encountered financial difficulty 
and I do reluctantly concede that MML could have done more to assess Mrs [L]s 
financial situation for her third and fourth loans. And we are content to offer a refund 
of all interest paid on loans two and three plus 8% statutory interest whilst cleansing 
Mrs [L]s credit file. (Ive assumed MML means to offer a refund of interest paid on 
loans 3 and 4, given what it said about these loans.)
If Mrs L was experiencing financial difficulty she had assets available to her disposal 
to be able to repay her debts should she have chosen to do so, for example, her 
cars. 
It is pertinent to the case that Mrs L has admitted to falsifying her employment status 
when applying for her later loans and sold her vehicle without the consent of MML.
 
The complaint has now come to me as ombudsman for review and final decision. This is the 
end of our process and my decision will be binding on the parties, should Mrs L accept it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about high cost lending  including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice  on our website. Ive followed that approach here, as did our adjudicator. 
Having considered everything, including what MML said in response to the recommendation, 
I am upholding Mrs Ls complaint. I appreciate that will be disappointing for MML and I will 
explain how Ive come to this conclusion. The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when Mrs L took out her loans. 
The relevant rules and guidance at the time as set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC) said that for all loans MML needed to check that Mrs L could afford to meet her 
repayments in a sustainable manner. This was explained in CONC 5.3.1(G)(6) as meaning 
Mrs L being able to meet her repayments out of her normal income without having to go 
without or borrow further or without having to realise assets (my emphasis). MML has said 
that Mrs L wasnt typical of a consumer in financial difficulty  she lived in an affluent area, 
for example, owned relatively expensive cars and was able to renovate her house. 
Nevertheless, the regulations are clear that MML needed to check that Mrs L could repay 
credit in a sustainable manner, in other words within her usual means.
Neither the law nor the FCA specified what level of detail was needed or how an assessment 
was to be carried out in practice. The FCA said that the level of detail would depend on the 
type of product, the amount of credit being considered, the associated cost and risk to the 
borrower relative to the borrowers financial situation, amongst other factors. In other words 
the checks needed to be proportionate. This suggests that the same checks might not be the 
appropriate thing to do for all consumers, or for the same consumer in all circumstances. 
Its important to note here that the assessment needed to be consumer-focussed. It was not 
an assessment of the risk to the lender, but of the risk to the consumer. So even in this case 
where Mrs L had provided security for her loans in the form of a bill of sale for her car, this 
doesnt absolve MML of its obligation to assess whether in the first instance Mrs L could 
meet loan her repayments without undue difficulty. I appreciate what MML has said about 
Mrs Ls actions regarding selling her car and not being truthful about her circumstances at 
times. However, my focus in this matter is about MMLs obligations as a lender as set out in 
the regulations. Whether Mrs Ls sale of her car was lawful or her applications for credit 
fraudulent are questions outside of the scope of this decision and best dealt with by the 
courts.
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mrs Ls case, I have considered the 
following questions, as our adjudicator did:
did MML complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing
Mrs Ls loan applications to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loans in 
a sustainable way? 
if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
did MML make fair lending decisions? 
was there a point at which the pattern of lending itself showed that it would be 
harmful to agree further credit?
and finally, did MML act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
 
As mentioned above, when Mrs L asked for her first loan, MML verified her income by 
checking her payslip, asked her about her expenses and ran a credit check. It says it did see 
that she had previous problems with credit but this didnt dissuade it from lending to her. 
As our adjudicator explained, while these checks went some way to giving MML a good 
knowledge of Mrs Ls finances, she wasnt satisfied that they went far enough. This was 
because MML didnt look at evidence for the main living expenses Mrs L needed to pay, 
such as proof of her rent contribution and essential bills. Furthermore, the evidence it did 
have about Mrs Ls financial management showed that she had unpaid (sole) debts of over 
£40,000 and four active County Court Judgements (CCJs), one of which had been lodged 
the previous month. Ive noted MMLs comments about lending to people with historic money management 
troubles, and that it asked Mrs L about the defaults. I understand that she explained that 
these difficulties stemmed from when her husband had to sell his company in 2008. I can 
see that some of the defaults on her credit file were from around that time and the years that 
followed. However, some of the defaults were from more recent years  2011 and 2013  
and her latest (of four) CCJs was from 2014. And none of her debt was jointly borrowed. 
Mrs L was keeping up to date with some bills for telecommunications and insurance. But, 
given the amount and ongoing nature of defaults showing on her file and the amount of 
money she was asking to borrow now, I dont think it was fair of MML to agree further credit 
for her. 
In addition, even if MML had gone further in checking that Mrs L had the means to repay its 
loan in a sustainable way (which I think it should have), I dont think it would have learnt 
anything which would have reassured it. I can see from Mrs Ls bank statements that she 
had more money going out than coming in and didnt have enough money in her account the 
previous month to pay her direct debits for several bills. Altogether, I think MML was 
irresponsible to have agreed to lend to her at this time. 
Ive reached a similar conclusion about Mrs Ls second loan. I appreciate that by then she 
had made six months of repayments on her first loan and was earning more money, but her 
overall financial situation hadnt improved, as evidenced by her credit file and her bank 
statements. 
When Mrs L asked for her third loan in December 2015, MML noted on its underwriting 
documents that she had received a bonus that September but that she was behind in her 
payments for her second loan. The record says Customers payments with ourselves are 
running slightly behind - I've arranged this with her. When she got the bonus she started 
building work on the house and went over budget. In my opinion this is not an indication of 
financial difficulties rather an oversight on spending. Bearing in mind that this would be Mrs 
Ls third loan in a year and that she had ongoing money management issues, I think the 
lender was irresponsible to agree further credit for her. And I can see from Mrs Ls bank 
statements that her finances were even more pressured with many more returned direct 
debits resulting in almost £100 of unpaid transaction charges around that time.
As mentioned earlier, Mrs L had difficulty meeting her repayments around eight or nine 
months later. She went on to take out her fourth and final loan with MML in mid-2017 to 
consolidate her existing two. MML recorded then that Mrs L said shed been unemployed for 
periods but was now back in employment. And the lender could see from its credit check that 
she had a new default on a recent credit card. I understand this wouldnt necessarily have 
caused MML concern of itself. But, in the context of Mrs Ls financial history and given that 
shed now been borrowing from it from over two and a half years, I dont think it was 
responsible of MML to agree further credit because it was foreseeable that she would have 
difficulty managing this in a sustainable way. In addition, by this point I think her history of 
taking out loans from MML was likely to have been seen negatively by other lenders.
Mrs L has also complained that MML didnt treat her fairly when she had difficulty managing 
her repayments. I understand a number of repayment plans were agreed between them 
throughout 2018 and that Mrs L sold her car to a dealership during that year. When a 
repayment plan broke down in early 2019 MML looked to repossess Mrs Ls car from the 
dealership. Mrs L made several payments after that until she complained to MML in June 
2019 and told it of her health problems. It seems MML then stopped charging interest on her 
loan and offered to waive the outstanding balance (of almost £2,000) to settle the account 
and resolve her complaint. Mrs L said that she was under horrendous stress trying to repay her loan to MML. She 
says that her physical and mental health suffered and that she had to borrow from friends 
and family and pawn her possessions to meet her repayments. I dont doubt that Mrs L has 
had a very difficult time over the years regarding her finances and her health, and Im sorry 
to hear it has been so hard for her.
I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mrs L but I am not going to ask MML to pay her 
compensation beyond the refund of interest and charges set out below. I cant hold MML 
responsible for the stress she was under because of her whole financial situation. And it 
seems the lender arranged several repayment plans for her before considering repossessing 
her car from the third party. It could have stopped charging her interest sooner, which might 
have made things easier for her, but it did freeze her account when it learned of her health 
issues and offered to write off the outstanding balance.
Putting things right
MML was irresponsible to have agreed credit for Mrs L from and including her first loan 
taken out in December 2014. 
I understand that there was a balance outstanding on loan 4, but from the account 
information provided by MML it seems Mrs L has repaid more than the original £5,000 she 
borrowed. 
a. MML should add together the total of the repayments made by Mrs L towards 
interest, fees and charges on loans 1, 2 and 3.
b. It should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mrs L 
which were considered as part of a), calculated from the date she originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
c. MML should remove all interest, fees and charges from the outstanding balance on 
loan 4, and treat any repayments made by Mrs L as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on that loan. If this results in Mrs L having made 
overpayments (as I think it will) then MML should refund these overpayments with 
8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments 
would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. 
MML should then also refund the amounts calculated in a) and b) and move to step e)
d. If there is still an outstanding balance after the steps at c) have been completed (and 
I dont think there will be), then the amounts calculated in a) and b) should be used to 
repay any balance remaining on the outstanding. If this results in a surplus then the 
surplus should be paid to Mrs L. However, if there is still an outstanding balance after 
this deduction (and I dont expect there to be) then MML should agree an affordable 
repayment plan with her. 
e. MML should remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Ls credit file in 
relation to loans 1, 2 and 3. The overall pattern of Mrs Ls borrowing when she took 
loan 4 means any information recorded about it is adverse, so MML should remove 
that loan entirely from Mrs Ls credit file. 
f. Revoke the Bill of Sale for Mrs Ls car if this is still in place.
 
To be clear, charges referred to above to be refunded include any repossession charges, 
default interest or any other fees associated with the loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MML to deduct tax from this interest. It should give Mrs L 
a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if she asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons given, I am upholding Mrs Ls complaint about Mobile Money Limited and 
direct it to put things right for her as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2020.
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman