DRN-3685163
The complaint
Mr D complains about the way Health Shield Friendly Society Limited has handled a claim 
he made on a private medical insurance policy.
What happened
Mr D is insured under his employers group Health Cash Plan. Mr D joined the scheme on 1 
April 2015 and so his policy benefit year ran from 1 April of each policy year thereafter until 
31 March of the following year. The policy included a dental benefit of £175 per benefit year.
On 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a pandemic. 
Subsequently, on 16 March 2020, the UK government advised citizens to stop all 
nonessential travel and social contact. And on 23 March 2020, national lockdown was 
imposed by the UK government. As a result of lockdown, many dental practices and 
opticians, along with therapists, were unable to provide appointments during this period. 
While dental practices were reopened from 8 June 2020, some disruption to dental services 
remained over the next 18 months. Due to Covid-19, both Mr D and his dentist had to 
reschedule an appointment Mr D had made for January 2022. This meant that Mr D was 
unable to use his full benefit in the 2020-21 policy year and he didnt use any benefit during 
the 2021-22 policy year. 
Mr Ds appointment was rescheduled for 7 April 2022  after the 2022-23 policy benefit year 
began. Mr D asked Health Shield whether, given hed been unable to use his 2021-22 policy 
benefit, it would pay his claim under the previous policy year. Health Shield turned down Mr 
D's request. Thats because the policy terms stated that claims in a benefit year were treated 
according to when treatment was received.
Unhappy with Health Shields response, Mr D asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ds complaint should be upheld. She thought the policy terms 
made it clear how Health Shield would treat claims. And she didnt think Health Shield had 
been responsible for Mr D being unable to undergo treatment during the 2021-22 policy 
year. So she didnt recommend that it do anything more.
Mr D disagreed. In summary, he said that the investigator had disregarded his ability to 
make use of the policy services during the pandemic. He felt it would be fair and reasonable 
for Health Shield to provide some flexibility and to effectively extend the 2021-22 policy 
benefit period.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr D, I think Health Shield has treated him 
fairly and Ill explain why. 
When making my decision about what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
Mr Ds complaint, Ive taken into account the terms and conditions of his employers contract 
with Health Shield, as well as other relevant considerations such as the law and industry 
guidance. 
Mr Ds policy year runs between 1 April and 31 March of each year. His employers contract 
with Health Shield says that Health Shield will provide policy benefits between those dates. 
Insurance policies are intended to cover the risk of an uncertain event happening over the 
duration of the contract. An insurer is entitled to retain the benefit of the premium paid to 
cover the risk during that time, even if no successful claim has been made under the policy. 
Health Shield provided cover under the Health Cash Plan during the 2021-22 policy year, 
even though I appreciate Mr D wasnt able to make use of it as hed planned to.
Page three of the plan terms and conditions sets out the benefit period. This says: 
As a member, you will not receive more than the maximum benefit amount under any of the 
benefit rules for yourself, your partner (if they are covered) or dependent children in each 
case for any one benefit year. We treat claims in a benefit year according to the dates 
you (or your partner or dependent child) were admitted to hospital or received 
treatment, whichever applies. (Emphasis added).
In my view, Health Shield has made it clear that it considers claims during the policy benefit 
year in which treatment took place. Theres no policy term which allows an insured person to 
defer their policy benefit or to extend it. In this case, while I appreciate Mr D had originally 
scheduled an appointment to take place during the 2021-22 policy year, due to 
circumstances outside of his control, this was delayed until the 2022-23 policy year. As such, 
under the terms of the Health Cash Plan contract, Health Shield was entitled to deal with the 
claim in the 2022-23 policy benefit year.
I understand how strongly Mr D feels that given the impact of Covid-19, Health Shield should 
apply some flexibility in its assessment of his claim. Ive thought about this carefully. But Ive 
also borne in mind that Health Shield didnt make any error which caused Mr Ds 
appointment to be delayed. It wasnt responsible for the fact that Mr D was unfortunately 
prevented from making use of his policy benefit during the previous benefit period. And 
Health Shield doesnt own or operate the dental practices its members use and the situation 
which unfolded surrounding Covid-19 was something which was outside of its control. There 
were other policy benefits available for Mr D to use even though he wasnt able to use the 
dental benefit as hed hoped to. So on this basis, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable 
for me to direct Health Shield to deal with Mr Ds claim under the 2021-22 policy benefit 
period.
Overall, whilst I sympathise with Mr Ds position, I dont think Health Shield has done 
anything wrong which it needs to put right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2022.
 
Lisa BarhamOmbudsman