DRN-3076119
complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
March 2002. Miss L says AXA France IARD mis-sold her PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Miss Ls 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Miss Ls representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new 
or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Miss Ls. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Miss Ls 
complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
I think AXA made it clear that Miss L didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out. AXA has given me a copy of the credit agreement that Miss L signed. In this, 
there was a separate section titled protecting your account that gave Miss L the option 
of signing the section if she wanted to take out account cover  which included PPI. I 
can see that Miss L signed the section to confirm she wanted the PPI, and I think it was 
equally clear she could have left it blank if she didnt want the cover. 
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Miss L - so it didnt have to check that the PPI was 
right or suitable for her. But it did have to give Miss L enough clear and timely 
information so she could decide for herself if it was right for her.
Its possible the information AXA gave Miss L about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Miss L  for example she 
wasnt affected by the significant exclusions on or limits to the cover. And it wasnt too 
dissimilar to what she reasonably thought she was buying from the information she was 
given. The credit agreement did set out the cost of the PPI was £1 per £100 but it didnt 
explain the true cost of the policy and that it would include interest. But overall it looks 
like it was affordable  and Miss L didnt have any means to fall back on if she was 
unable to work due to sickness or redundancy. So it seems like it would have been 
useful for her if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Miss L would have 
declined the cover had AXA done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Miss Ls circumstances at the time of sale and despite its limitations 
and exclusions, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. So I think 
she would have still thought she had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Miss L would have still taken out PPI. The policy was sufficiently 
close to what its likely she thought she was getting and I think the policy could provide a 
useful benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. And in those 
circumstances, I think that she would have taken out the policy in any event.
Miss Ls representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant AXA should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Miss Ls representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Miss Ls individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Miss Ls particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
This means AXA doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Miss Ls complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Miss L to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 December 2021. 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman