DRN-3496659
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that Coventry Building Society (CBS) did not provide them with 
clear information about its porting policy, and effectively recommended a mortgage product 
that was not suitable for them. At the time of writing, as I understand it, they would like me 
to direct CBS to allow them to port their existing mortgage. Or to be released from the 
mortgage product to which they agreed in 2021 and return to a standard variable rate 
mortgage. This is so they will not have to pay an Early Repayment Charge (ERC) on their 
existing mortgage product.
What happened
In December 2020, Mr and Mrs Ts fixed rate deal on their residential mortgage with 
CBS ended. They then spent a few months paying a standard variable rate while 
deciding what to do. In February 2021 they bought another property outright, with no 
mortgage, which needed converting into a residential property. They werent sure what 
they were going to do with this property, options including selling it; letting it; or living in it 
themselves.
In March 2021 in a conversation with CBS, Mr and Mrs T asked if it would be possible to 
get a mortgage on an unencumbered property (i.e. one that was unmortgaged and 
owned outright). CBS confirmed that would be possible, subject to criteria and 
application at the time.
In April 2021 Mr and Mrs T discussed switching their product with CBS. Following a full 
fact find to assess thier demands and needs, they were advised to take a fixed rate for 
10 years. In discussions with CBS, they asked about the portability of the new mortgage 
deal they were signing up to. CBS confirmed it was in principle portable, and Mr and Mrs 
T confirmed that they had no plans to move, but as they were signing up to a 10-year 
term, they wanted to consider that issue.
In September 2021 Mr and Mrs T approached CBS to discuss porting their mortgage to 
the converted property theyd bought in February 2021. CBS said that wouldnt be 
possible as their policy did not allow the porting of mortgages to properties which were 
alreay owned by the mortgagor.
Mr and Mrs T complained that policy had not been made clear to them when theyd agreed 
to the fixed year term in April 2021. They also disputed whether the policy in question 
actually applied to their circumstances at all. CBS did not accept that it had done anything 
wrong, so Mr and Mrs T came to this service.
Having considered all the evidence, the investigator thought that CBS hadnt done anyting 
wrong in the information it had provided to Mr and Mrs T, so didnt uphold the complaint. Mr 
and Mrs T disagree and have asked an Ombudsman to look at their case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of ttheir complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding it, and Ill explain why.
This case rests on the provision of reasonable advice and clear and accurate information, 
both verbally and in writing, by CBS to Mr and Mrs T, in all the relevant circumstances. 
In March 2021 Mr and Mrs T asked whether it would be possible to get a mortgage on an 
unencumbered property. The CBS representative said it was, subject to application and 
lending criteria. However, Mr and Mrs T didnt ask about porting. Instead they suggested that 
they were considering taking a new mortgage on the conversion property, and changing their 
existing mortgage to a buy to let product. That is not the same thing.
So, based on the enquiry Mr and Mrs T made at this time, Im satisfied CBS provided them 
with the right information in the circumstances.
The following month, Mr and Mrs T discussed switiching their existing mortgage with CBS. 
The CBS advisor asked a range of questions in order to establish their current and future 
plans and so to offer advice about what mortgage product would be right for them. Mr and 
Mrs T confirmed they wanted to sign up for a 10-year fixed rate deal (a product transfer 
transaction). They asked about porting this new deal, and the advisor explained the key 
rules and features around porting, also probing whether there were any plans to move in 
place. Mr and Mrs T said they had no plans to move. The discussion was centred around 
buying a new property and how that would work  not porting to one already owned So, Ive 
not seen anything to suggest Mr and mrs T were given unclear or misleading information?
Given that Mr and Mrs T have said by this point they were considering their options in 
relation to the conversion property, one of those being them residing in it, its unlear why, 
when the advisor asked them about any furture intentions to move, they didnt present this 
as a possibility. Im pursuaded that had they been open about their possible future 
intentions, CBS would have been better informed to provide relevant advice and would most 
likely have elaborated on the porting criteria. I think its unlikely a 10 year fixed rate would 
have been recommended. But on the basis of what Mr and Mrs T did say about their needs 
(wanting to maximise a lower rate for as long as possible) and having no intentions to move, 
I cant say CBS provided unsuitable advice.
After the call in which they opted for the new 10-year fixed rate deal, CBS sent Mr and Mrs T 
some paperwork, including the mortgage offer. This was clearly an important step, providing 
them with essential and detailed information, which Id expect them to have read before 
contractually agreeing to the product transfer. If anything were unclear, in the circumstances, 
Id expect them to have sought clarity from CBS before finally agreeing the product transfer.
Also included was a leaflet called Moving Your Mortgage. Under the heading Our General 
Porting Policy, it sets out that:
The ported mortgage sub-account(s) can only be used to purchase a new property, 
not to remortgage a property you already own.
This sentence has been the subject of intense scrutiny. Words have been isolated, defined 
using a dictionary, and Mr and Mrs T have disputed its overall meaning and applicability to 
their situation. I dont consider it either necessary or helpful to add further to questions of semantics and syntax. I think its clear enough from the paperwork that porting is intended 
for use under CBSs policy when the purchase of a new property is underway  not the 
transfer to a property already owned.
Mr and Mrs Ts 2021 offer sets out the terms of their mortgage. Those terms state that if Mr 
and Mrs T were to redeem their mortgage before the end of the fixed term, a reducing ERC 
of 5%, 3%, and finally 1% of the outstanding balance would be applied on a sliding scale 
until June 2031.
When a lender offers a fixed rate mortgage product, both the lender and borrower are tied 
into the fixed rate for the duration of the term. The ERC reflects the pre-estimated costs a 
lender incurs across a range of mortgages where the borrower redeems the mortgage within 
the benefit period. 
The ERC isnt (and isnt intended or expected by the regulator to be) reflective of the loss on 
redemption of an individual mortgage. As such, lenders arent expected to accept customers 
proposals to alter the mortgage contract terms due to a change in circumstances.
I need to consider what's fair and reasonable in the circumstances for both parties. The ERC
forms part of the contract Mr and Mrs T have with CBS, so I can't say it would be unfair or 
unreasonable for CBS to apply an ERC. As such I wont be asking CBS to waive the ERC
or make any changes to the mortgage terms.
As I have not found any significant mistakes by CBS, it therefore follows that I dont uphold 
this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint and Coventry Building 
Society doesnt need to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 August 2022. 
Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman