DRN-4327669
The complaint
Miss S complains that Lloyds Bank PLC irresponsibly gave her a fixed sum loan agreement 
she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In June 2019, Miss S applied for a fixed sum loan agreement with Lloyds. She was given a 
loan for £10,000. She was required to repay 84 monthly payments of around £177. Miss S 
complained to Lloyds in November 2022 to say that it shouldnt have given her the loan 
because it had been unaffordable to her from the outset. She said she already had a number 
of existing debts, including another loan and credit card from Lloyds.
Lloyds didnt think it had acted unfairly when it granted the loan. It said it had completed 
adequate affordability checks which included taking information from Miss S application 
about her income and expenditure. It says these checks didnt reveal any affordability 
concerns. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He was satisfied that Lloyds 
hadnt made an unfair lending decision. 
Miss S didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before lending to Miss S, Lloyds needed to ensure it completed reasonable and 
proportionate affordability checks. What is proportionate will vary with each lending decision 
as there isnt a one-size-fits-all approach to what specific checks need to be completed. In 
deciding what would be proportionate, Lloyds needed to take into account things such as 
(but not limited to): the amount borrowed, the size of the regular repayments, the term, the 
cost of borrowing and Miss S circumstances. 
Miss S applied for the loan online and stated on the application that she had a monthly 
income of £3,373 and paid £252 per month towards housing. Lloyds completed a credit 
check which showed that Miss S had existing monthly credit commitments of around £475. It 
showed that she had no arrears or recent defaulted debts. It also used statistical data to 
estimate her likely essential living costs which it determined to be £394. Taking all of this into 
consideration it concluded that Miss S had sufficient disposable income to afford the new 
loan repayments.
Ive considered that only one month before this loan application Lloyds had agreed a credit 
limit increase on Miss S Lloyds credit card. As part of that lending decision, Lloyds tells us it 
recorded an income figure of £1,849 for Miss S. This was a significant discrepancy from 
what Miss S declared one month later. I think this ought to have prompted Lloyds to 
complete more thorough affordability checks before granting the loan. 
Im mindful that Miss S held a current account with Lloyds which contained details of her 
regular income and expenditure. I consider it reasonable and proportionate for Lloyds to 
have taken into consideration everything it already knew about its customer before lending to 
them. Im not suggesting it needed to complete a manual review of her bank statements, but 
at the very least, taken into consideration key data points that were readily available to it  
such as Miss S income and general account management. 
Having reviewed her bank statements, Ive seen that Miss S received income into her 
account that was broadly the amount she had declared on the application. This was a 
combination of wages, benefits and regular contributions from her partner and a relative. 
Miss S has sought to argue the payments from her relative shouldnt be taken into 
consideration as part of her income. However, those payments from her relative were 
regular and consistent. Further, their inclusion helped to bring her income up to around the 
figure she had declared on the application. For these reasons, I cant fairly say it would have 
been unreasonable for Lloyds to consider it as income if it had reviewed payments coming 
into her account. 
Having considered Miss S account activity, including the level of income and expenditure, 
Ive seen nothing to indicate that Lloyds ought to have been concerned about her ability to 
sustainably repay the loan, even if it had reviewed her account management and spending 
further. 
Miss S says that she took out another loan with a different lender a few weeks before this 
one. She said the monthly repayments on that loan were £352 per month and would have 
shown the Lloyds loan was unaffordable to her. Lloyds says it didnt see this loan in the 
credit checks it completed and from what it has provided of those checks, Im satisfied that 
appears to be the case. Given that the previous loan was taken out so recently, I dont find 
that particularly surprising as credit file information is rarely updated immediately. 
I note that Miss S says that proportionate affordability checks should also have included a 
manual review of bank statements she held with other providers (which would have shown 
her most recent loan). However, in the specific circumstances of this complaint I dont agree 
that would have been reasonable or proportionate. 
Given Lloyds already had access to what appeared to be Miss S main current account and 
which would have revealed no affordability concerns, I dont think Lloyds would have needed 
to do further manual checking. This is because Miss S income and regular living 
expenditure was visible on the Lloyds account and there were no obvious signs of financial 
difficulty on those statements, or in the credit checks it completed. 
Taking everything into account, I dont think Lloyds made an unfair lending decision. 
However, I remind Lloyds of its obligation to treat Miss S fairly if she is now in financial 
difficulty and struggling to repay the borrowing. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman