DRN-3504493
The complaint
Mr R complains about damage charges Secure Trust Bank Plc trading as Moneyway 
(Moneyway) tried to recover from him after he returned a car to it that was subject to a hire 
purchase agreement (agreement).
What happened
In early 2018 Mr R entered into an agreement for a used car costing £7,995. The car was 
approximately seven years old and had travelled approximately 49,000 miles.
Everything else being equal Mr R undertook to pay Moneyway 59 monthly payments of 
£205.53 followed by one monthly payment of £215.53  making a total repayable of 
£12,341.80 at an APR of 20.3%.
In late 2020 Mr R returned the car and voluntary terminated the agreement, as was his right.
After the car had been collected and inspected Moneyway sought to recover from Mr R £535 
for damages, a sum it later reduced to £435 and then to £225.
Mr R was unhappy with being charged anything by Moneyway for damages, so he 
complained to our service.
Mr Rs complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that 
Moneyway should:
waive any outstanding damage charges it was seeking to recover from Mr R
ensure Mr Rs credit file showed the agreement as settled with a zero outstanding 
balance
ensure any adverse information noted on Mr Rs credit file in respect of damage 
charges (such as arrears) is removed
Moneyway agreed with the investigators view but Mr R didnt. Mr R said he should also be 
compensated for the distress and inconvenience Moneyways unjust decision to pursue him 
for damage charges had caused him.
The investigator considered both parties response to his view, but he wasnt persuaded to 
change his mind. Therefore, Mr Rs complaint has been passed to me for review and 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties agree with the investigators view that any outstanding damage charges should 
be waived, and that Mr Rs credit file should be amended (where necessary) to show the 
agreement as settled (with a zero outstanding balance) and to show no adverse information 
(in respect of damage charges). 
Because of this, other than saying I fully agree that this is a fair and reasonable thing to 
happen, I make no further comment or finding on this particular point.
However, this isnt the end of matters. Mr R submits that he should also be compensated for 
the distress and inconvenience Moneyway has caused him in pursuing him for the various 
damage charges.
Mr R disagreed with Moneyways decision to hold him liable for one or more damage 
charges and with its decision to seek recovery of the same from him. But just as Mr R was 
entitled to his view on these two matters, Moneyway was entitled to its. And such 
disagreements dont, in themselves, warrant the making of an award for distress and 
inconvenience in favour of the consumer even where our service ultimately sides with the 
consumers view on matters.
Now Moneyway dealt with Mr Rs complaint as I would expect it to and that includes giving 
him referral rights to our service (in good time) and agreeing to stop seeking payment of the 
charges when requested by us to do so.
So, although I appreciate Mr R will be disappointed, Im not persuaded that in the particular 
circumstances of this case an award for distress and inconvenience is warranted. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Secure Trust Bank Plc trading as Moneyway must:
waive all the damage charges it was seeking from Mr R
ensure Mr Rs credit file shows the agreement as settled with a zero outstanding 
balance
ensure any adverse information recorded with credit reference agencies in respect of 
the damage charges (such as arrears) is removed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman