DRN-4308546
The complaint
Mr B complained about the service provided by Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada 
(U.K.) Limited. He said he hasnt been treated fairly by Sun Life as he tried to sort out errors 
caused by it. He said he should be paid more compensation than Sun Life has offered. 
What happened
Mr B has three whole life assurance policies with Sun Life. Mr B said he was affected by 
a breakdown in Sun Lifes internal system that resulted in it not applying payments he 
made to his policies. He said this led to him receiving non-payment chaser letters and 
he had to contact it to resolve. He said he was waiting for a long time on the phone, and 
when he raised a complaint about all of it, Sun Life didnt deal with it in a timely or 
satisfactory manner.  
Sun Life replied and said it upheld Mr Bs complaint. It said sorry for the errors and 
inconvenience it had caused. It initially only addressed issues relating to one of Mr Bs 
policies. Mr B needed to contact Sun Life again and say that it held three policies, all of 
which he had needed to deal with due to errors it had made. Sun Life responded and agreed 
with Mr B. It said sorry for making errors with all three policies and offered £300 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mr B wasnt happy with Sun Lifes response. He felt considering the amount of errors Sun 
Life had made, and the amount of time it had taken him to sort out, he felt £500 
compensation reflected what had happened.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in July 2023. Both parties have received a 
copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from the decision 
below. I said;
I currently think Sun Lifes offer of £300 compensation for distress and inconvenience is a 
fair and reasonable amount for it to pay. 
These are my findings that explain why:
Mr B has three whole life assurance policies with Sun Life. He pays a premium 
for each one. Previously he has paid this after Sun Life has sent a notice or letter 
to him advising how much he needs to pay. 
On this occasion, Mr B did not receive any correspondence from Sun Life, and 
this led to him receiving non-payment chaser letters. Mr B needed to contact Sun 
Life to resolve this and at one point was on the phone for a long time, waiting to 
speak to an adviser. 
Mr B paid the premiums, but again it took Sun Life a long time to allocate the 
payments to his policies. I can see when I look at a timeline of events here, that 
Sun Life repeatedly made errors that required Mr B a reasonable amount of effort 
to sort out.
I can see that Mr B made phone calls on the 11 March and 25 April 2022 as well 
as a third phone call on 31 May 2022. Mr B also had to send emails to chase Sun 
Life up and try and rectify matters.
Sun Life has said sorry for the mistakes it has made and taken responsibility for 
them. So, I dont need to decide whether Sun Life made errors or not. Sun Life 
said it did.
What is left for me to decide is how much compensation for distress and 
inconvenience it should pay. Sun Life has made an offer of £300 which is says is 
very fair. It says this has been offered overall for the mistakes it has made and 
the distress and inconvenience it has caused. Mr B on the other hand thinks a 
fairer offer would be for it to pay £500. 
I can see that Sun Life has made a series of small errors and these have 
required Mr B to chase it and spend his time in sorting things out. This, I can see 
would have resulted in a stressful time for Mr B that would have lasted over 
weeks. 
I think the £300 payment offered by Sun Life is fair and reasonable, and is in line 
with the sort of award I would make for the distress and inconvenience that it has 
caused Mr B. I need to be consistent with other cases that I have dealt with that 
are like Mr Bs complaint and also with our services approach to awards of this 
nature. I am currently minded to think Sun Lifes offer does fit in with both. 
Looked at overall, I think what Sun Life offered to Mr B to put things right is fair and 
reasonable.
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response to 
my provisional decision. Sun Life said it had no additional information to add. Mr B did 
not respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has anything further to add that I feel I need to comment on or that will 
change the outcome of this complaint. So, because of this, I dont see any reason to depart 
from my findings within my provisional decision.
My final decision
Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited has already made an offer to Mr B to 
pay £300 to settle the complaint and I think this is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited should pay 
£300 to Mr B, if it hasnt done so already
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 15 September 2023.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman