DRN-3843071
The complaint
Mr B complains he was mis-sold an investment he made in a bond issued by Basset & Gold 
Plc (B&G Plc). He believes he was misled about the risk associated with the bond and 
would like to be compensated for the loss in capital he suffered. 
Background
The B&G Plc Bond
Mr B invested £10,000 in a B&G Plc 5 Year Compounding High-Yield Bond in February 
2018. For a period, sales of these bonds were dealt with by Basset Gold Ltd (BG Ltd), a 
separate business from B&G Plc, the issuer of the bonds. BG Ltd arranged applications for 
investments in the bonds. And it was responsible for advertising and marketing the bonds. 
Potential investors were also able to call BG Ltd to discuss the bonds. 
B&G Plc and BG Ltd were both appointed representatives (ARs) of Gallium Fund Solutions 
Limited (Gallium). B&G Plc and BG Ltd were ARs of Gallium from 17 February 2017 to 28 
February 2018. 
Basset Gold Finance Ltd (BGF)  an independently authorised business not connected to 
Gallium  took over from BG Ltd at some point in 2018. Gallium has said this happened 
before the AR agreement between it and BG Ltd came to an end and has made submissions 
on this point. Ive referred to BG Ltd as the business Mr B interacted with, but Ill go on to 
consider in my findings whether Mr B actually dealt with BGF instead.
Mr B and the investment in the bond
As previously noted, Mr B invested a total of £10,000 in the bond. This followed email 
correspondence he had with a representative of BG Ltd which took place over a number of 
weeks. This includes an email exchange where Mr B asked:
I have £20k sitting in a RBS ISA account doing absolutely nothing in terms of investment. 
My big concern with your bonds offers is that I could lose my life savings and I am reluctant 
to take that gamble. Can you offer any assurance regarding the safety of my money
BG Ltd replied:
No investor has ever lost money with Basset Gold, and we intend to keep to keep it that 
way. As a primary layer of security, al (sic) investments are backed by assets, such as 
property, corporate debentures and other forms of security in order to protect our 
investments and your capital. 
Basset & Gold Plc. has never missed any payment to investors and no investor has ever lost 
money with Basset & Gold Plc. In addition, all payments are made directly to your bank 
account, so you dont have to request to withdraw your interest payments, creating a truly 
hassle-free investment. 
We are required to inform you that past performance is not indicative of future results. 
Basset & Gold Plcs profit lies in the gap between the income from financing activities and 
the interest paid to investors, so you can rest assured that we are not tempted to reduce risk 
or operate in a way that is counterproductive to our returns since our profit comes from the 
interest earned on investments and not from fees or other incentives that may potentially be 
in conflict with your objectives.
BG Ltds log of applications records the following:
Investor Tags Legal Tags
Type Date Type Date
Everyday Investor 2018-02-12 17:06:25 Completed Investor Questionnaire 2018-02-12 17:07:39
B&G T&C Confirmed 2018-02-12 17:08:44
KYC Completed 2018-02-14 09:04:36
The certificate for the bond Mr B invested in  £10,000 in the B&G Plc 5 Year Compounding 
High-Yield Bond  records the application date as 12 February 2018. Hes said this sum 
represented roughly half his life savings. He also said:
My attitude to risk is very much low to medium. I would not have taken chances with my 
pension pot and I bought the Feb bond as a suck it and see trial rather than investing my 
entire savings. 
If I hadn't discovered B&G I would have left the money in the Royal Bank Account. I don't 
really know but I would guess that a non-readily realisable security is a long term investment 
commitment which cannot be cashed in earlier that the agreed term. I was completely 
guided by my personal adviser in B&G.
On 8 January 2019, BGF (which by that point had taken on the role of BG Ltd), emailed all 
investors who held B&G Plc bonds. The email explained that nearly all the money invested 
in the bonds had been lent to one short term and pay day lender, called Uncle Buck. 
Following action by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), Uncle Buck went into 
administration in March 2020 - and B&G Plc went into administration shortly afterwards. As a 
result, Mr B hasnt had the money he invested in this bond returned to him.
The application process
It isnt completely clear from the available evidence how Mr Bs application was made. 
However, Ive seen screen prints of each stage of BG Ltds online application process which 
show the online application journey that potential investors underwent. There were two 
stages, designed to meet the rules regarding restrictions on who the bonds could be 
promoted to and testing if the investments were appropriate for potential investors. The first 
stage was certification and the second was the appropriateness test.
Galliums response to Mr Bs complaint
Gallium did not uphold Mr Bs complaint. It said Mr B had been given sufficient information 
and risk warnings about the investment. It then made further submissions once the 
complaint was referred to us. I have considered the submissions in full and Ive also 
considered what Gallium describes as its position statement, which sets out general 
information on the background to complaints about B&G Plc bonds.Our investigators view
One of our investigators considered Mr Bs complaint and concluded it should be upheld. 
They said, in summary:
The information received from BG Ltds administrators shows that Mr B selected 
everyday investor, which was BG Ltds category for restricted investors. But as 
Mr B had confirmed that he had invested half his life savings in the bond, our 
investigator didnt think hed have qualified as a restricted investor as he was 
investing more than 10% of his assets. He also had no previous investment 
experience of any similar products.
They had thought about whether Mr B would have qualified as any of the other 
categories of investor type eligible to receive promotions of the bond but didnt think 
he would.
The assessment of the appropriateness of the bonds for Mr B was misleading and 
didnt gather sufficient information to comply with the FCAs rules. 
Had BG Ltds process met what was required under the rules and sufficiently asked 
Mr B about his knowledge and experience then BG Ltd ought to have reasonably 
concluded that he did not have the necessary knowledge and experience to make 
the bond an appropriate investment for him.
Overall, BG Ltd, on Galliums behalf, didnt comply with its regulatory obligations. 
Had it done so, Mr B wouldnt have decided to invest or BG Ltd should have 
concluded that it shouldnt allow Mr B to invest. For these reasons, both cumulatively 
and individually, it was fair to uphold the complaint and for Gallium to compensate Mr 
B for the loss he suffered.
Galliums response to the view
Gallium did not accept the investigators view. It said, in summary: 
The investigator made findings on advice and matters not complained about, which 
fell outside the scope of the complaint made.
Mr B ought to be held to the declaration he made that he satisfied the requirements 
of a restricted investor.
The appropriateness test answers, and the confirmations Mr B gave, were sufficient 
for Gallium to satisfy itself that he had sufficient knowledge and experience of the 
bonds to understand the risks those bonds involved, as per the relevant rules. It was 
reasonable for Gallium to rely on the outcome of this test.
Mr B made the investment on the understanding it had risk associated with it and did 
not choose to surrender it when receiving the email in 2019 which warned of the 
concentration risk.
Gallium also made submissions on what it describes as the interim period and said, in 
summary:
BGF was authorised by the FCA on 2 January 2018 and began to promote the bonds 
to investors from that date. In particular, it understands that the website and 
telephone line was the responsibility of BGF from that date.At no point was BGF an appointed representative of Gallium, and Gallium had no 
responsibility for the actions of BGF. Our investigator has not found that Mr B actually 
spoke to anyone at B&G plc and BG Ltd for whose conduct Gallium had any 
responsibility, or that Gallium actually approved the content of the website through 
which Mr B invested and which contained the certification and appropriateness 
questions which form the basis for the view. Rather, the available evidence suggests 
that Mr B applied to invest through a website process approved by BGF.
The investigator considered the points Gallium made and issued a further opinion on the 
complaint, he said, in summary:
Various emails sent to Mr B prior to him taking out the bond all showed in the footer 
that BG Ltd were acting as an AR of Gallium. 
Widely available evidence also showed that emails and paperwork in use at the time 
consistently set out prior to 1 March 2018 that the correspondence was sent from BG 
Ltd as an AR of Gallium Fund Solutions Limited  after which, this changed to BGF. 
Gallium subsequently provided a witness statement from its former director, dated 16 
February 2023, which says: 
He understands that the only regulated activities that continued to be carried out by 
BG Ltd in the interim period (the period where BGF, were that BG Ltd remained 
responsible for the making of telephone calls with investors or prospective investors 
concerning their bond investments. 
It is his understanding that: 
oSave in relation to telephone calls between Basset & Gold representatives 
and investors/prospective investors in the bonds, during the interim period all 
regulated activities relating to the financial promotions concerning the B&G 
Plc bonds, as well as activities concerning the arranging of bond investments, 
were conducted by BGF
oBG Ltd continued to be responsible for the content of telephone calls between 
Basset & Gold.
On 4 January 2018, he received an email from the owner of Basset & Gold, which 
confirmed that Basset & Gold (he says this meant BGF) had been authorised by the 
FCA. The owner requested a meeting to discuss the best way to transition the 
regulatory business away from Gallium to the new firm. 
He believes the meeting took place on 11 January 2018. No notes are available, but 
he recalls what was discussed.
We asked Gallium for various points of clarification on what is said in the witness statement, 
and for contemporaneous evidence to support it. However, we have not yet received a 
response to that request. 
I issued a provisional decision where I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I note the points Gallium has raised about the interim period  in short, that it is not responsible for the act(s) this complaint relates to. With that in mind I have firstly considered 
all the available evidence and arguments to decide whether we can consider Mr Bs 
complaint.
It is not clear how exactly Mr Bs application came about  whether it was done online, over 
the phone or through the post  or on what basis it proceeded. But I think its reasonable to 
say that Mr Bs complaint is about the arrangement of his investment in the bond and the 
exchanges he had with the representative in the period up to the arrangement of the 
investment being concluded. In summary, he says he was misled when he queried the 
safety of the investment into the bond.
Rule DISP 2.3.1R says we can;
consider a complaint under the Compulsory Jurisdiction if it relates to an act or omission by 
a firm in carrying onregulated activitiesor any ancillary activities, including advice, 
carried on by the firm in connection with them.
And the guidance at DISP 2.3.3G says:
complaints about acts or omissions include those in respect of activities for which the 
firmis responsible (including business of any appointed representative or agent for which 
the firmhas accepted responsibility).
This guidance is drawn from the relevant legislation, which is paragraph 3 of s39 to the 
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA):
the principal [here, Gallium] of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same 
extent as if she had expressly permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the representative 
in carrying on the business for which she has accepted responsibility. 
What I need to consider here is whether Mr Bs complaint is about a regulated activity, 
carried on by an appointed representative of Gallium, for which Gallium accepted 
responsibility.
Is Mr Bs complaint about a regulated activity?
Im satisfied Mr Bs complaint relates to a regulated activity. The bond was a security or 
contractually based investment specified in the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 
(Regulated Activities) Order 2001 (RAO). At the time of Mr Bs investment in the bond, the 
RAO said regulated activities include arranging deals in investments.
Activities such as obtaining and assisting in the completion of an application form and 
sending it off, with the clients payment, to the investment issuer would come within the 
scope of Article 25(1), when the arrangements have the direct effect of bringing about the 
transaction. So, I am satisfied the application process  whether it took place online, through 
the post or over the phone - falls within the scope of Article 25(1). It involved making 
arrangements for Mr B to invest in the bond and had the direct effect of bringing about the 
transaction.
Was Gallium responsible for the acts the complaint is about?
Under the appointed representative agreement in place between BG Ltd and Gallium, in 
relation to bonds, BG Ltd was allowed to carry out promoting activitieswhere the Company 
has approved the financial promotion. And Gallium allowed BG Ltd the right under its 
authorisation with the FCA to give advice in connection with advising, arranging, or dealing in investment products for present and prospective clients and in connection therewith to 
display, advertise, promote, . for the sole purpose of promoting the sale of the same.
This agreement was in force during the period up to the date of investment  12 February 
2018. So, if BG Ltd carried out the arrangements, that is business for which Gallium 
accepted responsibility and the complaint can therefore be considered against it. 
I note that Gallium has said that from 2 January 2018 BGF began to promote the bonds to 
investors and that the website and telephone line was the responsibility of BGF from that 
date. However, apart from the witness statement (which I will comment on in due course), it 
has provided no evidence to support this point. 
Im satisfied that the available evidence shows that it was BG Ltd and not BGF making the 
arrangements for Mr Bs investment. Notable evidence includes:
An email dated 12 December 2017 from BG Ltds Dedicated Relationship Manager 
(the representative Mr B dealt with throughout), with links to the range of investment 
options, with an email footer stating Basset Gold Ltd is an appointed representative 
of Gallium Fund Solutions Limited which is authorised and regulated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority
An email dated from 12 February 2018 from the Relationship Manager in response to 
a query Mr B raised about the safety of his capital. There is an email footer stating 
Basset Gold Ltd is an appointed representative of Gallium Fund Solutions Limited 
which is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority 
Another email from 12 February 2018 from the Relationship Manager acknowledging 
receipt of Mr Bs application. Again, the email footer states Basset Gold Ltd is an 
appointed representative of Gallium Fund Solutions Limited which is authorised and 
regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority 
An email from 14 February 2018 from the Relationship Manager confirming receipt of 
the funds and also confirming the application is complete. As with the previous 
emails Ive mentioned - the footer states Basset Gold Ltd. is an appointed 
representative of Gallium Fund Solutions Limited which is authorised and regulated 
by the Financial Conduct Authority.
I think the evidence shows that it was BG Ltd that was responsible for arranging the 
investment, not BGF. Ive also not seen any communication from BG Ltd or BGF to Mr B to 
notify him of a change on 2 January 2018  and I would expect such a communication to 
have been issued, given Mr Bs interactions with BG Ltd were ongoing at that point. 
Gallium says the available evidence suggests that Mr B applied to invest through a website 
process approved by BGF. As I have set out, I have not seen any evidence specific to this 
investment which makes any reference to BGF - all references are to BG Ltd. 
The witness statement includes the following:
On 4 January 2018, I received an email from , the ultimate owner and controller of Basset 
& Gold, which confirmed that Basset & Gold had been authorised by the FCA. I now know 
that it is BGF that was the entity authorised by the FCA, and that BGF had become FCA 
authorised on 2 January 2018.  requested a meeting to discuss the best way to transition 
the regulatory business away from Gallium to the new firm. 
I met with  in the hotel he was staying in London the week following his email. I believe the meeting took place on 11 January 2018 as s email of 4 January 2018 mentioned that he 
would be in London the following Thursday, which was the 11th. I recall that I made a note of 
what we discussed at the meeting, but so long after it took place I cannot now locate my 
notes. I do, however, recall what was discussed. 
At the meeting,  and I agreed that Gallium would cease monitoring and approving new 
financial promotions with immediate effect, because Basset & Gold now controlled its own 
regulated firm, BGF. 
 also informed me that BGF would update the Basset & Gold website and online 
application form, to reflect that BGF was now responsible for the promotion of the bonds and 
arranging any investments made in the Bonds. 
I think several elements of the witness statement are unclear, and we havent been provided 
with any evidence in support of what it says. However, even if I were to accept what the 
statement says (and, for the avoidance of doubt, I dont) it does not conclusively show that 
BGF was responsible for Mr Bs investment. 
The reason I say this is because the witness statement says a meeting took place on 11 
January 2018 to discuss a transition to BGF from Galliums ARs. Galliums ex-director says 
he recalls that at the time of the meeting Gallium would no longer be responsible with 
immediate effect and BGF now being responsible. This suggests that responsibility passed 
from Gallium to BGF on 11 January 2018. 
However, I have not seen any evidence to show BGF took responsibility from 11 January 
2018. I think the use of the phrase transition to BGF from Galliums ARs is telling and 
doesnt indicate that BGF was taking responsibility for everything with immediate effect. Ive 
also considered the AR agreements in place between Gallium and B&G Plc/BG Ltd. I note 
that 11 i) of the AR agreement says: 
This Agreement will remain in force for 6 months from the date of signing after which either 
party may terminate the Agreement by giving 1 month's written notice, which notice shall 
start from the end of the month of receipt by the Company of that said notice.
Therefore, notice given in January would start from the end of that month and go on to the 
end of February. This is consistent with the emails Ive seen from February 2018 where the 
footer stated they were from BG Ltd not BGF. And as Ive previously mentioned there was 
no communication in January or February 2018 saying that there was a change from BG Ltd 
to BGF. Having considered everything, I am satisfied Mr Bs complaint is about acts for 
which Gallium accepted responsibility. They are therefore acts of Gallium and can be 
considered in a complaint against it.
The merits of Mr Bs complaint
As I am satisfied Mr Bs complaint is one I can look at, I will now go on to consider all the 
available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
of this complaint. In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint, I have taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance 
and standards; codes of practice; and where appropriate, what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a general 
statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 
1.1.2G). In my opinion Principle 6 (Customers interests) and Principle 7 (Communications 
with clients) are relevant here. Principle 7 overlaps with COBS 4.2.1R (1) (A firm must ensure that a communication or a 
financial promotion is fair, clear and not misleading), which I also consider to be relevant 
here. 
The bonds were non-readily realisable, and because of this there were rules restricting who 
they could be promoted to and how to test whether the investment was appropriate for 
potential investors. These rules are set out in COBS 4.7 and COBS 10.1, 10.2 and 10.3 and 
Ive considered them in full. 
I note Gallium has referred to the FCAs policy statement PS14/4, and to question and 
answer sessions with the FCAs Head of Investment Policy and UKCFA. Ive also considered 
these in coming to my decision. 
Having considered all the available evidence and arguments I have reached similar overall 
conclusions to the investigator, for similar reasons. In summary: 
BG Ltd, acting on Galliums behalf, misled Mr B into certifying himself as belonging in 
a category to which he did not belong (a restricted investor) by changing the term 
used in the rules to everyday investor and describing the category as being one 
anyone could fall into. This was not treating him fairly or acting in his best interests. 
Had BG Ltd followed the rules and not misled him, it is unlikely he would have 
certified himself as being a restricted investor. 
The appropriateness test carried out by BG Ltd, on behalf of Gallium, did not meet 
the requirements of the rules. And, had it done so, it would have been apparent the 
bond was not an appropriate investment for Mr B. In the circumstances Mr B would 
either not have proceeded or, acting fairly and reasonably, BG Ltd should have 
concluded it should not promote the bond to Mr B.
Overall, I am satisfied Mr B would either not have proceeded to make the investment or 
would not have been able to proceed, had Gallium acted fairly and reasonably to meet its 
regulatory obligations.
For these reasons  individually and cumulatively  my decision is that Mr Bs complaint 
should be upheld. I am also satisfied Mr B would either not have proceeded to make the 
investment or would not have been able to proceed, had Gallium acted fairly and reasonably 
to meet its regulatory obligations. And so I am satisfied it is fair to ask Gallium to 
compensate Mr B for his loss. 
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr B 
as close to the position he would probably now be in if he had not invested in the bond. I 
take the view that Mr B would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Mr B's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Gallium do?
To compensate Mr B fairly, Gallium must:
Compare the performance of Mr B's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below.Gallium should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
Pay Mr B £350 for the distress suffered through losing his capital.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Investment 
nameBenchmark From (start 
date)To (end date) Additional interest
B&G Plc bond Average rate 
from fixed rate 
bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple per year 
from final decision to 
settlement (if not 
settled within 28 days 
of the business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid or payable from the investment at the end date. If at the 
end date the investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open market), 
it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual value should 
be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mr B agrees to Gallium taking ownership of the 
investment, if it wishes to. If it is not possible for Gallium to take ownership, then it may 
request an undertaking from Mr B that he repays to Gallium any amount he may receive 
from the investment in future.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Gallium should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those 
rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the investment should be deducted 
from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any 
return in the calculation from that point on. If there are a large number of regular payments, 
to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Gallium totals all those payments and deducts that 
figure at the end to determine the fair value instead of deducting periodically. If any 
distributions or income were automatically paid out into a portfolio and left uninvested, they 
must be deducted at the end to determine the fair value, and not periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because: 
Mr B wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risking any of his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure given Mr B's circumstances and objectives. It does not mean that Mr B would have invested only 
in a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer could have 
obtained with little risk to their capital.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr B accepted my findings. Gallium provided further submissions containing information 
relating to the interim period which included:
A copy of the 4 January 2018 email from the owner of Basset & Gold referred to in 
the witness statement.
Email correspondence regarding making B&G Plc an AR of BGF and the transfer of 
approved persons from January 2018.
A list of the calls made by BG Ltd from April 2017 to February 2018 which Gallium 
had monitored.
Copies of Galliums Appointed Representative Monthly Compliance Report for 
Basset Gold from February 2017 to February 2018. 
Copies of the documents sent by Gallium to the FCA on 1 March 2018 applying to 
terminate BG Ltd as Galliums AR.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reconsidered the available evidence, taking into account the new submissions. Ive firstly 
reconsidered if Gallium is responsible for the acts Mr B has complained about. Having done 
so, I havent been persuaded to change my opinion on this point. I think the new evidence 
that has been provided adds further weight to my opinion that Gallium was responsible for 
making arrangements for Mr B to invest in the bond. 
I say this because the February 2018 Appointed Representative Monthly Compliance Report 
details the AR name as Basset Gold. This is the same name used in the compliance reports 
for the previous 11 months (apart from August and September 2017 where the AR name 
was handwritten, not typed as it was in the other reports, and the AR name was noted as 
Basset Gold Ltd/Basset & Gold Plc). 
I think this shows that BGF hadnt started to arrange investments at that point, and it was BG 
Ltd / B&G Plc and therefore ultimately Gallium who was responsible for arranging 
investments in February 2018. The February 2018 report also contained a list of all the 
investment business undertaken that month - this included Mr Bs investment. 
The report also included questions which were asked of Basset Gold, some of which were:
Does the Appointed Representative stationery (including website) properly identify 
the firm as an Appointed Representative of Gallium Fund Solutions Limited? And 
have you provided copies to Gallium?
Have you attached a list of all investors you have promoted to this month?
Have all investors been categorised as appropriate to receive the financial promotions prior to promotion and such categories kept on file? 
Each of these questions was answered Yes. 
Gallium also provided a call monitoring list which shows that they monitored 19 calls in 
February 2018, this was more than it had monitored in any of the previous months included 
in the report. 
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied that the available evidence shows that it was 
B&G Ltd arranging investments in B&G Plc bonds  including the investment Mr B made - as 
an appointed representative of Gallium. I say this because:
The 4 January 2018 email only refers to an intention to transition away from Gallium 
to BGF and makes a request to discuss how this might be done. It is not evidence of 
the transition having already taken place which would mean that BGF was 
responsible from that time.
The Appointed Representative Monthly Compliance Report is evidence B&G Ltd was 
still being described as an AR of Gallium at this time, in stationery and on the 
website. It is also evidence Gallium was monitoring and recording promotions and 
arrangements being made by B&G Ltd at that time. This is strong evidence Gallium 
accepted responsibility for the arrangement of investments at the time.
The fact Gallium was monitoring calls from B&G Ltd to investors (or potential 
investors) is further strong evidence Gallium accepted responsibility for the 
arrangement of investments at the time  there is no other reason why such 
monitoring would be taking place. 
In addition to this, I havent seen any evidence specific to this investment which makes any 
reference to BGF. Therefore, I remain satisfied that Mr B has complained about acts for 
which Gallium accepted responsibility and can be considered in a complaint against it.
Regarding the merits of Mr Bs complaint, I have reconsidered all the available evidence and 
arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable. Having done so, I havent been persuaded 
to depart from the view set out in my provisional decision. To confirm, my final decision is the 
same as Ive set out in my provisional decision, for the same reasons. For those reasons  
individually and cumulatively  my decision is that Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. 
I am also satisfied Mr B would either not have proceeded to make the investment or would 
not have been able to proceed, had Gallium acted fairly and reasonably to meet its 
regulatory obligations. Therefore, Im satisfied it is fair to ask Gallium to compensate Mr B for 
his loss.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr B 
as close to the position he would probably now be in if he had not invested in the bond. 
I take the view that Mr B would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Mr B's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Gallium do?To compensate Mr B fairly, Gallium must: 
Compare the performance of Mr B's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. 
Gallium should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
Pay Mr B £350 for the distress suffered through losing his capital.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Investment 
nameBenchmark From (start 
date)To (end date) Additional interest
B&G Plc bond Average rate 
from fixed rate 
bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple per year 
from final decision to 
settlement (if not 
settled within 28 days 
of the business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Gallium Fund Solutions Limited should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2023.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman