DRN-2620038
The complaint
Mr B complains about charges being sought from him by PSA Finance UK Limited trading as 
Free2Move Lease (PSA) following the return of a van that was on hire to him.
What happened
In May 2017 Mr B entered into a hire contract for a new van. 
In July 2020 Mr B returned the van to PSA. 
After the van was returned (and after it had been inspected) PSA raised an invoice seeking 
from Mr B £1,499 in charges - £923 for missing/incomplete items and £576 for damage (five 
items).
Mr B didnt agree he should be held liable for the sum of £1,499 being sought from him, so 
he complained to PSA.
PSA considered Mr Bs complaint and said that it shouldnt have charged him £923 for 
missing/incomplete items but it acted correctly in charging him £576 for damages.
Mr B was unhappy with PSAs response to his complaint and so he referred it to our service 
for investigation. Whilst Mr Bs complaint was with our service, waiting investigation, PSA 
agreed to remove one damage charge of £152 leaving four damage charges to be paid of 
£424.
Mr Bs complaint was considered by one of our investigators who concluded that PSA was 
entitled to seek recovery of £424 from him in damage charges.
Mr B didnt agree and so his complaint has been passed to me for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I would like to make it clear that Im only considering in this decision Mr Bs complaint 
that he shouldnt be charged anything for what PSA says is unacceptable damage, not any 
other complaint that Mr B might have about PSA. 
Secondly where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it 
is here, Ive to base my decision on the balance of probabilities. 
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Under the terms of his hire agreement, Mr B is liable to cover the costs associated with 
repairing specified damage. That includes damage such as scratches and dents to the van 
which are outside reasonable wear and tear. 
So, in this instance, Ive to decide if the damage relating to the front and rear bumpers, front 
left wing and left B post is outside reasonable wear and tear. In deciding this Ive taken into 
account (amongst other things) section 15.9 of the hire agreement and industry good 
practice including the British Vehicle Renting and Leasing Association guidelines (BVRLA). 
PSA has provided its inspection report which shows damage to both bumpers, the front left 
wing and the left B post. 
Having reviewed the photographs of the damage, Im satisfied it looks like wear and tear. Im 
also satisfied that it looks to be beyond the reasonable wear and tear as set out in the 
BVRLA guidelines and as set out in section 15.9 of the hire agreement.
The BVRLA guidelines state that scratches and abrasions up to 25mm are acceptable, 
provided the primer or bare metal is not showing, with a maximum of four scratches on any 
panel.
The BVRLA guidelines state that dents of 15mm and less in diameter are acceptable with a 
maximum of two dents on any panel.
Now having looked at the photographs provided by PSA, Im satisfied that the scratches to 
the front bumper exceed 100mm, the scratches to the rear bumper are between 26mm and 
100mm and the scratch to the front left wing is between 26mm and 100mm and down to the 
bare metal. And because of this, I find that PSA has acted entirely reasonably in charging 
Mr B £272.
Now if my understanding is correct PSA submits that there is dent of between 0mm and 
15mm to the left B post. Now although this might meet the chargeable test under 15.9 of 
PSAs hire agreement it doesnt meet the BVRLA test. But I dont think this is material to the 
outcome of this complaint. I say this because in my view the provided photographs show 
scratches to the left B post that are through to the bare metal and therefore chargeable 
under the BVRLA guidelines, albeit for a different reason. And because of this, I find that 
PSA has acted entirely reasonably in charging Mr B £152.
Therefore, all things considered, Im satisfied that its reasonable for PSA to seek from Mr B 
the sum of £424 in damage charges.
Finally, and for the sake of completeness, I would also like to make the following comments:
The BVRLA guidance Ive relied on is guidance issued in respect of light commercial 
vehicles and minibuses up to 17 seats, so is entirely relevant and appropriate to this 
complaint.
Im not persuaded that the difference of six miles between what was recorded on the 
inspection report and what Mr B says the van had travelled has any material bearing 
on the outcome of this complaint. 
Having considered what the parties have said, and having had regard to the supplied 
photographs, Im not persuaded the damage being charged for, on the balance of 
probabilities, happened after the van had been collected from Mr B.
From the various documentation provided to Mr B (and in some instances signed by 
him) Im satisfied that he could and should have understood what damages PSA 
could charge for on the return of the van. Ive seen nothing that prevented Mr B, in the event there was anything about the hire 
agreement that was unclear to him, from asking PSA for an explanation, or further 
explanation and clarification.
My final decision
My final decision is that PSA Finance UK Limited trading as Free2Move Lease is entitled to 
seek recovery from Mr B the sum of £424 in damage charges.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2021.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman