DRN-2397173
Complaint
Mr R is unhappy Lloyds Bank PLC hasnt refunded him the £2,640 he lost when he was the 
victim of a scam.
Background
The details of this case have been clearly set out by our investigator when he wrote to the 
bank upholding Mr Rs complaint. As such, the facts are well-known to both parties, so I 
dont need to repeat them at length here. In summary:
On 9 July 2019, Mr R made two payments in the same day totalling £2,640 into an 
account controlled by a fraudster.
He did so on the assumption that he was paying for the creation of a website that 
would help with his business and earn him additional income. 
The company claimed to have an existing relationship with Mr R. A representative of 
the company told him that it had taken over a company which hed paid to register a 
web address, but that the company name had simply changed. 
The company appeared legitimate to Mr R because it had access to information 
about his business. 
Mr R complained to Lloyds and his complaint was considered under the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model Code (CRM). This is a voluntary scheme Lloyds has signed up to, 
designed to reimburse customers that have fallen victim to a scam. The starting position 
under the Code is for a customer to be refunded. A firm might choose not to refund if it 
establishes that a customer has not met their requisite level of care. In making such an 
assessment, a firm may consider whether the customer:
ignored an effective warning;
made the payment without having a reasonable basis for belief that it was for 
legitimate purposes; or
has been grossly negligent.
Lloyds declined to pay a refund to Mr R. It said that Mr R shouldve taken greater care and 
that, as he did not verify the caller, the company or the service he was paying for, it wasnt 
required to do so. It also contacted the receiving bank to try to recover the money, but no 
funds remained in that account.
Mr R brought his complaint to our service as he wasnt happy with Lloyds decision. One of 
our investigators looked into it and recommended the complaint be upheld.
 
Our investigator found Mr R had a reasonable basis for believing he was paying for a 
legitimate service. He explained that the scammer had told Mr R that theyd taken over from 
the company that previously hosted his website. The caller appeared to have information 
about Mr Rs previously dealings with that company and this created a false confidence that 
Mr R was paying for a legitimate service. 
The investigator also pointed out that it isnt clear what Mr R couldve done to verify the 
business. The investigator clarified the name of the account holder with the receiving bank. It 
matched the name of the company that sold the service to Mr R. In other words, Mr R wasnt 
called by someone impersonating a business  he was instead called by a business that 
appears to have intended to carry out a scam. 
Mr R wouldve had no reason to believe that, when he paid for this service by bank transfer, 
the company wouldnt perform the service that had been agreed. Finally, the investigator 
said that, although Mr R couldve made the payment using a card, the fact that he didnt isnt 
enough to say that he failed to meet his requisite level of care.
The investigator concluded that Lloyds ought to have fully reimbursed Mr R at the time he 
made his claim and so should refund the two payments together with interest on the refund 
at the simple rate of 8% a year from the date it declined his claim to the date of settlement. 
The investigators findings were sent to both parties on 30 September 2020 with a deadline 
for responding of 14 October 2020. That deadline has passed and, nearly two months later, 
the bank has still failed to respond. As such, the case has been escalated to me for a final 
decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im upholding it.  
Our statutory rules provide  at DISP 3.5.8 to 3.5.15 of the Financial Conduct Authority 
Handbook  that we may give case-management directions and fix or extend deadlines; and 
that we may:
reach a decision on the basis of what has been supplied and take account of the 
failure by a party to provide information requested; 
And that
If a respondent fails to comply with a time limit, the Ombudsman may: (1) proceed 
with consideration of the complaint; and (2) include provision for any material distress 
or material inconvenience caused by that failure in any award which he decides to 
make.
Ive therefore concluded that, in the absence of a response from Lloyds to the investigators 
initial assessment, it is fair and reasonable to proceed on the basis of the evidence we 
already have and/or to take account of Lloyds failure to reply to the investigators opinion. 
Ive considered whether, under the CRM, Mr R ought to have been reimbursed when he 
notified Lloyds of the scam. In doing so, Ive considered whether or not he met his requisite 
level of care. I believe he did, for substantively the same reasons the investigator has 
already explained, so it would have been fair and reasonable for Mr R to have received a 
refund at the time.
Final decisionFor the reasons set out by the investigator and above, Ive decided that Mr F ought 
reasonably to have been fully refunded under the CRM. 
I therefore direct Lloyds Bank PLC to pay Mr R:
the money he lost as part of the scam - £2,640  within 28 days of receiving 
notification of his acceptance of my final decision. 
interest at the simple rate of 8% per year on that amount (less any tax properly 
deductible) from the date Lloyds declined Mr Rs claim under the CRM to the date of 
settlement
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2021.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman