DRN-2569515
The complaint
Mr M complains that Loans 2 Go Limited acted irresponsibly by granting him a loan that was 
unaffordable. Hes also unhappy about the amount of interest hes been charged.
What happened
In October 2019, Mr M took out a loan with Loans 2 Go for £500. He later complained that 
Loans 2 Go had lent to him irresponsibly. He said it should never have given him the loan as 
it was unaffordable.
 
Loans 2 Go said a thorough affordability assessment was conducted prior to approving the 
loan. It checked his income, expenditure and credit commitments and was satisfied the loan 
was affordable.
Mr M remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked 
into Mr Ms concerns but didnt think his complaint should be upheld. He didnt think Loans 2 
Go had acted irresponsibly when it provided the loan.
Mr M disagreed with our investigators view. He said he didnt think it was fair of Loans 2 Go 
to charge such a high amount of interest. So, his complaint has been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
The relevant rules, regulations and guidance required Loans 2 Go to carry out reasonable 
and proportionate checks to ensure Mr M could afford to repay the loan in a sustainable 
manner.  
The checks needed to be borrower-focused. It wasnt enough for Loans 2 Go to think only 
about the likelihood of getting its money back. It also had to ensure that making the 
repayments wouldnt cause Mr M undue difficulty or have adverse consequences for him. 
There isnt a set list of checks that lenders need to carry out, but they should be 
proportionate, taking a number of factors into consideration. These factors include the 
amount, type and cost of the credit as well as the personal circumstances of the consumer.
The £500 loan Loans 2 Go gave to Mr M had an APR of 1,013.2% and was due to be repaid 
in instalments of £114.28 per month over a period of 18 months. This meant the total amount 
to be repaid was £2,057.04.
Loans 2 Go says it agreed to Mr Ms application after he provided details of his monthly 
income and expenditure. It used an online verification tool to verify Mr Ms income and it also 
checked his credit file. The information Mr M provided about his income and expenditure 
showed hed be able to comfortably make the repayments he was committing to. Loans 2 Go 
says it adjusted Mr Ms expenditure to account for outstanding credit and also added a 10% 
buffer. It says Mr Ms credit report didnt show any adverse information. Loans 2 Go says 
that based on what it had seen, it looked like Mr M was able to afford the repayments. 
Mr M has provided us with copies of his bank statements. I can see from these that he was 
making payments to other lenders, meaning that his existing credit commitments were 
higher than hed declared in his application and what was showing on his credit file. I can 
also see several gambling transactions. But Loans 2 Go could only make its decision based 
on information it had available at the time. And I dont think proportionate checks would have 
extended to Loans 2 Go asking Mr M to provide his bank statements. 
I think the checks Loans 2 Go carried out were proportionate and it was reasonable for 
Loans 2 Go to rely on the information it had, given the amount of the repayments involved. 
Having seen the information Loans 2 Go reviewed at the time, I think its decision to lend to 
Mr M was reasonable. 
Mr M is also unhappy about the interest charged on the loan. I appreciate the amount Mr M 
was asked to pay back is significantly higher than what he borrowed and making the 
payments has been difficult. But the credit agreement makes no attempt to disguise how 
costly the loan is. It clearly sets out the terms of the loan, including the total amount to be 
repaid. As Mr M accepted these terms and the payments appeared to be affordable, based 
on the information it had at the time, I cant say Loans 2 Go acted unfairly when it provided 
the loan.
I appreciate my answer will be disappointing for Mr M. But I hope hell understand the 
reasons for my decision and hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
 
Although Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint, Id like to remind Loans 2 Go of its duty to treat 
him positively and sympathetically if he is having difficulty repaying the loan.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 March 2021.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman