DRN-4182033
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Paratus AMC Limited trading as Foundation Home Loans wont 
offer them a new rate on their existing mortgage. Mr and Mrs H say that because of their 
circumstances theyre also unable to re-mortgage with a different lender. They therefore 
complain that they are trapped on an unfairly high interest rate.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H took out an interest only mortgage with Foundation (formerly known as GMAC 
RFC). The mortgage began in 2006 and was on a two-year fixed rate to start with, followed 
by a variable rate from July 2008.
In August 2022 Mr and Mrs H asked Foundation for a new interest rate. They say that 
because of the rising interest rates, their mortgage payments are unaffordable for them.
Foundation said it didnt offer new rates on existing mortgages. Mr and Mrs Hs options were 
therefore either to remain on the reversion rate, move to another lender  or apply to 
Foundation through a broker for a new mortgage to replace this one.
Mr and Mrs Hs broker told them Foundation would not agree to a new mortgage application 
because Mr and Mrs H dont meet Foundations lending criteria due to their credit scores. 
And for the same reason, it was difficult for Mr and Mrs H to move their mortgage to a new 
lender. 
Mr and Mrs H complained. They said it wasnt fair that Foundation wouldnt offer a new 
interest rate, forcing them further info financial difficulty. 
Foundation said it was not obliged to offer new interest rates to existing customers. The 
mortgage was operating as it should in moving to the reversion rate at the end of the fixed 
rate period. 
Foundation explained that it was currently piloting a product transfer process, but this is not 
yet available to all customers and Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage does not meet its current 
eligibility criteria for a product transfer. It couldnt offer Mr and Mrs H a new mortgage or a 
product transfer now due to their circumstances.
Unhappy with Foundations response, Mr and Mrs H brought their complaint to our service. 
Our investigator initially thought that Foundation had acted unfairly and upheld the 
complaint. He said that although Foundation has no obligation to offer a new rate or new 
loans to its customers, Mr and Mrs H had been treated unfairly compared to other borrowers 
with the same characteristics, who could apply for a new mortgage. As such, he concluded 
that Foundations actions had breached MCOB 11.8.1 and Principle 6. 
Foundation disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision on the 
complaint. It said that as an intermediary only lender any customer looking for a new interest 
rate would need to apply for a new mortgage through a broker. A successful application 
would be subject to meeting its current lending criteria. Foundation explained the criteria for 
its product transfer pilot in more detail. 
Foundation says that because of their circumstances, Mr and Mrs H do not meet its lending 
criteria for a product transfer or for a new mortgage. It says that Mr and Mrs H have not been 
treated any differently to customers in a similar position as theirs (with the same 
characteristics). And as such there has been no breach of MCOB 11.8.1 or Principle 6 by the 
firm.
Our investigator considered the complaint again in light of the new information he received, 
and he didnt uphold it. Mr and Mrs H were understandably disappointed that the outcome of 
their complaint had changed and asked for an ombudsmans final decision on the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr and Mrs H took the mortgage out in 2006 it was on a fixed rate of 5.79% until 
1 July 2008, reverting to a variable rate of 2.15% above the Bank of England base rate from 
then on.
Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage has remained on the variable rate since July 2008. Theyve 
complained about being not being given a new interest rate in 2022.
Until 2021 Foundation did not offer new interest rates to any of its customers. An existing 
customer whose introductory rate had expired and wanted a new rate would either have to 
move lender or re-apply to Foundation as a new customer for a new mortgage.
Not all lenders do offer new rates to existing customers. Theres nothing in the mortgage 
offer that says Mr and Mrs H will be entitled to a new rate at the end of the fixed rate.  And 
theres nothing beyond the mortgage terms which says Foundation has to offer new rates 
either  theres no law, or rule of mortgage regulation, which says that a lender has to offer 
new rates to existing customers. The mortgage offer said that the mortgage will move to the 
variable rate, as indeed it did  so the mortgage has operated in line with the terms and 
conditions.
However, in 2021 and through 2022, Foundation was offering new rates to some existing 
borrowers who met its eligibility criteria. But it continued to refuse to offer one to 
Mr and Mrs H  and so I need to think about whether that was fair.
Regulatory considerations 
In deciding whether Foundation treated Mr and Mrs H fairly and reasonably in all the 
circumstances, I also need to take into account the relevant regulators rules and guidance, 
to be found in the MCOB section of the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook.
In my view, of particular importance in this case is the evidential provision for the fair 
treatment of customers who are unable to source deals with their existing lender or move 
their mortgage elsewhere. I must consider whether MCOB 11.8.1 E applies here.
In summary, in situations where a customer is either unable to enter into a new regulated
mortgage contract with their existing lender or a new mortgage lender, a lender should nottake advantage of the customers situation or treat them differently to other customers with 
similar characteristics. To do so may be in contravention of Principle 6  which says a firm 
must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
A further relevant provision includes MCOB 11.6.3 R  which says that a lender need not 
carry out an affordability assessment when varying an existing mortgage or replacing it with 
a new one, provided there is no further borrowing or another change to the contract material 
to affordability. 
So, under these provisions I must decide whether Foundation ought to have given effect to 
Mr and Mrs Hs request for a new rate  either by a rate switch varying their existing 
mortgage, or by offering a new mortgage to replace the old one. As neither of these options 
were granted to M and Mrs H, Ill consider whether that was fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. 
Foundations policy on re-mortgaging 
Foundation has explained that all customers requiring a new interest rate, must apply  via a 
broker  for a new mortgage with Foundation to replace their existing one. But to 
successfully do this, according to its policy, customers would need to pass full new borrower 
lending criteria  including an affordability assessment and a credit check. And although not 
explicitly stated, likely an assessment of their interest only repayment strategy.
Mr and Mrs H have tried to move their mortgage elsewhere, without success. While they 
might be able to pass a modified affordability assessment aimed at mortgage prisoners, 
they cant take advantage of that  because Foundation is not a closed book lender and 
therefore, they dont come within the scope of these provisions. And they havent been able 
to pass a full unmodified affordability assessment.
Because of that, I think that had they submitted a full application to Foundation for a new 
mortgage to replace this one, and had Foundation applied full new borrower criteria to them, 
its likely it also would have refused their application. And therefore, access to a new interest 
rate by this route would not have been available to them. 
There is provision in the mortgage rules for Foundation to set aside the need for both an 
affordability assessment and an interest only repayment strategy assessment, where a new 
mortgage is taken to replace an old one with the same lender  with no further borrowing 
and no other changes to the contract which are material to affordability. That would have 
been the case here. 
While these rules do not require a lender to set aside these assessments, they enable them 
to do so. And in some cases, it might be the fair and reasonable thing for a lender to do, if 
the required change would be in the customers best interest. That said, this is provided 
there was nothing else to suggest the customer(s) also wouldnt pass a wider credit risk 
assessment. Which was not the case here. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances meant that they were unlikely to pass a wider credit risk 
assessment. Information from their broker suggests they have several defaults on their credit 
files and Ive seen evidence of several charging orders on their property. 
The information on Mr and Mrs Hs credit files is of particular importance in relation to the 
impact their credit risk has on Foundations risk appetite. Ill explain why.When Mr and Mrs H asked Foundation about a rate switch in August 2022, they were told 
they could access a new interest rate (via a broker) by applying for a re-mortgage. Taking 
this route would have created a new mortgage  and so Foundations interest in the property 
would be impacted by the other existing charging orders secured against the property. 
The new order of charges held on the property means that if Mr and Mrs H sell their 
property, either through choice or by being ordered to do so, Foundation is at risk of not 
receiving all its capital back from the sale proceeds. In some cases, it is possible for a lender 
to seek a deed of postponement. This is a legal agreement between creditors/lenders that 
sets out the priority of interest in the property. The parties are not obliged to agree to this 
and so obtaining a re-mortgage or a secured loan when there are other charging orders on 
the property is not likely.  
A lender might also be reluctant to agree to a new interest rate where there are signs that a 
customer may be in financial difficulty. If a new rate is granted and the new monthly payment 
is unaffordable for the consumer, they might still fall into arrears and if the property ends up 
being sold or repossessed, an early repayment charge might be added to the loan balance.  
While I appreciate Mr and Mrs H feel the new lower interest rate would be in their best 
interest, they have also indicated a possible intention to sell their property due to their 
financial position. Whilst I dont consider this to be the primary reason behind Foundations 
concerns, it is still an important consideration in Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances for the 
reasons Ive given.
So, whilst in some circumstances an affordability assessment can be set aside, there are 
other factors in Mr and Mrs Hs case that means their circumstances dont meet 
Foundations credit risk appetite for the reasons Ive explained. So, I dont consider it unfair 
for Foundation to refuse a new mortgage application on this ground. 
Foundations policy on rate switches
In 2021 and through 2022, Foundation was offering rates to some existing borrowers who 
met its eligibility criteria. Ive considered whether Foundation ought to have fairly considered 
Mr and Mrs H for a rate switch through this option. 
Foundation has explained that it could offer customers whose existing fixed rate was ending, 
a rate switch, provided they met criteria including the following:
All mortgage payments have been made in full and on time since the origination of 
the loan;
Borrower(s) must not have a charging order registered over the security property 
since the origination of the loan;
The mortgage account must not have a fee balance of £100 or greater.
Mr and Mrs H did not meet its criteria, and so Foundation did not make a new rate available 
to them via this route. Foundation said the mortgage had been on a variable interest rate 
since 2008  so it did not qualify for the pilot scheme as it was not moving from an existing 
fixed rate. In any event Mr and Mrs H had been in arrears over the years with a fee balance 
above the threshold. A Land Registry search also shows several charging orders against the 
property.  
So, the question I must consider is whether, by offering rates to other customers but not to 
Mr and Mrs H, Foundation has acted unfairly or unreasonably in all the circumstances.As I said, Foundation did not offer rate switches before 2021. At this time, it started trialling a 
pilot. This meant that Foundation was offering a rate switch process on a small scale to 
customers whose mortgage(s) met its risk appetite  before deciding whether to offer this to 
other customers on a wider scale. For reasons Ive explained, Foundation says 
Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage doesnt meet its current risk appetite  so they dont qualify for a 
rate switch under the pilot scheme. 
A lender can set its own lending criteria and decide who it wants to lend to based on its own 
risk appetite  and there is nothing inherently wrong with that. So long as the lender is 
applying those criteria fairly to all its customers. 
That said, Ive considered the relevance of MCOB 11.8.1 E, which Ive referred to above, to 
decide if Mr and Mrs H have been treated unfairly. The provision says that where a borrower 
either cant vary their mortgage with an existing lender, or cant move their mortgage to 
another lender, it may be unfair for their existing lender to treat them less favourably (for 
example, by offering less favourable interest rates) than it would treat other customers with 
similar characteristics. 
In my view, this provision is aimed at the unfairness that might result where a borrower is 
unable to move their mortgage and shop around for a better deal  having no choice but to 
remain with their existing lender and being treated less favourably than other customers who 
are otherwise similar to them.
Mr and Mrs H have provided evidence that theyve been unable to move their mortgage to 
another lender, despite seeking advice. That brings them within the ambit of MCOB 11.8.1 
E. So, their options were therefore to either to remain on the reversion rate or apply to 
Foundation through a broker for a new mortgage to replace this one. 
In my view, it is fair and reasonable to regard their current circumstances as the 
characteristics which are relevant for the purposes of the comparison in MCOB 11.8.1 E, 
and therefore fair and reasonable to consider whether Mr and Mrs H were treated less 
favourably than other customers to whom they were similar at that time.
Foundation was not offering all its customers the option of a rate switch via this method. Ive 
explained Foundations criteria and the reasons behind considering the pilot on a small 
scale. So, when considering both of these things, Ive seen nothing to suggest that 
customers in the same position as Mr and Mrs H would be able to access a new rate in this 
way. 
It follows that Mr and Mrs H were not treated differently or less favourably, by being offered 
less favourable interest rates  than other customers with similar characteristics to them. So, 
Im satisfied the provision set out in MCOB 11.8.1 E does not apply in these circumstances 
and it follows that there has been no breach by Foundation. 
Conclusion
For the reasons Ive explained Ive not seen anything to suggest Mr and Mrs H were treated 
any differently to other customers, who at that time, shared similar characteristics to them 
when asking for new interest rate in August 2022. 
So, Im satisfied Foundation has applied its policy fairly and consistently and Ive seen 
nothing to suggest it has acted unreasonably.My final decision
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs H but for the reasons Ive given, my 
final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman