DRN-4492756
The complaint
Mr and Mrs I complain that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money didnt do enough to 
protect them from the financial harm caused by an investment scam, or to help them recover 
the money once theyd reported the scam to it.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
In August 2022, Mr I received a cold call from someone who Ill refer to as the scammer. 
The scammer said she worked for a company Ill refer to as E and told Mr I he had some 
shares which were due to increase in value owing to an impending take-over of the 
company. 
Mr I believed what the scammer told him because he had previously owned some shares 
and he researched E and was satisfied it was a genuine company which was registered on 
Companies House. He could also see the scammer had a profile on LinkedIn. 
Mr I was required to sign a Non-Disclosure Agreement (NDA) and on 6 September 2022, 
he was told to sign and return a guarantee agreement, which was endorsed by the New 
York Public Notaries Office. 
On 9 September 2022, Mr I went into a Virgin Money branch and made a payment to a new 
international payee for £5,723.33. On 14 October 2022, the scammer told him there were 
preferential shares available, so he made a further payment of £11,000 to the same payee. 
And on 16 November 2022, Mr I made a further payment of £17,489.93 to a new 
international payee, which he was told was 40% of the Federal Tax due. Each payment 
incurred a £25 fee.
On 22 November 2022, the scammer told Mr I the funds hed sent on 16 November 2022 
wouldnt be released due to additional words on the transfer document. He contacted Virgin 
Money to ask for the payment be expedited and the scammer confirmed the funds had 
cleared, but he would be charged a late payment fee amounting to $15,000.
Dissatisfied that hed been charged an additional fee, Mr I attended the branch on 13 
December 2022 to find out what had happened and Virgin Money concluded hed been 
scammed and advised him to contact the police. 
When Mr and Mrs I realised theyd been scammed, they complained to Virgin Money arguing 
that it failed to provide effective warnings when Mr I had attended the branch to make the 
payments. They also said it had failed to ask probing questions to understand the context of 
the payments or invoke the Banking Protocol, which could have prevented financial harm. 
And they were unhappy it didnt launch an investigation into the matter or raise any concerns 
with the receiving banks.
Virgin Money refused to refund and of the money theyd lost. It said Mr I had made three 
transactions in branch and each time he brought with him the International Outward 
Payment mandate pre-filled with the payee details. The mandates had certain other 
requirements that needed to be completed and read through and Mr I was taken through the 
requirements and asked about the purpose of the payment.
It said the payments werent out of character given the information known to it about the 
account usage over many years and Mr and Mrs I had conducted similar payments in the 
past, so the payments werent suspicious. It said Mr I was taken through the scam warnings 
and questions on the forms which state that fraudsters can pose as trusted organisations, its 
common for them to apply pressure to make payments, and that money is unlikely to be 
recovered in the event of a scam. He was also asked if hed been told what to say to the 
bank, or if hed been or rushed or pressured, which he said wasnt the case. It said Mr I had 
been persuaded to enter into an NDA and told to give a false reason for the payments, so 
his answers to those questions werent accurate, meaning it was unable to identify the scam.
It accepted the account was credited with £17,500 from a credit card transfer which was 
used to fund the third payment, but it said the full details of the source werent viewable so 
soon after the receipt and without such information, it had no reason to be suspicious. It also 
said it invoked the Banking Protocol on 13 December 2022 even though Mr I was still 
maintaining that he wasnt being scammed. But it accepted it should have asked questions 
about the deposit of funds into the account before the third payment and so it offered to pay 
Mr I £8,749.47 as a gesture of goodwill, which was the equivalent of 50% of the third 
payment.
It said it had contacted the receiving banks but it was only able to recover £147.14, and as 
the receiving accounts were held by a legitimate financial institution, there was no reason to 
question the liability of the receiving bank. 
Mr I wasnt satisfied and so he complained to this service with the assistance of a 
representative. He said Virgin Money had three separate opportunities to intervene and it 
failed to ensure he understood the true nature of the payments or to provide effective 
warnings when he wanted to pay a new international payee. He argued that Virgin Money 
should have asked probing questions, which would have helped it to discover that he was 
falling victim to an elaborate investment scam. It could then have provided an effective 
warning which would have prevented his loss.
His representative said Virgin should have intervened because Mr I made three international 
payments to two new payees totalling £34,297.26 within the space of two months. They said 
the payments had obvious signs of fraud including a sudden increase in spending, payments 
for large and unusual amounts, payments to new international payees and large amounts of 
money coming into the account and quickly being transferred out.
They said the regular account activity included low-value payments and the highest payment 
in the months pre-dating the scam was £3,000, so payments ranging from £5,723.33 to 
£17,498.93 should have raised concerns. Further, the account was subject to a high influx of 
payments into the account, which is indicative of an investment scam and was out of the 
ordinary for the account.
The representative said the first payment was a high-value payment which Virgin Money 
should have questioned, and on 16 November 2022, Mr I received a money transfer of 
£17,500 from his credit card and within 24 hours he paid £17,498.23 to the scam. They 
argued that Mr I rarely inherits and forfeits such high values at this pace, and the activity is a 
known-fraud indicator, which it should have picked up on.They argued that Virgin Money should have asked Mr I why he was making the payments, 
how he found out about the company, whether hed researched the company, whether hed 
checked the FCA website, whether hed been promised unrealistic returns, whether hed 
received any withdrawals and whether was being pressured to make the payments. And with 
the answers hed have given it should have realised he was likely falling victim to an 
elaborate investment scam and provided an effective warning, which would have prevented 
his loss. They also said there was enough suspicion during the interactions, so the Banking 
Protocol (BP) should have been invoked sooner.
Virgin Money further explained that Mr I was known to its branch staff who knew hed worked 
abroad in the past, so international payments werent unusual for the account. And there 
was a genuine transfer on 3 August 2022 for £3,000 and a counter transaction on 26 
January 2021 for £2,480, both of which were comparable to the first payment. 
It said on 8 September 2022, Mr I came into the branch with the payment detail pre-filled on 
the form as 'services rendered'. When he was asked for more information, he said it was for 
'research work'. He was then asked the fraud questions on the mandate and he denied 
being told what to say or being rushed or pressured. He also confirmed he knew who he was 
paying. He was warned scammers might pose as banks, police or other trusted 
organisations before the payment was processed.
On 13 October 2022, Mr I came in again with the payment detail on the form pre-filled with 
'buying property' as reason for payment. The fraud questions were asked and he was read 
the warnings. It accepted the second payment was larger, but it was going to a previously 
authorised payee and as there was a gap of a month between the first and second payments 
it didnt spot an emerging pattern of payments.
On 16 November 2022, Mr I came in again with the payment detail on the form pre-filled with 
services rendered. The fraud questions on the mandate were asked and he was read the 
warnings. He said he was making the payment to exercise a share option, even though the 
form said services rendered. When he was questioned about the description he agreed to 
add 'property purchase', because the company he was investing in were realtors.
Virgin Money said that on 24 November 2022, Mr I came into the branch complain that the 
third payment had stalled because of the payment description on the mandate. He blamed it 
for insisting on adding 'property purchase' to the description and said the payment was for a 
tax liability. 
It invoked the Banking Protocol on 13 December 2022 when Mr I attended the branch. On 
that occasion, he disclosed more about the circumstances of the payments but maintained 
he wasnt being scammed and didnt complain to it about the scam until May 2022.
Virgin Money maintained it shouldnt be liable for Mr Is losses beyond its offer to pay 50% of 
the third payment because Mr I misled its staff by concealing the true reason for the 
payments which denied it the opportunity to explore the payments further and provide more 
tailored scam warnings. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She explained The Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM) code doesnt apply to card payments and international 
transfers, so the disputed payments wouldnt be covered by the code.
Our investigator noted Virgins comments that Mr I was well known to branch staff and made 
frequent international transfers, so she was satisfied there was an established level of 
knowledge about the way he managed his account. But the disputed transactions were 
international payments to a new payee and the last two payments had large credits received into the account shortly before being transferred out to the scam. And the payments were 
unusual for the account because it didnt have history of payments of similar value.
 
She accepted Virgin Money had completed checks when Mr I had made the payments and 
that it had warned him about scams. But the warnings werent relevant to the scam and she 
thought Virgin Money ought to have asked more questions when Mr I attended the branch to 
make the payments, especially when he made payments 2 and 3. 
However, she didnt think this would have made any difference because Mr I had signed an 
NDA which prohibited him from disclosing the details of the investment to anyone. She noted 
there was email correspondence between Mr I and the scammer in which Mr I stated that he 
was reluctant to give extra information on the International Outwards Payments form 
because of the NDA. And in a further email, there was a discussion about what he should 
say to Virgin Money about the transfer. She said Mr I disclosed the real reason for the 
payments when he complained to Virgin Money about the fact he had to pay a tax penalty 
and she didnt think hed have done so if there hadnt been a problem with that payment. So 
she didnt think hed have disclosed the real reason for the payments if Virgin Money had 
asked him more questions, therefore it wouldnt have been able to uncover the scam. 
Finally, she was satisfied that Virgin Money had done what it could to recover the funds once 
it was aware of the fraud, but she explained the disputed payments were international 
transfers and there is no guarantee an international bank will return funds without the 
account holders permission. And she didnt think Mr I was entitled to any compensation 
because the upset he experienced was caused by the scammers and not Virgin Money, and 
she hadnt seen any errors or delays in the investigation once the scam was reported. 
Mr and Mrs I have asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. Mr I has said 
he was never asked if he had any worries about transferring money abroad. He didnt speak 
with the branch manager until 12 December 2022 ,and he agreed it could be a scam on 13 
December 2022.
He accepts he regularly received credits from international accounts and he also made 
international transfers, but they were to an account in his own name. He was never asked 
about the reasons for the disputed transfers or whether he thought it could be a scam and he 
believes the fact Virgin Money reimbursed £8,749.47 is an acknowledgement of its failings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. Im sorry to hear that Mr and Mrs I have been the victims of a cruel scam. I 
know they feel strongly about this complaint and this will come as a disappointment to them, 
so Ill explain why. 
The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams, like the one Mr and Mrs I says theyve fallen victim 
to, in all but a limited number of circumstances. But said the CRM code didnt apply in this 
case because the code doesnt apply to international payments.
Im satisfied Mr I authorised the payments for the purposes of the of the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. So, although he didnt intend the 
money to go to scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms and conditions of his 
bank account, he is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.Its not in dispute that this was a scam but although Mr I didnt intend his money to go to 
scammers, he did authorise the disputed payments. Virgin Money is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, but where the customer 
has been the victim of a scam, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to 
reimburse them even though they authorised the payment.
Prevention
Ive thought about whether Virgin Money could have done more to prevent the scam from 
occurring altogether. Virgin Money ought to fairly and reasonably be alert to fraud and scams 
and these payments were part of a wider scam, so I need to consider whether it ought to 
have intervened to warn Mr I when he tried to make the payments.  If there are unusual or 
suspicious payments on an account, Id expect Virgin Money to intervene with a view to 
protecting Mr I from financial harm due to fraud. 
As Mr I attended the branch each time he made a payment, I need to consider whether 
Virgin Moneys staff could have done more to protect him. Virgin Money has explained that 
Mr I was known to its branch staff and that it wasnt unusual for him to make international 
payments. But payments 2 and 3 were high-value when compared to the normal spending 
on the account, and he received large credits into the account before each payment, which 
should have raised concerns.
Virgin Money has explained that Mr I was asked the fraud questions on the mandate and 
that he was warned scammers might pose as banks, police or other trusted organisations 
before the payment was processed. He was also asked if hed been told what to say to the 
bank, or if hed been or rushed or pressured. But in the circumstances, I think he should 
have been asked some more probing questions around the purpose of the payment, who he 
was paying, whether he was being advised by a third party and if so how he met them, 
whether hed done any research and whether hed been promised unrealistic returns.
But Mr I only disclosed the real reason for the payments when he realised there was a 
problem with the third payment and Im satisfied hed had no intention of disclosing the real 
reason for the payments before that point. The available evidence shows he trusted the 
scammer and that he had signed an NDA, which he was concerned about breaching. This is 
supported by email correspondence between Mr I and the scammer in which he said he was 
reluctant to give extra information on the International Outwards Payments form due to the 
NDA. And in a further email, there was a discussion about what he should say to the bank 
about the transfer. 
This was a sophisticated scam which was believable because Mr I used to hold shares, and 
he was satisfied with the research hed done. The scammer was professional and convincing 
as were the documents and correspondence he received. So, I agree with our investigator 
that if Virgin Money had asked Mr I more questions when he made the payments, its very 
unlikely that hed have answered those questions truthfully, meaning the branch staff 
wouldnt have had enough information to identify that he was being scammed. And without 
further information, it wouldnt have been able to provide a tailored scam warning or tell him 
there were red flags present indicating that he was being scammed.
So, while I think Virgin Money could have asked more questions when Mr I attended the 
branch to make the payments, I dont think this represented a missed an opportunity to have 
prevented Mr and Mrs Is loss. Mr I has suggested the fact Virgin Money has offered to pay him 50% of the third payment is 
an indication that it acknowledges its failings, but this was a gesture of goodwill and in the 
circumstances I cant fairly ask it to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
Overall, Im sorry to hear Mr and Mrs I have lost money and the effect this has had on them. 
But for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think Virgin Money is to blame for this and so I 
cant fairly tell it to do anything further to resolve this complaint.
Recovery
Virgin Money successfully recovered £147.14 from the international bank, but considering 
the earlier payments were made in September and October 2022, there was little prospect of 
a successful recovery. And as there is no guarantee international banks will return funds 
without the account holders permission, Im satisfied it has acted reasonably in the 
circumstances.
Compensation
Mr and Mrs I arent entitled to any compensation or legal costs.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X and Mr I to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 January 2024.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman