DRN-4268992
The complaint
Mr P has complained about the way Sky UK Limited administered a fixed sum loan 
agreement used to purchase a device. 
What happened
The circumstances of the complaint are well known to the parties, so I wont go over 
everything again in detail here. But in summary, Mr P tells us he was looking to buy two new 
devices in July 2022. He says he tried to do this online but had issues placing two orders. I 
understand one device was ordered under a fixed sum loan agreement with Sky. Mr P says 
because of the issue he phoned the supplier who ordered two devices for him and told him 
to send back the original one when it arrived.
Mr P says he received the first device on 12 July 2022 and returned it within 14 days. Sky 
said on 20 July 2022 the device was booked in and this should have triggered a refund and 
cancellation of the credit agreement. But this didnt happen and the agreement kept on 
billing. 
It looks like Sky tried to contact Mr P about the debt and he telephoned it to find out what 
was happening. Sky told Mr P things would be sorted out when he spoke to it in August 
2022. A couple of months later Mr P complained because things werent resolved and he 
says the matter caused him extra stress. He says hed called in several times to sort things 
out and he felt the letters were threatening. It looks like Sky offered Mr P £30 and he wanted 
to consider it. 
Mr P contacted Sky again in December 2022 and said hed noticed on his credit report Sky 
had recorded negative information relating to the agreement for the device hed returned. He 
reiterated this had been very stressful. He said he was unable to obtain an interest free 
credit card because of the issue and that he had to pay interest on an account because he 
couldnt move it. He said hed complained to the credit reference agencies but had been told 
Sky needed to resolve the issue. He was also unhappy there were searches carried out by a 
debt recovery agent in relation to the debt and that Sky indicated there was nothing wrong. 
Sky has acknowledged it should have closed the account off in July, but it didnt. It 
acknowledges there was misinformation given to Mr P about the information on his credit file 
being correct. But it said the adverse information should now be removed. 
Sky offered £200 compensation for the failings, along with £264.65 for interest it said Mr P 
had told it hed incurred as a result of its failings. Unhappy with the outcome, Mr P referred 
his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator considered the complaint and thought Sky should increase the 
compensation by £100. This meant £300 in total for compensation and £264.65 in relation to 
the interest. 
I cant see weve received a response from Sky. Mr P said an extra £100 for months of 
distress wasnt reasonable. He said he lost hours of time sorting this out over the phone and 
by email. He said he might look at private litigation. 
As things werent resolved the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to acknowledge Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any 
discourtesy by this  it just reflects the informal nature of our service. Im required to decide 
matters quickly and with minimum formality. But I want to assure Mr P and Sky that Ive 
reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment on something, its not because I havent 
considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on what I think are the key issues. Our powers 
allow me to do this. 
Mr P complained about the way Sky administered a fixed sum loan agreement that should 
have ended when the associated device was returned. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement, and our service is able to consider complaints relating to these sorts of 
agreements. 
Its not in dispute mistakes were made by Sky. It should have ended the credit agreement 
when the device was returned. It missed opportunities to resolve things when Mr P got in 
touch with it. And it didnt sort out the issues with the credit file as soon as it should have 
done. 
Mr P has explained he was very worried about receiving the letters concerning the debt. He 
says it impacted his mental health. Hes been put to the inconvenience of having to call and 
email to sort things out. And hes also said that he now needs to contact a third-party debt 
collector to remove credit searches, which is going to be difficult for him to do. 
Sky said its now ended the agreement and removed the information about it from Mr Ps 
credit file. Whats left to decide is whether it needs to pay Mr P for any financial losses he 
says hes incurred, along with whether it need to pay him compensation for what went 
wrong. 
Sky has offered Mr P £264.65 in relation to interest he says hes lost out on as a result of not 
being able to obtain an interest free overdraft. It said it did this on the basis of what Mr P has 
told it. Ive not actually seen sufficient evidence that a mistake from Sky directly caused Mr P 
to lose out on the interest he claimed for. But seeing as though Sky has offered to reimburse 
him that amount, I see no reason to comment further on it or ask for further evidence to 
verify things. The main thing in dispute is the amount of compensation Sky should pay Mr P. Sky offered 
£200 and our investigator said this should be increased to £300. Mr P has requested 
significantly more. Overall, I think the recommendations made by our investigator broadly 
seem like a fair way to put things right. Mr P has clearly been caused upset and 
inconvenience. He let Sky know it was very stressful, and the impact it was having on him. 
Matters were made worse because things werent resolved at the first opportunity. I can 
appreciate Mr P doesnt think the award our investigator recommended goes far enough. I 
cant imagine how the situation must have made him feel. But mistakes do occur. No amount 
of money is going to change what happened. I acknowledge Mr P says its taken time to 
resolve things. We dont normally make a specific award for someones time. As well as 
being quick and informal, my role is to look at the complaint holistically and impartially. 
Having done so, I consider the total offer of £564.65 in relation to compensation and interest 
Mr P says he otherwise shouldnt have paid, to be broadly fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. I dont find I have the grounds to direct Sky to increase this. 
I also note Sky has asked Mr P to contact the debt collector it referred in order to remove 
record of any searches it carried out. The debt collector is a separate business to Sky, so I 
dont think it would be practicable to direct Sky to remove the searches through this decision. 
But I think it would be reasonable of it to make an attempt to contact the debt collector to put 
in a request given whats happened. I dont see why it cant do that. If this, or Mr Ps 
attempts dont resolve things and he ends up complaining to the debt collector, it might be 
something our service is able to consider. 
One final thing Ill mention is that Mr P doesnt have to accept this decision, hes free to 
pursue the complaint by other means, such as through the courts. He indicated hes 
considering this. But if he wants to pursue the complaint through court and accept the final 
decision, he may wish to seek legal advice before doing so.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and, to the extent its not done so already, 
direct Sky UK Limited to pay Mr P £300 compensation and to reimburse him £264.65 in 
relation to interest he says hes had to pay as a result of its error. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman