DRN-4087341
The complaint
Miss W complains that TSB Bank plc (TSB) blocked a payment from her account.
What happened
On 14 December 2022, at 18.02, Miss W tried to make an online payment for £2,864 to a 
builder who had completed work for her. TSB stopped the payment and blocked her 
account, pending contact with Miss W. TSB sent a text to ask Miss W to get in touch.
At 18.25, Miss W called TSB. TSB unblocked her account but declined to make the 
payment. At 20.01, Miss W made a payment to her partner for the same amount.
Miss W complained. She said it was her money and TSB had no right to stop the payment.  
She said it was bad advice to suggest she should go to a branch and draw out cash  that 
was a security risk. She couldnt see how her partner could then make the same payment 
from his TSB account, later on. She said she felt humiliated and embarrassed for what she 
was put through by TSB.
TSB said they followed strict rules to prevent fraud, and make sure customers are protected. 
They couldnt tell Miss W why the payment wasnt made, as that was information they 
couldnt disclose. TSB said there was a balance to be struck between allowing unrestricted 
access to customers money and making sure it stayed safe.
Miss W brought her complaint to us. Our investigator upheld it as:
- He considered Miss W answered all the questions put by TSBs advisor satisfactorily.
- The payment was blocked because the call handler couldnt find the beneficiary 
online.
- He didnt think the adviser had good reason to stop the payment.
- The advisers attitude was poor and he wasnt supportive or sympathetic to Miss W.
- He thought it wasnt sensible to advise her to withdraw cash, given the security risk.
- He said TSB should pay compensation of £100.
TSB didnt agree. They said:
- They have processes and checks in place to prevent fraud. The payment had the 
characteristics of a scam transaction, for example a possible rogue trader scam.
- The terms and conditions say they can stop payments.
- They didnt advise Miss W to draw cash  in fact, she raised that first. The adviser 
went on to suggest other ways of making payment  e.g. from her partners account, 
which was what then happened  later that evening.
Because TSB disagreed, Miss Ws complaint has come to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset, let me say - its an unfortunate fact that fraud and related crime is increasing 
and firms such as TSB (and other banks) have security processes in place to check certain 
payments. This is to protect both customers and the firms involved. The choice of which 
payments to block and check is a matter for each firm to decide  it is a complicated 
algorithm, to which we (and any other external party) have no knowledge of. 
I reviewed TSBs terms and conditions, and they do give TSB the right to not make a 
payment if they suspect there is a fraud risk.
And  thats what happened here. While I accept that Miss W answered the questions 
effectively, the transaction was blocked by the flags within TSBs system  and thats not 
something we can contest or overturn. What that means is that Miss W was inconvenienced 
and frustrated  which was unfortunate. But in the other hand, she was, I understand, able to 
make the payment to her builder via her partners account later that evening, so the matter 
was resolved quickly.
Miss W has asked why her partner was allowed to pay the builder from his own TSB account 
 and for the same reasons, I cant say why that was  simply that it passed TSBs checks.
But having said that  while I am not disagreeing with TSBs decision to decline Miss Ws 
payment, I did find the call handler to be less than empathetic. I say that as:
- He simply stated: we have the right to block payments.
- He went into the questioning of Miss W about the payment without explaining why he 
wanted to ask questions (e.g. to verify the authenticity of the payment).
- As a result, I can see why Miss W became frustrated and a little defensive with her 
answers. 
- While he didnt advise Miss W to withdraw cash, he did mention it as one way to pay 
the builder  which did present a risk to her.
So, in summary, while I do not disagree with TSBs decision to decline the payment, I agree 
with our investigator that the service and empathy shown by the call handler warrants a 
payment of compensation of £100. (continued)
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. TSB Bank plc must:
- Pay compensation of £100 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 September 2023.
 
Martin LordOmbudsman