The complaint  
Mrs W and Mr W complain about how One Insurance Limited  (One) responded to a 
blockage at their property under their  home emergency policy.  
References to One in this decisi on include their agents who  provide services under the 
policy.  
What happened  
In March 2023 Mrs W and Mr W had a problem with a blocked  toilet, which overflowed into 
their bathroom. They contacted One to  tell them about the blockage and request an engineer 
visit. Given  what theyd seen about the policy, they expected a visit within 24  hours.  
However, this didnt happen, as One said there w as a shortage of  plumbers in their area and 
a visit couldnt be arranged before the  following Monday. Mrs W and Mr W said the blockage 
happened  on a Friday when they contacted One. But One say they were  contacted the 
following day, Saturday. Mrs W and Mr W  contacted  One again the following day but were 
told they couldnt do  anything to expedite matters and the call was ended.  
An engineer visited on the following Monday. When the engineer  arrived, they told Mrs W 
and Mr W theyd been available ov er the  weekend. The engineer cleared the blockage.  Mrs 
W and Mr W were unhappy at the time for an engineer to  attend, as they thought the policy 
indicated they should expect a  visit within 24 hours. And theyd been left without toilet and 
washing  facilitie s for more than 48 hours. So, they complained to One.  
One upheld their complaint. In their final response they said their  local agent instructed a 
plumber attend the incident when notified,  however this was dependent on the availability of 
a plumber. They  acknowledged Mrs W and Mr W had contacted them the day after  initially 
telling them of the incident, and the call was terminated by  the call handler. On the  
deployment of a plumber, One noted their  local agent used a network of plumbers to carry 
out work a t preferential rates, but a plumber wasnt able to attend until the  Monday following 
the Friday. One apologised for their service not  providing assistance in a timely manner.  
While recognising the comment made by the plumber, One said  they couldnt verify its  
validity and the issue was availability from  the network of plumbers operated by the local 
agent. In  recognition of the service provided not being timely, One  awarded £100  
compensation to Mrs W and Mr W.  
Mrs W and Mr W then complained to this Service. They were  unhappy at being left without 
toilet or washing facilities for over  48 hours, despite the plumber saying they were available 
over the weekend. They were also unhappy  at the call to One being  ended. They didnt think 
the £100 compensation offered by One  was sufficient.  
Our investigator upheld the complaint, concluding One hadnt  acted fairly and their 
compensation offer fell short of what  would be reasonable.  
DRN-4385079He noted when Mrs W and Mr W contacted One to tell them about  the blockage, they were  
told there was a plumber shortage in their  area, and one couldnt be sent out until the 
following Monday.  And One wouldnt agree to Mrs W and Mr W engaging their own  plumber 
(as their rates would be higher than those in Ones  network). So, Mrs W and Mr W were left 
without toilet facilities for  two days (they only had one toilet in their property). Our  
investigator thought this caused them considerable distress and  incon venience. Considering 
the circumstances, our investigator  thought £250 would be fair.  
 
 
One disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested  an ombudsman review the 
complaint. They thought their offer of  £100 compensation was fair and reasonable i n the 
circumstances  of the case.  
 
What Ive decided  and why  
 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and  
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
 
My role here to decide whether One has acted fairly towards Mrs W  and Mr W.  
 
The key issue in Mrs W and Mr Ws complaint is the time taken for  One to arrange a visit by  
a plumber to clear th e blocked toiler.  Mrs W and Mr W say they were left without toilet 
facilities for over  48 hours. As they only had one toilet they had to use public toilets  during 
the period. Theyd expected a visit within 24 hours, given  what they thought the policy 
indicated. One acknowledge their  service fell short of what Mrs W and Mr W should have 
expected,  and their offer of £100 compensation is fair.  
 
Ive considered the circumstances of this case and the sequence of  events set out above, 
together with the evidence an d information  provided by both Mrs W and Mr W and by One.  
 
Having done so, Ive concluded One havent acted fairly and  reasonably towards Mrs W and 
Mr W, and that their offer of £100  compensation should be increased to £250. Ill set out why 
Ive come to this conclusion.  
 
Ive first considered what Mrs W and Mr W have said about their  expectation, from what they 
say the policy led them to believe,  that they would get a visit within 24 hours of reporting the  
blockage. Looking at the Policy Informat ion Booklet  which  includes home emergency as a 
section within the overall home  insurance policy  theres reference to a 24 -hour home  
emergency number to call if theres a problem. Similar information  is contained in the What 
is Home Emergency  cover docu ment So  theres reference to the availability of a hotline to 
report blockages  and other home emergencies, but it isnt the same as indicating  
(or guaranteeing) an engineer or plumber will visit within 24 hours.  
 
Looking at the circumstances of the case, One say their local  agent wasnt able to provide 
an appointment before the Monday  following the incident being reported on the previous 
Friday. O ne refer to plumber shortages in Mrs W and Mr Ws area. Through  their network of 
plumbers. It also appears the local agent werent  willing for Mrs W and Mr W to seek to 
engage their own plumber  to clear the blockage (and for One to cover the cost involved) . 
While its ultimately a matter for One whether to agree the  engagement of a plumber outside 
their agents network, it meant a  potential quicker resolution of the problem wasnt available.  
 
Which meant Mrs W and Mr W having to wait longer (over 48  hours) f or the blockage to be 
cleared. And having only one toilet  at their property meant they were left without toilet 
facilities for  that time. And as they only had one toilet, the What is Home  Emergency cover  factsheet sates this would be considered a  home emer gency  it wouldnt 
if there was another toilet at the  property. So, it would have been reasonable for Mrs W and 
Mr W  to expect this to be treated as an emergency.  
 
And I can appreciate the considerable inconvenience this would  have caused Mrs W  and Mr 
W and the stress and anxiety of  having to use public toilets.  
 
Ive also considered the issue of the call Mrs W and Mr W made  on the day after notifying 
One of the incident. One accept the call  was terminated, though they maintain the agent was 
polite during  the call. But they accept the agent was defensive in the call. Given  the 
circumstances of the blockage and the consequences as set  out above, this would have 
added to the Mrs W and Mr Ws  anxiety and stress about the situation.  
 
Having reached these conclusions, Ive considered what One  should do to put things right. 
Given the sequence of events and  my conclusions above, I think Mrs W and Mr W would 
have  suffered significant distress and inc onvenience from what  happened. While theres a 
difference in the date the blockage  was first reported to One  Mrs W and Mr W say it was 
the Friday,  but One (in their final response) say it was the Saturday  it means Mrs W and 
Mr W were without toilet fac ilities for either two  days, or more than two days. Ive taken this 
into account when  considering all the circumstances of the case. Having done so,  I think 
£250 compensation for distress and inconvenience would  be fair and reasonable.  
 
My final decision  
 
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold  Mrs W and Mr Ws 
complaint. I require One Insurance Limited  to: 
 
 Pay Mrs W and Mr W £250 in compensation for distress  and inconvenience.  
 
One Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within  28 days  of the date on which we 
tell it Mrs W and Mr W accepts my final  decision.  
 
If they pay later than this they must also pay interest on the  compensation from the date of 
my final decision to the date of  payment at 8% a year simple.  
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision  before 21 December 2023.  
 
 
 
Paul King  
Ombudsman  