DRN-4443404
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that Revolut Ltd wont reimburse £17,200 that he lost because of an
investment scam.
Mr Cs complaint is brought to this service by his appointed representative. However, the
ease of reference I will refer solely to Mr C throughout this letter.
What happened
Mr C contacted what he believed was a legitimate investment company and began what he
believed was a legitimate interaction with an investment manager (the scammer). This led
to Mr C making several payments to the scammer, totalling £17,200.
However, Mr C later found that he was unable to withdraw any of the money showing as
being present in his investment account and realised that hed been scammed. Mr C wasnt
happy about this and felt that Revolut hadnt done enough to protect him against what had
happened. So, he raised a complaint.
Revolut responded to Mr C and explained that they didnt feel that theyd done anything
wrong by processing the payments to the scammer as Mr C had instructed them to. Mr C
wasnt satisfied with Revoluts response, so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel Revolut had acted
unfairly in how theyd managed the situation and so didnt uphold the complaint. Mr C
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 19 October 2023 as follows:
Having reviewed the information provided by Mr C, including transcripts of the conversations
he had with the scammer, it seems more likely than not to me that he has been the victim of
a scam here and has lost £17,200 as a result. And so, I can appreciate that Mr C would like
Revolut to reimburse this £17,200 him.
However, I would only consider instructing Revolut to reimburse that money if I felt that
Revolut could and should have acted differently regarding the payments that Mr C instructed
to the scammer and if I felt that any alternative action that Revolut should reasonably have
taken would, in all likelihood, have led to Mr C realising that he was being scammed so that
he didnt instruct the payments under consideration here.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a business is expected to process
payments that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services Regulations
and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the customer
made the payment because of the actions of a fraudster, it may sometimes be fair for the
business to reimburse the customer even though they authorised the payment.
For instance, businesses have an obligation to have systems in place to monitor instructed
transactions for instances of potential fraud. Such fraud prevention systems are used by all
financial institutions, including Revolut, to flag account activity that may be of concern and to
prevent further usage of an account where its felt that there is a possibility that fraud may be
potentially occurring. And so, Ive thought about whether there was anything in the nature of
the payment instructions themselves that should reasonably have alerted Revolut to the
possibility that Mr C might have been in the process of being scammed.
In is instance, Mr C made four payments totalling £17,200 spread over three weeks as
follows:
24 November 2022: £7,000
29 November 2022: £1,200
09 December 2022: £7,000
12 December 2022: £2,000
Revolut initially explained that they did provide potential fraud warnings to Mr C in response
to these payments, and that information was considered by our investigator when they
issued their view of this complaint. However, Revolut have now confirmed that none of these
payments were flagged by their automated fraud prevention system because the payments
were in keeping with other payments that Mr C had made in recent months and so werent
considered unusual in regarding how Mr C had previously used his Revolut account.
Ive thought about whether this change of position by Revolut has a significant impact here.
But I note that while Revolut did initially say that the payments had been flagged by their
systems, they also explained that they didnt feel that the payments should have been
flagged by their systems, because they didnt represent unusual account activity.
Ive reviewed the account movements for Mr Cs Revolut account for the twelve months prior
to the first of the four payments listed above. And having done so, I note some similar value
payments made from the account in August and September 2022. These include payments
of £11,521 and £13,073 from Mr C to a third-party. And while Mr C has explained that the
larger of these payments were made to his business account, I still feel that this payment is
significant, given that its not a direct me-to-me payment.
As such, given that there were a series of high value payments made by Mr C in the months
leading up to the payments he made to the scammer  including two which were larger than
the highest value single payments made to the scammer  I feel that it was reasonable for
Revolut to consider the four payments that Mr C made to the scammer as being in line with
his recent prior account use. And because of this I dont feel that Revolut acted unfairly or
unreasonably by not considering the payments to the scammer be unusual or suspicious
and to have not flagged those payments for further checks.
Importantly, even if Revolut had flagged the payments made by Mr C for further checks, Im
not convinced that this would have led to a different outcome here. I say this because its
evident from the conversations Mr C had with the scammer that he trusted the scammer
when he made the payments and believed he was making legitimate payments to an
investment manager.
This means that if Revolut had blocked one of the payments and had spoken with Mr C to
ask him questions about it, I feel it would most likely have been the case that Mr C would
have confirmed to Revolut that he was making a legitimate payment and instructed them toprocess that payment. And Mr C had no apparent inclination that anything untoward was
happening until hed made all four of the payments to the scammer as listed above.
However, given that I dont feel that Revolut should have flagged the payments for further
checks, as explained above, this point is moot. And I make this point only to explain that
even if I felt that Revolut should have contacted Mr C (which I dont) I dont feel that any
reasonable intervention they may have made would have led to Mr C not being scammed.
And I wouldnt consider Revolut to be accountable for Mr Cs loss in these circumstances.
Of course, this isnt to say that Mr C hasnt been the victim of a scam here, and I hope that
hes able to recover his money from those that took it from him. But it is to say that I dont
feel that Revolut did anything wrong by processing the payments to the scammer that Mr C
instructed them to pay. And because of this, I dont feel that Revolut should fairly be
considered accountable for Mr C losing the money that he did.
Mr C responded to my provisional decision and confirmed that he accepted the non-uphold 
outcome described within it. 
As such, I see no reason not to issue a final decision here whereby I do not uphold this 
complaint, in line with my provisional decision above. And I therefore confirm that my final 
decision is that I do not uphold this complaint accordingly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman