DRN-3697861
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O complained that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) unfairly 
declined part of their storm claim under their home insurance.
What happened
Mr and Mrs O made a claim to Admiral when high winds caused damage to their property. 
They said the winds damaged their roof and render on their house and caused other 
damage to decking and the pergola in the garden. 
Admiral appointed a surveyor to review and validate the claim. Based on the report provided 
by the surveyor, Admiral accepted the claim for damage to the roof but declined the damage 
to the render and other damage in the garden.
Admirals surveyor said the storm wasnt the main cause of the damage. It said the damage 
to the render and other damage in the garden had been caused gradually, so wasnt covered 
by the policy.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. He thought Admiral had fairly declined 
the claim in line with the terms and conditions. He thought the appointed surveyor had 
demonstrated that the storm wasnt the main cause of damage. Mr and Mrs O disagreed, so 
the case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When our service looks at a storm claim, there are three questions to consider: 
1.    Do I agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said 
to have happened? 
2.    Was the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
I will use this structure to work through the complaint. Im likely to uphold the complaint if the 
answer to all three is yes. If the answer to one of the questions is no, Im unlikely to uphold 
the complaint.
Do I agree that storm conditions occurred?
Admiral agreed storm conditions were present at the time of the reported incident, so I will 
move to the next question.
Was the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
Significant winds could result in tiles been blown from a roof or causing them to become 
dislodged. Im glad to see that Admiral was fair by accepting that the storm had caused 
damaged to the roof.
However, Admiral didnt accept the damage to the render was caused by the storm. I think 
its unlikely that render in good condition would be damaged through high winds. I think its 
more likely an initial weakness in the render would lead to wind penetrating and putting 
pressure on a particular point of the render causing excessive damage. However, to be 
reasonable, I will consider what Admirals surveyor said in the next question also.
I think high winds could cause damage to wooden structures in the garden, so I will consider 
the next question.
Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Admiral appointed an expert surveyor to review the damage  I think this is a reasonable 
approach. I have considered what Admiral said when declining the claim.
Admiral said, the assessor also concluded that the rendering had failed as a result of a 
gradually operating cause and advised that the storm had highlighted the defect of repeated 
weather changes over time.
I have reviewed the photographs that the surveyor has provided, and I havent seen anything 
that contradicts what has been concluded. There are small cracks visible in the render that 
suggests there was a pre-existing weakness to the render. Im not surprised by this, as I said 
before I think it would be strange for a storm to be the main cause.
I have checked the terms and conditions of the policy and it states what is not covered: any 
loss or damage caused by anything that happens gradually, including wear and tear, wet 
and dry rot, or damage due to exposure to sunlight or atmospheric conditions, settlement, 
mildew, rust or corrosion. As Admiral has shown its more likely the damage has occurred 
over time from a pre-existing condition, then I think it has been fair to decline the claim.
Ive considered the damage in the garden  the pergola and the decking.  Admiral said, 
from reviewing the images contained within the report I can see that the timber decking and 
pergola appear to be perished and subject to moss growth; suggesting that they have been 
subject to wear and tear overtime.
Again, I have reviewed the photographs provided by the surveyor. I think Admirals 
conclusion have been fair based upon what I can see. The wooden structures appear to 
have some age to them and dont look like they are in the best of condition. Therefore, I think 
its likely the storm has only exposed a pre-existing condition rather than been the main 
cause of the damage. I dont think its likely timbers would snap in the wind unless there was 
weakness from rotting from being outdoors for a long period. Therefore, I think Admiral has 
been fair in declining the claim. 
I have also noted Admiral told Mr and Mrs O that it would be willing to consider new 
evidence if Mr and Mrs O appoint their own expert to provide a report that demonstrates that 
the storm was the main cause of damage. I think this is a reasonable approach should Mr 
and Mrs O feel there is other evidence that can be provided. However, as Admiral have 
based its conclusions on the findings of an expert, and these seem reasonable to me, I dont 
uphold this complaint. I dont think it would be fair to expect Admiral to cover parts of the 
claim where it seems part of the house has gradually deteriorated with age and hasnt been 
recently maintained.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require Admiral Insurance 
(Gibraltar) Limited to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O and Mr O to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman