DRN-4247745
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold legal expenses insurance (LEI) in 
connection with a home insurance policy. 
Because Mr G is leading on this complaint, Ive referred to him throughout my decision.  
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so Ive summarised 
events. 
Mr G took out a home insurance policy with Lloyds. He added LEI cover at the same 
time. Mr G tried to make a claim on his LEI policy, but it was declined by the policys 
insurer. 
He complained to Lloyds saying the claim had been unfairly rejected. He said Lloyds 
hadnt told him LEI was provided by a separate insurer. Nor had Lloyds told him the 
insurer had changed during the life of the policy  and so, he considers Lloyds to 
have mis-sold him the policy and it should cover the costs hes incurred in pursuing a 
legal claim. 
In its final response, Lloyds said the policy was applied for online and was sold on a 
non-advised basis. It said the policy documents clearly set out who the LEI insurer 
was and that this information had been sent to Mr G. 
Mr G disagreed. He said the policy was taken out during a telephone conversation. 
Unhappy, Mr G brought a complaint to this Service. An Investigator considered it but 
didnt uphold it. Because Mr G remained unhappy the complaint has been passed to 
me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why.
Its important to clarify the LEI insurers decision to decline Mr Gs claim, is separate 
to the issue Im considering here, which is whether Lloyds  as the seller of the 
policy - mis-sold LEI cover in connection with Mr Gs home insurance policy.  
The parties dispute how LEI cover was taken out. Mr G said he took the policy out 
over the phone  both when he first applied for it and at renewal. But Lloyds say it 
was an online application.
Mr G has provided dates for when he considers the calls with Lloyds to have taken 
place  along with the names of the persons he says he spoke to. Having looked at 
the dates of these calls, I note they occurred after the date the policy was taken out 
and subsequently renewed. So, Im not persuaded this proves the policy was taken 
out over the phone. 
Lloyds has provided information to support the policy was taken out online, and so, 
Im satisfied this was the most likely way. Lloyds has explained that advice wasnt 
given during the online application  and in the absence of evidence which suggests 
otherwise, Im satisfied the policy was purchased on a non-advised basis.
Where a policy is sold on a non-advised basis, the duty on the seller is to make sure 
the consumer is given enough information that is clear, fair, and not misleading so 
they can make an informed choice about whether the policy is right for them. 
Ive looked at the policy documents which were sent to Mr G as part of his welcome 
pack. I note the LEI insurers details are set out on page 5. So, Im satisfied the 
details of the LEI insurer were made clear at the time of sale. 
Lloyds has explained that it changed LEI insurer and said this was explained to Mr G 
in his offer of renewal documents in 2022. Ive looked at this document and it says on 
page two  
From your renewal date your Legal Expenses provider will be changing. 
Details of the new provider, changes to your cover and the new terms and 
conditions are included in this pack. You should read these in full.
To draw this change to Mr Gs attention, Lloyds included it under things you should 
know, highlighted in green changes to your legal expenses provider and enlarged 
the font. So, Im satisfied Lloyds suitably brought information about the change in LEI 
insurer to Mr Gs attention. 
Finally, Ive looked at the correspondence address on the welcome pack and renewal 
letter and can see these was sent to the correct address. 
Overall, Im satisfied Mr G received enough clear information about the insurer of the 
LEI policy to allow him to make an informed decision as to whether he wanted to 
continue with the policy at the time of taking it out and renewal. So, Im not 
persuaded the policy was mis-sold.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 September 2023.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman