DRN-1908807
The complaint
Mr A complains that Curtis Banks Limited increased the contractual charges payable under 
his self-invested personal pension scheme (SIPP) when it was not permitted to do so under 
the terms and conditions of his contract.
What happened
Mr A had a SIPP with Curtis Banks. In August 2016, Mr A received a letter from Curtis 
Banks, it said this:
We are making a number of improvements and changes to the service we provide to you 
and, in accordance with our Terms & Conditions, we are writing to give you 1 months notice 
of these changes, which will take effect from 1 October 2016.
Revised Terms & Conditions taking account of the changes are enclosed. As some of these 
changes involve adjustments to our charges, a revised Schedule of Fees is also enclosed. If 
you do not accept any of these changes, you are able to transfer to another pension product 
within 3 months of 1October. In this instance we will waive our scheme transfer out fee and 
not apply the fee changes within this 3 month period.
Mr A complained to Curtis Banks about the increase in charges. Curtis Banks did not uphold 
his complaint, so Mr A referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator did not 
recommend upholding Mr As complaint. 
Mr A didnt agree with our investigators view. He asked for his case to be referred to an 
ombudsman to consider. In summary, Mr A said that Curtis Banks did not have a valid 
reason for increasing the charges. He said the increase was due to an acquisition made by 
it. He said as the predecessor business charged higher fees, following the acquisition, Curtis 
Banks simply decided to increase it fees to the level charged by the predecessor business. 
He said this was evident from Curtis Banks final response letter to him, when it explained 
the reason for the increase as being: 
following the acquisition of Suffolk Life in 2016, Curtis Banks sought to align our Property 
Service with theirs.
As agreement couldnt be reached, Mr As complaint comes to me for a decision. Mr A asked 
to speak directly with the ombudsman considering his complaint, prior to it being decided. I 
couldnt see that there was anything to clarify with Mr A, but I offered him the opportunity to 
leave me a voicemail message, if he wanted to, summarising the points he wanted to make 
verbally.
Ive listened to Mr As voicemail. In summary, he pointed out again that the crux of his 
complaint was that Curtis Banks did not have a valid reason for increasing the charges. He 
also said that he couldnt simply transfer his SIPP to another provider because it wouldve 
cost him around £15,000 to do so.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that this service has taken some time to deal with Mr As complaint. We have 
already apologised to Mr A for that, but I do so again here and acknowledge the frustration 
this has caused Mr A.
Mr A says that Curtis Banks was in breach of contract when it increased the charges 
payable under his SIPP. He says this is because under the terms and conditions of the 
policy it did not have a valid reason for doing so.
I have looked carefully at the terms and conditions. Under the heading Future changes it 
said this:
We reserve the right to amend any of the provisions of the SIPP at any time. Changes will 
only be made for valid reasons, e.g. to make improvements, rectify errors or take account of 
regulatory changes.
You will be given one months prior written notice of any changes. If you do not accept the 
changes, you then have 3 months to transfer your SIPP to another provider and no transfer 
charges will apply. We also have the power to wind the SIPP up in accordance with the Trust 
Deed and Rules. On wind-up our normal fees will continue to be payable, including transfer 
fees for the transfer of assets to other pension agreements.
Ive noted that in Curtis Banks August 2016 letter it referred to making a number of 
improvements to its service. It explained in that letter what these improvements were, for 
example, better arrangements for protecting the customer from identity theft, an enhanced 
property administration service and providing an unadvised customer, like Mr A, with more 
information and guidance. The terms and conditions specifically said that a valid reason for 
making changes was to make improvements. So, I cant see that Curtis Banks was 
breaching the terms and conditions of the SIPP contract by acting in this way. 
Mr A also said, in summary, that Curtis Banks said in its final response letter that the reason 
it was increasing the charges was to align its services with a predecessor business it had 
acquired. He said this was not a valid reason for making changes, as listed in its terms and 
conditions. However, I note that the list of valid reasons set out in the terms and conditions 
is not exhaustive. The use of the word eg made it clear that these were examples only. 
Further, I note that Curtis Banks did also go on to explain in its final response letter that it 
was expanding its Property Department and the charges were adjusted to reflect the service 
then being offered. I consider that aligning business practices and expanding services could 
also be considered valid reasons for making changes. 
It's possible that Mr A didnt think the particular changes being made provided him with 
enough of a benefit for the increased costs. He said that overall, it resulted in his fees being 
higher and the service not being as good. But, as our investigator explained, our service 
doesn't generally look at whether the level of fees and charges being charged by a provider 
are commensurate with the service being offered. We look at whether they are being 
correctly applied, in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. I cant see that the 
changes made were in breach of the contract, or that based on what I have seen to date, Curtis Banks has applied the charges incorrectly in Mr As circumstances. And this complaint 
is not about the level of service provided by Curtis Banks.
I have also taken into account that, if Mr A wanted to transfer his business away from Curtis 
Banks, he was able to do so without being charged a transfer fee, providing he did so within 
3 months of the new changes being introduced (October 2016). I recognise that Mr A may 
have had to pay other charges to transfer his business away, so this may not have been a 
cost-free option for him. But, in my view, as Curtis Banks was acting in line with the terms 
and conditions, and offering Mr A the option of taking his business elsewhere without it 
imposing any transfer charges, I cant see that Curtis Banks did anything wrong or acted 
unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr A.
So, having reached this conclusion, I cant fairly require Curtis Banks to do anything else and 
it follows that I do not uphold Mr As complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2021.
 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman