DRN-3404557
The complaint
Mr H has complained about AXA Insurance UK Plcs handling of a claim on his motor 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Hs car hit a pedestrian while he was reversing. The pedestrian made a personal injury 
claim against Mr Hs policy. One of AXAs field service agents interviewed Mr H. During that 
interview the field service agent recorded that Mr H said he was traveling between business 
appointments at the time of the incident; although he later said that wasn't the case. 
AXA said that as Mr Hs policy didnt cover him to use his car for business it wouldnt cover 
the claim. Eventually the pedestrians solicitor issued a court claim against Mr H. AXA were 
joined as defendants in that claim but told Mr H he should seek his own legal representation. 
Mr H didnt think AXA had dealt with him fairly and brought his complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into it. He felt it was more likely than not that on the day in question 
Mr H was using his car for business purposes, as well as some social use, but that still 
constituted business use, which AXA had said wasnt covered by the policy. Our investigator 
also noted that, had Mr H included business use when he took the policy out, then his 
premium would only have increased slightly, from £607.88 to £619.43. In those 
circumstances our investigator said that the fair thing for AXA to do would be to cover the 
costs of the claim on a proportionate basis. He added that AXA should pay Mr H £250 to 
compensate him for his trouble and upset. 
Both Mr H and AXA agreed to the investigators recommendations to settle the claim. But 
Mr H added that he thought AXA should also cover the legal costs he incurred in defending 
it. Our investigator looked into the matter further. He agreed with Mr H that AXA should 
cover his legal costs amounting to £7,430.30. AXA didnt agree that it should cover those 
costs. Mr H also made some further points about the impact of AXAs handling of the matter 
on him. The case was passed to me for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm going to uphold it. My award to put things right will be the same as our 
investigator recommended for largely the same reasons. 
Both AXA and Mr H have agreed that a reasonable outcome to the complaint about the 
claim, as recommended by our investigator, would be for AXA to settle it on a proportionate 
basis. That means that AXA would need to settle the claim based on the percentage of the 
premium Mr H actually paid for his cover compared with what it would have cost if he'd 
included business use from the outset. I understand that percentage to be around 98%. And 
as both Mr H and AXA agree on that point I don't intend to revisit our investigators reasons 
in coming to that recommendation.
What principally remains at issue here is the matter of Mr Hs legal expenses. I've seen that 
in June 2021 AXA advised Mr H that it wasn't able to represent him in the matter and that he 
should seek his own legal advice. So, thats what Mr H did. And given that the solicitors 
representing the pedestrian concerned had issued court proceedings directly against Mr H, I 
think that was reasonable action for him to take, especially when advised to do so by AXA. 
But, if AXA had agreed to give him cover, even on a proportionate basis at that time, then I 
dont think Mr H would have needed to instruct his own solicitors. Thats because its likely 
AXA would have taken over the defence of the claim at that point. And, in those 
circumstances, Mr H wouldn't have any cause to incur the legal costs that he did. So, I think 
it's fair in the specific circumstances of this case, that AXA reimburses Mr H the £7,430.30 
that he's paid to fund his legal defence. 
Mr H also told us that hes found the whole situation incredibly stressful. And he said the 
matter had caused him to go off sick from work. Hes shown us a copy of a medical 
certificate that says he was signed off work sick because of anxiety, although  
unsurprisingly  the certificate doesnt say what was specifically causing that anxiety. 
However, I don't doubt that the matter was a cause of significant concern for Mr H. But, 
when considering if compensation is due, and, if so how much, I have to consider all the 
circumstances of this case in the round. And that includes keeping in mind that its more 
likely than not that Mr H was using his car for a purpose that wasn't actually covered by the 
policy. And had that not happened its likely that AXA would have covered his claim without 
issue. In those circumstances it seems likely that the level of anxiety Mr H faced may well 
have been significantly reduced. So, in the specific circumstances of this case, I cant fairly 
say that its AXAs fault alone that Mr H experienced the levels of stress that he did. That 
said I think AXA could have acted sooner than it did. And in those circumstances I think it's 
fair that AXA pays Mr H £250 compensation for his trouble and upset.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold this complaint. I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to:
Cover Mr Hs claim on a proportionate basis, as described above.
Reimburse him the £7,430.30 he incurred in legal expenses.
Pay him £250 compensation for his trouble and upset. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman