DRN-2915289
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) are 
charging her too much interest.
What happened
Mrs H had a Barclaycard since 2005. In September 2018, her balance was £8,655 with a 
limit of £8,700. In February 2021, her balance was £5,603 with a limit of £6,250. In April 
2021, the limit was reduced to £5,700.
Mrs H complained. She said she wasnt reducing her balance due to the high interest rates 
being charged  and she cant see her way out of debt. She paid the minimum amount 
regularly each month without fail. She wants Barclaycard to waive some of the debt or agree 
to an interest free period of a year  to help her out.
Barclaycard said the interest on Mrs Hs account was due to the high balance, which was 
payable. They waived one months interest in February 2021 as a gesture of goodwill. If Mrs 
H was struggling, she should speak to their customer services team who may agree to 
reduce her interest rate and agree fixed monthly repayments.
Mrs H felt that Barclaycards response wasnt helpful and brought her complaint to us. Our 
investigator said Barclaycard had acted fairly. Over the last few years, Mrs H had paid the 
minimum amount each month, or just more than that. But shed also made some purchases 
and made cash withdrawals. The interest rate that Barclaycard was charging was currently 
24.4% per annum  which was about average when compared to other card issuers. Interest 
had been applied correctly. Barclaycard had identified Mrs H as being in persistent debt in 
March 2020  because she wasnt paying off the balance  and contacted her to suggest 
she increased her payments. She wasnt any longer in that situation. Barclaycard had 
refunded or waived monthly interest due in five months between October 2018 and February 
2021. Mrs H might consider contacting Barclaycard again to see if they could help by 
stopping interest and agreeing to a payment plan  but this was down to them to agree to.
Mrs H asked that her complaint be looked at by an ombudsman. She asked if Barclaycard 
would agree to an interest free period of a year.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Let me say at the outset that we cant ask or make Barclaycard reduce their interest rates for 
their customers  thats a commercial decision for them to make, and we cant interfere with 
that. In Mrs Hs case, she was paying Barclaycards interest rate of 24.4% in February 2021.
But having said that, Ive looked into Mrs Hs complaint and her circumstances. Ive looked at 
her statements from Barclaycard. In September 2018, she was borrowing £8,655  with a 
limit of £8,700. She was paying the minimum amount (or close to it) each month. She was 
also making purchases and cash withdrawals up to that time. So  she had incurred the debt 
and she has to repay it as it was her responsibility. But in 2018 - the balance wasnt coming 
down. Its never (in general) a good idea to only pay the minimum amount each month as it 
means the debt doesnt reduce very quickly. Barclaycard did put a warning on Mrs Hs 
statements which said if you only pay the minimum payment each month, it will take you 
longer and cost you more to clear your balance.
I can then see that in 2019, she stopped using her card for purchases, and increased her 
monthly payments. The minimum amount needed each month was about £170  and she 
paid in between £200 and £220 each month. So that started to bring down the balance. By 
February 2021, Mrs H had reduced the balance down to £5,603  so that must at least be of 
some comfort to her, as she was in a better position than she was. I can also see that over 
time, Barclaycard reduced her credit limit from £8,700 in 2018 to £5,700 in April 2021  so 
they were trying to help her by making sure she didnt run up more debt.
I can also see that Barclaycard wrote to Mrs H in March 2020 as she was in persistent debt 
 this was because they saw she wasnt bringing down her borrowing very much over the 
last 18 months  and they recommended she increase her monthly payments. Im not sure if 
Mrs H did that because of Barclaycards letter  but I can see that her debt had reduced by 
quite a lot by 2021  even though I can see that Mrs H still doesnt feel good about her 
outstanding borrowing.
Barclaycard told us that if Mrs H is again identified as someone whos in persistent debt, 
then they will contact her again to ask her to increase her payments.
Barclaycard also refunded monthly interest in several months - £147.85 on 30 October 2018, 
£167.14 on 5 December 2018 and £119.70 on 23 April 2020. They also waived interest in 
May 2020 and February 2021. So  theyve tried to help.
Mrs H says shes still struggling to pay Barclaycards interest and shes worried that her 
borrowing is still high. As Ive said, the interest being applied by Barclaycard is correct, and 
Mrs H does owe them the money  and I cant therefore say that Barclaycard should waive 
the debt or the interest. But  if Mrs H is struggling and is in financial difficulty, she should 
speak to Barclaycard to see if they will reduce the interest rate  or stop it and, agree to a 
monthly payment plan to pay off the balance. But  I must be clear here  its down to 
Barclaycard to agree to this  and she must go through her income and expenditure with 
them. And if they agree to a plan, it will be recorded on her credit file  which means it will be 
more difficult for her to borrow money in the future. And, she wont be able to use her 
Barclaycard again while the plan is running.
I hope Ive explained my decision and reasons to Mrs H. And  how she might approach 
Barclaycard for help. But in terms of her complaint - I think Barclaycard have acted fairly, 
and I wont be asking then to do anymore here.
(continued)
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman