DRN-3672880
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Tesco Personal Finance PLC, trading as Tesco Bank, charged him 
interest on two money transfers.
What happened
Mr H made two money transfers from his Tesco credit account to a current account held with 
another bank. Mr H had made the money transfers on the understanding that they wouldnt 
be subject to interest charges. However, Mr H later noticed that Tesco had charged interest 
on both money transfers at the standard rate for such transfer of 3.99%. Mr H wasnt happy 
about this, so he raised a complaint.
Tesco looked at Mr Hs complaint. They confirmed that while there had been a 0% interest 
rate offer on balance transfers, that offer didnt extend to money transfers, and so they didnt 
feel that theyd acted unfairly towards Mr H by applying the interest charges to the money 
transfers as they had. Mr H wasnt satisfied with Tescos response, so he referred his 
complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that Tesco had acted 
unfairly by applying the interest charges, and so they didnt uphold the complaint. Mr H 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, its clear that Mr H feels strongly about this matter and that hes firm in his 
belief that a 0% interest rate offer on money transfers had been made available to him at the 
time in question. However, Tesco are equally firm in their position that no such offer was 
available, and that the only 0% interest rate offer available at that time applied solely to 
balance transfers and didnt extend to money transfers as well. 
In circumstances such as this, where the positions of both parties differ, I have to decide 
which version of events I feel is more likely to be the correct one  if I feel its possible to do 
so  on balance, and in consideration of all the information and evidence available to me.
In this instance, Tesco have been able to provide the promotional literature for the 0% 
interest rate offer that was available on balance transfers at that time, and its clear from this 
literature that no mention is made of the offer extending to money transfers as well. Rather, 
the promotional literature refers solely to balance transfers.
Mr H is adamant that he received an offer which also extended to money transfers, but he 
hasnt been able to provide any documents or other form of evidence which would support 
his position  such as a copy of a relevant 0% interest rate offer for money transfers. I hope 
then that Mr H will understand why, from an impartial perspective, given the supporting 
information available to me here, I feel that its more likely than not that Tesco werent 
offering a 0% interest rate offer on money transfers as Mr H believed was the case.
Mr H has suggested that Tesco should be able to also provide documentary confirmation 
that the money transfers he made were subject to a 3.99% interest charge, and that Tesco 
arent able to do this supports his position. But the monthly account statements confirm the 
3.99% rate as being the standard interest rate on the account for money transfers. And I 
dont feel a credit provider should be expected to make ongoing declarations that they are 
continuing to apply standard rates  as Mr Hs position would imply here  but rather I would 
only expect a credit provider to declare instances where the standard rates temporarily wont 
apply, such as promotional offers.
Mr H has also provided an explanation of why he instructed the money transfers and 
suggests that it would have been illogical for him to have done so unless an offer of 0% 
interest on those money transfers had been made to him. I can appreciate Mr Hs position 
here, and I accept that had he been aware the money transfers would have incurred interest 
charges that he would most likely have organised his finances in a different way. 
But I dont feel that this provides any compelling proof that Tesco did provide him with a 0% 
interest rate offer as he contends. Instead, given the circumstances of this complaint as Ive 
described them above, I feel its more likely that Mr H misunderstood the nature of the 0% 
interest offer that was available on balance transfers at that time, and held the incorrect 
belief that it extended to money transfers as well. And while I appreciate that Mr H may 
continue to hold firm in his position that an offer on money transfers was also available at 
that time, I continue to find Tescos position on this matter more persuasive, given the 
supporting evidence theyve been able to provide, as explained above.
All of which means I find it very difficult to conclude that Tesco have acted unfairly here by 
applying the 3.99% interest charges to the money transfers that Mr H instructed, and it 
follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Tesco to take any 
further action. I realise this wont be the outcome that Mr H was wanting, but I hope that hell 
understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman