DRN-3235462
The complaint
Mrs M complains Aviva Insurance Limited havent handled a claim under her motor 
insurance policy fairly.
A representative has supported Mrs M in bringing this complaint, but for simplicity Ive just 
referred to her in this decision.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. Ive copied the relevant sections of it below, 
and it forms part of this final decision.
On 27 January 2020 Mrs Ms car was hit from behind while parked up at her home. Mrs M 
says her car suffered damage to the rear bumper, and the engine management light (EML) 
came on. Mrs M told Aviva about this the next day. After considering her options, and some 
delays as a result of not being able to get through to Aviva, Mrs M ultimately proceeded with 
the claim on 30 July 2020. She explained she could have dealt with the bumper issue but felt 
the EML needed the manufacturers to look at  and shed been led to believe by speaking to 
her usual car servicing company, the reason for the EML could be a Nitrogen Oxide (NOx) 
sensor.
When speaking to Aviva, Mrs M says she told them the above information, and was told she 
had to pay her £600 excess. When given the option of a garage, she was told the only one 
available was just over 20 miles away  and wasnt a manufacturers garage. She said in the 
last year when shed had an incident, she was able to use a manufacturers garage only two 
miles away. Shes said when she told Aviva this, they explained she can use that garage if 
shed like, but shed have to pay an additional £200 as per her policy terms. Mrs M chose to 
go with the garage Aviva had said, who Ill call S. She says Aviva told her S are part of the 
same group of companies, and felt this was a conflict of interest, but said as no other 
garages were close by felt she had no option but to accept this.
Mrs M says the car was then originally booked in for collection on 3 September 2020, but the 
MOT was due to expire shortly before that  so instead the collection of the car was set for 
24 August 2020. When S came to pick up the car, they couldnt because of the EML, but 
Mrs M said Aviva had asked her to send pictures  and shed told them about it  so she 
wasnt happy S seemingly didnt know about this. The car was collected the next day, but 
later than Mrs M says she was told.
After the car arrived at S, Mrs M says they called her, and told her a new bumper was 
needed and the parking sensors had to be replaced. Mrs M said the parking sensors were 
fine, it was the NOx sensor that might be causing the EML to come on. Mrs M says S told 
her the NOx sensor was under the bonnet at the front of the car, but theyll do a full 
diagnostic to check things. Mrs M had understood from her conversations with Aviva that a 
repair estimate would be provided for her to approve before repairs started, but S just said 
theyd authorised the repairs and were carrying on with things.
Mrs M asked about the NOx sensors, and says she was told on one day it was repaired, but 
then later on it wasnt part of the incident. The car was ultimately returned on 
7 September 2020. At this time Mrs M said the MOT had expired, and the EML was still on. 
Mrs M was asked to pay the excess of £600, but no receipt or invoice breaking down the 
costs had been provided. At this point, Mrs M complained to Aviva about the issues shed 
experienced  including saying she felt S had illegally turned off the EML.
Aviva said they were sorry Mrs M wasnt happy about the changes to the approved repairer 
list, but this changes frequently so they cant say who will be available when a claim is made. 
In respect of the excess for using a non-approved repairer, the additional cost of this is set 
out in the policy terms. For the NOx sensor they said theyd discussed this with S, and S 
hadnt said itd be done as part of the repair. When returning the car to Mrs M, Ss driver 
says the EML wasnt on  and they werent aware the MOT had expired as it didnt show on 
their system nor had Mrs M told them about it. Aviva said the excess of £600 wasnt paid, 
but needs to be  and usually in that situation S would take the car back to the garage, but 
they left it with Mrs M. Aviva said S had told them theyd offered to take Mrs Ms car back to 
get it checked over by an independent engineer, but say Mrs M declined this offer and said 
unless she was provided with written proof theyd do the work she wouldnt pay the excess.
Aviva referred Mrs Ms concerns about the NOx sensor to their senior technical engineer. In 
summary, the senior technical engineer said the NOx screws directly into the exhaust 
system and is towards the front of the car. He said the NOx operates at high temperatures 
and needs to be robust enough to cope with constant vibration from the engine under normal 
use  and as Mrs Ms car was hit while parked, he didnt think this was likely the cause of the 
damage. He did say the fault could be an exhaust regeneration fault issue, which would 
cause the NOx problem  and suggested Mrs M get it investigated and repaired. He added 
hed consider any diagnostic report provided. 
Mrs M replied to Aviva, saying S were lying to them, and Aviva hadnt looked into things 
properly. She asked for all the call recordings to prove her point and expected legal aid to be 
given  to which she says Aviva told her she cant use her policy against the interests of 
Aviva. She felt this was a conflict of interest, so asked us to look into things. 
One of our Investigators started to look into things. During this time, S started to take legal 
action against Mrs M, as the excess hadnt been paid. Aviva confirmed this was on hold 
while our investigation continued.
Ultimately, our Investigator said they couldnt see any evidence of the NOx sensor being 
damaged as a result of the incident, and the excess was fairly payable under the terms of 
the policy.
Mrs M provided a detailed response, which Ive summarised in my own words:
Our Investigator had referred to a diagnostic report, but none was provided to her.
S was supposed to agree the work with her before starting it.
The EML was on when the car was picked up from her house, and she was unhappy 
at the delay in collecting the car, as S hadnt been told about the EML. S also drove 
the car without a MOT, and Ss driver confirmed the EML light was on when returning 
the car.
Avivas engineer has said the NOx is under the bonnet, but its not, its attached in 
the middle of the car next to the exhaust pipe which was in the direct line of the 
collision.
S never offered them an independent engineer to check their car, as theyd said they 
had. Mrs M remained unhappy about the garage options she had, after Aviva changed 
them part way through her policy and felt using S was a conflict of interest.
She felt Avivas senior technical engineer was also biased and had a conflict of 
interest.
Overall, Mrs M didnt agree with the outcome our Investigator had reached. So, the 
complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information provided 
by both parties, in reaching my decision. If Ive not reflected something thats been said in 
this decision its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to the crux 
of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to reflect my 
informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I dont think 
its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question raised unless I 
think its relevant to the crux of the complaint.
For ease of reading, Ill address the points raised under separate headings.
Initial issues regarding the garage
Mrs Ms initial concerns about the garage are that it was too far away for her, and that she 
couldnt use the manufacturers garage shed previously used as one of Avivas approved 
repairers.
Avivas terms say:
Following an incident, we will arrange to get your vehicle to one of our approved repairers.
And
What if I want to use a garage of my choice
We can arrange for your vehicle to be taken to a repairer of your choice if it is closer than our 
nearest approved repairerand the excess you must pay will increase.
I can understand Mrs Ms disappointment at not being able to use a garage shed previously 
used, and clearly wanted to use again. But, I dont think Aviva have done anything wrong 
here. Most large insurers will have a network of approved repairers for multiple reasons, and 
theyll often say it helps to keep costs down  because they can negotiate better rates for 
work carried out. Aviva have also explained they regularly update their approved repairer 
network for a multitude of reasons  and dont have the capacity to tell their policyholders 
every time they make a change to their network.
I cant decide what policies Aviva should or shouldnt follow, I can only consider the impact 
on Mrs M in Avivas actions. Here, I dont think its unusual for approved repairers to have 
changed during her policy term  and I can see those terms do give Mrs M the right to take 
her car to her chosen garage if shed prefer. I do appreciate thatd result in an additional 
payment  but in offering this, it means Mrs M did still have a choice about who repaired her 
car. She chose to go with S, so overall, I dont plan on upholding this element of her 
complaint.Quality of repairs by S
Mrs M isnt happy that a detailed breakdown wasnt completed showing the total costs of the 
repairs. Shes also asked for a copy of the diagnostic report she understands has been 
completed.
The reason for these points is due to the quality of repairs carried out  Mrs M says the NOx 
sensor was part of the incident, so should have been repaired. Ss final position is that the 
NOx sensor wasnt part of the incident, so shouldnt be repaired under the insurance claim.
It seems theres been a bit of a dispute about where the NOx sensor itself was located, and 
whether damage could have been caused or not as a result of this incident. I should explain 
Im not an engineer, so when thinking about damage thats occurred to a car, we tend to rely 
on the reports provided by those who are  such as S  unless theres a reason not to.
The only report Ive been provided with, is the one dated 3 September 2020 from S which 
Mrs M gave us. In this report, theres no mention of the NOx sensor being damaged. The 
report does say a diagnostic report should be carried out, and there is a note that says S 
needs to diagnose the engine warning light.
So, at face value, I think Mrs Ms arguments have some merit. Ss breakdown of work says 
theyll carry out a diagnostic (which I cant see has been provided) and suggests the EML 
was on when the car was with them.
As Ive not been provided with too much information about this, I need to decide what I think 
is more likely than not, taking into account the information I do have.
One of the points Mrs M made, is that the car was returned to her with the EML on, which 
shows the car cant be driven, and without an MOT which is illegal. Ill come back to these 
specific points later, but I think this is relevant to the question of what additional work might 
have been needed to return Mrs Ms car in a roadworthy state.
My understanding is the car was returned on 7 September 2020. At this time, Mrs M was in 
dispute with S and Aviva already  having raised a number of concerns about issues thatd 
happened. A new MOT was completed on 8 September 2020 (the day after the car was 
returned) and it shows as a pass  had there been any failings which rendered the car 
unroadworthy, then the car wouldnt have passed its MOT. If there were any issues with the 
car, but it was still roadworthy, then these are often included on an MOT as something the 
car owner may wish to get fixed.
While saying the car is roadworthy, versus the car being repaired properly after an incident, 
are clearly two different things  I think this could suggest there wasnt an outstanding issue 
when the car was returned. Thats not to say I disbelieve Mrs Ms concerns regarding this, 
but Ive so far got no evidence to support what shes said  and her car passed an MOT the 
day after it was returned.
Our Investigator did ask Mrs M whether shed repaired the NOx, and she said Yes, it was 
repaired on our own cost but dont have written invoices. Mrs M also explained she didnt 
have anything from the car servicing company who also said damage to the NOx was 
probably due to the incident.
Taking all of this into account, the summary Ive reached regarding the repairs is that neither 
party has provided as much information as Id usually expect to fully prove their point. But, if 
I were to uphold this element of Mrs Ms complaint, Id need to be satisfied a loss has been 
incurred, and the cost of that loss. Mrs M was already in dispute with S and Aviva at the time of getting the MOT completed the day after it was returned  and have no written evidence 
to show what she had to get fixed.
So, I dont currently plan to uphold this element of her complaint.
Service provided by S
Ive noted Mrs M wanted a full breakdown of each item and the cost of repairing that. But, I 
dont think S or Aviva necessarily needed to provide that to her. I say that because Aviva 
were ultimately paying the bill for the cost of repairs  and Mrs M has confirmed she decided 
to go ahead with the claim. So, even if the costs had been provided, Ive not seen anything 
to suggest shed be in a different position if thatd happened.
I understand she believes she was told by S that the NOx would be fixed, and then Mrs Ms 
said S were evasive about this. S have disputed this, saying they made it clear theyd 
consider the NOx, but ultimately found it wasnt as a result of the incident  S have also said 
they only keep calls for six months, and couldnt provide them to us when we asked as itd 
been longer than that. Ive not got enough information to show they did mislead Mrs M. But, I 
should add, even if they did incorrectly tell her the NOx would be fixed, we dont expect S / 
Aviva to make incorrect information true. Instead, wed look at the impact that incorrect 
information had on Mrs M. Her expectations would have been, had she been told this, that 
the NOx would have been fixed  but, for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont plan on 
awarding this.
Ive noted theres a dispute about where the NOx is located, and whats been said by Avivas 
senior technical engineer, and S  but, again, I need to come back to not being able to say 
Mrs M has suffered a loss on this point. So, although unhelpful if they have stated its in the 
wrong place, I dont have the evidence to say it should be repaired.
Finally, under this section, I note Mrs M has strong concerns over S driving the car without a 
MOT, and with the EML on. With regards to the MOT, thats not something for me to 
consider, because even if they did do this its not had an impact on Mrs M. As for the EML, S 
strongly dispute this, and say no EML was on when the car was returned. But, again, I dont 
think I need to decide this because if there was an issue, then Id need evidence to show it 
had an impact on Mrs M  which hasnt been provided.
Excess
Its not in dispute the excess hasnt been paid as I understand things. Mrs Ms arguments 
about this are that her car wasnt fixed properly  so until it is, she shouldnt have to pay it.
Ive said out my thoughts above on the repairs, so I wont comment further. The policy terms 
Mrs M agreed to say about the excess, amongst other things:
An excess is the amount you will have to pay towards any claim
An excess will apply to most claims.
Your schedule will show the excesses you will have to pay towards your claim.
The policy schedule says Mrs Ms excess is £600. So, it does seem as though Mrs M is 
required to pay it. Im aware S started legal proceedings and then stopped so our service 
could finish considering this complaint. Id like to make it clear my judgement that Mrs M 
owes this money is based on my remit of considering things on a fair and reasonable basis. I 
cant decide if Mrs M legally owes this money.Other points
Ive noted Mrs Ms comments that theres a conflict of interest  both from Aviva using a 
garage they partly own for the work  and in Avivas senior technical engineer reviewing 
matters. But, Ive not seen any evidence of a conflict of interest in the handling of Mrs Ms 
claim and, as set out above, I think Aviva have acted fairly in saying they wont repair the 
NOx.
Mrs M also wanted to take legal action against Aviva, who said she cant. What she can and 
cant do here will be set out in her policy terms. If she finds shes been given incorrect 
information about this, then she may be able to raise a new complaint.
Summary
I realise Mrs M will be disappointed with the outcome Ive reached. But, overall, I think Aviva 
have provided her with the right information, based on the evidence I can see. And, where 
the evidence is insufficient, I dont have enough to say shes suffered financial losses, nor 
that Aviva or S have done something I think is worthy of compensation.
Responses to my provisional decision
Neither Mrs M, or Aviva, replied by the deadline set.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party replied by the deadline, Ive not been given any reason to change the 
outcome Ive reached on this case. So, for the reasons I explained in my provisional 
decision, Im satisfied Aviva arent required to do anything further.
My final decision
It follows I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman