DRN-3892952
The complaint
Mr L complains about Covea Insurance plcs (Covea) delay in handling his car insurance 
claim which he says led to him having to pay higher premiums.  
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont go over it in great 
detail. However, in summary, Mr Ls car was parked outside his home when it was hit by 
another vehicle which belonged to company A. Mr L says it took Covea two years to settle 
the claim during which time he had to pay higher premiums, so he complained. Covea 
responded and explained, when a claim is open, itll remain as a fault claim until the insurer 
is able to recover 100% of their costs. They said, once the claim has been settled as non-
fault, then the premium is recalculated from that date going forward. They explained the 
premiums were correct at the time based on a fault claim.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr L. He thought Covea had delayed in progressing 
the claim and recommended they pay Mr L £150 compensation. Mr L agreed but Covea 
disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. And, I think the investigators 
recommendation here is a fair way to resolve matters. 
My role requires me to say how a complaint should be settled quickly and with minimal 
formality and so Ill focus on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint and the main 
areas of dispute. Mr L reported the incident to Covea in January 2020 but it wasnt settled 
until November 2021. I understand Mr Ls frustrated at the length of time things took, 
particularly because the third party vehicle hit his parked and unattended car  so he doesnt 
feel there shouldve been any issue with liability. 
Its not uncommon or unreasonable for an insurer to treat an incident as fault until they 
recover their outlay. While I do acknowledge Mr Ls points about the accident circumstances 
and liability, Covea have treated the claim as fault until such time as they were able to 
identify the third party to recover their outlay  which isnt unreasonable. Ive then looked at 
the steps Covea took and whether they progressed Mr Ls claim in a timely manner.    
Ive looked through the information provided by Covea and this shows, when Mr L first 
contacted them in January 2020, they didnt have any third party details. They agree with   
Mr L that hell try and get CCTV evidence. Mr L then sends this to Covea a few days later 
but, while this shows Mr Ls car being hit by company As vehicle, theres a note which says 
company As vehicles registration details arent visible. Mr L then says hell try and get 
company As registration details. Just over a month later, Covea request the police report. 
Mr L then calls Covea to say company A have CCTV footage which contains the registration 
details and theyve admitted liability. Covea then call company A in March to ask for the 
CCTV footage and they explain the request will need to be in writing  which Covea do the 
same day. In April, Covea complete a form to send to the police for their report. Mr L calls 
Covea in May and explains he contacted company A, but they didnt provide him with the 
vehicles registration. Covea then email company A on 19 May and ask for the vehicles 
registration details. Company A reply on 22 May and explain the information Covea are 
requesting relates to another partys personal data so Covea arent able to request it under a 
Subject Access Request (SAR). Company A explain, in order to proceed with the request, 
Covea will need to provide a form of authority signed by Mr L together with a payment of £50 
by cheque. Company A explain they cant take steps to source records until payment has 
been received. Covea then respond on 27 May and explain theyre unable to make 
payments by cheque at present and ask if company A can retain any footage until theyre 
back in the office and able to make the payment by cheque. Company A reply and explain 
theyll look into Coveas request once they make payment. 
Over the next few months Mr L chases for updates and is told Covea are waiting for the 
police report. Covea receive the police report on 3 December but this doesnt contain details 
of the third party vehicle. Covea then email Mr L to see whether hes able to get the third 
partys vehicle registration. Mr L calls Covea on 7 December to say he has spoken with 
company A but they wont provide him with the details, so Covea send an email to ask for 
the information. Covea chase company A on 30 December. Company A then provide Mr L 
with the registration details on 17 January 2021 and Mr L forwards this to Covea the same 
day. Covea then gather information relating to their outlay and send this to the third party on 
2 March. Covea dont get an admission of liability, so they instruct solicitors in May and the 
claim is settled in November.    
Taking this all into account, I think Covea have delayed in progressing the claim. I think they 
did, initially, take reasonable steps to try to obtain the registration details for company As 
vehicle but they didnt get a response  so this was out of their control. But, following their 
first email in March 2020, I cant see they chased until Mr L called them in May for an 
update. This prompts Covea to chase and company A then respond to this email. I can see 
Covea say company A told them they wouldnt provide the third partys details as theyre not 
entitled to them under a SAR. Ive seen company As reply but I dont agree this prevented 
Covea from taking further steps. This does confirm the nature of the information being 
requested by Covea cant be made under a SAR, but it does then set out the process Covea 
need to follow to request this  and Covea acknowledge this by confirming they want the 
footage but cant yet make payment by cheque. 
While I understand Covea say they werent able to make a payment by cheque as they 
werent back in the office, I cant see any further action was taken to get the footage from 
company A until they chased in December  and this again appears to have been prompted 
by Mr L chasing for an update and explaining his frustration at the length of time things were 
taking. Its not clear when Covea returned to their office and were able to send cheques 
again, but if this wasnt between May to December 2020, then I think they couldve let Mr L 
know about the process and even invited Mr L to pay the fee by cheque and they couldve 
reimbursed him. 
I think this wouldve been reasonable in the circumstances, particularly so, because, while I 
acknowledge Covea then started chasing the police for their report, the information shows 
Covea were aware of the police backlog in dealing with these requests. The information 
shows Covea were told by the police they were dealing with requests in date order and were 
around 10 months behind  so I think this shouldve prompted Covea to start communicating 
with company A again and follow the steps Ive described above. Given that Mr L was able 
to get the required information from company A shortly after Covea started chasing them 
again, I believe they wouldve received it much sooner had they used the process Ive described and continued communicating with company A following the exchange of emails in 
May 2020. 
So, I think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances for Covea to pay Mr L compensation 
for the delay in progressing his claim. I think, had Covea taken the alternative steps Ive 
suggested, then its more likely than not, they wouldve received the vehicle registration 
details at least a few months earlier and they couldve then made a claim for their outlay 
much sooner. The information shows Mr L was clearly upset and frustrated by the delay and, 
on at least two occasions, him chasing Covea prompted them to send a chaser. Taking into 
account the impact on Mr L, I think its fair and reasonable for Covea to pay Mr L £150. 
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that Covea have delayed in progressing Mr Ls claim. So, Covea should 
pay Mr L £150 for the upset and frustration caused.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Covea Insurance plc must pay Mr L £150 
compensation.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman