DRN-4254108
The complaint
Mr T complains that Lloyds Bank PLC didnt pay him an incentive payment when he 
switched his current account.
What happened
Lloyds offered a scheme which would pay customers £200 if they successfully switched to 
one of its qualifying current accounts. Mr T phoned and applied to switch his current account 
from his previous provider over to Lloyds. The application wasnt processed, and Mr T later 
attended a branch appointment to open his new account. He complained because he was 
unhappy the switch wasnt processed correctly, and he said he hadnt received the £200 
payment for switching. 
Lloyds said that when Mr T phoned, the advisor could only offer the Classic or Club Lloyds 
accounts and neither of these met the criteria for the £200 incentive. It said there was no 
mention of the incentive during Mr Ts branch visit. It also said it didnt know why the original 
request to switch Mr Ts account didnt go through, but it paid Mr T £125 to compensate for 
the error and the inconvenience caused. 
Mr T brought his complaint to our service and our investigator didnt think it should be 
upheld. She said during the sales telephone call there wasnt any mention of the £200 switch 
incentive. Our investigator didnt think Lloyds had made an error. In her view, Lloyds hadnt 
given Mr T any misleading information that might have made him believe he would receive 
the £200 incentive. Our investigator also thought it was fair Lloyds paid Mr T £125 
compensation for the error it made when he initially applied to switch. 
Mr T didnt accept our investigators opinion, and he said there would have been no point 
sending £50,000 to his new account without there being an incentive. He also said he wasnt 
aware the incentive didnt apply to all accounts. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator and for similar reasons. 
Lloyds has shown that in order to be eligible for the incentive, a customer would need to 
switch from their existing provider to a qualifying Lloyds current account. Lloyds didnt pay 
the incentive to Mr T as the account he opened didnt meet the criteria for the switch offer, 
and I dont think its decision was unfair or unreasonable. Ill explain why.
I have listened to the initial sales telephone call, and Im satisfied that Mr T didnt tell the 
adviser he wanted to switch to take advantage of the switch offer. Ive also read a summary 
of the meeting in branch, and Im not persuaded Mr T informed the advisor of his interest in 
the incentive payment. So, I dont find it unreasonable that they didnt inform him the account 
he applied for wasnt eligible for the £200 incentive. 
Additionally, I find the accounts which qualified for the incentive are fee paying accounts and 
include benefits of travel insurance, breakdown cover and mobile phone cover. And Ive 
noted from the call recording that when asked, Mr T confirmed that he wouldnt qualify for 
the travel insurance due to his age and didnt require breakdown cover. Therefore, as the  
qualifying accounts incurred a cost for benefits Mr T has said he didnt need, I find it 
reasonable that he was not offered these accounts during the initial sales call.  
I appreciate Mr T says he wasnt aware the incentive didnt apply to every current account 
Lloyds offered, and I can understand why he feels it was pointless switching accounts, but 
Im not persuaded this means Lloyds must pay him the £200 incentive. Ultimately, I dont find 
it gave Mr T incorrect or misleading information. 
However, Lloyds acknowledged it didnt process Mr Ts application when it should have. I 
find this was rectified in good time once he made it aware of the issue, but it did require Mr T 
to visit his local branch, which I think was an unnecessary inconvenience. Lloyds  paid him 
£125 compensation and I think thats fair in all circumstances. So, I wont be asking it to do 
anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2023.
 
Oluwatobi Balogun
Ombudsman