DRN-3467766
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Platform Funding Limited (Platform) acted irresponsibly when it gave 
her and her late husband (Mr W) an interest only mortgage.
The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op) owns that mortgage now, so it is responsible for 
handling this complaint.
Mrs S is represented by her father, Mr S.
What happened
Mrs S and Mr W took out an interest only re-mortgage with Platform in 2008. Mr S says 
Mr W dealt with all of the finances in their relationship and was manipulative. So Mrs S 
wasnt aware of the re-mortgage or its terms until after Mr W died in 2016. 
Mrs S thinks that contrary to what was stated in the mortgage application, Mr W used some 
of the money from the re-mortgage for his business. Mr S doesnt think Platform should have 
lent to Mr W and Mrs S without carrying out more checks. 
Mrs S didnt pay the monthly mortgage repayment in the month Mr W died. That repayment 
still hasnt been paid, so the mortgage is in arrears. Mr S thinks that re-payment should be 
written off. He complains about the letters that Co-op sent Mrs S and Mr W after it was told 
Mr W had died. He says Co-op shouldnt have written to Mr W once it knew that hed died, 
and that its letters were very distressing for Mrs S.
For clarity I will say here that Platform is part of the same banking group as Co-op. But it is a 
separate firm. In April 2016 Co-op took the decision to move some mortgages from Platform 
to Co-op. Co-op has confirmed that it is responsible for complaints about Platform before 
April 2016. 
In its final response Co-op said it hadnt done anything wrong. It says Mr W used a broker to 
apply for the mortgage in 2008. So it was entitled to reply on the information the broker 
provided it with. Having considered the mortgage documentation that was signed in 2008, it 
didnt think there was anything to alert it to the concerns Mr S has raised. It also said that 
while it did receive a phone call to say that Mr W had died in 2016, it didnt receive a death 
certificate so it wasnt able to amend its records. So it didnt make a mistake when it 
contacted Mr W and Mrs S after 2016 about the arrears on the mortgage.
Mr S remained unhappy so he complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our 
investigator looked into the matter. 
Our investigator didnt think the Platform made a mistake when it gave Mrs S and Mr W the 
interest only mortgage. Nor did she think it Co-op was wrong to contact Mrs S and Mr W 
after the mortgage went into arrears in 2016. She appreciated that Mrs S was distressed that 
letters continued to be sent to Mr W, but she understood why Co-op hadnt updated its 
records to reflect Mr Ws death until it had received the paperwork it needed. However, she 
thought Co-ops contact was excessive. So she recommended that Co-op pay Mrs S £450 
by way of apology for the distress and inconvenience its excessive contact caused Mrs S. 
Co-op agreed to pay Mrs S £450 compensation to resolve the complaint. But Mr S remained 
unhappy and asked for Mrs S complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. So this 
complaint has been passed to me to decide. Mr S made a number of further points about 
why he thought Mrs S had been treated unfairly after our investigator sent him her view on 
the case. He also asked to us put a large number of further questions to Co-op. Ill consider 
those points below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I also think that Co-op should pay Mrs S £450 to resolve this complaint. Ill 
explain why.
sale of the mortgage
My starting point on this issue is to say that I can see that the mortgage was sold by a 
broker. That means the broker was responsible for any advice or information provided at 
point of sale. 
Mr S says that he feels the broker acted as the lenders agent. So he thinks Co-op should 
take responsibility and not enable the broker to be used as a scapegoat. 
I dont underestimate Mr S strength of feeling about this point. Its clear from what he has 
told us that he feels that if the broker had met or spoken to Mrs S directly at the time, the 
broker couldve ensured that Mrs S was fully aware of the mortgage. He also thinks Mr Ws 
health and behaviour issues would have been identified. 
I appreciate Mr Ss position. However, the broker was a separate legal entity to Platform, 
and I havent seen any evidence to suggest that it acted as its agent. So it wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable for me to hold Co-op responsible for the brokers actions in 2008. Im also 
conscious that the broker wasnt required to speak to Mrs S directly about the mortgage at 
this time. Mr S has been provided with the brokers contact details, so he may want to raise 
a complaint with the broker on behalf of Mrs S if he wishes to do so. 
The lender was responsible for the decision to lend on the basis of the mortgage offer and 
supporting documentation the broker provided. Ive considered the information available to 
Platform when it took the decision to lend. In particular, Ive looked at the mortgage 
application and the supplementary declaration issued alongside the mortgage offer. Both 
those documents were signed by Mrs S. Mr S has said that Mrs S doesnt know how those 
documents came to be signed by her. He thinks Mr W manipulated Mrs S and/or that Mr W 
got Mrs S to sign them without giving her time to read the documents. 
I appreciate what Mr S has told us about this, and the way that Mr W treated Mrs S. Im very 
sorry to hear that. However, Ive seen nothing to indicate that Platform wouldve been aware 
of this at the time the mortgage application was made. I can see that the mortgage was in 
both Mr W and Mrs S joint names and signed by both of them. Although I know that Mr S 
feels that direct contact should have been made with Mrs S, I wouldnt expect Platform to 
have contacted Mrs S directly before giving agreement to lend, or for it to write to both 
borrowers separately after the mortgage was given. 
So I dont think its fair to say that Platform shouldnt have provided the mortgage on the basis of the documentation provided. 
I can see that the mortgage offer clearly explains the terms of the mortgage, including the 
amount being borrowed and that the mortgage was on interest only terms. Theres nothing in 
the application form to indicate the purpose of the re-mortgage was to raise money for 
Mr Ws business as Mr S has suggested. It says Mr W and Mrs S were looking to raise 
money for home improvements. The only unsecured debt declared was a personal loan for 
£2,000 in Mr Ws name. Im conscious that Mr S has told our investigator that no home 
improvements took place around 2008. However, I dont think Platform would have been 
aware of this.
Mr S has raised a number of further points about Platforms actions in 2008. For 
completeness I will say here that I can see that Platform arranged a property valuation by a 
RICS qualified surveyor before it agreed to the mortgage. I think Platform was entitled to rely 
on that valuation in connection with the mortgage. 
Mr S has asked whether it was responsible for Platform to lend on interest only terms when it 
knew (from the application form) that the capital of the mortgage would be repaid by selling 
the property. That was a valid repayment strategy for repaying an interest only mortgage at 
the time, so I dont think it would be fair to say that Platform acted unreasonably in choosing 
to lend on that basis.
Mr S has told us that on Mr Ws death Mrs S was shocked to discover that there was no life 
cover in place to cover the mortgage. Im sorry to hear that. However, life insurance wasnt a 
requirement of the mortgage, so it wouldnt be fair to say that Platform made a mistake by 
not putting it in place.
Taking this part of the complaint as a whole, I dont think it would be fair to say that Platform 
shouldnt have lent to Mr W and Mrs S in 2008.
arrears
Mr S has said that he thinks Co-op should write off the arrears on the mortgage given that it 
stems from one missed payment in the month Mr W died. I understand why he thinks that 
would be something Co-op should consider. He says that other lenders have done this.
However, Co-op isnt required to write off the arrears that stem from the missed mortgage 
payment in 2016. So it wouldnt be fair for me to require it to do this. 
communications 
Mr S has told us that Mrs S was deeply affected by Mr Ws death in 2016. So it was very 
painful for her to keep receiving letters in his name after this. As far as hes concerned, 
Co-op had been informed about Mr Ws death in 2016, so it shouldve acted on what it was 
told then. He says it was disrespectful (and pointless) for it to continue to write to him after 
this. He has also told us that Mrs S felt intimidated and bullied by Co-ops letters and couldnt 
cope with them on top of everything else she had to deal with after her husband died. He 
has described Co-ops actions as unforgivable. 
Im very sorry to hear about what Mrs S has gone through, and the effect Co-ops letters 
had. Im mindful that Mr S says Mrs S was advised by a solicitor not to open any letters 
addressed to Mr W. Im also mindful of what Mr S has told us about Mrs S health in recent 
years. So I have no doubt that Co-ops contact with Mrs S was unwelcome and distressing. 
However, Ive seen nothing to indicate that Co-op was made aware of this advice or the 
impact of its letters until Mr S got it touch with it in late 2020. From Co-ops point of view, contact on the mortgage account stopped for a number of years after 2016, after the 
mortgage went into arrears. 
I dont think it would be fair for me to say that Co-op was wrong to continue to make contact 
with the borrowers on the mortgage account after 2016. The arrears on the account needed 
to be repaid, and interest was being added to the account slowly while the arrears remained 
unpaid. Its also fair to say that Co-op was required to provide regular updates about how the 
mortgage was progressing.
Theres no dispute that Co-op sent letters to both Mr W and Mrs S until it received a copy of 
Mr Ws death certificate in 2020. Im persuaded that Co-op required that document to take 
Mr Ws name off the account. So I cant say that it made a mistake when it kept Mr Ws 
name on the account, and continued to write to him, until it received the paperwork it 
needed. I also understand why it needed Mrs S to give her express permission for Mr S to 
manage the mortgage account for her.
However, Co-op didnt need to contact Mrs S as often as it did after 2016. Although I think it 
was entitled to contact her about the arrears on the account, I dont think it should have sent 
letters two-three times a month (sometimes within a few days of each other) as it sometimes 
did. Given the level of arrears, I dont think there was a danger of Co-op taking possession 
action. While theres nothing to indicate that Co-op realised the impact of those letters on 
Mrs S, I can understand why Mr S has told us that Mrs S felt bombarded by their frequency.
In the circumstances, I think it would be fair and reasonable for Co-op to pay Mrs S £450 
compensation for this aspect of her complaint. I think that fairly reflects the nature of the 
Co-ops mistake and the impact the excessive contact had on her. I appreciate that Mr S 
thinks that isnt enough, but I think its helpful to say here that my awards arent intended to 
punish Co-op. I think the £450 compensation offered also takes into account the fact that 
Co-op was entitled to send some letters about the account. 
Finally I think its worth saying here that I can see that Mr S has posed a large number of 
questions he wants the Financial Ombudsman Service to put to Co-op. I appreciate that 
Mr S wants answers to those questions. However, the Financial Ombudsman Service is an 
informal dispute resolution service. My role is to help to resolve complaints in a fair and 
reasonable way. It isnt for me to put each and every question Mr S may have to Co-op or to 
demand the answers to those questions. 
moving forwards
Mr S has told us that he thinks its unfair that Mrs S should have to take total responsibility 
for the mortgage now  - after the death of her husband. He thinks thats unfair given that 
Mrs S is adamant that she wasnt aware of the mortgage when it was taken out and her 
personal circumstances.
I appreciate Mr S position, and I dont underestimate the impact of Mr Ws death on Mrs S. 
However, the fact remains that Mrs S is solely responsible for the mortgage now, and that 
she continues to benefit from the mortgage in the sense that it enables her to live in the 
mortgaged property with her family. So Co-op is entitled to require her to continue to make 
her monthly repayments and repay the arrears on the mortgage.
If Mrs S is unable to pay the arrears on the mortgage she should contact Co-op, so that it is 
in a position to put an arrangement in place to repay the arrears. Mrs S may also want to get 
independent financial advice to explore her options and come up with a plan to repay the 
balance of her mortgage by the time it ends in 2027.Putting things right
Co-op should pay Mrs S £450 compensation for the mistakes it made communicating with 
Mrs S after 2016. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that the Co-operative Bank Plc should 
pay Mrs S £450 to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2022.
 
Laura Forster
Ombudsman