DRN-3603171
The complaint
Mrs C complains that St James's Place UK plc (SJP) failed to process a transfer of her 
pension savings in a timely manner.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in June 2022. In that decision I explained 
why I thought the complaint should be upheld and what SJP needed to do in order to put 
things right. Both parties have received a copy of the provisional decision but, for 
completeness and so those findings form part of this decision, I include some extracts from it 
below. In my decision I said;
Mrs C held pension savings with SJP. She was provided with investment advice, and 
servicing support, on those pension savings by an appointed representative 
(otherwise known as a partner) of St James's Place Wealth Management plc 
(SJPWM). Whilst sharing a common parent company, SJP and SJPWM are 
separately regulated businesses. Mrs Cs husband (Mr C) also held similar pension 
savings with SJP. Whilst Mr C also made a similar transfer request to that made by 
Mrs C, this complaint only relates to Mrs Cs transfer. Although I will, at times, 
reference both their requests.
In March 2020 Mr & Mrs C discussed transferring their pension savings from SJP to 
a Qualifying Registered Overseas Pension Scheme (QROPS). Mr & Mrs C asked 
their SJPWM partner for information about the timescales that would apply to a 
transfer to a QROPS. The information they were given was that, should everything 
be in order, the funds would be sent to the new provider after three working days 
during which time their pension savings would be uninvested. At that time financial 
markets were experiencing significant volatility due to the onset of the coronavirus 
pandemic. So Mr & Mrs C decided to delay their transfer until later in the year.
SJP received a transfer request from the QROPS on behalf of Mrs C on 20 May 
2020. It also received a similar request on behalf of Mr C. SJP says that its expected 
service standard for dealing with a transfer of this nature was three business days for 
the processing activity followed by a further three business days for the funds to 
reach the new provider.
But SJP says Mrs Cs transfer was delayed. First, SJP needed to seek guidance from 
its technical team about whether any taxation liability would be incurred by the 
transfer. Those enquiries added four working days to the processing period. But then 
SJP sought clarification from the QROPS of its banking details. Those enquires 
added a further two working days to the time it took for Mrs Cs transfer to be 
completed.
 
SJP told Mr C that the start of his transfer had been delayed due to an income 
payment that was planned. But ultimately the request for advice from the technical 
team and the payment of the funds to the QROPS were completed at the same time 
for Mr Cs transfer as for Mrs C. So Mrs C complained that it appeared that her 
transfer had been delayed so both could be progressed at the same time.
SJP didnt agree with Mrs Cs complaint. It said it had been a coincidence that both 
transfers had been completed on the same day. It said its initial processing of Mrs 
Cs transfer had been in line with its service standards. But it agreed that its request 
to the QROPS for clarification of its banking details was unnecessary  it already 
held that information. So it paid some interest to Mrs C to reflect the two day delay it 
had caused in the transfer being completed.
I think I should first look at what I can, and cant, consider in this complaint. It is clear 
that Mrs C was given some information in March 2020 by her SJP partner about the 
likely timescales for the completion of her transfer. What is less clear to me is where 
that information first originated  whether it was provided by SJP, SJPWM or by the 
partner firm itself. I would expect that, if the information had originated from SJP it 
would reflect the servicing standards that we have been provided with. The 
information SJP provided to us was dated 26 March so whilst it is possible those 
standards changed in the following days, on balance Im not persuaded that was the 
case. And so I think it more likely the information originated from SJPWM, or the 
partner itself.
 
As I explained earlier, SJPWM is a separately regulated business. So it wouldnt be 
appropriate, in this decision to consider any failings by that firm, or by its appointed 
representative. So if Mrs C was given incorrect information about the processing 
timescales, it wouldnt be something that I should address here. In this decision I will 
base my consideration of the processing timeline, on what SJP has told us about its 
expected service standards. And those were that transfers would take three business 
days to be processed, followed by a further three business days for the funds to be 
received by the new pension scheme.
When looking at the time it took for Mrs Cs transfer to be processed there are two 
aspects for me to consider. Firstly, when did SJP disinvest Mrs Cs pension savings 
in preparation for the transfer? And secondly, when those funds were actually 
received by the QROPS? Both those dates will impact upon a consideration about 
whether any delays occurred, and if Mrs C has lost out as a result.
SJP received Mrs Cs transfer request on 20 May. It says its terms and conditions 
state that the sale of the pension investments, in preparation for the transfer, would 
take place the following business day. And, although it might not have started 
processing Mrs Cs transfer immediately, and so the sale of the investments was 
delayed, I can see that SJP says it used a backdated price of 21 May. So it seems to 
me that the disinvestment of Mrs Cs pension savings took place as it should have.
But the difficulty that then created for Mrs C was that, from that point until the transfer 
was completed, her pension savings would not benefit from any investment returns 
should the markets perform well. And that was undoubtedly a key concern of Mrs C 
throughout the transfer discussions, and most likely the main reason the transfer 
request wasnt submitted in March. So I can understand her desire for the remainder 
of SJPs transfer process to be completed as quickly as possible.
I think that the processing clock started when SJP received a valid instruction from 
the QROPS on Mrs Cs behalf on 20 May. And so, if everything was in order, Mrs C 
could have expected her funds to have arrived at the new provider within six 
business days. But SJP has told us that it needed to undertake some additional 
enquiries before it could make the transfer. And so the expected time was increased.Mrs C has said that she had been clear from the start of her discussions with SJP 
that she wanted to transfer her pension savings to a QROPS. So she says that SJP 
should have been prepared for that request beforehand. But I dont agree. The 
transfer request will provide SJP with specific details about the proposed transfer, the 
timing of that transfer, and details of the QROPS itself. A transfer to a QROPS will 
cause a benefit crystallisation event requiring the pension savings to be tested 
against the lifetime allowance. That isnt something that can be done in advance 
given the value of pension investments will fluctuate from day to day.
So I dont think it was unreasonable that SJP referred the transfer to its technical 
team for further consideration before it was completed. I have seen that referral took 
four business days  the referral was made on 27 May 2020, and the transfer was 
ready to proceed on 2 June. I dont think that period was unreasonable, and so 
I would conclude it should be added to the overall processing service standard.
So, in total, I would have expected Mrs Cs transfer to take ten business days if SJP 
met its service standards. As I said earlier, the request was received on 20 May, and 
the funds were paid to the QROPS arriving on 11 June. That is an elapsed time of 
15 business days. So I think that SJP failed to meet its published service standards 
when completing Mrs Cs transfer request.
 
I dont think it is necessary for me to explore the reasons for that delay. To a degree 
I share Mrs Cs scepticism that it was just coincidence that her transfer, and that of 
her husband, were referred to the technical department on the same day. But given 
I have looked at Mrs Cs transfer in isolation, and found it took too long, I dont think 
any further comparison is necessary.
As I said earlier, SJP has already paid compensation to Mrs C in respect of two days 
delay in transferring her pension savings. But Im not persuaded that compensation 
has been fairly calculated. SJP paid Mrs C interest (after the deduction of basic rate 
tax) at a rate of 8% simple. That is the compensation methodology that I would apply 
should a consumer have been deprived of the use of funds by, for example, the late 
payment of income from their pension. But that isnt what happened here. By 
delaying the transfer, Mrs Cs subsequent investment in the QROPS was delayed. 
So that means, if the markets had risen, the holdings within her QROPS might be 
less than they would have been had the funds been available earlier. So as I set out 
below, I think SJP needs to recalculate the compensation that is due to Mrs C.
In summary I currently think that the transfer of Mrs Cs pension savings to the 
QROPS took place five business days after it should have been completed. So 
I currently intend to uphold this complaint and direct SJP to put things right.
I invited both parties to provide us with any further comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. SJP has said that it accepts my provisional decision and agrees it is a 
fair outcome. Mrs C has said she is satisfied that her complaint has been upheld, but she 
has provided further clarification on some of the matters I discussed. Although I am only 
summarising here what was a comprehensive and well considered submission from Mrs C, 
I want to reassure her I have read, and carefully considered, her entire response.
Mrs C says that the SJPWM partner told her that the information it passed on about 
processing timescales had been provided by the SJP administration centre. So she 
considers SJP should be held responsible for any misinformation about the likely processing 
time. Mrs C accepts that it would be unreasonable for SJP to have started work on her transfer before a formal request was received. But she does think that any additional work 
caused by a QROPS transfer should have been factored into any processing estimates.
Mrs C notes that her portfolio was identical to that held by her husband. So she can 
determine that her portfolio rose in value by £922.31 in the time before it was actually 
disinvested by SJP. She says that excess has been retained by SJP and isnt consistent with 
treating a customer fairly. And Mrs C notes that SJPs processing actually took eight days 
longer than the timescale I thought was appropriate  but the end to end timescale was 
improved by a quicker than expected banking transfer. So she thinks the compensation 
should be based on an eight-day, rather than five-day, delay.
Mrs C notes that the fall in the value of financial investments over the past year is likely to 
reduce, or potentially eradicate, any compensation that SJP needs to pay her. And she 
notes that, as Ive explained above, SJP has profited from the sale of her pension 
investments. She doesnt think it right that the cost to SJP of restoring her financial position 
should be a lottery.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about the additional comments made by Mrs C. But they havent 
caused me to change my mind from the findings I set out in my provisional decision. 
However I would like to comment further on the matters Mrs C has raised.
I dont think I need to determine what was the ultimate source of the information Mrs C was 
given about the processing timescales. I dont think the timescales I have used as my 
reference point are out of line with the information she was given. The three days for the 
processing of the transfer appears to be consistent. And I dont think a further three days for 
the banking transfer of the funds to the new administrator is unusual. So Im content that it is 
reasonable to base my decision upon a normal end-to-end processing time of six business 
days.
But of course, in my provisional decision, I explained why I thought that timescale should be 
extended  to allow for the further technical analysis that SJP required. I might agree with 
Mrs C that additional time should be accounted for in any processing estimates if the referral 
to the technical team was required on every transfer. But Im not persuaded that is the case. 
Each transfer is different, and some might need more attention than others. So I think it 
reasonable that processing estimates (and I must stress that the terms and conditions do not 
provide any definitive timescales) are based on a vanilla type transfer. More complex 
situations, such as Mrs Cs QROPS transfer, might reasonably take longer.
I accept that the additional time SJP took to process the transfer was longer than the five 
day delay Ive concluded should form the basis of Mrs Cs compensation. But I dont think it 
unreasonable for SJP to benefit from any time saved in the payment being made to the 
QROPS administrator. I dont know whether the payment was quicker because of, as Mrs C 
suggests, the efficiency of the banking system. It is entirely possible that, aware of the 
delays, SJP chose to use a more costly, but quicker, method of transferring the funds. But 
I think it fair that I consider the end-to-end timescale when looking at how long the transfer 
took to complete. And, as I explained in my provisional decision, that was five days longer 
than I think would be reasonable.I accept that it is likely that SJP has benefitted from its decision to backdate Mrs Cs 
disinvestment to the day after her instruction was received. But I dont think theres any 
indication here that SJP was attempting to achieve a higher value by delaying the 
disinvestment. And had the value of the funds dropped, SJP would have still needed to pay 
the higher value. I think it more important that SJP acted in line with its published approach, 
and treated Mrs Cs pension savings as if they had been disinvested on the day after her 
valid instruction was received.
A general fall in the value of investments, such as we have seen in the first part of this year, 
might mean that the compensation SJP ultimately needs to pay to Mrs C is less than if the 
complaint had been settled earlier. But for similar reasons as Ive given above, SJP might 
have been required to pay more if the value of the investments had risen. I dont think the 
structure of my redress means Mrs C wont have been put back into the position in which 
she would have been. Regardless of whether SJP had made an error, the value of her 
pension savings would have fallen over the past year.
In summary, I think that the transfer of Mrs Cs pension savings to the QROPS took place 
five business days after it should have been completed. So SJP needs to put things right.
Putting things right
For the reasons explained above, and in my provisional decision, I think that Mrs Cs 
pension transfer should have been received by the QROPS five days earlier than it was. 
That means the investments that she made in the QROPS of those pension savings are 
likely to have been delayed by a similar time.
SJP should liaise with Mrs C and the QROPS administrator to understand whether the 
investments Mrs C ultimately made would have been different if they had been made five 
days earlier. Changes in the price of assets might mean that Mrs C would now own more, or 
less, of individual funds. SJP should ensure that Mrs C is compensated to ensure that the 
investments she now holds in her QROPS are equivalent to what she would have held if the 
transfer, and subsequent investments, had taken place five days earlier.
The compensation should ideally be paid into Mrs Cs QROPS. The amount paid should 
allow for the effect of charges and any tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance, or the rules 
regarding payments into a scheme of this nature.
If SJP is unable to pay the total amount into Mrs Cs QROPS, it should pay that amount 
direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a taxable 
income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax 
that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mrs C's actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at her selected retirement age, taking into consideration her likely country of residence 
at that time. If the rules of the scheme allow Mrs C to take a sum free of tax, any reduction 
should only be applied to the remaining proportion of the compensation.
As I noted in my provisional decision, SJP has already paid some compensation to Mrs C in 
respect of part of the delay. SJP may deduct that amount from any compensation it 
calculates above that is due to Mrs C. Or alternatively, at Mrs Cs choice, she may return the 
compensation to SJP, so that the entire compensation receives the appropriate treatment in 
terms of payment to the QROPS and any tax deductions.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Cs complaint and direct St James's Place UK plc to put 
things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman