DRN-3544230
The complaint
Mrs A complained about the suitability of advice she received from Bank of Scotland plc 
trading as Halifax to invest into a Personal Equity Plan (PEP), which later became a stocks 
and shares Individual Savings Account (ISA).
Mrs A is represented by a claims management company (CMC) but to keep things simpler 
Ill mostly refer to Mrs A in this decision.
What happened
In April 1997, Mrs A invested a lump sum of £3,000 into the medium risk UK Growth Fund 
through a Personal Equity Plan (PEP). Mrs A kept the investment for seven years before 
surrendering it in April 2004.
Mrs A said the fund was too risky for her as an inexperienced first time investor and she 
feels she was advised to invest at a time when she wasnt in a position to make sound 
investment decisions. To put things right, Mrs A wants redress based on the performance of 
an investment product that would have been more suitable for her. 
Halifax didnt uphold the complaint. It said:
the adviser had collected all Mrs As personal and financial circumstances before 
making the recommendation and discussed Mrs As personal situation and aims for 
her money.  
The adviser was not made aware of any barrier to investing. It was reasonable for 
Mrs A to invest some of her money over the medium to long term.
Mrs A had a cooling off period in which to change her mind if she decided the 
investment was not right for her. 
Mrs A wasnt happy with this response and brought her complaint to us. She said the 
UK Growth Fund contained too much risk for a first time investor and she had been 
disadvantaged financially as a result of the advice.
The investigator who considered Mrs As complaint didnt think it should be upheld. In brief 
summary, his view was that:
Mrs A had cash savings available to invest and she had been willing to take some 
risk to achieve her goal of capital growth.
The adviser met with Mrs A on two occasions in April 1997 and shed had an 
opportunity to reflect on the advice and shed also had a 14 days cooling down 
period when she couldve cancelled her investment. So he didnt think Halifax had 
acted unreasonably by advising her to invest at that time. 
Mrs A was looking for a tax-efficient investment and wanted her capital to be 
accessible in case she needed it. She wanted to grow her money and achieve better 
returns than her savings accounts could provide and she was willing to take some 
risk to achieve her objectives. The PEP she was advised to open met these 
requirements.
Mrs A didnt agree. On her behalf, the CMC reiterated the point that Mrs A was an 
inexperienced investor going through the financial advice process for the first time. And 
whilst she wanted to take a low level of risk with her investment, and a low risk fund would 
have been suitable, instead she was recommended to invest in a medium risk fund, higher 
than the level she agreed. As such, the recommendation cant have been suitable.
Halifax didnt have anything further to add.
As the complaint hasnt been resolved, it has been passed to me for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I've taken into account Mrs As recollection of her circumstances at the time the advice was 
given alongside the information recorded in Halifaxs Personal Financial Questionnaire 
(the fact find). Its approximately 25 years since the sale so I cant reasonably expect Mrs A 
to have a detailed recollection of exactly what was discussed when she met the adviser. But 
the fact find provides a contemporaneous record of at least some of what was said and 
records the following information:
Mrs A was in her forties, married and with two dependents.
She was in paid work, earning around £1,250 per month and paying basic rate tax.
Mrs A was a homeowner with a mortgage but no other financial liabilities.
She held cash savings of £9,837.
Her investment objective was capital growth. She was happy to invest for five years 
and wanted flexibility and tax efficiency.
She wanted a contingency fund of £5,500. 
Mrs A signed and dated the fact find to confirm what was recorded was an accurate 
reflection of her financial circumstances, the risk and characteristics of the PEP had been 
explained to her and she had read and understood the advisers report. So, I think the fact 
find usefully gives an overview of Mrs As situation when she took out this investment and it 
is reasonable for me to rely on the information it shows about Mrs As circumstances. If what 
was recorded wasnt right, Mrs A had the opportunity to correct it.
I think its reasonable for Halifax to have relied on what it recorded about Mrs A at the time. It 
confirmed to Mrs A its understanding of her circumstances and she didnt make any changes 
to whats recorded in the fact find. It wouldnt be fair for me to assess the suitability of the 
advisers recommendation against information that the fact find doesnt show the adviser 
was made aware of at the time. So I cant reasonably uphold Mrs As complaint just on the 
basis of different information she has told me in her complaint. 
I cant see that Mrs A gave Halifax any reason to think that she wasnt able to make an 
investment decision at the time so I dont find the timing of the advice made it unsuitable. 
Whilst I dont have any detailed information about her day to day spending needs, Ive no 
reason to think Mrs As usual monthly outgoings werent amply covered out of her 
earnings  she wasnt looking to invest to boost her income. She was using money held 
on deposit to fund this investment and Im mindful that it represented less than a third of 
Mrs As available cash savings and still left her with the contingency fund she wanted to keep. The adviser recommended Mrs A to put the remainder on deposit, giving Mrs A 
access to a sum equivalent to almost 6 months income, quickly and without significant 
financial penalty in the event of any emergency spending needs or unplanned 
expenditure. Overall, I am satisfied that Mrs A was in a strong enough financial situation to 
be able to invest £3,000 into the PEP.  
Its not in dispute that Mrs A was happy to take a low level of risk with her money and Ive 
thought carefully about whether the investment fitted her attitude to risk. It doesnt follow that 
a fund rated medium risk would be unsuitable for Mrs A and the fact alone that Halifax 
gave the fund a medium risk rating isnt enough of a reason for me to uphold the complaint. 
When looking at whether or not advice was suitable I dont simply look at the risk rating of 
the investment or the way Halifax described Mrs As risk approach. I consider how the 
money was invested and how far this matched Mrs As objectives and circumstances. This 
includes what Mrs A wanted to achieve and what risk she was able to take.
The best information now available about the UK Growth Fund suggests the fund was 
invested in equities, mostly in well-established large UK companies and focused on 
medium to long term growth. 
Whilst equities expose investors to market fluctuations and can be volatile, and so carry a 
higher risk than fixed-interest securities, they also offer the chance of a better return. I have 
no reason to think that Mrs A hadnt understood the information shed been provided with 
during discussions with the adviser about risk and reward or that she wasnt comfortable 
risking her money this way. I think its likely she wouldve understood at the time that 
investing in equities meant she should be prepared to expect a degree of volatility and she 
appreciated the basic principle that investment risk is commensurate with potential return. 
The core of Mrs As argument seems to be that the advice to invest in the PEP was 
unsuitable because this was too risky an investment for her as a first-time investor. But, 
whilst the clients investment experience is something that the adviser should consider when 
advising on investments, the fact alone that someone is new to investing does not 
automatically mean only investment in low risk or no risk investments should be 
recommended. This would effectively deprive first time investors of the opportunity to make 
bigger investment gains than they could otherwise achieve, which seems unfair to me.
Bearing in mind Mrs As circumstances and financial situation, and her investment 
objective, I've thought carefully about whether investing in the medium risk PEP for at 
least a five year term was right for her. And Ive seen nothing to conclude that it wasnt. 
Mrs A hoped the investment would grow her money over time  the PEP offered her that 
potential. Her £3,000 investment in the PEP represented approximately 30% of Mrs As 
investable assets and, given her age and circumstances, I find she was in the position to 
absorb any losses she could potentially have suffered. Overall, Halifax was suggesting that 
Mrs A take a small portion of the money she held on deposit and put it into equities. This 
seems a reasonable way to have introduced Mrs A to investing in the stock market as it 
offered her the benefits of potentially higher returns while at the same time limiting the 
impact on her overall financial situation of making a potential loss. As far as I can see, the 
risks were clearly explained to her and she wouldve had enough time and was given 
sufficient information to make an informed investment decision. 
Its likely there were lower than medium risk options available to Mrs A at the time that could 
have potentially offered her better returns than savings. But my role isnt to compare the 
advice she was given with other options that were potentially available to her. I must 
consider whether the advice that was given to Mrs A was sufficiently explained and suitable 
for her at the time. For the reasons I have set out more fully above, I havent seen enough to make me think that the PEP was too risky for Mrs A or otherwise unsuitable. I am satisfied 
that the recommendation met Mrs As identified needs and investment objectives and it was 
suitable. It follows that I dont uphold Mrs As complaint. 
I appreciate that what I've said here will come as a disappointment to Mrs A but I hope 
that setting things out as Ive done helps explain why I've come to this overall conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I dont uphold Mrs As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman