DRN-4248975
The complaint
Mr G complains that esure Insurance Limited (esure) has unfairly handled a claim under 
his motor insurance policy.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known between parties, so Ive summarised events.
Mr Gs vehicle was damaged, and he made a claim to esure. He submitted photos to 
esure in November 2022.
esure said it would provide a cash settlement as the vehicle had pre-existing damage 
and evidence of a previous repair  it said it established this from reviewing the 
photos provided by Mr G. It said its agent did not want to complete any repairs due to 
flaking paint on both front wings. 
Mr G has stated the cash settlement offered was £400. He said he had no knowledge 
of any previous repairs and challenged whether it was fair for esure to settle the 
claim in the way it suggested, and said it should be paying the cost of him instructing 
his own repairer if it was esures decision to cash settle the matter. Mr G also stated 
the scope of works had not been fully assessed given esure hadnt physically 
reviewed the car.
One of our Investigators looked into what happened. He requested information from 
esure on a number of occasions about the claim but didnt receive anything. He 
upheld the complaint.
oHe said esures assessment of the claim on the photos alone wasnt sufficient 
for it to fairly rely on its pre-existing terms. And he questioned how it could 
establish the cost of repairs without assessing it in person.
oSo, he said esure should consider the claim again in line with its remaining 
terms and conditions. And award £150 in compensation to Mr G.
esure didnt respond. So, the complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans 
final decision. This means I have considered this complaint based on the limited 
evidence provided to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
In this case, its not in dispute Mr Gs claim for damage to his vehicle was accepted.
Mr Gs policy allows for esure to determine how it wishes to settle a claim  including 
repair, replace or cash settlement. This is a common term across policies of this 
nature. So Im satisfied there are no inherent issues with an insurer having the 
discretion to cash settle a claim, but we would expect it to make this decision fairly 
and if it imposes this on a policyholder, this Service would typically expect it to cover 
the cost of repair to the customer, and not the costs an insurer itself would incur.
esure hasnt provided me with an assessment or report of the damage that it does 
consider to be covered by the claim, nor a breakdown of the costs it intends to settle. 
So, I have very little to go on. And as a result, Im satisfied Mr Gs concerns about the 
cash settlement are valid and that esure hasnt done enough to fairly establish this.
esure has also put forward that Mr Gs vehicle has existing damage. In line with the 
policy, I wouldnt expect an insurer to cover pre-existing damage and I understand 
this can impact an insurers ability to repair an insured loss. However, from what Ive 
seen, esure has determined this based on several photos provided by Mr G. It has 
provided some internal notes that suggest there was flaking to both wings of the car. 
But esure has provided no photographic evidence, reports or further technical opinion 
to support this conclusion despite being given multiple opportunities to do so. 
So, Im not persuaded esure has provided sufficient evidence to limit its liability as it 
has put forward.
As Mr G also hasnt provided me with a scope of works or a quote, so its unclear to 
me what a fair settlement would be in this case. And I have to consider what the most 
practical way forward for this claim. In doing so Ive taken into account here what Mr 
G has said to our Investigator  which was he would be happy for esure to re-assess 
the car in person. 
In these particular circumstances, Im going to direct esure to reassess the claim  
but it must do so through an actual review of the vehicle and produce a scope of 
works required. Should there be a further dispute about the claim after this has been 
carried out, this may be a matter Mr G will be able to bring back to this Service (in 
line with our usual considerations).
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied esure hasnt handled this claim fairly or 
as promptly as it shouldve. And the inaction on esures part has delayed matters 
unnecessarily for Mr G. So, Im also going to direct esure to pay him £150 in 
compensation to account for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im upholding this complaint and direct esure Insurance Limited to do 
the following:
Reassess the claim following a physical review of the insured vehicle from one 
esures engineers or appointed agents.
Pay Mr G £150 in compensation.
esure must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr G accepts 
my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the compensation from 
the deadline date for settlement to the date of payment at 8% a year simple. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2023.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman