DRN-4254403
The complaint
Mr A complains that TRANSUNION INTERNATIONAL UK LIMITED (TransUnion) incorrectly 
reported data about him on his credit file, which he says led to him not being accepted for a 
mortgage.
What happened
I previously issued a provisional decision on this case. It was my intention to come to a 
different outcome to the Investigator and so I wanted to give both parties the chance to 
respond with anything else they wanted me to consider before I came to my final decision. 
I have copied my provisional decision below, which also forms part of this final decision.
Mr A says he was applying for a mortgage, and the application wasnt accepted due to
affordability and undisclosed debts. This prompted Mr A to get a copy of his credit report, to
which he found that TransUnion had linked his brothers information with him  so his
brothers financial information was showing on his credit report.
Mr A complained to TransUnion about this  stating that he had now lost out on a lower
mortgage rate because of its error. And that the matter had caused him distress and
inconvenience. Not to mention the financial losses of having to pay an increased interest
rate.
TransUnion responded to Mr As complaint to say that it accepted that it had made a
mistake, it removed the incorrect information from Mr As credit file and offered to pay him
£200 to say sorry.
Mr A didnt agree with how TransUnion had offered to resolve things. He provided
TransUnion with evidence of his financial losses - showing the differing mortgage
illustrations with different rates. TransUnion maintained that it felt £200 was fair.
An Investigator considered Mr As complaint, but they felt TransUnion had done enough to
put things right. They didnt think theyd seen enough information to persuade them that the
incorrect information on Mr As credit file was the sole reason his application for the initial
mortgage was unsuccessful. And so, they felt the £200 for distress and inconvenience was
sufficient.
Mr A didnt agree  and thought the evidence he provided showed that it was more likely
than not that he would have been accepted for the mortgage had the incorrect information
not been reported on his credit file. And so, he asked for an Ombudsman to consider the
matter.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything available to me, I intend to uphold Mr As complaint.
It isnt in dispute that TransUnion were recording information on Mr As credit file that was
incorrect  so I wont be making a finding on this point in this decision. I have only
considered the impact of the incorrect reporting on Mr A.
I can understand how frustrating it must have been for Mr A to have seen the incorrect
information on his credit file  especially while he was trying to apply for a mortgage in a time
where interest rates were increasing. So, Im pleased to see that TransUnion has agreed to
pay Mr A £200 to apologise for its mistake. I think this is sufficient for the distress and
inconvenience he went through because of the error, and in line with this services normal
approach to a distress and inconvenience award.
Ive thought very carefully about the financial losses Mr A says he incurred as a result of the
incorrect information showing on his credit file  in that he has lost out on a better rate of
interest for the term of his mortgage  and that this is as a direct result of TransUnions
mistake.
Generally, I dont disagree with what the Investigator said about it being very difficult to be
certain the mortgage application would have gone through had the correct information been
showing on Mr As credit report  especially given the many reasons why a mortgage
application might be declined.
For me to be able to uphold Mr As complaint for the financial losses he says he incurred as
a result of the increased rate he had to pay; I have to be more persuaded that he would have
got the mortgage had the correct information been showing on his credit file. And in the
circumstances of this particular case, I am currently persuaded Mr A would have got the
mortgage at a better rate.
Looking at the illustration for the mortgage Mr A was applying for, I can see that the property
valuation was £340,000, and Mr A wanted a mortgage for £124,000, to be repaid over 10
years. The interest on the loan was at a fixed annual rate of 3.84% until 30 November 2024.
Given the value of the property, and the relatively low loan to value, I dont think it likely
lenders would view this level of borrowing against the value of the asset to be particularly
high risk.
Ive seen a copy of Mr As TransUnion credit report that was produced on 8 September 2022
(after he was declined for the mortgage he wanted). The report clearly includes financial
information relating to his brother.
Showing on Mr As report, under his name, are credit facilities for an overdraft, a credit card
and a mortgage. Whereas, Mr As brother had an overdraft, a credit card, a loan and two
mortgages. Clearly both reports showing together would give any lender some concerns
over the affordability of more borrowing. And the majority of the borrowing didnt relate to Mr
A himself, it related to his brother.
Ive also looked at the evidence provided by Mr A from his broker when the initial mortgage
didnt go through. I can see the broker said:
Following a review of your credit file it was identified that there was debts on your credit file
that didnt belong to you. The lender was taking these into consideration when assessing the
affordability of the mortgage and therefore it was no longer affordable.
I explained that this would need to be updated on your credit file to ensure the lender can
proceed with your application..Mr A has also provided me with a Decision in Principle, for the original mortgage he
wanted. This shows that Mr A wasnt accepted for the mortgage he wanted because the
loan amount is not affordable over the requested term. But it did make an Alternative
Lending Proposal, stating that it would lend Mr A £112,000 over a term of 12 years.
Based on everything Ive seen here; Im currently persuaded that Mr A lost out on a lower
mortgage rate as a result of the incorrect information TransUnion was reporting about him on
his credit file. I say this because there is clearly a lot of other borrowing showing on Mr As
credit report that didnt belong to him, which would have affected the lenders affordability
assessment. But even with this information showing, the initial lender was still prepared to
lend to Mr A  and only slightly less and over a slightly longer term than hed wanted.
By the time TransUnion had removed the incorrect information from his report, the mortgage
he wanted was no longer available and so he applied for another mortgage. I have seen a
copy of a mortgage offer to show that he was accepted for this mortgage. The lender wasnt
the same as the previous, so I accept that they would have both had different lending
criteria. But I think the fact that he was declined for a mortgage on the basis of affordability
when he had his brothers information showing on his credit file and once it was removed, he
got a mortgage offer for the next best available terms, only adds to the evidence persuading
me Mr A has lost out as a direct result of what TransUnion did wrong.
Taking all of the above into account, on balance, I think it more likely Mr A would have got
the mortgage he wanted, had the incorrect information not being reported on his credit file.
When Mr A was accepted for a mortgage with a different lender, the terms remained similar,
except the interest rate was higher at 4.27%. So, Im satisfied that Mr A did end up having to
take out another mortgage at a higher rate. And I think TransUnion should compensate Mr A
for the financial loss hell incur over the term of the fixed rate.
Putting things right
I currently agree that Mr A has lost out as a result of what TransUnion has done wrong, so Ill
now consider how TransUnion can, as closely as possible, put Mr A back in the position he
would have been in had he got the first mortgage.
Ive had a look at Mr As calculations as to what he thinks hes lost out on, and while I agree
with some of his calculations, I dont agree with all of it. For example, Mr A wants
TransUnion to compensate him for the difference in the higher first payment he made
towards the mortgage (compared to what the illustration says he would have paid on the
lower rate mortgage). But having read the initial lenders current mortgage terms and
conditions, the first monthly repayment is calculated in the same way as the mortgage he
got. So, I think it likely that even if he had been accepted for the first mortgage, he still would
have had to pay more in the first repayment.
With most mortgages, the first monthly repayment is higher than those that follow  this is
because interest is calculated on a daily basis and applied monthly  so the first repayment
would include more than a months worth of interest. What this means is that Mr A would
likely to have still needed to pay more than a months worth of interest on the first repayment
he made towards the mortgage he wanted. I accept that the illustration doesnt explain this,
but this is because its an illustration and not an offer. The general mortgage terms and
conditions for that initial lender do explain that the first repayment would likely be higher.
So, I wont ask TransUnion to compensate Mr A for the whole difference in the first monthly
repayment  but I will consider the difference in interest.
When calculating the difference in interest, and what Mr A has lost out on, I think the fairthing to do is work out the difference in the monthly repayments  which is £20.87. Both
mortgage products suggest that the fixed rate would apply for around two years and two
months  so Ive calculated the difference in repayments for 26 months instead of 24
months. This also takes into account that Mr A would likely have made 24 repayments at
£1,246.03, and one that would likely be higher due to it taking into account interest for more
than a month. To be fair to Mr A, Ive rounded the number of repayments up to 26.
Ive also taken into account that the initial illustration says Mr A would get cashback of £300,
whereas the mortgage he got, the cashback was £250.
I have noted that Mr A has sent an invoice for £120 for a fee that his new lender had
charged him  relating to leaseholder charges. I havent seen any evidence persuading me
that the original lender wouldnt have also charged this fee. So, I wont be asking TransUnion
to reimburse this.
So, I intend to order TransUnion to put things right by paying Mr A:
£542.62  this is the amount Mr A has lost out in the difference in interest over a 
fixed term period of 26 months. And;
£50  the amount Mr A has lost out on cashback
£200  it will need to pay Mr A what it offered to pay him for distress and 
inconvenience if it hasnt done so already.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties responded to my provisional decision to say it had nothing further to add. And 
so, I see no reason to depart from my findings in the provisional decision. It follows that I 
uphold Mr As complaint.
Putting things right
 I to order TransUnion to put things right by paying Mr A:
£542.62  this is the amount Mr A has lost out in the difference in interest over a 
fixed term period of 26 months. And;
£50  the amount Mr A has lost out on cashback
£200  it will need to pay Mr A what it offered to pay him for distress and 
inconvenience if it hasnt done so already.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr As complaint. I order TRANSUNION 
INTERNATIONAL UK LIMITED to put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2023.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman