DRN-4108005
The complaint
Mr P has complained about the way Marsh Finance Limited dealt with him in relation to a 
hire purchase agreement he had with it. 
What happened
Mr P tells us he acquired a car under a hire purchase agreement with Marsh Finance in 
2016 and in 2018 he was in a serious car accident. An insurance company made a payment 
towards the hire purchase agreement but there were still a few hundred pounds outstanding. 
Mr P says he didnt know about this at the time. He also says he struggles with his mental 
health and finds it difficult to read and understand complex things. Mr P doesnt think Marsh 
Finance has acted fairly to accommodate his needs. 
Mr P complained to Marsh Finance in December 2022 about how it dealt with him. Hes 
unhappy it decided to undertake legal proceedings to recover the debt. He says he would 
have made attempts to pay it off if Marsh Finance had acted appropriately and says he let 
Marsh Finance know about his vulnerabilities in 2021. He says the impact of his 
vulnerabilities was that he was unable to assess and fill out any forms. He says he needed 
appropriate support. 
Off the back of the legal proceedings, Mr P has complained the debt has increased. He says 
Marsh Finance had the opportunity to arrange a specialist team to speak to him. He says 
Marsh Finance obtained a judgment against him. Mr P says hes been signed off work and 
hes unhappy Marsh Finance has been trying to contact him on his house phone instead of 
his mobile when hed asked it not to. 
Marsh Finance sent a final response letter to Mr Ps complaint in January 2023. In summary 
it said it had no record of Mr P contacting it in 2021 about his vulnerabilities. But it said it 
would mark them on its record. It requested Mr P contact its litigation team to discuss the 
next steps in relation to the account. 
Mr P referred his complaint to our service. One of our investigators looked into things but 
thought Marsh Finance had broadly acted fairly. She noted Marsh Finance had made 
several attempts to contact Mr P by calls, texts and emails. She said she could see Mr P told 
Marsh Finance in 2019 that he was under physical and mental strain and that he asked it to 
write to him instead. She noted Mr P said he was expecting compensation which hed use to 
pay the outstanding balance. So she thought Mr P was aware of the amount outstanding by 
July 2019 at the latest. She thought Marsh Finance acted fairly by suspending contact with 
Mr P for a week after it was made aware of the impact on his health. 
Our investigator noted Marsh Finance had written to Mr P asking him to contact it to discuss 
the remaining balance. And as it didnt receive a response, it tried other contact methods 
which she didnt think was unfair. Our investigator noted Marsh Finance had waited until 
October 2021 to pass the debt to its legal department. She thought Marsh Finance had given 
Mr P enough of an opportunity to resolve things. 
Our investigator also noted Marsh Finance put the account on hold again in October 2021 
when Mr P told it he was going to refer a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. She 
couldnt see he referred a complaint at the time but she thought Marsh Finance had 
responded accordingly. 
Our investigator noted Mr P had offered Marsh Finance £50 a month in mid-2022 but it 
wanted to go through his income and expenditure. She said Marsh Finances notes indicated 
Mr P only wanted to go through his income and expenditure if it was for court purposes. 
However, it looks like Marsh Finance agreed later that day to accept £50 per month and it 
gave Mr P its bank details. Marsh Finance also sent out details of the plan in writing too. 
No payments were received so Marsh Finance started trying to contact Mr P again from 
June 2022. Ultimately it started legal action again, which has led to a judgment. Having 
considered everything, our investigator didnt make any recommendations. 
Mr P didnt agree. He says he received no communication from Marsh Finance from the end 
of 2019 until recently. He says maybe it should have used recorded delivery. He supplied 
copies of handwritten letters he says he sent to Marsh Finance explaining his situation. He 
says Marsh Finance had harassed him and it didnt offer support in line with the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys (FCA) guidance on dealing with vulnerable customers. He says Marsh 
Finance had the opportunity to resolve things after he wrote back to it in December 2022. In 
particular, he highlights the complexity of form filling. He says vulnerable customers have 
different needs and theyre at greater risk of harm if things go wrong. Mr P says he had no 
one to help him with completing the forms and that Marsh Finance decided to bulldoze on 
towards the court judgment. He thinks hes been discriminated against. 
As things couldnt be resolved, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P has complained about how March Finance dealt with him in relation to a hire purchase 
agreement he had with it. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement, and our service is 
able to deal with complaints about these sorts of agreements. 
Im sorry to hear about the impact of matters on Mr P. 
Weve already explained to Mr P that theres been a court judgment in relation to this debt. 
Ive got no power to amend of overturn something decided in court. If Mr P doesnt think the 
judgment is right, hed have to return to court to dispute it. 
Therefore, Im focussing my decision on how Marsh Finance dealt with things before 
obtaining the judgment. Mr P has complained about the support it offered. Im concentrating 
on what happened after it received a partial settlement after the accident. Im required to 
decide the complaint quickly and with minimum formality. So Im not going to comment on 
every interaction Mr P had with Marsh Finance. But I want to reassure Mr P Ive reviewed 
everything on file to help me decide if Marsh Finance needs to take any action. 
I can see Marsh Finance made various attempts to contact Mr P throughout the first half of 
2019 about the shortfall left to pay after the insurance payment. Mr P wrote to Marsh 
Finance in July 2019 by email to ask it to stop harassing him. He highlighted he knew about 
the shortfall, but hed been off work and that the accident had impacted his life. He wanted 
Marsh Finance to bear with him why he got his life back on track. He said as soon as he received compensation for a personal injury claim he would clear the shortfall. He requested 
email contact because he drove for a living and didnt answer his house phone. 
Marsh Finance responded to Mr P to highlight it had not received any letters from him and 
that it needed to speak to him urgently about the debt to discuss the situation to come 
towards an agreeable outcome. 
I think the email could have been more sympathetic in tone to the situation. Perhaps asking 
about the best way to speak to Mr P or asking if there was someone who could help him 
over the phone would have been more appropriate, although Mr P has explained he didnt 
have an advocate. Mr P had indicated the accident and ongoing calls from Marsh Finance 
were causing him distress. But on the other hand, Marsh Finance was giving Mr P lots of 
ways to communicate, and it was seeking the shortfall that was well overdue by this point. 
Its not unreasonable it was seeking monies that were owed. It also put communications on 
hold for a week on the basis it would call him afterwards to discuss a way forward. I think this 
was fair. 
Marsh Finance continued trying to speak to Mr P but was unsuccessful. Communications 
from Marsh Finance dropped significantly in 2021. It looks like Marsh Finance were trying to 
decide what to do. Mr P, however, said he sent letters to Marsh Finance throughout 2021 
about his vulnerabilities.  Hes supplied a copy of a few letters he says he sent to Marsh 
Finance throughout 2021 (and one in 2022). I can understand why Mr P was unhappy Marsh 
Finance didnt respond. But Ive not seen any record Marsh Finance received the letters from 
Mr P. So Im not sure if he sent them to the right place. Its curious theres no record of 
receipt for any of the letters. But Ive not seen enough to say Marsh Finance acted unfairly 
by ignoring letters it received. Im also mindful Mr P had previously used email before and 
asked Marsh Finance to use email (in July 2019).
Equally, Mr P has said he didnt receive any written correspondence from Marsh Finance. 
Again, I cant determine exactly whats happened. But Im conscious its provided evidence 
of contact attempts it made by various means and correspondence sent over the last few 
years. 
Marsh Finance did speak to Mr P towards the end of 2021, and it put things on hold because 
he indicated he was going to refer a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. When it didnt 
hear anything, Marsh Finance started to resume contact attempts again mid-way through 
2022. I dont think that was unreasonable. Around then it looks like Mr P was disputing the 
balance owed as well. 
Mr P indicated he was willing to pay £50 per month in 2022, which Marsh Finance accepted 
and wrote to him with details of how payment could be made. But it didnt receive payment, 
so it recommenced legal proceedings. Mr P says he didnt pay because he never received 
confirmation. But I think Marsh Finance had done enough to say that it would accept the 
arrangement.
Overall, I can see Marsh Finance made several attempts to contact Mr P. I can appreciate it 
must have been frustrating receiving so much contact. But Ive not seen Marsh Finance 
received responses from Mr P with a way forward. So I dont find it hasnt responded to the 
help he was asking for. I also have to bear in mind that money was fairly owed under the 
agreement. 
Marsh Finance held off from contact when Mr P said it was causing distress, and when he 
said hed refer the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman to consider. I think this was fair. 
But ultimately as no payment was being made, or an arrangement set up I think this led to all 
the contact attempts it made. Mr P has indicated he feels discriminated against. And hes said the complaint is about the 
way Marsh Finance acted under the Equality Act 2010 towards a client who was vulnerable. 
He said there was opportunity to resolve things even up to the last minute before the court 
proceedings. He says he had low resilience to financial shock and confusion on complexity 
of forms. Id have expected Marsh Finance to make it easy for Mr P to communicate. And it 
should have considered having a special team deal with his case. But as I said above, I cant 
see it received the notices Mr P says he sent it in 2021. So I think it simply carried on using 
the normal channels to communicate with him because it didnt know that mightve been 
inappropriate. 
I think Mr P is saying he thinks Marsh Finance has failed to make reasonable adjustments 
for him. In other words, has failed its duty to make reasonable adjustments under the 
Equality Act 2010. Ive taken the Equality Act 2010 into account when deciding this 
complaint  given that its relevant law  but Ive ultimately decided this complaint based on 
whats fair and reasonable. Like our investigator pointed out, If Mr P wants a decision that 
Marsh Finance has breached the Equality Act 2010, then hed need to go to Court.
Bearing in mind its my role to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
the complaint, I dont find I have the grounds to direct Marsh Finance to take further action. 
Ive explained why I cant direct it to do anything with regards to what a court has decided 
Mr P owes. And, in the round, I dont think its communication was unreasonable  based on 
what Ive seen it knew. I think its important to note that in order for me to say Marsh Finance 
hadnt communicated appropriately with Mr P or made reasonable adjustments, it would 
have needed to know how to do that. I cant see it was made aware by Mr P, or that it should 
have been obvious for the limited contact it did have with him. Based on what Ive seen, on 
balance, I dont have the grounds to say Marsh Finance acted unfairly by not making those 
adjustments. So Im not directing it to take any action. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2023. 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman