DRN-1569110
The complaint
Mr M complains that Lloyds Bank Plc wont refund a disputed transaction made on his 
account.
What happened
Mr M says that a cash withdrawal was made from his account at a Lloyds branch  branch 
S. Mr M says that the transaction wasnt completed by him and that he didnt authorise it.
Mr M says he started a new job in April 2019, and his first salary was paid into his Lloyds 
account at the end of that April. On the same day it was credited, someone took £500 out of 
his account. 
Mr M says he saw the transaction on his online banking and didnt recognise the reference, 
so he went into a Lloyds branch the next day to find out about it.
Mr M says he was told that it was a cash withdrawal and the reference shown was the name 
of the branch  branch S where the transaction was completed. He also says that a staff 
member promised he would be refunded his money, but after numerous visits to the branch 
he got frustrated as nothing was happening and he hadnt been refunded his money.
Mr M called Lloyds through his mobile banking app in June 2019 to raise his concerns. 
During this call Mr M told Lloyds that his interactions were with his local branch  branch B. 
During later calls in July 2019 Mr M told Lloyds that his interactions were at branch S  being 
the branch where the transaction happened. Lloyds asked Mr M how he thought someone 
had enough information to be able to go into a branch and withdraw money from his 
account. Mr M said that as part of applying for his job he had taken his passport into his 
workplace and left it in his desk drawer. He said that he thought it was likely that someone 
from his new place of work mayve done the transaction. He said they wouldve known the 
date his wages would be paid into his account and had access to his signature as he signed 
work sheets on a daily basis as part of his job. Mr M also raised a complaint with Lloyds 
about how someone was able to make a cash withdrawal without any form of identification or 
having to prove they were the account holder.
Lloyds investigated and said they were holding Mr M liable for the disputed transaction 
because:
they have no record of Mr M getting in touch with them prior to his call in June 2019,
there is nothing to indicate Mr M got in touch with either branch B or branch S, and
while the signature for the withdrawal isnt an exact match to Mr Ms signature on file, 
it bears a strong resemblance
 
But Lloyds agreed that the level of customer service Mr M received was poor and paid him 
£231. This included £106 to cover costs Mr M said he had in relation to travel and calls as 
well as £125 for any trouble and upset caused. Lloyds also said that the person who did the 
withdrawal wouldve been identified using Mr Ms personal information  for example being 
asked for his postcode, address and account number.Mr M was unhappy with Lloyds response, so he brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. In summary, they felt 
Lloyds had correctly followed their process in allowing the withdrawal to take place. And that 
the transaction wasnt what wed usually expect to see if a fraudster had accessed Mr Ms 
account, so they believed Mr M had authorised the withdrawal himself. 
Mr M disagreed with the investigators opinion saying:
it was unreasonable for Lloyds to not have checked identification before allowing the 
withdrawal
he disagrees that this doesnt look like fraudster behaviour
he called Lloyds and was told that he couldnt withdraw money from his account 
without identification, which was evidence Lloyds hadnt followed the right process
 
As Mr M disagreed the case was passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Generally, Lloyds can hold Mr M liable for the disputed transaction if the evidence suggests 
that its more likely than not that he made or otherwise authorised the transaction himself. 
In this case the withdrawal was made in a Lloyds branch, using Mr Ms account details and a 
signature. Mr M says that the withdrawal wasnt completed by himself and that he didnt sign 
to authorise the transaction. Lloyds have provided a copy of Mr Ms signature they hold on 
file as well as the signature used for the withdrawal. They say that the signatures bear a 
strong resemblance, and that the branch wouldve asked additional questions to identify the 
person making the withdrawal based on Mr Ms personal information for example, his 
address and account number. But the branch who completed the withdrawal dont have any 
records of exactly what was asked of the person who made the withdrawal. 
Where there is a dispute about what happened, and the evidence is incomplete or 
contradictory, I have to reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, 
on what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence.
Its difficult to say exactly how the person making the withdrawal was identified. But the 
person completing the transaction had to have Mr Ms account number and they signed a 
withdrawal form. Ive checked the signature against the one Lloyds held on file for Mr M as 
well as against his more recent signature, provided on his complaint form to our service. 
Having looked at all three they are very similar including certain flicks and loops on letters. 
Based on this I dont think it was unreasonable for Lloyds to consider it most likely to be a 
genuine signature from Mr M.
 
 
The person who made the withdrawal, not only had to produce a signature that was a fair 
copy of Mr Ms, they also needed to have other personal information relating to Mr M. Mr M 
has told us that he left his passport at work and signed daily work sheets  so this couldve 
given someone access to his signature. Also someone working with Mr M is likely to have been aware of when Mr M would be paid  so that may explain why the person who made 
the withdrawal did so on the same day the wages were credited to the account.
But I havent seen anything that suggests how someone got Mr Ms banking information. The 
person who completed the withdrawal wouldve needed to know which bank he held his 
account at, along with his account information. Its possible that someone at his employment 
would have access to this information, but they would also then need to access his passport 
in his desk drawer as well as his daily work sheets. Unless Mr M was very obvious about 
having put his passport in his desk drawer, its unlikely that someone would guess that Mr M 
would leave his identification sitting in his work desk.
Also, I have to take into account, that the person who did the withdrawal didnt take all the 
money that was available in Mr Ms account. I think its most likely that if a fraudster was 
going to access Mr Ms account, they wouldve taken as much money as possible and as 
quickly as possible, which wasnt the case here as £500 was left in Mr Ms account.
While Mr M has told us and Lloyds that he contacted the branch immediately after the 
transaction happened, he has provided conflicting information about which branch he 
attended. Hes told us and Lloyds that he travelled to branch S, explaining the difficulties he 
had in getting there. But in his first call to Lloyds in June, he very clearly told them that it was 
his local branch, branch B that he attended. The Lloyds staff member actually asked Mr M if 
he had gone to branch S, and he said he hadnt. Also I think its unusual that Lloyds have no 
record of Mr M raising a complaint with them prior to the June.
Having considered everything including all the possible scenarios, I think its most likely that 
Mr M authorised the transaction himself.
Mr M has raised a concern about Lloyds not adequately identifying the person who made the 
withdrawal. And its not clear exactly what identification information was requested at the 
time. But its not within our remit to tell businesses how they should operate and what 
procedures they should have in place. I can only look at this individual case and whether I 
think Lloyds acted reasonably. 
As Mr M didnt have a card on the account at the time of the withdrawal, I dont think its 
unreasonable for Lloyds to allow the withdrawal without a bank card being present. 
Especially as the person making the withdrawal had the account number and a signature 
which looks sufficiently similar to one Lloyds had on file. I have listened to the call Mr M had 
with Lloyds when he asked what would be required for him to withdraw funds  which Mr M 
says proves Lloyds didnt follow their own procedures. But in the call Mr M refers to having a 
card on his account - hes tells Lloyds he wants to withdraw funds without it. This is a 
different circumstance to the disputed withdrawal, as there wasnt a card active on the 
account at that time. Also as Ive previously said the signature sufficiently matches the one 
Lloyds held on file, and the person completing the withdrawal was identified through having 
Mr Ms account information and most likely through other personal details like his address. 
So having considered everything, I dont think it was unreasonable for Lloyds to allow the 
disputed withdrawal based on what they had at the time.
 
 
Lloyds have accepted that they havent provided the level of customer service to Mr M that 
they shouldve. Theyve acknowledged that their investigation took them longer than 
expected to complete and that Mr M shouldve been given an answer sooner. In the circumstances I think the offer theyve already made to Mr M of £231 is more than 
reasonable.
As I think its most likely that Mr M authorised this transaction, Lloyds are entitled to hold Mr 
M liable for the £500 and I wont be asking Lloyds to do anything more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2020.
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman