DRN-3208863
The complaint
Miss A complains TSB Bank plc is holding her liable for loan she says she didnt take out, 
and an increased overdraft she neither applied for nor used. She complains a lot of 
transactions were carried out that were not her or otherwise authorised by her. 
Miss A is being assisted in this complaint by her partner, Mr K. 
What happened
Miss A is being held liable for a loan taken out in her name in February 2018. The loan was 
used to repay a prior loan, taken out in May 2017; Miss A also says she didnt apply for this 
loan either.  The balance of the latter loan  just under £5,000 - was paid into Miss A and Mr 
Ks joint account and used as part of the everyday spending on the account. 
Miss A has also highlighted a large number of transactions from her current account, which 
she says she didnt authorise or otherwise consent to. These transactions happened over an 
extended period of time and were often payments abroad. That meant the payments also 
attracted a transaction fee. And as these payments took the account into an overdraft, 
overdraft charges also applied. 
Miss A complains the overdraft has been increased to £1,700 from £600 without her 
authority. And she says that has never needed to borrow this money or the loan proceeds. 
She says she has never seen any of the paperwork in relation to the loan (the loan 
agreement or notification that payments had been missed), she also said she didnt receive 
statements for her accounts for several years and Mr K believes this may have been due to 
a similar numbered address in their vicinity. 
Miss A complained to TSB after she was contacted by a debt collection agency. TSB didnt 
uphold her complaint as it was satisfied the loan and other transactions were authorised. Not 
happy with the outcome, Miss A asked us to look into her complaint. 
Initially the complaint was upheld. In response to the view, TSB provided further information 
for consideration.  The matter was reviewed again and ultimately the investigator didnt think 
TSB had done anything wrong. He was satisfied there had been no apparent point of 
compromise  i.e. an opportunity for how Miss A details, including bank details, could have 
been obtained by an opportunistic thief. And when the loan was applied for this was done 
on-line and using Mr Ks email address, yet there also hadnt been a point of compromise in 
relation to this either. Overall, the investigator was satisfied TSB was able to hold Miss A 
liable for the loan and the disputed transactions, and the charges associated with them. 
In response, Miss A as asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. After receiving 
a copy of the evidence relied on, in summary she has said:
She hasnt received any of the correspondence addressed to her in relation to the 
2018 loan; not the loan agreement nor the letter about non-payment. The post is 
really good in her area and so her not receiving information cant be blamed on the 
postal service. 
The loan agreement isnt signed by her. When taking out a loan Miss A says she 
does this in branch, so it is properly witnessed. That didnt happen here. 
Miss A doesnt have access to a computer and doesnt know how to use one. 
She didnt carry out any of the transactions she previously highlighted and thinks it 
unfair the outcome to her complaint has changed since the initial view. 
Preliminary matters
Miss A is unhappy that TSB were given more time to provide further evidence and finds it 
unfair that the outcome to her complaint has changed. 
I understand the sentiments behind her points. But we are an informal dispute resolution 
service and we operate a two-stage process, the initial investigation stage, and if necessary 
the final decision stage. Either party is able to provide evidence and arguments to support 
their position. Invariably that means that from time to time, the outcome to a complaint may 
change when new evidence comes to light. Im afraid thats all part and parcel of carry out 
such investigations and is in line with our usual processes and procedures.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only summarised the background, evidence and arguments raised, I would 
like to reassure both Miss A and TSB that I have read and considered what has been 
provided. My role isnt to comment on all of that evidence, or every point raised but to decide 
this complaint. In doing so, I will concentrate on the crux of the matter  is TSB acting fairly 
when holding Miss A liable for the loan and the transactions she has disputed. 
I would say at the outset this case hasnt been straightforward to decide, not least because 
Miss As (and Mr Ks) submissions about what happened have changed over time. For 
example, when initially referring the complaint to our office Miss A said she doesnt possess 
a single bank card, yet later, the submissions changed to Miss A giving Mr K her cards and 
details necessary to do shopping and withdraw money on her behalf. And its been submitted 
that statements havent been received for years and that may be due to postal problems 
because of a similar address in the area, yet Miss A has latterly argued that post is really 
good in her area and it shouldnt be blamed for non-receipt of post. These are just a couple 
of examples, but it does mean I have to treat their testimony with a degree of caution. 
The loan
Miss A is being held liable for a loan taken out in February 2018. The loan was for 
£10,681.67 payable over five years. TSBs records show this was applied for 31 January 
2018 at around 10.51pm. The reason for the loan was recorded as home improvements. 
Miss A says she never applied for this loan, doesnt use a computer and has highlighted the 
loan agreement isnt signed. 
TSBs records show that Miss A has been registered for internet banking since 2011. If this 
wasnt her, then it appears someone has used her details to create internet banking access 
without her knowledge. But a fraudster wouldnt wait years to make use of this facility, such 
that I dont find it was likely a fraudster that set this up; its more likely this was her or by 
someone acting on her behalf.The proceeds of this loan were used to pay off a prior loan that had been taken out, also in 
Miss As name (which she also says she didnt take out). Although not unheard of, repaying 
an existing loan isnt typical behaviour for a fraudster. Where a fraudster does take out a 
loan, they will usually keep all of the proceeds for themselves. And here, what wasnt used to 
repay the existing loan, was paid into Miss A and Mr Ks joint account and used for everyday 
spending. So it doesnt appear a fraudster made any financial gain from the loan at all; rather 
Miss A and Mr K have as they have spent the remaining proceeds (nearly £5,000) as part of 
their every day spend from the account. 
It was Mr Ks email address that was used during the application process. So not only would 
the fraudster have needed access to Miss As on-line banking information, they would also 
have needed access to Mr Ks email details, in order to make the application. Whilst Mr K 
has told us his computer has been hacked, he hasnt provided any evidence in support of 
that.  Even if I accept it had been hacked, that doesnt explain how a fraudster would have 
come by all the details needed to make such an application  hacking a computer wouldnt 
provide that. And Miss A and Mr K havent provided a plausible explanation for how a 
fraudster would have come by those details in any event.  
Taking everything into account, including that Miss A and Mr K have benefitted from the 
proceeds of the loan, this doesnt strike me a fraud. I therefore dont find TSB was acting 
unfairly when it decided it wasnt fraud either. Whilst I understand Miss A has argued 
vehemently against this, Im not persuaded TSB has acted unfairly. 
The transactions
Miss A has disputed a number of transactions that have been paid from her accounts using 
more than one bank card. I understand the vast majority of these transactions have been 
carried out on-line using her card details and associated security credentials. I also 
understand most (aside from the associated charges) have been payments to adult 
entertainment sites. 
Miss A has told that us she doesnt use a computer and doesnt know how to. However, as 
mentioned above TSBs records show that internet banking has been set up for her since 
around 2011 with Mr Ks email addressed use for that. TSB has also provided records to 
show that Miss As internet banking has been regularly logged into during 2017 and 2018  
the period covering the transactions in dispute. Its records also show instances of transfers 
between Miss As account online. 
Mr K told us that Miss As cards cant have been accessed by anyone else, although he 
hypothesises that her cards may have been skimmed at a cash machine. Whilst card 
skimming is a known method of cloning cards that isnt a plausible explanation here. I say 
this because Mr K admits that usually only one card is used and so accepts this doesnt 
explain how a second card and its details might have been obtained in order to carry out 
some of the disputed transactions. And as Miss A retained possession of her cards, and 
legitimate transactions appear to have been carried out in and around those in dispute, it 
doesnt appear the cards have been stolen. 
From the information provided, it appears only Miss A, and presumably Mr K (I say this 
because Mr K says he carried out transactions on Miss As behalf), knows the security 
credentials for the cards in questions. I have taken into account that Mr K says their 
computer has been hacked. I accept that as a possibility, but no supporting evidence has 
been provided showing that is what happened here, or at all, such that I could reasonably 
find that is how these transactions were carried out.Indeed, having considered what we know of these transactions they simply dont have the 
characteristics of an opportunistic fraudster. I say this because:
If neither Miss A nor Mr K applied for internet banking in 2011, then a fraudster has 
waited a considerable amount of time before making use of the accounts in 2017 
and 2018. I consider it highly unlikely that a fraudster would wait for six years before 
using an account for their own gains. 
Using an account for transactions to an adult entertainment site isnt typical 
behaviour for a fraudster. A fraudster would usually drain an account for as much as 
they could in the shortest time possible for their own monetary gain  such as 
transferring money out to their own account, or an account in someone elses name.
When Miss As account has been accessed on-line, that has included transfers from 
her other accounts, such as her ISA. A fraudster wouldnt transfer money from one 
account to another and leave it there. Not only does that mean the genuine owner 
retains access to the money, it also means they could discover the fraudulent 
behaviour quite easily. Typically a fraudster would continue the transfer out to 
another account so they could access the money for themselves.
Miss A has said she hasnt received statements for a long time. However, TSBs 
records show that both Miss A and Mr K have registered for estatements, to be 
accessed online. That means statements  or notification a statement could be 
viewed online - would be sent to an email address and they would no longer be sent 
through the post. If it wasnt Miss A or Mr K that made this request, then not only 
does that mean Miss As details have been compromised, but also Mr Ks. Mr K 
hasnt put forward any evidence or arguments to suggest his email has been used or 
accessed by a fraudster. 
Overall, Im not persuaded TSB has acted unfairly in holding Miss A liable for the 
transactions, including any associate charges. 
Finally I turn to the increased overdraft. Unfortunately, due to system upgrades over time, 
any application for this is no longer available. Without sight of that, its hard to know whether 
anything went wrong during that process. In order to find TSB liable, I would need to be able 
to find it had done something wrong. Given the overdraft has been used for the above 
transactions and everyday spend, transactions, which I have found TSB is holding Miss A 
fairly liable for, I dont uphold this part of the complaint either. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 February 2022.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman