DRN-3802278
The complaint
Mr N complains that a branch manager of Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax shouted at 
him and assaulted him.
What happened
Mr N says he visited a Halifax branch to withdraw £400 from his savings account and to get 
a mini statement for his current account, but he noticed there was a withdrawal of £300 that 
he didnt recognise. He said he asked the branch manager for help.
Mr N says that the branch manager said he had seen him take money out and he was taken 
into a small room where the manager demanded he sit down and asked Mr N to empty his 
pockets for the manager to count his money. He says he complied, but he felt very 
threatened. He says that the branch manager had assaulted him by grabbing his arm. He 
says the manager then shouted at him to get out of the branch in front of other customers 
and staff. He says that the £300 cash was withdrawn previously but it had only debited on 
that day, and thats what caused the confusion. Mr N made a complaint to Halifax.
Halifax did not uphold Mr Ns complaint. They said they had received a written statement 
from the branch manager which gave a differing version of events to those described by Mr 
N, so they are unable to accept the incident occurred in the manner relayed to them by him. 
They also said he made an allegation of criminality with respect of him being assaulted and 
Mr N informed them that he had not reported this matter to the police.
Mr N brought his complaint to our service. He said he was also unhappy at how the way his 
complaint was dealt with as he says he was interrupted repeatedly in the conversation and 
they asked him if he wanted to speak to the branch manager, which he didnt want to and he 
wasnt happy being asked this.
Our adjudicator did not uphold Mr Ns complaint. He said its likely that Mr N wouldve been 
frustrated with Halifax when he felt he had lost £300 and he may have become frustrated, 
but fortunately, he remembered that it was his own cash withdrawal. He said he couldnt be 
sure of what was said in the branch and that he couldnt say that Halifax did anything wrong 
on the phone call he had with them. Mr N asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties dont agree on several points. So Ive looked at all of the information available to 
me in order to decide what is more likely to have happened and when, on balance of all the 
evidence here.
I asked Halifax if there was any Closed-Circuit Television (CCTV) that was available from Mr 
Ns visit to the branch, as this would have given an indication of what happened, such as if 
the branch manager assaulted Mr N. And although the CCTV wouldnt have likely contained 
audio, it would have likely shown the body language and if either party was gesticulating, as 
both parties recollection of events here are very different. But Halifax have confirmed to me 
that due to the time which has elapsed they do not have this footage. So I wont be able to 
rely on this here. 
It would be reasonable for Mr N to feel frustrated if he believed he had £300 stolen from his 
account. So if he was agitated or frustrated and he was speaking to staff about this, it would 
be reasonable for the branch manager to take him into a room to try and sort the matter out 
for him. So Im persuaded, on the balance of probabilities, that this is why he was brought 
into the room by the manager. But Im unable to say one way or another whether the branch 
manager had grabbed his arm or not. 
So I cant evidence that the branch manager acted unreasonably here. Ive considered what 
Mr N has said about the branch manager asking him to empty his pockets, but this wouldnt 
prove anything. I say this as Mr N has mentioned a £400 withdrawal he made from his 
savings account and he may already have money in his pocket generally. He could have 
also withdrawn money from another financial institution prior to going to Halifax. So its not 
clear why the branch manager would have demanded him to empty his pockets when it 
wouldnt prove anything. 
In order to uphold this part of Mr Ns complaint, Id need to be satisfied that the branch 
manager had been unprofessional towards Mr N, but Ive seen no evidence which proves 
this. Thats not to say that I doubt Mr Ns version of events, it just means I cant prove the 
branch manager did anything wrong here. And Ive already explained why it would be 
reasonable for the branch manager to take Mr N into a room to try and help him after he 
thought £300 had been stolen from his account. But if Mr N feels he was assaulted by the 
branch manager, he may wish to speak to the police on this point.
Ive then considered what Mr N has said about the customer service on the phone. So I 
asked Halifax if they could provide me with any call recordings they had with Mr N about 
what happened in the branch that day. They had two call recordings available. One from 19 
April and one from 25 April 2022.
Ive listened to the call on 19 April, and Im persuaded that the call could have been handled 
better. I say this as Mr N was placed on hold twice when it could have been either avoided or 
explained better why he was on hold. The call handler had tried to speak to the branch to 
find out the branch managers name, although he made it clear the complaint wouldnt be 
dealt with the branch manager. But while the call could have gone better in this aspect, it 
appears the impact was minimal while the call handler was trying to set up the complaint 
correctly. Both parties were cordial, and the call handler did not talk over him. At the end of 
the call Mr N thanked the call handler and thanked him for his professionalism. 
Ive also listened to the call recording from 25 April 2022. The call handler reads the 
outcome of the complaint to Mr N, who disagrees with the findings. The call handler informs 
Mr N several times that he could either report the matter to the police and if the police 
requested the CCTV then they would give this to them. The call handler also said he could 
bring the matter to our service. Mr N then mentions about the character of the branch 
manager involved, and the call handler reiterates he may want to go to the police. The call 
handler gives him the telephone number for our service. The call seems to be cordial from 
both sides, even though they disagree with each other. Im not persuaded that either party 
interrupted each other apart from the odd time, but this was nothing out of the ordinary and 
this was from both sides. The call ends with each party thanking each other. So on the calls 
Ive listened to, I cant say that Mr N was provided poor customer service to the level that 
compensation should be awarded to him. So it follows I wont be asking Halifax to do 
anything further.My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman