DRN-3214879
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy because Lloyds Bank PLC did not reimburse the money he transferred to a 
fraudster.
Background
In October 2020, Mr N was contacted by a fraudster pretending to be from HM Revenue & 
Customs (HMRC). The fraudster told Mr N he owed around £30,000 in unpaid tax and that if 
he didnt pay, hed be arrested. Mr N told the fraudster there was no way he could pay such 
a large amount as he didnt have the money available. The scammers said they believed Mr 
N was genuine, so would accept £2,000. Mr N again said he couldnt pay that much but 
offered £995, which the scammer agreed to. Mr N made the £995 payment by bank transfer 
to an account in an individuals name.
Mr N has acknowledged that he thought it was strange to be asked for money in this way 
and questioned if this was a genuine call. He said the scammers knew his name but didnt 
provide any additional personal information of his. However the scammers reassured him it 
was a legitimate call by directing him to a website that showed the number they were calling 
from was the same as one for HMRC. Unknown to Mr N, the scammers had spoofed this 
telephone number.
Mr N has explained he works in both employed and self-employed roles and has an 
accountant to help complete his taxes, but didnt call his accountant to query this payment 
before making it. 
After making the payment, the scammer asked Mr N to try to arrange a higher overdraft so 
that he could make an additional payment. At this point Mr N realised he may have been the 
victim of a scam and contacted his bank to raise a fraud claim.
Lloyds investigated Mr Ns fraud claim and considered its obligations to provide Mr N with a 
refund. Lloyds is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement 
Model (CRM) Code which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims 
of APP scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances. Lloyds says one or more 
of those exceptions applies in this case.
Lloyds has said Mr N didnt have a reasonable basis for believing he was making genuine 
payments to HMRC. Lloyds considers Mr N ought to have done more checks to make sure 
the person he was making the payment to was genuine.
It also contacted the beneficiary bank to attempt to recover Mr Ns money, but unfortunately 
no funds remained in the account.
Mr N disagreed with Lloyds so brought the complaint to our service. One of our investigators 
considered the case and didnt uphold it  he thought that, in the circumstances, Mr N ought 
to have completed further checks to verify that he was genuinely speaking with HMRC. The 
investigator therefore didnt consider that Lloyds needed to do anything to put things right for 
Mr N.
Mr N didnt agree with the investigator, so the case has been referred to me for a decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr N, Im not upholding his complaint. Ill 
explain why.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
consumer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the consumer even though they 
authorised the payment.
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether Lloyds 
should have reimbursed Mr N under the provisions of the CRM Code and whether it ought to 
have done more to protect Mr N from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Theres no dispute here that Mr N was tricked into making the payments. He thought he was 
making genuine payments to HMRC and that didnt happen. But this isnt enough, in and of 
itself, for Mr N to receive a refund under the CRM Code. The Code places a level of care on 
Mr N too. 
The CRM Code 
As Ive mentioned, Lloyds is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code) which requires firms to reimburse customers who 
have been the victims of Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams like this, in all but a limited 
number of circumstances and it is for Lloyds to establish that a customer failed to meet their 
requisite level of care under one of the listed exceptions set out in the CRM Code. 
Under the CRM Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish 
that*: 
The customer ignored what the CRM Code refers to as an Effective Warning by 
failing to take appropriate action in response to such an effective warning 
The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: 
the payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate 
*Further exceptions outlined in the CRM Code do not apply to this case.
I think Lloyds has been able to establish that it may choose not to fully reimburse Mr N under 
the terms of the CRM Code. Im persuaded one of the listed exceptions to reimbursement 
under the provisions of the CRM Code applies.Taking into account all of the circumstances of this case, including the characteristics of the 
customer and the complexity of the scam, I think the concerns Lloyds has raised about the 
legitimacy of the transaction Mr N was making are enough to support its position that he 
failed to meet his requisite level of care under the CRM Code for the payment he made. I 
dont think Mr N had a reasonable basis for believing the person he transacted with was 
legitimate. Ill explain why.
Mr N has accepted that the scammer didnt have any personal information about him, other 
than his name, and that he thought the request for payment by phone was strange. Hes also 
explained that the scammer initially asked for £30,000  but eventually agreed to a reduced 
payment of £995. While I appreciate Mr N wouldve been putting Mr N under pressure to 
make a payment, with fear of arrest, I dont think the notion that HMRC would accept such a 
reduced offer on an apparent tax evasion case is realistic. I think theres more Mr N could 
reasonably have done more to assure himself that the caller had personal information 
relating to him and that the amount he was being asked to pay was accurate and realistic for 
his personal circumstances.
I appreciate that Mr N was referred to a website for HMRC displaying the number he was 
called on  and that this wouldve impacted Mr Ns decision making. However, considering 
the other red flags, I think theres more Mr N couldve done to ensure this was a legitimate 
call, before proceeding with the payment, such as calling his accountant first.
With all of the above in mind, in the particular circumstances of this case, I consider that Mr 
N ought to have had concerns about the legitimacy of the call he received and that, in turn, 
ought to have led to a greater degree of checking on Mr Ns part. In not carrying out 
sufficient checks I dont find he had a reasonable basis for believing the call was genuinely 
from HMRC and so fell below the level of care expected of him under the CRM Code.
Should Lloyds have done more to try to prevent the scam and protect Mr N?
Ive thought about whether Lloyds did enough to protect Mr N from financial harm. 
The CRM Code says that where firms identify APP scam risks in a payment journey, they 
should provide Effective Warnings to their customers. The Code also says that the 
assessment of whether a firm has met a standard or not should involve consideration of 
whether compliance with that standard would have had a material effect on preventing the 
scam. 
I am also mindful that when Mr N made this payment, Lloyds should fairly and reasonably 
also have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). 
In this case, Lloyds has said that the payment made by Mr N wasnt detected by its systems 
as being a potential fraud risk and therefore no warnings were provided.
Having considered the payment Mr N made, I dont think it was so remarkable, in 
comparison to his usual account activity, that it shouldve appeared as suspicious to Lloyds. I 
therefore dont think Lloyds failed to meet its standards under the Code by not providing Mr 
N with a warning, prior to processing the payment.
Once it was made aware of the scam, Lloyds tried to recover Mr Ns funds, but unfortunately 
was advised by the beneficiary account that no funds remained. As the funds were removed 
from the fraudsters account before Mr N had even contacted Lloyds, I dont think Lloyds 
could reasonably have done anything further to recover Mr Ns payments.Overall, Im satisfied that Lloyds position on Mr Ns fraud claim, and its assessment under 
the CRM Code, is fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances and that Lloyds shouldnt 
be held liable for Mr Ns losses. And so I dont intend to make an award to Mr N. 
I do sympathise with Mr N as hes clearly been the victim of a cruel scam. And I dont doubt 
Mr N genuinely believed he was speaking to HMRC. But the circumstances of the case and 
the evidence available lead me to find Im unable to uphold this complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Kirsty Upton
Ombudsman