DRN-2874924
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R say Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy with a mortgage in 2007.
What happened
Mr and Mrs R took out a PPI policy in 2007. They paid a monthly amount of £17.67 for the 
policy. A successful claim would have paid out £300.00 per month for up to 12 months at a 
time if Mr R was unable to work through accident, sickness or if he was made redundant. 
The benefit was in Mr Rs name only. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs R disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it, but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. 
Where there isnt much evidence or theres contradictory evidence for me to consider, I need 
to make my decision based on a balance of probabilities  that is to say, Ill consider what I 
do have, look at what both sides have said, and make a decision based on what I think most 
likely happened. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Rs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. I explain why below.
The Customer Information Document and the Mortgage Offer both made it clear that Mr and 
Mrs R had chosen to take the cover and explained that it was not mandatory. They are both 
dated 29 June 2007 and the Mortgage Offer says, Insurance you must take out through 
Nationwide You are not required to buy any insurance through Nationwide. So, Im 
persuaded that Mr and Mrs R chose to take the PPI, knowing they didnt have to.
The sale was non-advised, so Nationwide didnt have to ensure the PPI was suitable for Mr 
and Mrs Rs needs. Nationwide did have to provide information to Mr and Mrs R that was 
enough to help them make an informed choice about whether it was right for them. 
Its possible that the information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs R about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve been. But I think Mr and Mrs R wouldve still bought the policy anyway if 
better information was given. I say this because:
Ive considered what Mr and Mrs R told us about their circumstances when they took 
out the PPI. From this I think Mr R was eligible for the cover the policy offered. And I 
dont think he was particularly affected by any of the exclusions or limitations in the 
terms.  
I think Mr and Mrs R could have found the policy useful. I say this because whilst Mr 
R told us he had good sick pay benefits from his employer, the policy would have 
paid out in addition to his sick pay and for longer than Mr Rs employer would have 
paid him at his full rate of pay, most likely. Mr and Mrs R told us they had no other 
means they could rely on in the event that Mr R was off work long term through ill 
health, or if he lost his job. So, considering all of the above and the potentially serious 
consequences of defaulting on a loan secured on your home, I think theyd have 
thought the policy offered some potentially useful cover. 
So, I dont think that Mr and Mrs R have lost out as a result of anything that Nationwide may 
have done wrong.
So, I do not think that Nationwide has to do anything further to put things right.
non-disclosure of commission
Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including whether the non-
disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act  
and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Nationwide didnt need to disclose the commission it received, 
so Nationwide doesnt need to pay back any of the commission Miss Consumer paid. My 
reasons are set out below.
The Supreme Court decided a case that involved the commission on a PPI policy  Plevin v 
Paragon Personal Finance. And the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  who make the 
rules for financial businesses  introduced some new rules and guidance for businesses to 
follow when theyre looking at PPI complaints. This means businesses will sometimes need 
to give consumers back some of the commission paid on certain PPI policies.
But this only applies to certain types of credit taken out and still running at certain times. 
From the information that has been submitted in this case the mortgage was a regulated 
mortgage. As such it does not fall within the scope of the Consumer Credit Act as it is a 
named exception to it. So, I dont think Nationwide have to refund any of the commission 
paid on the PPI policy.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 March 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman