DRN-3941763
The complaint
Mr G complains that he was given poor advice by Estate Capital Financial Management 
Limited (ECFM) to transfer the benefits from his defined benefit (DB) scheme with British 
Steel (BSPS) into a personal pension arrangement.
What happened
I issued a second provisional decision on 6 January to clarify my position on the case 
following changes Id made to the redress methodology and regulatory changes. Following 
my second provisional decision ECFM offered to settle the case. The offer was in-line with 
what Id set out in my decision with one exception. It wished to calculate the loss now 
instead of waiting until after 1 April 2023, which is when the new regulatory guidance comes 
into force.
Our investigator put that offer to Mr G and his representatives, but they declined the offer as 
Mr G wished to wait until after April 2023 for the calculation to be carried out.
Neither party made any new arguments in relation to the merits of the case. The background 
to the case and my provisional findings was set out in my second provisional decision and is 
included below and forms part of this decision.
'In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd announced that it would be examining options to restructure its 
business including decoupling the British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) from the company. The 
consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved pension benefits, 
one of which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund ("PPF'J - the PPF is a statutory fund 
designed to provide compensation to members of defined benefit pension schemes when their 
employer becomes insolvent. The BSPS was closed to further benefit accrual from 31 March 2017. In 
May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of a
Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said that, if risk- 
related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme 
sponsored by Mr G's employer would be set up - the BSPS2.
Mr G approached ECFM in June 2017 via unbiased.co.uk - he was considering transferring out of the 
British Steel Pension Scheme. He was very worried the BSPS would fall into the Pension Protection 
Fund ("PPF'? because of its financial situation and full details of the alternative final salary scheme 
which was to be offered in its place, BSPS2 weren't yet available.
Mr G had accrued  almost  30 years'  service  in the BSPS.  BSPS  offered  him a transfer  
value  (CETV)  of £352,250.82  - and this was valid  until October  2017.
In early  July 2017,  ECFM  completed  a fact find of Mr G's circumstances  and an attitude  To Risk
(''ATR")  assessment  was completed.  ECFM  recorded  that:
He was married,  close  to being  52 and had two children  - one being  dependent
He was in good  health  and was employed  for British  Steel  earning  £36,000pa.
He had four times  his salary  death-in-service
He intended  to retire  at 57
His wife was working  and had a pension  due soon
They  had an outstanding  mortgage  of about  £4,000  due to end in 2019
They  had savings  of about  £38,000  and some  shares  totalling  £4,000
They  had joint life cover  of £50,000
Mr G had started  contributing  to the new British  Steel  money  purchase  
scheme,  his employer  matching  his 10% contribution
His ATR was considered  as 4/10 (cautious  to balanced).
ECFM  undertook  a transfer  value  analysis  (TVA$)  on 17 August  2017.  ECFM  also issued  
an income  drawdown  report.
In September  2017,  due to a positive  change  in the funding  situation  of the BSPS,  it 
issued  an updated  CETV  of £363,737.26  - valid  until December  2017.
ECFM's  investment  proposal  set out that £344,000  would  be managed  by a discretionary  
fund manager  (DFM).  On a low to medium  risk tolerance,  Mr G's investment  would  
comprise  equities  (23%),  fixed  income  (45%),  alternative  investments  (29%)  and cash  
(3%).
On 20 September  2017  ECFM  completed  a further  TVAS  and another  income  
drawdown  report  was also issued.
On 26 September  2017  ECFM  issued  its suitability  letter.  This stated  that Mr G wanted  to 
ascertain  the suitability  of transferring  his BSPS  into a personal  pension.  It said Mr G wanted  
to retire  at 57 with an income  of £20,000.  He had a forecasted  state  pension  income  of £8,296  
from 67. It confirmed  Mr G described  himself  as inexperienced  in terms  of investments. Within  
the letter,  it was outlined  that Mr G would  receive  £20,601  at the age of 65 or £15,656 (after  
an early  retirement  penalty)  at 57 if he remained  in the scheme.
The letter  also confirmed  the required  rate (critical  yield),  as outlined  in the September  
TVAS,  to match  benefits  of the scheme  at 65 would  be 8.48%  and 20.44%  at 57. And 
to match  what  could  be offered  by the PPF,  this yield  was lower  at 4.88%  (65) and 
9.66%  at age 57.
Further, it confirmed  that while  Mr G's wife would  receive  50% of his income  upon  death, in a 
personal  arrangement  she'd  be able to then nominate  the children  as subsequent  
beneficiaries.   Also,  Mr G would  be unable  to take partial  tax-free  cash  or reduced  income  to 
increase  tax efficiency  via the scheme.
The suitability  letter  also highlighted,  from previous  information  gathering,  that Mr G:
Had serious  concerns  over the financial  stability  of his employer  and didn't 
want  the pension  to stay under  their control.
Wished  for a significant  portion  of his pension  benefits  to be protected  
as far as reasonably  possible.
That his dependents  would  receive  significant  sums  upon  his death, and 
while  more  would  be beneficial, it wasn't  an "absolute  priority".
Was happy  to receive  a lower  income  for an earlier  retirement  and 
would  like flexibility  and control.
ECFM  confirmed  that it recommended  Mr G transfer  to a well-known  provider's  flexible  
retirement  account  with a discretionary  fund manager  (DFM)  in place.
In October  2017,  members  of BSPS  were  being  sent a "Time  to Choose"  letter  which  gave  them  
the options  to either  stay in BSPS  and move  with it to the PPF,  move  to BSPS2  or transfer  their 
BSPS  benefits  elsewhere.  The deadline  to make  their choices  was 22 December  2017.The application  to transfer  Mr G's BSPS  benefits  was submitted  on 23 October  2017.  The 
transfer  was completed  it appears  in January  2018.
Mr G, via representatives,  complained  about  the advice  he received  and on 7 Jan 2020  
ECFM  issued  its final response.  In summary  it concluded  it hadn't  done  anything  wrong.
Our investigator  looked  into matters  and issued  his recommendation.  He concluded  that 
the advice  that ECFM  had given  Mr G wasn't  suitable.  The investigator  said that suitable  
advice  would've  been  not to transfer  and had this advice  been  given  Mr G would've  
followed  it - and ultimately  joined  BSPS2.
ECFM  didn't  agree  with the investigator  and made  a number  of points  as to why.  Including:
The key issue  for determination  is not whether  the advice  was suitable  but 
whether  ECFM  took reasonable  steps  to ensure  that its recommendation  was 
suitable.  Not to guarantee  or prove  that it is suitable.  It says  it did take these  
steps  to ensure  the transfer  was suitable.
The investigator  didn't  properly  consider  the causation  of the alleged  unsuitable  
advice.  It believes  Mr G would've  transferred  regardless  of its advice.
It is a flawed  argument  that Mr G ought  to have  been  advised  to elect  to join the BSPS2
which  was uncertain  at the time.
The investigator  mistakenly  concluded  that Mr G's required  income  in retirement  
was joint,  when  it was in fact specific  to his income.

In response  to my provisional  decision  both parties  made  substantial  further  submissions.  
I've summarised  below  what  both parties  have  said,  concentrating  on what  I think  are the 
key issues  relating  to this complaint.
ECFM  said:
It believes  it met its obligations  under  the relevant  rules  and guidance  at the time.
I've not made  a specific  finding  in terms  of COBS  9.2.1R  as to whether  
ECFM  took reasonable  steps  to ensure  its advice  was suitable.
It is concerned  about  the high uphold  rate for BSPS cases  and thinks  it has 
not been  treated  fairly  in terms  of this case.
A disproportionate  focus  has been  put on the critical  yield and discount  rates.
BSPS2  hadn't  been  established  at the point  of advice so it couldn't  give advice  
on it.
There  was no indication  Mr G wanted  a guaranteed  income  through  an annuity.
The provisional decision  said that Mr G's objectives to retire  early  and 'security  of 
pension  fund'  could  be met by remaining  in the scheme.  But Mr G's fears  of 
around  the security  of his fund was due to the position  of the scheme  and his 
concern  about  joining  the PPF.
It argues  Mr G didn't consider  his future  was dependent  on a set income  for life. 
He wished  to ' control  his pension  funds,  accepting  a lower  income  in retirement  
to achieve  his objective  of early  retirement'.
Mr G had the ability to meet  his income  requirements  having  transferred  
and didn't need  the benefits  of the PPF to achieve  this.
It had rerun  the calculations  using  the enhanced  and improved  TVAS report  and 
it confirms  that at age 65 Mr G would've  got an income  of £17,180.21 with a 
critical  yield  of 3.85%. And at 57 £12,566.32 and a critical  yield  of 7.23%
It says  the new calculations  and reports  it has sent demonstrate  its advice  
means  that Mr G can sustain  an income  of £17,180.21 indexed  at 1.34%  until 
87. To this point  Mr G had received  growth  of 1.95%  after charges  - working  out 
at annual  growth  of 1.05%  based  on the time held - and it is confident  that this would  be substantially  better  in the future.
My view of what  should've  happened  and what  Mr G could've  done  in the future  
if he remained  in the scheme  was based  on speculation.
Mr G could've  made  different  decisions  but that doesn't  mean  ECFM  didn't  
take reasonable  steps  to ensure  its recommendation  was suitable  for Mr G.
Mr G sought  to provide  death  benefits  for his family  and not just his wife - 
the PPF cannot  do this.
I failed  to take proper  account  of the detailed  discussions  it had with Mr G face 
to face and the detailed  advice  and explanations  provided  in the suitability  
report  which  it is confident  gave  a balanced  view of the available  options.
It is unhappy  with the change  from the PPF to BSPS2  for redress.  It feels  this 
shows  how arbitrary  and subjective  the assessment  of the advice  has been  - 
and it is artificial  to seek  to now impose  a reassessment  of advice  that on a 
highly  subjective  matter  especially  when  the advice  was given  in very particular  
and unusual  circumstances.
The change  of approach  ignores  the fact it was uncertain  at the time whether  
the BSPS2  would  be established.
Insufficient weight  has been  placed  on Mr G's particularly  strong  desire  to 
transfer  to a personal  pension  arrangement.  It believes  he would've  done  so 
regardless  of its advice.
It is highly  unlikely  Mr G won't  take tax-free  cash  as the majority  of people  do 
and it is the most  tax efficient  way of taking  benefits.
It had shown  the PPF figures  had been  overstated  at the time of advice.  But 
this was used  to move  the goalposts  and contradict  the original  decision.  
Instead  of not upholding  the complaint.
Mr G's representatives  said in response  to the provisional  decision  and the change  in 
redress  communicated  afterwards:
Mr G has postponed  indefinitely  his early  retirement  plans  due to the turmoil  
in the financial  markets
It believes  in the circumstances  here,  where  Mr G hasn't  retired  the losses  
should  be calculated  as if he was to retire  at 65 and if he was advised  to join 
BSPS2.
Mr G had approx  £30,000  in savings  and it was his intention  to start working  
part-  time to meet  his income  demands.  He had other  benefits  that would  allow  
him to meet  this income  in retirement  without  the need  to take his pension.
If the ombudsman  doesn't  agree  that Mr G had no need  to take his pension  - it 
asks  that ECF should  redress  Mr G on whichever  of BSPS2  or the PPF gives  
the highest  loss figure.  As this indicates  which  of the schemes  would've  
provided  Mr G with the better  benefits.  And reflects  the analysis  that should've  
been  done  at the time.
Following  the provisional  decision  and responses,  I wrote  to both parties  to explain  I'd 
likely  be making  a change  to my decision.  I explained  that in the provisional  decision,  I'd 
concluded  that had ECFM  given  Mr G suitable  advice  and acted  correctly,  he would've  
opted  for the PPF instead  of BSPS2.  This was based  on my understanding  that the PPF 
would've  provided  better  benefits  on early  retirement  at 57. And my belief  that ECFM's  
figures  provided  in the TVAS  report  were  likely  incorrect  regarding  the PPF.
However,  following  the responses  to the provisional  decision  and further  research,  I 
realised  that this was reliant  on tax-free  cash  being  taken.  I explained  why I didn't  think  
taking  the maximum  tax-free  cash  sum was likely  part of Mr G's plans  at the time of 
advice  - and therefore  he would  likely  have  chosen  to join BSPS2.
Furthermore,  ECFM  provided  evidence  of the early  retirement  factors  in place  specific  to 
Mr G at 57. This in-fact  showed  that Mr G would've  been  better  off in the BSPS2  even  in early  retirement  with tax-free  cash.  And this matches  with both the figures  from the time 
that I'd previously  doubted  (due to the values  given  for the PPF vs BSPS)  and the figures  
ECFM  re-run  using  the regulators  updated  calculation  method.  I'll explain  my reasoning  
further  in the findings  of this decision.
ECFM  has also made  an offer to Mr G whilst  not accepting  liability.  It says  it has run the 
calculations  in line with where  Mr G would  now be had he joined  the PPF and Mr G is 
better  off for the advice  it gave.  It says  it has tested  this against  the BSPS2  option  as well 
and Mr G is still better  off for transferring.  And it believes  this would  remain  the same  
regardless  of the regulator's  proposed  changes  to calculating  redress.
ECFM  says  that as at the current  date its calculations  show  there  is no loss.  And Mr G as 
the injured  party  is required  to mitigate  his losses.  To mitigate  his losses  ECFM  considers  
Mr G should  convert  his personal  pension  into a deferred  annuity  and therefore  cementing  
the no loss position.  Otherwise  he hasn't  mitigated  his circumstances  and it cannot  be held 
liable.
In response  Mr G's representatives  said the calculation  hadn't  been  made  in accordance  
with the guidelines  as it had been  run at age 57 and against  the PPF.  But Mr G hasn't 
retired  yet and he ought  to have  joined  BSPS2  not the PPF. So to comply  with the 
regulator's  guidance,  the calculation  should  be at age 65 and as if Mr G had joined 
BSPS2.
What  I've provisionally  decided  - and why
I've reconsidered  all the available  evidence  and arguments  to decide  what's  fair and 
reasonable  in the circumstances  of this complaint.  And having  done  so I'll set out my 
findings  again,  in light of the new evidence  and arguments  received.
Following my provisional decision I also issued letters to both parties setting out some changes. So I 
think it would be useful here to set out a short summary of the key findings Ive made so far:
(i) ECFM breached relevant provisions in COBS 9 and COBS 19 in giving advice to Mr G to 
transfer out of the BSPS; in particular, it failed to take reasonable steps to ensure that its 
advice to transfer was suitable for Mr G. 
(ii) Had ECFM taken reasonable steps to give him suitable advice, it should have: advised him 
not to transfer out in September 2017; advised him to wait for the time to choose exercise to 
begin (which it was known at the time of the advice was coming); and, during the time to 
choose exercise, should have compared the PPF and BSPS2 and then advised him to 
transfer to BSPS2. Had ECFM done so, Mr G would have followed that advice and 
transferred to BSPS2. 
When considering whats fair and reasonable, and in accordance with the Financial Services and 
Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) and DISP, I need to take into account relevant: law and regulations; 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I 
consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Both Mr Gs and ECFMs representatives have made substantial submissions. Ive not provided a 
detailed or direct response to all the arguments both parties have posed. Thats deliberate; we are an 
informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their customers. Whilst I 
have taken account and considered all of the submissions made by both parties, Ive concentrated my 
findings on what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint. 
ECFM have made a number of points about our services approach to BSPS cases and what it 
believes has driven this. However, I can assure ECFM I have considered this case on its own merits 
and I have not approached this case in a different way to any other Defined Benefit transfer case.
The applicable  rules,  regulations  and requirementsThis isn't a comprehensive  list of the rules  and regulations  which  applied,  but provides  useful  
context  for my assessment  of the business'  actions  here.
Within  the FCA's  handbook,  COBS  2.1.1R  required  a regulated  business  to "act honestly,  
fairly  and professionally  in accordance  with the best interests  of its client".
The FCA's  suitability  rules  and guidance  that applied  at the time ECFM  advised  Mr G were  set 
out in COBS  9. The purpose  of the rules  and guidance  is to ensure  that regulated  businesses,  
like ECFM,  take reasonable  steps  to provide  advice  that is suitable  for their clients'  needs  
and to ensure  they're  not inappropriately  exposed  to a level  of risk beyond  their investment  
objective  and risk profile.
The overarching  regulatory  obligation  is set out in COBS  9.2.1R
"(1) A firm must:
(a)take reasonable  steps  to ensure  that a personal  recommendation...  is suitable  for 
its client"
There  were  also specific  requirements  and guidance  relating  to transfers  from  defined  
benefit  schemes  - these  were  contained  in COBS  19.1.
COBS  19.1.2 required  the following:  "A firm must:
(1)compare  the benefits  likely  (on reasonable  assumptions)  to be paid under  a 
defined  benefits  pension  scheme  or other  pension  scheme  with safeguarded  benefits  
with the benefits  afforded  by a personal  pension  scheme,  stakeholder  pension  
scheme  or other  pension  scheme  with flexible  benefits,  before  it advises  a retail  client  
to transfer  out of a defined  benefits  pension  scheme  or other  pension  scheme  with 
safeguarded  benefits;
2) ensure  that that comparison  includes  enough  information  for the client  to be able to make  
an informed  decision;
(3)give the client  a copy  of the comparison,  drawing  the client's  attention  to the 
factors  that do and do not support  the firm's  advice,  in good  time,  and in any case  
no later than when  the key features  document  is provided;  and
(4)take reasonable  steps  to ensure  that the client  understands  the firm's  comparison  
and its advice."
Under  the heading  "Suitability",  COBS  19.1.6  set out the following:
"When  advising  a retail  client  who is, or is eligible  to be, a member  of a defined  benefits  
occupational  pension  scheme  or other  scheme  with safeguarded  benefits  whether  to 
transfer,  convert  or opt-out,  a firm should  start by assuming  that a transfer,  conversion  
or
opt-out  will not be suitable.  A firm should  only then consider  a transfer,  conversion  or opt-out  
to be suitable  if it can clearly  demonstrate,  on contemporary  evidence,  that the transfer,  
conversion  or opt-out  is in the client's  best interests."
COBS  19.1.7  said:
"When  a firm advises  a retail  client  on a pension  transfer,  pension  conversion  or pension  
opt-out,  it should  consider  the client's  attitude  to risk including,  where  relevant,  in relation  
to the rate of investment  growth  that would  have  to be achieved  to replicate  the benefits  
being  given  up."
COBS  19.1.7G  also stated:  "When  a firm advises  a retail  client  on a pension  transfer,  
pension  conversion  or pension  opt-out,  it should  consider  the client's  attitude  to risk 
including,  where  relevant,  in relation  to the rate of investment  growth  that would  have  to be 
achieved  to replicate  the benefits  being  given  up."
And COBS  19.1.8  set out that:"When  a firm prepares  a suitability  report  it should  include:
(1)a summary  of the advantages  and disadvantages  of its personal  recommendation;
(2)an analysis  of the financial  implications  (if the recommendation  is to opt-out); and
(3)a summary  of any other  material  information."
I've therefore  considered  the suitability  of ECFM's  advice  to Mr G in the context  of the 
above  requirements.
ECFM's  rationale  for transferring
It's ECFM's  position  that Mr G prior  to meeting  with it was very worried  about  the future  
of the BSPS  and his employer.  And therefore  wished  to transfer.
ECFM  says  it had to persuade  Mr G to go through  the proper  advice  process  with it as he 
was so intent  on transferring.  But Mr G was nevertheless  seeking  advice  on his options  
for meeting  his objectives  in terms  of the potential  transfer.  Mr G wasn't  categorised  as an 
insistent  client,  and so ECFM  could  be confident  that he would  be acting  upon,  or at least  
taking  into account,  its advice.
In accordance  with COBS  9.2.2R,  ECFM  undertook  its fact find and it was recorded  his 
objectives  were:
-'retire  55-60
-Would  like flexibility  of fund (pension)
-Maybe  work  part time for 2 days  a week  from age 57
-Sort out pension  situation
-Wants  to take out of scheme
-Income  in retirement-  flexible  start higher  amount  £20,000  pa income
-Mentioned  equity  in house  as back  up.'
The subsequent  suitability  report  doesn't  list Mr G's objectives,  but it does  say within  it:
Mr G was concerned  the scheme  will fall into the PPF, so he would  like to 
take control  of these  pension  benefits
He doesn't  intend  to retire  until at least  57.
Income  flexibility and death  benefits  under  an individual  arrangement  meant he 
was happy  to give up his protected  retirement  age of 50.
Mr G wishes  to retire  at 57 with an income  of £20,000. He intends  to 
supplement  his pension  income  with part-time  work.
He has sufficient  funds  as to act as an emergency  fund
His objectives  in terms  of order  of importance  were  recorded  as:
Ability to retire  early
Security  of the pension  fund
Provision for a spouse's  and dependent's  pension
Increase  in pension
Lump  sum benefits  upon  death  before  retirement
Tax free lump sums  at retirement
Before  I consider  this further, it's important  to look at whether  from  a purely financial  
perspective,  the transfer  was in Mr G's best interests.  This is especially  important  here  as Mr G wanted  to take little risk with his pension  and protecting  its value  was very important  
to him.
ECFM  produced  a TVAS  report  for comparison  purposes  to determine  the viability  of the 
transfer  to meet  Mr G's objectives  from  a financial  perspective.
The advice  was given  during  the period  when  the Financial  Ombudsman  Service  was 
publishing  'discount  rates'  on our website  for use in loss assessments  where  a complaint  
about  a past pension  transfer  was being  upheld.  Whilst  businesses  weren't  required  to refer  
to these  rates  when  giving  advice  on pension  transfers,  I consider  they provide  a useful  
indication  of what  growth  rates  would  have  been  considered  reasonably  achievable  when  the 
advice  was given  in this case.
The investment  return  (critical  yield)  required  to match  the occupational pension  at  retirement  
was recorded  as 8.48%  per year. This compares  with the discount  rate of 4% per year for 13 
years  to retirement  in this case.  This gap is increased  significantly  with retirement  at age 57 
with a critical  yield  recorded  of over 20%.  It was also recorded  that the critical yield if benefits  
were  to fall in the PPF was 4.88%  at age 65 and 9.66%  at age 57. For further  comparison,  the 
regulator's  upper  projection  rate at the time was 8%, the middle  projection  rate 5%, and the 
lower  projection  rate 2% per year.  I've taken  this into account,  along  with Mr G's low-medium  
attitude  to risk and also the term to retirement.
Given  the above, I think  Mr G was likely to receive  benefits  of a lower  overall  value  than the DB 
scheme  at retirement.  I think  it's unlikely  Mr G could  have  achieved  returns  above  the 
regulator's  highest  projection  rate every  year until retirement, particularly  given  his attitude  to 
risk. If the fund was to have  fallen  into the PPF the yield is lower  but even  then it's still unlikely  
given  Mr G's attitude  to risk that he'd improve  on the benefits  available  from the PPF.  And 
given  Mr G was hoping  to retire  early,  the yield  involved  just to match  the benefits  given  up is 
high - so Mr G was likely  to be worse  off in early  retirement.
COBS  19.1.7G  says  that firms  should  consider  a customer's  attitude  to risk in relation  to the 
investment  growth  required  to match  the benefits  given  up. But bar some  generic  warnings  and 
a comment  about  the critical  yield  being  high,  ECFM  didn't  set out in the suitability  report  that 
there  was a specific  risk that Mr G would  be worse  off given  the critical  yields  involved  and his 
low-medium  attitude  to risk.
Overall,  I'm satisfied  that by transferring  his pension  Mr G was unlikely  to improve  his 
benefits.  Instead  he was likely  to be worse  off in retirement.  This is an example  of ECFM  
being  unable  to show  the transfer  was in Mr G's best interests.  I think  ECFM  has breached  
the guidance  in COBS  19.1.6,  and this together  with other  failures  I'll identify  later shows  
ECFM  has not taken  reasonable  steps  to ensure  the transfer  was suitable  under  COBS
9.2.1R.
ECFM  argues  that I have  placed  a disproportionate  weight  on the critical  yield  and the 
discount  rate. It says  the FCA does  not consider  the critical  yield  to be a factor  which  should  
have  considerable  weight  when  assessing  DB transfer  advice.  And that discount  rates  are not 
appropriate  in most  cases  as annuities  are rarely  acquired  these  days.  It believes  our 
rationale  for considering  DB transfer  suitability  is at odds  with what  the regulator  expects  of 
firms.
However,  I disagree,  I don't think what  I've said is contradictory  to what  the regulator expects  of 
firms.  The discount  rates  give a good  indication  of what  growth  rates  could  be achieved  for a 
typical  investor.  The discount  rates  were  published  every  year so they take into account  what  
was considered reasonably achievable at a particular point  in time.  And as ECFM  has pointed  
out, they do shift towards  a low risk asset  weighting  closer  to retirement, but I don't see this as 
an issue. As customers  regardless  of decisions around  suitable  products  for retirement,  will 
generally  wish to take less risk as they look to finalise their retirement  arrangements.  The 
discount  rate is just one tool to consider  the financial  viability  of advice  and hasn't  been  used  as 
definitive  result  in terms  of assessing  suitability  of this transfer.
Whilst  the FCA does  ask adviser's  to consider  the assets  and likely  returns  of the funds  
invested  in, relative  to the critical  yield,  we sometimes  find advisers  have  overstated  the consumer's  attitude  to risk or the likely  returns  that can be achieved  from an investment  and/or  
the investments  don't  align  with the consumer's  attitude  to risk. So our discount  rates  work  as 
neutral  baseline  to consider  alongside  other  factors  such  as the critical  yield,  the customers  
attitude  to risk, the likely  expected  returns  of the assets  invested  within  and personal  
circumstances  of the customer  - and their best interests.  And I've also looked  at the standard  
industry  projections  too (i.e. the 2%/5%/8%  low/intermediate/high  projections)  to give another  
perspective  on what  could,  realistically,  have  been  considered  achievable.
The approach  I've taken  is to look at the transfer  as a whole  to decide  whether  ECFM  took 
reasonable  steps  to ensure  the advice  was suitable.  I haven't  just decided  the case  based  on 
whether  the critical  yield  was achievable. I've also looked  at whether  there  were  other  
legitimate  reasons  for recommending  the transfer.  That said, as in this case  where  the critical  
yields  are high (as ECFM  itself  stated  this itself  in the suitability  report)  it becomes  more  
difficult  to justify  a transfer  is in someone's  best interests  and a firm has taken  reasonable  
steps  when  the transfer  would  likely  result  in a reduction  of benefits  on a like-for-  like basis. 
Which  is the implication  of a critical  yield  that appears  unachievable.
But as I set out in detail  in the provisional  decision,  I also considered  Mr G's circumstances  
and whether  regardless  of the real potential  to be financially  worse  off, his circumstances  
were  such  that it would  still be in his best interests  to transfer.
Since  my provisional  decision,  ECFM  says  it has re-run  the calculations  regarding  the PPF,  
producing  a TVAS  report  which  it says  has been  enhanced  and improved  by the regulator  
since  the advice  was provided.  It says  this now shows  the critical  yield  for the PPF at 3.85%  at 
65 and 7.2%  at age 57. It says,  that I should  reconsider  my provisional  decision  on this basis  
alone.
However,  I am not sure given  the reasoning  I explained  in my provisional  decision,  why ECFM  
would  think  this would  make  a material  difference  to the outcome.  The critical  yields  at 57 and 
65 for the PPF are lower  now under  the new calculation.  But given  the regulator's  standard  
projection  rates  and Mr G's attitude  to risk and investment  strategy,  these  still represent  a big 
risk that Mr G will be worse  off financially  in transferring.  Furthermore,  I need  to consider  the 
suitability  of the advice  based  on the information  available  at the time.
My understanding  of ECFM's  position  is that the basis  of the recommendation  was the benefit  
to Mr G in terms  of other  objectives  being  met - including  flexibility  of income  and control.  It 
says  its modelling  showed  that Mr G's objective  of £20,000 a year in income  at age 57 could  
be met by its recommendation  to transfer.  And if Mr G's fund was to have  gone  into the PPF,  
this couldn't be so easily  achieved, or at all.
The requirement  for flexibility
The starting  point  for ECFM  should've  been  that the transfer  wasn't  in Mr G's best interests.  
Looking  at the advice  process  and the suitability  report  I have  my doubts  that this was the 
case.  Given  the financial  viability  of the transfer  set out above,  it's my view there  would  need  
to be very strong  reasoning  as to why a personal  pension  arrangement  was clearly  a better  
option  than staying  within  the scheme.
I've also thought  about  Mr G's capacity  to take financial  risks  with his pension  funds.  Mr G had 
joined  his employer's  defined  contribution  scheme,  but even  so, given  the limited  amount  of 
time until either  age 57 or the scheme  retirement  age of 65 the defined  benefits  accrued  
through  the BSPS  would  have  been  his only source  of guaranteed  income  (other  than the 
state  pension  which  wouldn't  be payable  until age 67). This represented  nearly  30 years  of 
employment.  It seems  that Mr G understood  that these  benefits  were  very important  for his 
future.  It was recorded  he didn't  consider  it appropriate  to expose  himself  to anything  other  
than a minimal  amount  of risk to grow  his pension.  And Mr G was recorded  as saying  - "A 
significant  portion  of my pension  benefits  which  should  be protected  as far as is reasonably  
possible."
It was also recorded  that security  of his pension  fund was more  important  to Mr G than 
attempting  to increase  his pension  in retirement.  Within  the BSPS,  Mr G had guaranteed  benefits  
and even  in what  I think  Mr G considered  the worst-case  scenario,  the pension  falling  into the PPF,  Mr G still had guaranteed  benefits  just at a lower  level.  This was the cornerstone  of Mr G's 
retirement  planning  and protecting  this was what  led him to seeking  advice  from ECFM.
Given  the above,  I don't  think  it was reasonable  to sacrifice  Mr G's guaranteed  income  in 
retirement  for the sake  of flexibility  of income  which  would  likely  mean  Mr G was also 
worse  off in retirement.
ECFM  argue  that Mr G had never  shown  any interest  in an annuity  or a guaranteed  income  in 
retirement  - pointing  out Mr G favoured  control  and flexibility.  But Mr G was a layman  and 
came  to ECFM  for expert  advice.  ECFM  should've  explained  the benefits  of the scheme's  
guaranteed  income.  And explored  how alongside  his other  assets  he could  meet  his 
objectives,  and retain  a guaranteed  income  likely  higher  than what  would  be achievable  by 
transferring  to a more  flexible  arrangement.  Had it done  so I think  he would've  favoured  this.
Instead  ECFM  said the below  about  remaining  in the scheme  in the suitability  report.  "leaving  
the benefits  with the current  scheme  - discounted  because  you cannot  access  the flexibility  
required.  You cannot  access  the benefits  without  early  retirement  penalty  until 65."
COBS  19.1.2  required  ECFM  to 2) 'ensure  that that comparison  includes  enough  information  
for the client  to be able to make  an informed  decision';
And
4) 'take  reasonable  steps  to ensure  that the client  understands  the firm's  comparison  and its 
advice."
I think  ECFM  should've  done  a lot more  to set out the advantages  of remaining  in the 
scheme.  Very  little was set out about  Mr G's options  regarding  not transferring.  I think  this is a 
failing  of COBS  19.1.2.  The comparison  didn't  include  enough  information  for Mr G to make  
an informed  decision.  Furthermore,  as I'll discuss  later,  ECFM  should've  also considered  Mr 
G's to options  under  the likely  to be established,  BSPS2,  but it didn't.
ECFM  has made  repeated  arguments,  essentially  arguing  that it took reasonable  steps  in 
providing  advice  such  as completing  a fact-find,  TVAS  report,  suitability  report  and therefore  it 
wasn't  required  to ensure  the advice  was suitable  as Mr G accepted  their recommendation.
But here is another  example,  where  I don't  think  ECFM  took those  reasonable  steps.  It says  it 
provided  Mr G with a TVAS  document  and Income  Drawdown  report  but I don't  think  it is fair 
to expect  a lay person  to draw  conclusions  from the figures  alone,  without  expert  commentary  
- which  is what  the suitability  report  is for. And the suitability  report  didn't  provide  enough  
information  for Mr G to make  an informed  decision.
Within  the suitability  report,  it didn't  set out how Mr G could  meet  his requirements without  
transferring  - which  ECFM  was aware  of - as it said under  other  considerations  -  'any income  
in retirement  can be met by your British  Steel  final salary  and money  purchase  benefits,  
together  with the state  pension  when  you become  eligible  at 67'. And it didn't  give any advice  
about  the impending  BSPS2  - which  I'll cover  in more  detail  later.  There  was no analysis  or 
discussion  about  how Mr G may be able to achieve  his objectives  by remaining  in the scheme. 
This is a failing  of the advice  process  and what  was required  of ECFM  as a professional  
adviser.  It didn't  take reasonable  steps  to provide  Mr G with enough  information  to make  an 
informed  choice.
The little ECFM  did say about  Mr G's entitlement  in the scheme,  didn't  represent  a fair or 
balanced  picture  of Mr G's options.  ECFM  said he couldn't  access  the benefits  without  
receiving  early  retirement  penalties  - but in fact this would  just be an adjustment  based  on the 
fact he'd be receiving  benefits  earlier  and for longer  than if he took benefits  at 65. Yet the same  
would  apply  if he chose  to take benefits  early  under  a personal  pension  arrangement  - as the 
fund would've  had less time to grow  and will be drawn  upon  over more  years.  Given  this was 
all ECFM  said about  the scheme,  it doesn't  represent  a balanced  picture.
ECFM's  core argument  is that Mr G required  £20,000  in income  at 57 and this trumped  
everything  else.  And the flexibility  that a personal  pension  arrangement  gave  with the ability  to draw  benefits  at age 57 to meet  this requirement  meant  its advice  was suitable.  I agree  that 
retiring  early  was of importance  to Mr G, as the advice  process  moved  on he settled  on age 57 
with a plan to work  part-time  but given  this was still over five years  away,  I don't  think  it was an 
absolute  that had to be achieved  at all costs.  When  Mr G first met with ECFM  he said retire  
between  55-60  and then later he would  work  until at least  57. Yet ECFM  focused  entirely  on 
the rigid picture  of £20,000  of income  at 57.
As I said above  ECFM  was aware  Mr G could've  met his objectives  without  transferring  but 
made  no positive  comments  or analysis  on this basis.  I think  ECFM  should've  done  more  to 
discuss  the alternatives  available  to Mr G that would've  kept his guaranteed  benefits  in place.  
If Mr G's circumstances  were  to change,  by remaining  in the scheme  Mr G's benefits  available  
would've  increased  year on year the closer  he got to retirement.  This should  have  all been  
weighed  up and explained  to Mr G, but it wasn't.  The focus  of the suitability  report  and it 
appears  the whole  advice  process  was weighted  on transferring.  So I don't  think  ECFM  
applied  COBS  19.1.6  in its thinking  when  it gave  advice  to Mr G.
A lot of ECMF's  arguments  for why it was right to recommend  a transfer  was that Mr G 
was worried  about  entering  the PPF.  But I don't  think  ECFM  did anything  to test or allay  
these  concerns.  Furthermore  , I think  even  in that scenario,  Mr G could  have  met his 
objectives.  But this was never  considered  or set out by ECFM  in the suitability  report.
This is another  failure  of the advice  process,  ECFM  should  have  at least  presented  and 
discussed  these  options  with Mr G as a means  of supplementing  his income  and its 
failure  to do so means  that its analysis  as required  by COBS  19 is deficient.  This is 
another  example  of ECFM  failing  to take reasonable  steps  to ensure  its advice  was 
suitable.
I say the above  because,  looking  at that scenario  (the supposed  worst  case),  it was recorded  
that at age 57 Mr G could  receive  £13,078  a year from the PPF or £12,566.32  under  its new 
calculations  - post advice.  This left Mr G approximately  £7,500  a year short  of his required
£20,000  income  at age 57 - when  Mr G planned  to start part time work.  I don't  think  it was out 
of the question  by any stretch  of the imagination  that Mr G could've  made  up this shortfall  
and met his objectives  without  risking  his only source  of guaranteed  income.  And without  
taking  the risk of being  substantially  worse  off in retirement.
Mr G didn't  plan to fully retire  at 57, he said he'd like to work  part-time.  It was recorded  that 
Mr G's salary  at the time of advice  was £36,000;  at that point  in time he had a surplus  income  
of £1,000;  approximately  £40,000  in savings;  his mortgage  was due to be paid off in under  
two years  which  would  increase  his surplus  income;  and his annual  contributions  to the new 
DC scheme  totalled  20% of his salary  - £7,200.  If he were  to work  until age 57 he would  have  
contributions  of approximately  £36,000  in this scheme.
It wasn't  recorded  if Mr G would  look to go part-time  with his current  employer  or elsewhere,  
but two/fifths  of his salary  would  equate  to £14,400.  I understand  this is a very crude  
methodology  and that often  part-time  work  tends  to be low paid.  But even  if we go by the 
minimum  wage,  £9.50,  this would  equate  to a yearly  income  of approximately  £19,800  and at 
two days  a week,  £8,000  per year.  Therefore,  working  two days  a week  part-time,  I think  Mr G 
would  likely  achieve  the £20,000  income  required  at retirement  at 57 alongside  his pension  
from the PPF.  And once  Mr G reached  aged  67 his state  pension  would  kick in and he would  
no longer  require  any additional  income  on top of his guaranteed  benefits.
And that scenario  is without  Mr G having  to take benefits  from his money  purchase  pension  or 
other  assets  and income  resources,  which  if required  could've  been  used  to meet  his income  
requirements.  But ECFM  never  did any of this analysis, it never  discussed  this with Mr G, 
despite  him telling  ECFM that he'd consider  working  part-time.  ECFM  should've  known  from its 
analysis  that financially  Mr G's likely  best option  was to remain  in the scheme  for as long as 
possible - yet didn't  set out the ways  in which  this may have  been  achievable.
ECFM  has argued  that it couldn't  be guaranteed  Mr G could  find part-time  work  but neither  could  it be guaranteed  that its cash  flow forecasts  would  be achieved  either.  The product  it 
recommended  exposed  Mr G's pension  funds  to investment  risk and charges  that would  most  
likely  make  Mr G poorer  in retirement.
ECFM  says  this argument  is hypothetical  and less certain  than its figures  based  on investment  
returns.  But I don't  think  it's unfair  or unreasonable  to say Mr G would  likely  be able to find a 
part-time  job that paid minimum  wage,  which  is all he would  need  to do to meet  any shortfall  
from the 'worst  case'  scenario  of the scheme  entering  into the PPF.  Whereas  in my view 
positive  investment  returns  over many  years  is less predictable.  Regardless,  ECFM  never  put 
this option  to Mr G for him to consider  which  is another  example  where  it failed  to take 
reasonable  steps  to ensure  its advice  was suitable.
ECFM  argues  that Mr G's fund has performed  up to now above  the growth  it says  is required  to 
meet  the guaranteed  benefits  in the PPF and it is confident  this will continue.  Using  the mid-
range  growth  rate it says  Mr G can sustain  income  of £17,000  until 87 (and this hasn't  taken  
into account  the state  pension  being  paid at 67). But past performance  is no indication  of future  
performance,  and requiring  mid-rate  growth  over many  years  is indicative  of the risk applied  in 
transferring  Mr G's guaranteed  benefits.  It also doesn't  take account  of the fact Mr G's 
circumstances  could  change  and in transferring  his benefits,  he is taking  on the potential  of an 
even  bigger  loss if he was to decide  to retire  later.  Most  importantly,  this is not an argument  
relevant  to whether  ECFM  took reasonable  steps  to provide  suitable  advice  at the time.
In regard  to this being  hypothetical  and an assumption  about  what  Mr G would've  wanted  to 
do. As at the time this wasn't  sufficiently  discussed  or tested  by the adviser,  we don't  have  
any testimony  from the time as to what  Mr G thought  possible.  So I have  to consider  what  
would've  most  likely  happened  had Mr G been  given  the information  required  to make  an 
informed  decision.
I think  considering  Mr G's financial  circumstances  at the time of advice  and his clear  concern  
for his pension  to be protected,  remaining  in the scheme  met his objectives.  It protected  his 
benefits  and still gave  him the opportunity  of meeting  his idea of early  retirement.  By 
transferring,  his pension  was put at risk, not protected,  and Mr G was likely  to receive  less in 
retirement  than he would  remaining  in the scheme.
These  arguments  are based  on the 'worst  case'  scenario  of Mr G joining  the PPF but as I 
explained  previously  and will build  on below,  I think  acting  reasonably  and in Mr G's best 
interests,  ECFM  ought  to have  considered  the benefits  he would've  received  in BSPS2  - 
which  were  more  beneficial  than those  available  in the PPF.
Death  benefits
Death  benefits  weren't  the main  basis  of advice  but ECFM  have  mentioned  them  in response  
to the investigator's  view to justify  the transfer.  ECFM  say that due to the transfer,  he'll be 
able to ensure  his children  benefit  on his death.
Mr G was recorded  as saying  "My dependants  will receive  significant  sums  upon  my death  
and whilst  a greater  amount  might  be beneficial,  it is not an absolute  priority  for me."
So I don't  think  this was a priority  for Mr G. And he had generous  death  in service  cover  if he 
died before  retirement  and his family  would  have  received  the value  of his defined  contribution  
pension  too if he died.
Furthermore,  the death  benefits  within  the PPF would've  been  valuable  if Mr G was to pre- 
decease  his wife.  She would've  received  a 50%  spouse's  pension  for the remainder  of her 
life.
ECFM  argues  that Mr G sought  to provide  death  benefits  flexibly  for his family  and not 
just for his wife and the PPF couldn't  provide  this. However,  whilst  a personal  pension  
arrangement  would  allow  Mr G to nominate  his children  as beneficiaries  - the outcome  of 
this is dependent  on the position  of the fund at the time of death.  Mr G was noted  to be in 
good  health  and there  is nothing  to suggest  he wouldn't  be expected  to live to the average  life expectancy.  Therein  lies the risk that on death  there  may be very little left in 
the fund to pass  onto his children  in any event.  Furthermore, if Mr G genuinely  wanted  to 
leave  a legacy  for his children,  which  didn't  depend  on investment  returns  or how much  of 
his pension  fund remained  on his death,  I think  ECFM  should've  instead  explored  life 
insurance.
Whilst  I appreciate  death  benefits  are important  to consumers,  the priority  here  was to 
advise  Mr G about  what  was best for his own retirement  provisions.  A pension  is primarily  
designed  to provide  income  in retirement.  So there  generally  shouldn't  be a 
disproportionate  emphasis  on death  benefits  compared  to someone's  own retirement  
needs.  Overall,  I don't  think  different  death  benefits  justified  the likely  decrease  of 
retirement  benefits.
Could  ECFM  have  considered  Mr G's options  within  BSPS2?
So far I've mostly  focussed  on the option  of transferring  against  what  ECFM  said Mr G 
saw as the worst  case  scenario,  joining  the PPF.  But at the time of advice  it was already  
known  that it was likely  BSPS2  would  be set up which  would  retain  most  of the benefits  of 
the current  BSPS  scheme.
Much  of ECFM's  arguments  about  why it recommended  transferring  were  due to Mr 
G's concerns  about  having  to enter  the PPF.  But as I've set out above,  I think  this 
was still a more  suitable  option  than transferring  given  his circumstances  and 
objectives.
ECFM  says  it was unable  to give advice  or take account  of BSPS2  as it hadn't  been  
established.  I disagree.  And its position  is in direct  contradiction  to what  was concluded  in a 
report  produced  at the request  of the FCA.
The regulator  asked  Grant  Thornton  to produce  a report  analysing  the information  
available  to PTS (Pension  Transfer  Specialists  such  as ECFM)  during  the 'Time  to 
Choose  Period'.  Preliminary  details  were  announced  about  the time to choose  period  on 
11 September  2017.  And it effectively  ran from  October  2017  to December  2017.  In this 
report  Grant  Thornton  looked  at what  the steps  it expected  a competent  and reasonable  
adviser  should've  taken  in this period.
In this report  it said:
"In August  2017  an update  was added  to the BSPS  website  which  confirmed  that the Time  to 
Choose  exercise  would  take place  later that year, and that members  would  receive  further  
details  regarding  their options  by October  2017.  Again,  we consider  that unless  it could  be 
clearly  demonstrated  that a transfer  was in the client's  best interests  when  compared  to the 
existing  BSPS  scheme,  PTSs  should  have  delayed  completion  of their advice  process  unless  
further  information  was known."
On receipt  of the Time  to Choose  information,  PTSs  would  then have  had sufficient  scheme  
information  to compare  the options  of a transfer  with the likely  benefits  available  from PPF or 
BSPS2.
The uncertainty  surrounding  whether  or not BSPS2  would  proceed  presented  PTSs  at the time 
with certain  challenges  when  providing  advice  to clients,  and they should  have  explored  all of 
the potential  options  available  to the client.  Given  that it was not possible  for a client  to retain  
their benefits  in the BSPS  scheme,  the PTS should  have  compared  the likely  options  available  
under  PPF with BSPS2,  and each  of these  options  against  the possibility  of transferring  to a 
scheme  with flexible  benefits.  We consider  a PTS should  have  taken  care to present  the PPF 
as a valid  option  for consideration  if BSPS2  did not proceed,  rather  than giving  the impression  
that the client's  benefits  transferring  to PPF was the worst  of all possible  scenarios."
ECFM  didn't  wait or advise  Mr G to take part in the time to choose  exercise.  Instead  it 
pushed  ahead  with its transfer  recommendation.  Its advice  focused  on transferring  to avoid  
the worst  case  scenario  of joining  the PPF and it presented  no comment  on how Mr G's requirements  could  be met under  BSPS2.
And its clear  ECFM  was aware  of the potential  BSPS2  scheme  as ECFM  noted  in the
suitability  report  background:
But ECFM  chose  to make  no further  comment  on this in its suitability  report  which  instead  
focused  almost  entirely  on the benefits  of transferring  Mr G's benefits  to a personal  pension  
arrangement  - despite  the knowledge  of the above.
Mr G didn't  need  to make  any decision  about  whether  to transfer  until more  details  were  
known  about  the options  which  might  later be available.  I think  a competent  adviser  acting  
reasonably  would've  recommended  that Mr G wait to see his options  under  BSPS2  before  
transferring.  But ECFM  didn't  do so. This is another  failing  in ECFM's  advice  process  and I 
don't  think  it acted  in Mr G's best interests.  It didn't  take reasonable  steps  to ensure  its advice  
was suitable.
Mr G's concerns  about  the scheme  and benefits  entering  the PPF
ECFM  has said in response  to my PD:
"The  Provisional  Decision  now interprets  Mr G's objectives  to have  been  to retire  early  and 
"security  of pension  fund"  (my comment  - these  objectives   were  recorded  by ECFM  at 
the time  of advice)  and asserts  that both of these  would  be met by remaining   in the 
Scheme.  However,  based  on our discussions  with Mr G, it was clear  that his concerns  over 
the security  of the fund were  based  on his concerns  over the PPF and his wish to avoid  his 
accrued  benefits  being  transferred  to the PPF (which  he viewed, rightly  or wrongly, as 
representing  a risk to the security  of his pension  fund...)
Provided  Mr G understood  that by taking  control  of his funds  he was forgoing  a 
guaranteed  income  for life (whether  from the PPF or BSPS2  if it were  created)  - this 
was a decision  that only he could  make."
But EC FM 's job wasn 't just to do as Mr G wanted,  instead  it was to provide  him with all the 
relevant  information  and give expert  advice  and a recommendation  as to how to proceed.  
As I've explained  above,  it didn't  do this. And its comments  highlighted  above  appear  to 
suggest  that it was led by Mr G's views  rather  than challenging  them  whilst  giving  expert  
advice  as a competent  adviser  ought  to have  done.
I appreciate  that there  will be instances  where  a client  seeks  financial  advice  with 
predetermined  ideas  or concerns  about  the financial  health  of an employer  or pension  scheme,  
as was the case  here,  but as the professional  party,  the IFA is tasked  with rationally  
addressing  those  concerns  and providing  an appropriately  balanced  view of the available  
options.
I don't  think  this happened  here.  The whole  point  of the BSPS  consultation,  which  resulted  in 
the agreement  being  announced  in August  2017,  had been  to avoid  the necessity  of the BSPS  
pension  funds  entering  the PPF,  and by the point  of the advice  the BSPS  2 seemed  more  
likely  than not to be a viable  alternative.  When  the advice  was given,  there  was no imminent  
prospect  of the BSPS  entering  the PPF.  And the indication  was that it wouldn't.
ECFM  says  it was recorded  at the time that ' Mr G had serious  concerns  regarding  the 
financial  stability  of my ex-employer  and I do not wish for my benefits  to remain  under  his control. 
But as I said it was its job as an adviser  to look into these  concerns  and provide  the 
information  available  at the time with comment  that I think  should've  allayed  these  concerns.  
Under  either  of the BSPS2  and PPF, Mr G's employer  wouldn't  have  had control  of his 
benefits  - this wasn't explained.
So at the time of advice, ECFM  was aware  that it was unlikely Mr G's benefits  would  need  to 
enter  the PPF. Despite this it made  no positive  comments  about  the security  likely  offered  by 
BSPS2 or even  falling  into the PPF.
Mr G's top two objectives  were  the ability  to retire  early  and security  of pension  fund - both could  
be met by remaining  in the scheme  or in the PPF.  By transferring  the security  of his pension  fund 
was lost.
What should ECFM have done - and would it have made a difference to Mr G's decision?
Mr G may have  been  concerned  by developments  relating  to British  Steel  and the BSPS,  but 
he was entitled  to an impartial  review  of his options  with any preconceptions  robustly  tested  
and discussed.  But I don't  think  ECFM  provided  this.
For the reasons  given  above,  I don't  think  the perceived  advantage  of flexibility  of income  
outweighed  the guaranteed  benefits  in the scheme.  And Mr G would  have  needed  returns  in 
excess  of what  is usually  achievable  for someone  with his attitude  to risk just to match  the 
benefits  he'd given  up.
I think  had this been  explained  clearly  to Mr G, he would've  understood  the 
worth  of his guaranteed  benefits  within  the scheme  and PPF.  Such  that he'd 
have  wished  to guarantee  his benefits  and not transfer.  I don't  think  with his 
fears  about  the scheme  properly  discussed  and allayed,  he'd have  wished  to 
transfer  for income  flexibility  that he didn't  really  need  given  the options  
available  to him in the scheme  alongside  other  potential  income  
opportunities/substitutes.
The critical  yield  is usually  a telling  indicator  of the value  of the benefits  being  given  up. And 
as the critical  yields  to just match  either  the PPF or BSPS/2  benefits  were  considerably  higher  
than the discount  rate at early  retirement  and higher  at normal  retirement.  I think  it was 
unlikely  to be achievable,  year on year,  to even  match  the scheme  benefits.
The justification  for transferring  has been  that it was nevertheless  suitable  in view of Mr G's 
stated  objectives  and the concerns  about  the BSPS.  And whilst  I accept  that the critical  yield  
isn't the only factor  to consider,  I don't  think  that ECFM's  justifications  for over-riding  the 
starting  position  that a transfer  would  be unsuitable,  stands  up to scrutiny.  ECFM  hasn't  
shown  it was clearly  in Mr G's best interests  to transfer.
In terms  of the responsibilities  of Mr G in deciding whether to still proceed  (and as I've said 
above,  I accept  that Mr G was given  risk warnings  and was more  likely  than not capable  of understanding  them),  I don't  disagree  that properly  informed,  correctly  advised  individuals 
would  be in a position to take that kind of responsibility  and decide  for themselves if they 
wanted  to transfer  their defined  benefits.  The problem  here is that this was a complex  matter  
involving many  factors  with which  Mr G, as a layman  on pension  matters,  wouldn't  have  been  
familiar.
For the reasons  given  above,  my view is that Mr G simply  wasn't  placed  in a properly  
informed,  or suitably  advised,  position  to be able to take that kind of personal  responsibility.
Taking  account  of Mr G's circumstances,  including  his attitude  to risk, his objectives  and the 
guarantees  which  the BSPS  offered  and would  have  persisted  with either  the BSPS2  or the 
PPF,  my view is that ECFM  should  have  advised  against  the transfer.
Had ECFM  done  so and explained  to Mr G that he should  wait for the 'time  to choose'  
exercise  before  making  any decisions,  Mr G would've  been  able to appraise  his options  
under  BSPS2  against  the PPF.
It appears  that as the trustees  had been  notified  of the transfer  in advance  of the 'Time to 
Choose' exercise, Mr G wasn't part of it and so didn't get to see his entitlement.  But in the 
event  that he had, I think he would've  wished to join the BSPS2  scheme.
In my first provisional decision  I had said that in this scenario  Mr G would've  instead  chosen  to 
join the PPF.  I said this with the belief that the early  retirement  factors  for his circumstances  
were  beneficial  for him against  those  of the BSPS2  (as was our general understanding - 
although  I hadn't appreciated  that this was usually  reliant  on the maximum  tax-free  cash  also 
being  taken).  Also at the time I'd doubted  the figures  ECFM  had presented  for the PPF were  
correct  as it didn't fit our understanding  of this scenario  - as its figures  showed  Mr G  better  off 
in early  retirement  within  the scheme  and not the PPF.
However, after my provisional decision, ECFM  provided  information  about  the early  retirement  
factors  of the PPF and BSPS2  specific  to Mr G's situation.  This showed  that in his particular  
circumstances  the better  early  retirement  factors  in place  for the PPF weren't enough  to 
overcome  the 10% reduction  in benefits  when  compared  to BSPS2.
ECFM  also provided  new calculations  using  the FCA's  updated  tool and this showed  that Mr G 
would  be better  off in early  retirement  in BSPS2.  This wouldn't  have  been  available  at the time 
of advice  but it does  seem  to back  up the earlier  calculations,  which  showed  the same  
outcome  although  different  figures.
Had ECFM  waited  for the ' time to choose  exercise'  as it should've done  Mr G would've  been  able 
to compare  the PPF benefits  against his likely  BSPS2  entitlement.
As ECFM  has been  at pains  to point  out, Mr G saw going  into the PPF as a worst-case  
scenario  at the time of advice.  And Mr G ought  to have  been  told that BSPS2  had the added  
flexibility  that he could  transfer  out at a later date,  whereas  this couldn't  be achieved  from the 
PPF.  So in transferring  to BSPS2,  Mr G could  keep  his safeguarded  benefits  without  losing  the 
chance  to access  his benefits  flexibly  at a later date if he wished  to do so. By joining  the PPF 
this couldn't  be done.
I think  if he had it explained  to him with the figures  (which  it seems  would've  shown  he'd be 
better  off in the BSPS2  in all circumstances)  in front of him that he'd retain  the opportunity  to 
transfer  at a later date and if he chose  not to take early  retirement  he'd be much  better  off in 
BSPS2,  this would've  outweighed  the potential  fairly  marginal  benefits  of taking  early  
retirement  with tax free cash  under  the PPF (which  seems  not to apply  here in any event).
Even  if Mr G would've  been  better  off in the PPF in early  retirement  with the maximum  tax- 
free cash  sum - I've also noted  that taking  a tax-free  cash  lump  sum at retirement  was bottom  
of Mr G's list of objectives  recorded  by ECFM.  And the suitability  report  also said 'the personal  
pension  option  offers  the potential  for a tax-free  amount  of up to a maximum  of 25% of the 
fund value.  You do not require  a lump  sum payment  on retirement'.
So given  all the above,  it is clear  that properly  informed  Mr G would've  chosen  the BSPS2  
over PPF.Considering  Mr G's objectives  and attitude  to risk, it also ought  to have  been  explored  whether  
Mr G could  leave  his benefits  until the scheme  retirement  age - which  would  likely  put him in 
the most  advantageous  financial  position  in retirement.  There  would  be no early  reductions  and 
by retaining  his guaranteed  benefits  in BSPS2  his funds  wouldn't  be subject  to investment  risk. 
Mr G had savings  and access  to his other  pension,  this alongside  part-  time work  could  have  
gone  a long way to bridging  the gap until age 65 - when  he could've  drawn  his benefits  
unreduced  and payable  for life. I think  that could've  appealed  to Mr G given  his objectives  but 
ECFM  didn't  look into this. As explained  earlier  it dismissed  the option  of remaining  in the 
scheme  (either  through  PPF or BSPS2)  without  exploring  it further.  This represents  a failure  to 
take reasonable  steps  to ensure  the suitability  of the advice.
ECFM  says  comparing  Mr G's entitlement  under  BSPS2  for the purposes  of redress  is unfair  
and unreasonable.  As it couldn't  have  foreseen  having  to pay redress  against  the BSPS2  as it 
wasn't established  at the time of advice.  And that it couldn't  give advice  based  on BSPS2  at 
the time, but I've already  explained  why I don't  agree  with this and what  it should've  done.
Furthermore,  the purpose  of redress  is to put a customer  back  in the position  they would've  
been  in but for the unsuitable  advice.  In advising  Mr G to transfer,  ECFM  would've  known  in 
doing  so that Mr G wouldn't  then join BSPS2  if it were  to be established  - which  looked  likely  at 
the time of advice.
ECFM  carried  out a loss calculation  which  showed  no loss against  the PPF,  however  this 
should've  been  carried  out in comparison  with BSPS2.  It also carried  out the calculation  at age 
57 which  in my view goes  against  what  FG17/9  and the new FCA policy  statement  PS22/13  
says  it should  do in this scenario.  I don't  think  this calculation  represents  a fair and reasonable  
settlement.  In my view there  is no credibility  to their argument  that Mr G should  convert  his 
personal  pension  (which  it is my position  he wouldn't  have  if it wasn't  for their unsuitable  
advice)  to a deferred  annuity  to mitigate  his losses.
For the avoidance  of doubt  the calculation  should  be run until his normal  retirement  date in the 
OPS  or the earliest  at which  Mr G could  take benefits  from the OPS  without  a reduction  in 
benefits.  This is in line with the regulator's  guidance  and what  I think  is fair and reasonable  in 
the circumstances.
FG17/9  says:
"Consumer's  retirement  age
17.The earliest  age at which  the customer  could  have  retired  from the DB pension  
scheme  without  both:
requiring  the consent  of the employer;  and suffering  a reduction  in benefits.
18.Where  a customer  has benefits  payable  from different  ages,  the redress  
calculation  should  reflect  the most  favourable  option  for the customer."
The FCA has since  carried  out a consultation  to provide  clarity  to certain  aspects  of FG17/9  
and it has released  PS22/13  which  will come  into effect  on 1 April 2023.  The relevant  part 
here says:
'A firm must  presume  that a consumer  would  have  taken  pension  benefits  from their 
defined  benefit  occupational  pension  scheme  at their normal  retirement  age in their defined  
benefit  occupational  pension  scheme  or on death  if their death  preceded  their normal  
retirement  age.'
This presumption  can be rebutted  if there  is evidence  that it is more  likely  than not that the 
customer  would  have  taken  benefits  earlier  from the OPS.
The guidance  goes  on to say the presumption  'is unlikely  to be rebutted  where  there  is 
evidence  from the time of the pension  transfer  advice  that indicates  that there  is a risk that the 
consumer's  intentions  were  influenced  by the firm's  non-compliant  pension  transfer  advice'.
Whilst  Mr G was interested  in retiring  early,  ECFM's  advice  to transfer  on this basis  was 
unsuitable  and reasonable  steps  weren't  taken  to consider  whether  Mr G could  achieve  his 
goals  without  accessing  his OPS  benefits  early.  So, I think  his intentions  to access  his benefits  early  were  influenced  by ECFM's  unsuitable  advice.
Furthermore,  at the present  time Mr G hasn't  taken  his benefits  (and he has already  reached  
age 57) and has no current  plans  to do so - this is the clearest  indication  of whether  he 
would've  taken  benefits  at 57. As he hasn't  taken  his benefits  and says  he has no plans  to  do 
so at the present  time,  I consider  a fair retirement  date to use is his normal  retirement  date (or 
the earliest  date without  reduction)  and this in line with the regulators  guidance  and I think  this 
is fair for the reasons  I've already  explained  in this decision.
Summary
For the reasons  given,  my view is that a fair and reasonable  assessment  of this case  leads  to 
a conclusion  that the recommendation  to transfer  wasn't  suitable  for Mr G, nor was it in his 
best interests.  The key contributing  factors  here are: Mr G's attitude  to risk and its 
incompatibility with the type of investment risk which  would  have  been  required  to match  the 
scheme  benefits  - a failing  under  COBS  19.1.7;  and the lack of a comprehensive  and balanced  
portrayal  of Mr G's options  - a failure  to adhere  to COBS  19.1.2 (2) and 19.1.8.
Furthermore,  the most  important  objectives  to Mr G, the option  of early  retirement  and 
protecting  his fund were  available  without  needing  to transfer.  And in fact, in transferring  the 
protection  of his benefits  were  lost.
It follows  that my view is that, taking  account  of those  critical  yields,  Mr G's low to medium  
attitude  to risk with regard  to his pension  funds  and matching  that with the likely  
corresponding  investment  returns,  it was unlikely  that the benefits  available  from the BSPS2  
or the PPF, could  be bettered  through  the transfer. As the other  reasons  for transferring  were  
in my view insufficiently  compelling, when  considered  against  the valuable  benefits  being  
given  up, as required  by COBS  2.1.1R  and COBS  19.1.6,  ECFM  would - or should  - have  
drawn  the conclusion  that transferring  wasn't  in Mr G's best interests.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has made any new arguments, I see no reason to depart from the findings 
set out in my second provisional decision and as set out above.
ECFM has offered to settle the case and calculate the redress now, instead of after April 
2023, and pay additional compensation for the distress and inconvenience. This offer was 
rejected, as is Mr Gs right. So instead to settle the case ECFM should comply with the 
redress methodology I set out in the provisional decision and as set out again below.  
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for ECFM to put Mr G, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr G would have 
remained a member of BSPS and subsequently moved with it to the BSPS2. So calculations 
should be undertaken on this assumption and the retirement date used should be age 65. 
ECFM must undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulator's pension review 
guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - 
https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/consultation/cp22-15.pdf
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/19 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers 
it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress.
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
We've previously asked Mr G whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the any new guidance /rules to be published.
He would like his complaint to be settled in line with new guidance /rules. I consider its fair 
that ECFM calculates Mr Gs redress in line with new guidance and rules when they come 
into effect. 
The basic objective of the proposed amendments to the redress methodology still remains to 
put a consumer, as far as possible, into the position they would be in if the business had 
advised them to remain in the DB scheme. Having reviewed the FCA's consultation and 
policy statement, Im satisfied that the changes still reflect a fair way to compensate Mr G.
ECFM must undertake a redress calculation in line with the updated methodology as soon 
as any new rules and/or guidance come into effect (rather than to calculate and pay any due 
compensation now in line with FG17/9). 
In accordance with the regulator's expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to 
an appropriate provider promptly once any new guidance/rules come into effect.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr G's pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldn't be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isn't possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr G as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
I note Mr G's representatives had questioned due to his circumstances now as a carer 
whether he would pay tax - but it's likely considering the size of his pension he will pay tax 
when he comes to withdraw it regardless. So, I think the above is fair.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr G within 90 days of the date 
any changes to DB transfer redress guidance or new rules come into effect and ECFM has 
received notification of Mr G's acceptance of my decision. Further interest must be added to 
the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date any changes to 
DB transfer redress guidance or new rules come into effect to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes ECFM to pay Mr G.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If ECFM deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr G how much has been taken off. ECFM should give Mr G a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr G asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
In addition, I think the uncertainty over his retirement position and the potential to be 
significantly worse off in retirement will have caused trouble and upset to Mr G. ECFM 
should pay Mr G £300 for the trouble and upset caused by the unsuitable advice to transfer 
his benefits.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Gs complaint and direct Estate Capital Financial Management Limited to put 
matters right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2023.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman