DRN-3539362
The complaint
Mr D complains that National Savings and Investments (NS&I) has been unable to trace 
funds from his Bonus Bond account that was opened for him when he was a child. 
What happened
In 1996 Mr Ds father opened a Childrens Bonus Bond account in Mr Ds name with NS&I. 
Mr D said the Bond matured in 2013.
Mr D said the Bond was intended as a rainy day fund and he believed it safe with NS&I. 
In March 2021, after a conversation with his father, Mr D enquired about the Bond. He said 
he was informed by NS&I that the Bond had matured and sat in a residual account. NS&I 
said Mr D needed to complete a withdrawal form, which he said he did on 7 March 2021. A 
week later he received a letter claiming the Bond had already been repaid. 
After conversations with the customer service team Mr D said his reference number, Bond 
number and customer holder number could not be found by the staff. Mr D was eventually 
told the Bond had been repaid on 20 February 2013. 
Mr D then went through the Paper Record Tracking Service and was informed the holder 
number quoted no longer existed. Mr D complained to NS&I. 
In its final response NS&I included a copy of a letter, with an instruction request, which had 
been sent to Mr D in 2013. The signed instructions stated that payment would be made by 
Warrant within eight days of the application being received. Mr D said the Warrant was never 
received or cashed in. He brought his complaint to this service. 
Mr D told us he hadn't chased the Warrant back in 2013. He said when he casts his mind 
back to that time he was in the final year of university and was under a great deal of 
pressure. He said he could only imagine the Warrant had slipped his mind. He said he hadnt 
received the Warrant or any form of receipt or confirmation of account closure so he had 
been led to believe the Bond was still held with NS&I. Mr D said he would like to know where 
the money has gone. He enclosed bank statements from the year in question. In addition, Mr 
D said this had been a long, drawn out process and the lack of clarity had been frustrating 
and time consuming. He said the poor advice from the NS&I customer service team had led 
to further timewasting. 
In her view our investigator set out why she thought this service was able to consider this 
complaint with respect to the time limits set out by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
and NS&I agreed. The investigator concluded that NS&I hadnt acted unfairly. Mr D asked 
for a final decision from an ombudsman. He made additional comments, and where 
appropriate I have responded to them below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise this will come as a disappointment to Mr D, but having done so I wont be asking 
NS&I to do anything further. 
NS&I has agreed that the Financial Ombudsman Service can consider this complaint with 
respect to the time limits set out by the FCA. So, Im able to look at the merits of Mr Ds 
complaint.  
Mr D said he honestly believes the Warrant has never been cashed or received at his end, 
leading him to believe there must be an error at NS&Is end, as errors do occur from time to 
time. He went on to say that he appreciates that time has passed and recollections can be 
different over time, but says there must be some form of bank receipt to prove the Warrant 
was cashed or at least where it was cashed in the branch or bank provider. Mr D provided 
his bank statements from 2013. He also provided photographs of the stubs from his paying-
in book. He said this is the only paying-in book hes ever had. I can see the Warrant wasnt 
deposited into this particular account. 
NS&I said it received a form to cash in the Bond on 30 January 2013 and that the Bond was 
repaid on 20 February 2013.  It provided a copy of a letter that was sent to Mr D in January 
2013. I can see the value of the Bond was £1115.20 and the letter said it would stop earning 
interest on Mr Ds 21st birthday. The letter also included an instruction form for Mr D to 
complete. NS&I provided a copy of this completed form. It is signed by Mr D and witnessed 
by his mother and is dated 29 January 2013. Mr D hasnt disputed he was sent this 
instruction and recognises his own and his mothers signature. So, Im satisfied it was sent 
and that NS&I received Mr Ds written instruction. 
NS&I said as there were no bank details provided on the form a Warrant wouldve been sent 
to Mr D which he couldve deposited into any bank account. It said it couldnt confirm which 
bank the Warrant was cashed in to. 
I must take both parties points and evidence into account when deciding how to resolve a 
complaint. NS&I has explained that its only able to provide a limited amount of information 
given the passage of time. Mr D is complaining about an event that happened in 2013. NS&I 
said it has a responsibility to ensure that records are kept no longer than necessary. It said 
as a result it was unable to provide further information about the payment.
NS&I sent a screen shot of its system and I note that on 14 February 2013 it says pay close 
bond indicating the Bond had been paid and closed. Ive also seen a screen shot of 
outstanding Warrants and there are none listed for Mr Ds Bond. NS&I also provided a print 
table for the Warrant which confirms a single Warrant has been printed. It told us 
To check if the Warrant is outstanding, we take the payment ID from the 
spreadsheet and check the outstanding Warrants table from our live system and for 
dormant products. As you can see there are no results using the cheque/payment ID 
so the payment has been claimed.
Where information is incomplete, unclear, or disputed by the parties involved, Ill base my 
decision on the balance of probability. That is, what I consider most likely to have happened 
based on all the available evidence and information. I dont dispute Mr Ds testimony about 
why he didnt chase the Warrant at the time, but it was a substantial amount of money when 
compared to his active bank balance in 2013. And Mr D hasnt explained why he hasnt 
chased the payment at all in the intervening eight years.I can see the Warrant wasnt deposited in Mr Ds current account and I understand his 
strength of feeling that hes sure he hasnt deposited it. This may well be the case. But I 
cannot discount the possibility it was deposited into a different account that Mr D may have 
forgotten about or that it was, for example, intercepted in the mail and deposited fraudulently 
by a third party. I say this because the records NS&I has been able to provide indicate to me 
that the Warrant was sent to Mr D. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr D but I dont think it likely that NS&I has done anything wrong. 
Mr D has also complained about the customer service he received when bringing his 
complaint. NS&I has acknowledged that its operators on the helpline dont have access to 
historic accounts, and said they wouldnt have been able to view the account on the 
systemthe operator wouldnt have been able to log the customer in, so if the customer 
rang and said he had an old Childrens Bond then the operator was correct to advise to send 
a Residual Account form in.
Overall, Im satisfied NS&I has done what I would have expected it to have done in these 
circumstances and searched for the Bond account. I cant fairly order NS&I to do anything 
further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman