DRN-3876370
The complaint
Miss W says Wise Payments Limited (Wise Payments), didnt do enough to help when she 
fell victim to an HMRC impersonation scam and that it should reimburse her.
Miss W is making her complaint with the assistance of a representative. To make my 
decision easier to read, I refer only to Miss W. I do this even where it was her representative 
rather than Miss W who said or provided something. I mean no discourtesy in taking this 
approach.
What happened
The details and facts of this case are well-known to both parties, so I dont need to repeat 
them at length here. Based on the submissions of both parties I understand it to be as 
follows.
In summary, Miss W fell victim to a HMRC impersonation scam and was tricked into making 
payments to a scammer. Miss W made multiple payments from her account with 
Wise Payments. 
On 6 June 2022, Miss W made the following payments from her Wise Payments account:
Time Amount sent 
from WiseAdditional commentary
2.35pm £490 Miss W paid funds from her account with another banking provider 
into her Wise account to fund this transfer 
2.44pm £750 Miss W paid funds from her account with another banking provider 
into her Wise account to fund this transfer 
2.53pm £921 Miss W paid funds from her account with another banking provider 
into her Wise account to fund this transfer 
3.59pm £950 A family member transferred funds into Miss Ws Wise account to 
enable Miss W to fund this transfer*
4.30pm £799 A family member transferred funds into Miss Ws Wise account to 
enable Miss W to fund this transfer*
*Miss W has since repaid her family members the funds they lent her. So, in total, Miss W  
as a result of the scam  is out of pocket by £3,910.
Miss W attempted further transfers  however these were blocked by Wise Payments. It 
subsequently advised that the attempted transactions showed potential signs of fraud (due 
to incoming funds being received by a third party and then being immediately sent on to an 
external account).
Miss W reported the matter to Wise Payments on 7 June 2022 to see if it could help recover 
her funds. Unfortunately no funds remained that could be recovered. Wise Payments, in its 
formal response to Miss W, also considered it wasnt responsible for the loss and it had 
followed Miss Ws instructions to make the payments. It also considered it had sought to 
recover the funds once notified of the fraud.
Unhappy, Miss W referred the matter to our service.
Our Investigator looked into the complaint and didnt recommend it be upheld. They didnt 
think Wise Payments ought to have done more to identify the payments as potentially 
fraudulent in the circumstances. They also considered Wise Payments intervened at a 
reasonable point. And with the recovery of funds, unfortunately no funds remained that could 
be recovered.
As Miss W disagreed, and as the matter hasnt been resolved, its been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Miss Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a payment service provider  in this case, 
Wise Payments as an electronic money institute (EMI)  is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. 
Here, while Miss W was cruelly tricked into making the payments, she did in fact make the 
payments herself. And under the Payment Service Regulations 2017 (PSRs), which are 
the relevant regulations in place here, the payments are considered as authorised by 
Miss W. And under the PSRs this means Miss W is responsible for the payments. That 
remains the case even though Miss W was the unfortunate victim of a scam.
Wise Payments is an EMI, so Miss Ws account with it isnt a bank account and isnt subject 
to the same expectations set out in guidance and regulation as a current account, or bank, 
would be when it comes to fraud prevention.
But that doesnt mean Wise Payments had no obligation to Miss W. Im satisfied that 
Wise Payments does have a duty of care to treat its customers fairly under PRIN 2.1 as set 
out in the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) handbook. And Im satisfied Wise Payments is 
required to be on the lookout for indications of financial crime - I can see that the terms and 
conditions reflect that it will take action if it suspects, amongst other financial crimes, 
fraudulent activity.
So Im satisfied Wise Payments ought reasonably to have some sort of systems in place to 
monitor the transactions on its accounts, but I also think any additional checks it carries out 
into suspicious transactions should be proportionate to its relationship with its customers.
Taking this into account, I think Wise Payments might be negligent and liable for reasonably 
foreseeable losses if, in breach of its duty of care, it fails to act on information which ought 
reasonably alert a prudent authorised payment institution to potential fraud or financial crime 
by, or against, its customer. So in this case, I need to decide whether Wise Payments acted fairly and reasonably in its 
dealings with Miss W when she made the payments, or whether it should have done more 
than it did.
Ive thought about this carefully. Taking the above into consideration, when I look at the 
payments Miss W made  I cant fairly say that there was anything unusual or remarkable 
about the payments or the amounts that reasonably ought to have alerted Wise Payments to 
the possibility Miss W was potentially at risk of financial harm, where I would expect 
Wise Payments to have concerns and step in and question Miss W further about the 
payments.
In this case, Wise Payments didnt have any historic information about the account or what 
Miss Ws typical usage was like. So it wasnt in a position to know whether Miss Ws activity 
was unusual or out of character  as it had nothing to compare it against.
EMIs process a high volume of transfers and transactions each day. And an EMI has to 
strike a balance as to when it should possibly intervene on a payment against not holding up 
or delaying its customers requests. 
With the first three payments Miss W made; I can see she transferred in funds from her 
account with an external banking provider. The transfers Miss W then made out from her 
Wise Payments account werent so remarkable in their amount that I would expect 
Wise Payments to have reasonably considered Miss W was at risk of financial harm. And 
while Miss W made several payments to a new payee, I dont think this in itself is necessarily 
unusual  given this is often a purpose of EMIs and as mentioned above, Wise Payments 
had no history of account usage to compare against. This means I cant fairly say that the 
payments could be considered as so out of character that there could reasonably have been 
grounds for Wise Payments to be suspicious Miss W may be a victim of fraud to an extent 
whereby I would expect it to intervene. So, I think the fact that Wise Payments didnt flag the 
payments as suspicious was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I note that with the fourth and fifth payments, these were funded by third parties (family 
members) transferring money into Miss Ws Wise Payments account. Wise Payments, 
because of this, stopped any further attempted payments  as it was concerned that the 
previous two transfers were funded by external incoming credits. As mentioned above any 
additional checks it carries out into suspicious transactions should be proportionate to its 
relationship with its customers. Given this, I think it acted reasonably in blocking any further 
attempted transactions considering the previous two transfers had been funded by external 
credits  which can be a sign its customer is potentially at risk, such as being the victim of a 
money mule amongst other things. But importantly I think Wise Payments acted fairly in not 
flagging Miss Ws activity as unusual prior to this.
I have also looked to see whether Wise Payments acted promptly and in a timely manner in 
trying to seek to recover the funds once it was notified of the scam. Wise Payments could 
and should have acted quicker than it did here. However in this case, Im not satisfied it 
would have made a difference. Ill explain why.
 
Unfortunately, it is common for fraudsters to withdraw or move the money on as quickly as 
possible. In this instance the receiving firm (the firm where the funds were sent to) has 
provided evidence to show that all of the funds had been moved on instantly after each 
payment was received. So even had Wise Payments acted sooner  as I consider it should 
have done  and notified the receiving firm straight away, it wouldnt have made a difference 
here as unfortunately the funds had already moved on meaning none could be recovered.I note Miss Ws representative consider Miss W should be refunded under the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (The CRM Code). The CRM Code was implemented in 
May 2019 that some banks and building societies voluntarily signed up to. However, 
Wise Payments isnt a signatory of the CRM Code. So Wise Payments obligations, when 
Miss W made the payments, was to protect its customers from fraud by being on the lookout 
for transactions that were unusual or out of character and to step in to prevent their 
consumer from being at risk of financial harm. In this case, Im satisfied Miss Ws payments 
werent remarkable or unusual, so I dont think it was unreasonable for Wise Payments not 
to be concerned about the payments for the reasons I provided earlier. Im also mindful 
Wise Payments stepped in when it identified a potential risk. 
Overall, while I appreciate Miss W has been the unfortunate victim of a cruel scam, I think 
Wise Payments decision not to refund her in this instance was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. I say this because it followed Miss Ws instructions to make the payments 
and I havent seen any reason why it shouldnt have done this. It also identified a potential 
risk and stopped further payments being made. And unfortunately as the funds had already 
been moved on almost instantly each time, then despite Miss W reporting the matter, no 
funds remained that could be recovered.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman