DRN-3430859
The complaint
Mr Z complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) have failed to refund over 
£16,000 he says he lost as part of a binary options scam. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. In summary, Mr Z paid over £16,000 between 2015-2016 to a binary options 
trader (Banc de Binary) from his Halifax debit card. He later discovered that he was unable 
to withdraw his funds from the platform and considers the merchant to be fraudulent. 
Mr Z complained to Halifax and said they should have prevented the payments from being 
made. Halifax refused to provide him with a refund, so he referred the matter to this service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, as she didnt think any intervention on the part 
of Halifax would have prevented the loss, given there was little to suggest that Banc de 
Binary was not a legitimate binary options trader at the time. Mr Z disagreed, so the matter 
has been escalated to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the reasons set 
out below:
Even if the payments Mr Z made to Banc de Binary ought to have been regarded as 
suspicious and prompted an intervention from Halifax, Im not persuaded that any 
such intervention would have ultimately prevented him from making the payments.
I appreciate that Mr Z considers Banc de Binary to be fraudulent based on recent 
reports he has seen in the press. However, there seems to be little evidence 
available to suggest that the merchant was operating fraudulently in the UK at the 
time he made his payments in 2015/16. There were no warnings placed on the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) watchlist, for example, and I note that they were 
licensed with the Cyprus Securities and Exchange Commission (CySEC) to trade in 
the European Union at the time. 
I understand that the company ceased trading in January 2019 due to negative press 
and regulatory issues. And while there may have been reports of dubious practices, 
that is not conclusive evidence that the company was operating a scam, and most of 
this information has also only come to light after Mr Z had made his payments. 
So, even if Halifax had issued Mr Z with a scam warning and told him to undertake 
further checks into Bank de Binary in 2015, Im not persuaded he would have come 
across anything that wouldve made him think they were operating fraudulently  
particularly as they were licensed to operate by CySEC at the time. I acknowledge 
that the Quebec securities regulator issued an alert in 2013 telling investors to 
exercise caution with regards to Banc de Binary. But Im not satisfied this alone 
would have been enough to persuade a prospective trader that the merchant was 
operating a scam. Therefore, it doesnt seem likely that any intervention or warning 
by Halifax would have ultimately prevented the loss, meaning they cannot fairly or 
reasonably be held liable for it.
Ive also considered whether Halifax could have done anything more to recover the 
money Mr Z has lost, as there are some circumstances where funds can be 
recovered via a chargeback claim. However, binary options and investor trading were 
not covered under the Visa scheme rules until 14 October 2017, which is after Mr Z 
had made his payments. But in any event, even if the scheme did cover such 
transactions at the time, Mr Z did not dispute the payments within 120 days. I 
understand that he wasnt in the right state of mind to do this due to the shock of 
losing his money. But the time limits are strict, and it is not Halifax who sets them, it 
is the chargeback scheme provider. Therefore, despite the difficult circumstances 
Mr Z has described, he would have been too late to raise a chargeback claim in any 
event. So, I dont think Halifax acted unreasonably when it failed to attempt a 
chargeback in such circumstances. 
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr Z, and Im sorry to hear that he 
has lost such a significant amount of money. But for the reasons already stated, I dont 
consider Halifax to be liable for the loss he has sustained. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman