DRN-2909330
The complaint
Mr H complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) treated him unfairly by cancelling a large
cheque payment and not returning his phone calls when he called for information.
What happened
In August 2020, Mr H issued a cheque for £237,400 to his mortgage provider to pay off the
majority of his outstanding mortgage balance. On 2 September an agent from HSBC who Ill
call A called Mr H to check if hed made the payment in case it had been issued
fraudulently.
A wasnt able to contact Mr H so they left him a voicemail asking him to contact them by
14:00 or the payment wouldnt be processed, and the cheque would be returned. Mr H didnt
return the call as he thought it was a scam call, so the cheque wasnt processed.
On 4 September, when Mr H identified the payment hadnt been made to his mortgage as
expected, he contacted HSBC. Mr H asked HSBC if theyd made the payment so he could
see if the issue was with HSBC or his mortgage provider. HSBC confirmed they hadnt made
the payment so Mr H asked if he issued the cheque again, would the payment now be made
as hed explained what it was for.
However, the agent he spoke to wasnt able to confirm this and said he would need to speak
to A before the cheque could be cleared. The call agent tried to contact A but as the team
had finished work before Mr H had called, they werent able to do so. The agent told Mr H he
would email A and ask them to return Mr Hs call.
Mr H didnt receive a call back from A as expected so he contacted HSBC again on 8
September and was told the agent would send a further email to A and ask for a call back as
soon as possible. Mr H didnt receive a call back as agreed, so he chased again later that
day to ask if there was any other way to make the payment.
Mr H was told he couldnt make a transfer over the phone and should go to his local branch.
The agent agreed if Mr H did this, they would arrange for the transfer fee to be waived. On 9
September, Mr H went to the local branch and was able to make the transfer successfully.
He still hadnt received a call back from A, so he chased again over the next few days, but A
never got in touch, so he raised a complaint with HSBC.
Mr H said he was unhappy HSBC had cancelled the payment as he hadnt received any
contact from them. He said that because this payment hadnt been made, hed been charged
around £873 in interest by his mortgage provider, from a payment hed made on 1
September which he wanted HSBC to cover the cost of. Mr H was also unhappy that despite
numerous calls he hadnt been able to speak to A about this.
HSBC didnt uphold the complaint. They said the payment Mr H had made had triggered a
fraud referral and A had tried to contact him about this on his home and mobile numbers
they held on file  and left a message asking him to call back before 14:00. As Mr H hadnt
called back the cheque was returned.
HSBC said they wouldnt refund any interest charges as theyd followed the correct
procedure for the payment. They also said when Mr H had contacted them on both 8 and 9
September, the cheque had already been returned so they couldnt make the payment
unless it was represented, or a new cheque had been written.
Mr H didnt agree. He questioned who would want to pay of his mortgage and why a
previous cheque had been paid but not this one. He also didnt think HSBC had tried to
contact him enough about the payment, and he had no option to go to the branch and make
the payment which had impacted on his medical condition. When he didnt receive a
satisfactory response, he asked this service to look into his complaint.
Our investigator recommended the complaint was upheld in part. She felt HSBC had acted
in line with their processes in cancelling the cheque and it was in Mr Hs best interests 
given the size of the cheque - to do so when they couldnt confirm it wasnt fraudulent.
She also felt HSBC had provided alternative options to Mr H to make the payment, and
because he hadnt told them about his medical condition initially, they werent able to make
reasonable adjustments for this. However she felt they should have responded to Mr Hs
calls as agreed so she felt they should offer £50 as compensation for this.
I issued a provisional decision on 1 July 2021. I said the following:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive decided to uphold it
in part. Ill explain why.
Unreasonable contact and timeframes to respond
I recognise Mr H feels HSBC should have done more to contact him before cancelling the
cheque, and he also feels the timescale to respond he was given was unreasonable. But I
dont agree. I say this because Ive seen that HSBC tried to contact Mr H using both
telephone numbers they held on file for him, and they also left Mr H a voicemail asking him
to call them urgently before their cut off deadline.
I acknowledge Mr H said he thought this was a scam, but HSBC cant be held responsible
for the way Mr H perceived the voicemail message and I think HSBC needed to be careful
with the information they left on the voicemail when asking him to call back due to the
regulations they need to comply with.
I also think its reasonable to believe if Mr H was suspicious the voicemail, hed been left was
a scam, that he could have contacted HSBC on their official phone number to alleviate his
concerns. This would have then satisfied Mr H that he was definitely talking to HSBC staff
and they could have either tried to put him through to the correct department or sent the
email confirmation through to A - as per the system note on Mr Hs account. So based on
what Ive seen Im satisfied HSBC tried to contact Mr H in a reasonable way before they
returned his cheque.
Ive also looked at HSBCs processes and Ive seen that all cheque payments over a certain
value are removed from the automated system so HSBC can carry out their required fraud
checks. These payments are then referred to the local branch of the account holder to check
the details whilst they attempt to contact the customer. So they need a cut-off point each day
to be able to make a decision on each cheque payment thats referred to them.
I acknowledge Mr H feels he wasnt given enough time to respond to HSBC, however, I dontthink it was unreasonable of HSBC to have a defined timescale to process payments as this
allows for fluctuating volumes, given that HSBC cant predict when high volumes of cheques
will be presented. Its also common practice in the banking industry to have cut off times for
certain work to be processed as there are customer and regulatory deadlines to meet - and
ultimately the additional checks are put in place to protect consumers.
Mr H also didnt dispute that he received the call or voicemail, he said he didnt respond to
HSBC because he felt it was fraudulent. The implies that he did have enough time to
respond within the timeframe theyd given but chose not to do so because of his suspicions
about who the call had come from. So I cant reasonably hold HSBC responsible for Mr Hs
decision once he received the call and voicemail.
I recognise Mr H feels the call wasnt needed as any potential fraudster wouldnt want to
make a payment to his mortgage. However, I think its worth noting that HSBC wouldnt have
been able to see what the cheque payment was for. The information HSBC had to make
decision on whether or not to make the payment was limited - only the cheque number, that
the payment was made to another bank account and the value of the cheque. So based on
what Ive seen I think HSBC behaved in a reasonable manner by acting cautiously and
returning Mr Hs cheque when they couldnt contact him to confirm it should be paid.
Customer service and returned calls
Mr H told us he felt that given the amount of times he called HSBC to speak to A without
success, he wouldnt have been able to get the cheque paid - even if hed called within the
timeframe hed been given. I acknowledge Mr H did try to contact HSBC, but this was
several days later than the deadline given by HSBC and after hed noticed the cheque hadnt
been paid.
Ive looked at the system notes from HSBC and seen that A did leave a note on Mr Hs
account for any call handler to see should he return the call before the deadline. They
explained if it wasnt possible to reach them by phone or email, please just add a note to
Mr Hs account to confirm if the payment should be made. A also detailed the cut off time
and that a response was needed by this time to allow the payment to be made. So Im
satisfied that if Mr H had called in before the cut of time, his cheque payment was likely to
have been made.
However, I think HSBC could have provided Mr H with a better service after the cheque had
been returned. I say this because, although I recognise A couldnt have done anything more
to help Mr H once the cheque had been returned, I think they could have left a message on
the case saying this and then providing the response to Mr Hs query about sending in
another cheque.
Ive seen that Mr H called in numerous times between 4 September and 9 September and
was told he would receive a call back and that email chasers had been sent to A to answer
his questions. However, Mr H didnt receive a call back and by 9 September after several
days delay, he was finally advised by another call handler to not proceed with a cheque
payment and make a transfer payment in a branch and theyd waive the transfer fee for him.
Mr H has told us he suffers from a medical condition which made it more difficult for him to
go to his local branch  particularly due to the lack of parking. But I havent seen any
evidence Mr H made HSBC aware of this so they could make reasonable adjustments for
him. However, because HSBC didnt tell Mr H whether a new cheque would be treated in the
same way as the one theyd cancelled, he had no option but to go to the branch  causing
him further inconvenience.Mr H has told us he was caused further financial loss because the mortgage interest from
the payment he made on 1 September 2020 would have been refunded. However, Im not
persuaded thats the case as I havent seen any evidence Mr Hs mortgage payments were
payable in advance  only that its daily interest. Therefore the payment of £873 would still
have been due from the previous months interest.
However, I think Mr H was financially impacted from 4 September when he contacted HSBC
to enquire about a new cheque payment to 9 September when he made the transfer to his
mortgage provider. Had HSBC provided Mr H with the information he needed on 4
September he would have been able to make an informed choice on whether or not to make
a transfer the following day  rather than 5 days later. So I dont think HSBC have treated
Mr H fairly by causing an unnecessary delay in contacting him.
Putting things right
Mr H has provided us with a copy of his mortgage agreement showing his mortgage account
was on an interest only basis. As the cancelled cheque was for £237,400, I think HSBC
should refund Mr H the interest on the £237,400 from 5 September to 8 September. I say
this timeframe because its not unreasonable that HSBC could have returned Mr Hs call at
any point on 4 September meaning he may not have been able to attend the branch on that
day to make an alternative arrangement to pay.
This means the earliest Mr H could reasonably have made the transfer was 5 September so
this is the date I think HSBC should refund the interest from. As Mr H was able to make the
transfer to his mortgage account on 9 September, its reasonable to think he shouldnt have
been charged interest on this date by his mortgage provider.
This means the last day Mr H should have been charged interest on the full balance was 8
September. So I think HSBC should refund four days interest on the £237,400 at a rate of
5.04% to put Mr H in the position he would have been had he been provided with correct
information in a reasonable timeframe.
Ive seen that this was a frustrating time for Mr H as he was unable to get his calls returned
as agreed, or make the payment from his mortgage account as he planned. So, given the
circumstances of the complaint I think HSBC should also pay Mr H a total of £100 for the
trouble and upset caused. 
I invited Mr H and HSBC to give me any more evidence and information they wanted me to 
consider before issuing my final decision. HSBC responded to say they accepted the 
decision and agreed to pay Mr H £100 compensation plus £131.12 for the additional interest 
hed incurred. 
Mr H didnt agree. In summary he said:
He didnt respond to the call from HSBC as they didnt say what it was in relation to, 
and he wouldnt have been able to contact the right person even if he had done so;
He didnt feel he should have to tell HSBC about his medical condition, and he felt it 
would have made no difference;
He understood the deadline to process cheques was the bank policy rather than a 
regulatory requirement;
He was unhappy with the daily interest payable as he felt he should have been able 
to make the transfer the following day had HSBC attempted more than one contact;The £100 compensation wasnt enough for the time taken to resolve his complaint 
both on the phone and travelling to the branch.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion I did in my provisional decision.
Mr H has explained in detail his frustration with HSBC and the service theyve provided since 
they started to process his cheque. I recognise this has been a frustrating and inconvenient 
time for Mr H, however I feel HSBC have acted reasonably here. 
HSBC have various regulations they are required to follow such as data protection laws 
when they are contacting customers about their accounts, and regulations about how and 
when they process their clients assets including cheques. And whilst I recognise this has 
caused inconvenience for Mr H, its not for me to tell a business what process they should 
follow or what timescale they apply to be able to comply with these regulations. My role is to 
see if HSBC has treated their customers fairly based on those processes and if theyve 
acted in a reasonable manner when applying those processes.
I acknowledge Mr H feels HSBC should have done more to contact him. But I think its 
reasonable that after making two calls and leaving a voicemail HSBC had done enough to 
see if the payment was genuine or not. I agree that after this HSBC could have done more to 
confirm to Mr H if a future cheque payment would be processed, but I have considered this 
in the award for trouble and upset.
Mr H has said he didnt think telling HSBC about his medical condition would have made a 
difference. But its difficult for me to award compensation for the inconvenience caused to 
Mr H by travelling to the branch if he didnt give HSBC the opportunity to make a reasonable 
adjustment for him. 
I also acknowledge Mr Hs comment that he could have made the transfer the following day 
if HSBC had contacted him. However, HSBC have agreed to refund the difference in the 
daily interest from the day Mr H could have made the transfer (the day after the cheque was 
returned) until the day he did make the transfer. So Mr H hasnt been financially 
disadvantaged by HSBCs delayed response regarding the second cheque.  
 
I recognise that Mr H feels strongly about this and I understand why he may feel the 
compensation amount was too low. But based on everything Ive seen, I feel that the £100 
compensation for trouble and upset is fair given the circumstances of the complaint and in 
combination with the interest refund to put him back in the position he would have been had 
HSBC returned his call. 
Putting things right
As Ive reached the same conclusion as I did in my provisional decision, HSBC UK Bank Plc 
must do the following:
Refund Mr H four days interest at a rate of 5.04% based on the cancelled cheque
amount of £237,400 from 5 September 2020 to 8 September 2020;
Pay Mr H £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.  HSBC UK Bank Plc must follow the 
instructions Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2021.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman