DRN-1747887
The complaint
Mr C has complained about two letters and an email that were sent to him and his daughter 
by Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) 
What happened
Mr C had a credit card with Barclays Bank. He transferred a balance of £12,000 onto the 
card in November 2019.  
Barclays sent a credit card statement to Mr C on 17 December 2019 and this included 
details of the minimum payment Mr C needed to make by 13 January 2020. 
Mr C contacted Barclays by letter on 21 December 2019 and asked for the direct debit used 
to make credit card payments to be cancelled. He had decided to undo the balance transfer. 
Barclays sent a credit card statement to Mr C on 17 January 2020 and this included details 
of the minimum payment Mr C needed to make by 17 February 2020.  
Mr C contacted Barclays at some stage in January 2020 and told it he was unwell and so 
wouldnt be able to pay the money owed by cheque as soon as he had hoped. Barclays sent 
a letter to Mr C on 20 January 2020 and said it wouldnt charge further fees or interest for 30 
days, while it was waiting to hear back from him. 
Mr C contacted Barclays on 20 January 2020 and asked it to remove the email address that 
was attached to his account, as this belonged to his daughter. He contacted Barclays again 
on 21 January 2020 to complain that it had sent an email to his daughter after he had asked 
it to remove the email address.   
Mr C paid his account balance in full on 23 January 2020. 
Mr C complained to Barclays on 2 February 2020. It responded on 7 February 2020. It 
apologised for any inconvenience caused by the email about a late payment being sent to 
his daughter but said any contact details it holds for customers are provided by customers 
only. It said the email address had now been removed from his account. 
Barclays said it could see that a system generated email was sent to his daughter after it 
had confirmed no further contact would be made using that email address. So it offered 
Mr C £50 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mr C was unhappy with the response from Barclays and so complained to this service. He 
said he didnt recall giving Barclays his daughters email address and it caused him a lot of 
worry and stress when she received this. Mr C also said Barclays shouldnt have sent letters 
chasing payment, as he paid his credit card in full in January 2020. Mr C said he was 
unhappy with the £50 offered and thinks £1,000 compensation is a fair amount. 
When our investigator contacted Barclays it told him it didnt consent to this service looking 
into Mr Cs complaint about why his daughters email address was attached to his account. 
This was because of the amount of time that had passed since the email address was added 
to the account. Barclays said the email address was added in 2012 and updated in 2013 and 
so more than six years had passed since the event that Mr C complained about happened. It 
added that Mr C should have known he had cause to complain since then, as the email 
address has been used before  on average once a month. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. He said he couldnt consider Mr Cs 
complaint about the email address Barclays held on his account as the complaint was 
brought out of time. Our investigator also said the letters sent telling Mr C his payment was 
late were sent before full payment was received and so Barclays didnt make an error when 
it sent the letters. Our investigator said he could see an email was sent to Mr Cs daughter 
after he asked for the email address to be removed from his account. Our investigator said 
the £50 compensation awarded for this by Barclays was in line with what this service would 
recommend. 
Mr C was unhappy with the outcome and so this has come to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mr C wants us to consider his complaint against Barclays about whether it should 
have his daughters email address attached to his account. But my decision is not about the 
email address being attached to his account - its only about whether our service can 
consider this part of his complaint, given the rules about the time limits within which a 
consumer needs to bring a complaint to this service. 
Our service isnt free to look into every complaint thats referred to us. The rules that set out 
what complaints we can consider are the Dispute Resolution Rules (DISP) in the FCA 
handbook.
One of the rules (DISP 2.8.2) says we cannot consider a complaint, unless the business 
consents, if it was made: 
more than:
(a) six years after the event being complained of; or (if later) 
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought reasonably 
to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint;
unless:
(3) in the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time limits in DISP 2.8.2 
R or DISP 2.8.7 R was as a result of exceptional circumstances.
I first of all looked at DISP 2.8.2 (a) and Im satisfied that Mr Cs complaint was made more 
than six years after the event being complained about. The event in this case is when the 
email was attached to his account. I can see that the email address was added to his 
account on 22 July 2013 but Mr C didnt complain to Barclays about this until December 
2019, which is more than six years after the event Mr C is complaining about. 
Ive then looked at DISP 2.8.2 (b), so when Mr C became aware, or ought reasonably to 
have become aware, that he had cause for complaint in relation to his daughters email 
address being attached to his account. Barclays said its been sending around one email a 
month to the email address since it was attached in 2013. And I think these emails will more 
than likely have alerted Mr C much earlier to the fact that his daughters email address was attached to his account. I see no reason why these emails wouldnt have been passed onto 
Mr C by his daughter, in the same way the later email being complained about now was 
passed on. And its because of this that Im satisfied this complaint was brought more than 
three years after Mr C ought reasonably to have become aware that the email address was 
attached to his account. 
Therefore, this complaint has been brought to this service outside of the time limits that allow 
us to consider it.  
As Barclays hasnt consented to this service looking at Mr Cs complaint, the DISP rules 
(2.8.2 (3)) mean the only way I could consider this complaint is if I thought the failure to 
comply with the time limits was a result of exceptional circumstances. Mr C hasnt offered 
any exceptional circumstances, and I cant see any evidence of any, as to why the complaint 
was brought so long after Ive concluded Mr C ought reasonably to have become aware he 
had cause for complaint. So Im satisfied there are no exceptional circumstances that mean 
Mr C couldnt have brought this complaint to us within time. 
But I am able to look into Mr Cs complaint about Barclays sending an email about a late 
payment to his daughters email address after he had asked it to remove it from his account. 
Barclays has acknowledged this error and, by way of an apology, offered Mr C £50 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience he experienced. Having taken everything 
into consideration, Im satisfied the compensation offered by Barclays is fair. Ill explain why. 
From what I can see, a single email that shouldnt have been sent was sent. And the 
inconvenience this caused to Mr C was limited to him having to contact Barclays again to 
check the email address was properly removed from the system. Mr Cs daughter had been 
receiving texts about his account for some years, and this hadnt caused Mr C any upset. So 
I think any distress he might have experienced about this single email being sent is likely to 
have been limited to knowing he would have to contact Barclays again.  
Mr C also complained about letters being sent reminding him about late payments after he 
paid his account in full. From what I can see, the letters Mr C is referring to are monthly 
credit card statements. And the December and January statements, the only ones that 
indicated he needed to make a payment, were sent to him before he paid his account in full 
on 23 January 2020. So Im satisfied Barclays have not made an error here and do not need 
to take any further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my decision is that this service cannot consider Mr Cs 
complaint point in relation to when his daughters email address was attached to his account. 
And, for the reasons outlined above, Im not asking Barclays Bank UK PLC to take any 
further action in relation to the other complaint points. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision in relation to the complaint points I have been able to look into  about the 
email being sent to his daughters email address after he asked it to be removed from his 
account and about the statements reminding him about late payments - before 
11 December 2020.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman