DRN-2576990
The complaint
Mr F complains about the service he received from Reassured Ltd when setting up a life 
insurance policy.
What happened
In September 2020 Reassured contacted Mr F after receiving an online enquiry about a life 
insurance policy he was looking for. They took his details and requirements, including his 
medical history, in order to find a policy that met his needs.
Reassured sourced a policy and submitted an application which was accepted by the 
product provider and Mr F started to pay the premiums. But Mr F noticed on the paperwork 
that Reassured had failed to tell the product provider about a medical condition he had 
disclosed. When the product provider found out the details of the condition they declined the 
policy and returned the premiums Mr F had paid as it wasnt something they covered.
Mr F was unhappy with this and complained to Reassured as he wanted the cover that he 
was told he would get for the price he was told he would pay. Reassured admitted the 
mistake and offered Mr F £150 as compensation for the inconvenience caused. They also 
tried to find alternative cover for the same sum assured but Mr F said the premiums for those 
were outside his budget. Mr F remained unhappy so brought his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into what happened. They thought the offer of £150 was fair 
compensation. They explained had the mistake not have happened then the policy wouldnt 
have been accepted and also that cover was always going to be more expensive with his 
medical condition. Mr F wasnt satisfied with this answer so the complaint has come to me 
for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no doubt here that Reassured made an error. Theyve admitted this and made an 
offer of compensation. My role is to decide if I think that offer is fair. And having considered 
everything carefully, I think it is. 
When thinking about situations where a mistake has been made I need to consider what 
position a consumer would be in had the mistake not happened. In other words, what 
wouldve happened if things had gone as they should have. 
Here that means thinking about the situation that Mr F would be in had Reassured passed 
on his medical condition to the product provider as part of the application process like they 
shouldve done. 
The product provider declined the policy when they were made aware of the medical 
condition saying its not something they provide cover for. So I think its fair to say that had 
they have been made aware of it in the application they never wouldve accepted the cover 
in the first place. 
Reassured tried to find policies with other providers, with the medical condition disclosed, 
but the premiums were outside Mr Fs budget. So Im persuaded Mr F wasnt going to be 
able to get the level of cover that he wanted for a premium within his budget. Of course had 
the mistake not happened Reassured wouldve told Mr F this upfront. I know this is 
frustrating for Mr F as he was told he could have a policy for a price within his budget, but 
this wasnt actually possible. 
When trying to resolve the complaint Reassured offered to apply a discount to any policy 
they could find for Mr F that covered his condition. However all of the policies they found 
were out of Mr Fs budget, even with a discount applied. I think it was fair of Reassured to 
offer this discount, but its unfortunate they couldnt find a policy within Mr Fs budget.
Mr F is unhappy that he doesnt have cover and doesnt think this is his fault. Hes right, this 
isnt his fault, but the fault isnt Reassureds either. The issue is that the cover Mr F wants 
would be too expensive for him. 
Reassured made an administration error and to apologise for the inconvenience Reassured 
have offered to pay £150. 
Having considered all of the circumstances carefully I think £150 is a fair amount as an 
apology for what happened.
Putting things right
To put things right Reassured Ltd should pay Mr F £150 for the trouble and upset caused by 
the mistake. 
My final decision
Reassured Ltd has already made an offer to pay £150 to settle the complaint and I think this 
offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Reassured Ltd should pay Mr F £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2021. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman