DRN-4454418
The complaint
Ms L and Mr L complain about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited trading as RSA 
(RSA) and the decision to decline the claim they made, following water damage to the 
property they lived in.
Ms L and Mr L have been represented during the claim and complaint process by their 
father, also named Mr L. For ease of reference, I will refer to any comments made, or any 
action taken, by any of the family as Mr L throughout the decision.
What happened
Ms L and Mr L held a home insurance policy, underwritten by RSA, that covered the flat Ms 
L lived in. Unfortunately, around 7 October 2022, the flat was damaged by water ingress 
through the roof and ceiling. So, they contacted RSA to make a claim.
RSA instructed an independent surveyor, who Ill refer to as B, to inspect the flat and the 
damage it had incurred. And B compiled a report following their inspection declining the 
claim, stating the damage had resulted from water ingress over time.
RSA took this report into consideration and took the decision to decline the claim for the 
same reasons. But Mr L was unhappy about this, so he raised a complaint. Mr L was 
unhappy with the claim decline, as he felt it should be accepted under both the flood and 
accidental damage sections. And he disputed Bs report, explaining B hadnt inspected the 
roof itself on their attendance. So, he wanted RSA to overturn their claim decision and 
accept it.
RSA responded to the complaint and upheld it in part. They didnt think the damage was 
caused by an insurable event, explaining why they didnt think a storm or flood had occurred. 
And because of this, they didnt think the claim could be covered under the building and 
contents sections, or the accidental damage. So, they didnt think the decline should be 
overturned. But they did think they couldve offered Mr Ls daughter alternative 
accommodation up to the value of £250 under the Home Emergency aspect of the cover 
they provided so they offered to reimburse any costs Ms L incurred for this, up to that 
amount. Mr L remained unhappy with this response, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint initially and didnt uphold it. They thought RSA had 
declined the claim fairly, in line with the terms and conditions of the policy, as they didnt 
think the damage was caused by either a storm or a flood. And they thought the terms made 
it reasonably clear any accidental damage caused by water outside of these events wouldnt 
be covered. Our investigator thought it was most likely the ingress was caused by a 
blockage in guttering that had occurred over time instead. So, because of the above, they 
didnt think RSA needed to do anything more.
Mr L didnt agree, providing several reasons explaining why. These included, and are not 
limited to, his belief that Bs report shouldnt be relied upon, as B failed to inspect the roof on 
their attendance. And he explained his unhappiness that neither storm nor flood were clearly 
defined within the policy. Mr L also provided further information that showed a separate 
roofer had attended the building to clear the roof above, which included removing a blockage 
from the guttering and downpipes.
Our investigator considered these comments. And they returned to RSA for further 
information, including confirmation on whether they would accept the claim for escape of 
water, as the guttering would be classed as a fixed water installation. RSA responded 
explaining the claim would be declined on the basis the downpipes and guttering werent 
damaged, and that a blockage was the reason for the water ingress which they deemed to 
be a gradual cause and maintenance issue, which fell under their wear and tear exclusion.
This was put to Mr L, who explained his belief that as B failed to inspect the roof and the 
guttering, they didnt think RSA were fair to state for certain that the blocked guttering was 
the cause of the water ingress. So, he maintained his belief that the water damage was 
caused by a one-off insurable event that should be covered by the policy.
Our investigator considered all of the above and issued a second view, reaching the same 
outcome as their first. They explained their position regarding the storm and flood sections 
remained the same. And they thought RSA were fair to deem a blocked gutter to fall under 
the wear and tear exclusion and because of this, they didnt think RSA needed to do 
anything more.
Mr L continued to disagree, and he referred to RSAs file notes which he felt contradicted our 
investigators position. He maintained his position that, as B hadnt inspected the roof and 
guttering, RSA were unfair to rely on the wear and tear exclusion and had failed to prove that 
the claim shouldnt be covered. So, he thought it should be. As Mr L continued to disagree, 
the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I think it would be useful for me to explain exactly what Ive been able to consider, and 
how. I appreciate Mr L, Ms Ls father, is the property owner and has spent a lot of time and 
effort dealing with the claim, and the complaint. But according to the policy documentation, 
the policy holders were Ms L, his daughter, and Mr L, his son. So, as they are the policy 
holders, Im only able to consider the impact caused to them.
I also note the property in question is a flat and so, repairs to the building would be the 
responsibility of the building owner, or the company managing the upkeep of the building on 
the owners behalf. Because of this, I wouldnt expect RSA to complete these repairs, which 
include the repairs to the guttering and the roof. 
And I want to recognise the inconvenience Ms L wouldve been caused when the damage 
actually occurred, which saw her needing to source alternative accommodation. And Ive no 
doubt it wouldve been frustrating for her to learn the claim had been declined, meaning she, 
or her family, would potentially need to cover the cost of any repair work necessary to the 
internal damage in the flat.
But for me to say RSA should do something differently, such as overturn their original claim 
decision and pay for repairs to the internal damage, I first need to be satisfied theyve done 
something wrong. So, Id need to be satisfied that when declining the claim, they failed to act 
within the terms of the policy Ms L and Mr L held. Or, if I think they did act within these, Id 
need to be satisfied they acted unfairly in some other way. And in this situation, I dont think 
thats the case.Before any claim is accepted on an insurance policy, the onus is on a customer to show 
there was an insurable event that caused the damage. Ive read the terms and conditions of 
the policy carefully, to consider whether I think there was an insurable event.
To begin with, Ive thought about whether there was a storm at the time of the damage, even 
though I note this isnt the event Mr L feels the claim should be accepted under. And I note 
the policy itself doesnt define a storm which, while I accept would be frustrating for Mr L, 
isnt a set requirement.
So, where a definition isnt provided, Ive thought about the weather conditions under our 
services own approach, which follows standard industry approach and guidelines. And 
although I dont think theres any dispute the weather conditions were poor at the time the 
damage happened, Ive seen the weather reports from around the time the damage occurred 
and neither the rainfall nor the windspeed meet our criteria for a storm. So, I cant say RSA 
have acted unfairly or outside of the terms of the policy when declining the claim because of 
the same.
Ive then considered whether the event that caused the damage would be defined as a flood. 
And again, the policy doesnt define RSAs own interpretation of a flood. So, Ive thought 
about the event considering our services own approach. 
When considering a flood, its important to note a flood is usually a build-up or overflow of 
water, either slowly or sudden, over an area of land. And crucially, when considering the 
flooding of a home, this is usually where water levels rise up from the ground and into a 
property. In this situation, the water has entered the flat from above, through the roof. 
Because of this, I dont think I can say the event meets the flood definition, as the land 
around Mr Ls property wasnt flooded.
So, I dont think RSA were unfair to state there was no qualifying storm or flood. And 
because of this, I dont think RSA have acted unfairly when declining the claim under these 
insurable events. I also note within the terms and conditions, under the accidental damage 
cover for both the building and contents aspect of the policy, it states that damage by water 
entering your home other by storm or flood will be excluded. So, as I think RSA were fair 
when deciding there wasnt a qualifying storm or flood, I also think they were fair to decline 
the claim for accidental damage.
But I do note both the building and contents aspect of the policy provide cover for water 
escaping from fixed water systems. And from all the evidence available to me, it seems 
most likely that the guttering serving the roof of the flat was blocked and this is what caused 
the water on the roof to build up, before entering the flat and causing the damage. So, I do 
think the circumstances of the claim falls under this insurable event, as the rain water was 
escaping from a fixed water system, in this case the guttering and downpipes.
I note Mr L doesnt think its fair to assume this. And I agree with Mr L that the report 
compiled by B shouldnt be considered against this event, as B didnt inspect the roof when I 
wouldve expected them to. But I do note B stated on the day they attended that a separate 
contractor was completing repair work to the roof on behalf of the building owner. And B 
have explained this contractor told them they were there to repair the roof, as there had 
been water ingress in the communal areas separate to the ingress in the insured property.
And this correlates with Mr Ls own testimony, and the information hes provided, which 
shows an invoice for the work this contractor completed which included the unblocking of the 
guttering and the removal of leaves and vegetation from the roof itself.
So, based on the above, I think its reasonable to assume there was a blockage at the time 
of the damage, as this was highlighted on the day by the contractor that attended and 
provided a quote for works. And there has been no further leaks since the blockage has been removed from the information Ive seen. I also note there was nothing on the invoice to 
suggest the guttering or pipework itself was damaged so, based on this, I think its 
reasonable to assume that had there been no blockage, the guttering wouldve allowed the 
rain water to drain away as intended. And I think its reasonable for me to assume, based on 
the balance of probabilities and the fact no further leaks have occurred since, that this 
wouldve prevented the damage from occurring.
The policy conditions explain that Mr L and his family must take all reasonable steps to 
keep all the property insurance, in good condition and in good repair. And it states that if 
they dont a claim may be rejected. It also goes onto explain within the general exclusions 
under the heading wear and tear that any damage that happens gradually would be 
excluded.
In this situation, Mr L has accepted the guttering and pipework hadnt been cleared for some 
time. And I think it was reasonable for RSA to assume that the blockage itself wouldve 
occurred gradually, as Ive seen nothing to suggest the blockage was caused by anything 
other than vegetation and debris. So, while I recognise there may be dispute over who 
should be responsible for keeping the gutters and roof clear, I think the failure to do so has 
directly led to the blockage which in turn most likely caused the water ingress and so, the 
damage to the inside of the insured property.
And because of the above, I dont think I can say RSA have acted unfairly when relying on 
the exclusions above to continue to decline the claim. And because of this, I dont think I can 
say RSA need to do anything more on this occasion.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr L was hoping for. And I want to reassure Mr L Ive 
thought carefully about the financial implications this decision will have, as well as the things 
RSA couldve done better which does include Bs failure to inspect the roof when they 
attended.
But crucially, I dont think I can say for certain Bs failure to do so impacted the claim 
decision here because on the same day, its been confirmed that a separate contractor was 
already repairing the roof, which included removing blockages from the guttering. So, I dont 
think I can be satisfied B inspecting the roof wouldve made a difference. And while I 
understand the complications caused by the property being a flat meaning some of the 
building maintenance may not have been the sole responsibility of Mr L, it definitively wasnt 
the responsible for RSA in their role as the insurer. So, I dont think it means they should 
assess the claim differently to how they would if Mr L owned the entire building.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Ms L and Mr Ls complaint about Royal & Sun 
Alliance Limited trading as RSA.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman