DRN-1580406
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D have complained that Tesco Personal Finance PLC transferred their mortgage 
to a new lender without their consent. Their main concerns can be grouped under the 
following broad headings:
The transfer of the mortgage.
The use of their data.
Their Tesco Clubcard points.
Mr and Mrs D feel they should have been allowed to settle their mortgage without incurring 
the early repayment charge (ERC) rather than have the account transferred to the new 
lender.
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties so I wont repeat it again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome.
This service is impartial between, and independent from, consumers and businesses. What 
this means is that we dont represent either party, and I dont act under eithers instructions 
or take directions on how a complaint will be looked at or what questions should be asked 
and answered.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied Tesco was entitled to transfer this mortgage to another lender. The account 
terms and conditions allow this to be done. 
Section E of the terms and conditions is entitled Changes we may make to the agreement 
and that states, at condition 7:
"We may sell and transfer all or part of our rights, benefits and responsibilities under the 
agreement (including your mortgage and the security created by the mortgage deed) to 
any other person at any time."
Mr and Mrs D have said that their mortgage was purchased at a distance over the internet, 
and it wasnt clear when applying by that channel that a transfer was likely.
At the time Mr and Mrs D applied for their mortgage a transfer wasnt likely. The formal 
announcement was made over a year after Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage completed, so they 
couldnt have been told that irrespective of which sales channel they used. 
Although Mr and Mrs D applied over the internet, all the information was sent to them, and 
the mortgage offer covering letter stated:
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) requires us to provide you with a reflection 
period. This period of seven days starts from the date you receive this mortgage offer. 
During this time, you can compare offers, assess the implications of taking out this 
mortgage and make an informed decision. You may accept this mortgage offer at any 
time during the reflection period by ticking the box on the enclosed offer.
What you need to do now
We'll need you to read through this pack and sign your Mortgage Offer to confirm that 
you're happy with everything. If there is anything you don't understand, or if anything has 
changed, please call us.
This pack contains a number of items which we've listed below telling you what you need 
to do with them.
Your Mortgage Offer - these are the terms of the Mortgage Offer we've made to you 
and we've included two copies. You need to sign both copies where indicated on 
the last page. Keep one copy and send the other to the conveyancer that we have 
selected from our panel to act on our behalf. They will contact you soon to give you 
the details of where to send your signed Mortgage Offer.
Mortgage Illustration - A document providing you with the costs and features of the 
mortgage. Its important that you read and understand this document.
General Mortgage Conditions - these are the terms and conditions of the mortgage 
agreement with you. You should read and keep them.
Tariff of Charges - this leaflet contains the service charges that may apply to your 
mortgage. You should read and keep this.
This shows Mr and Mrs D were given all the information they needed before they chose to 
proceed with the mortgage offer. When Mr and Mrs D entered into the mortgage they signed 
to agree to be bound by the terms and conditions. I cant hold Tesco liable if Mr and Mrs D 
signed to agree to the terms and conditions without fully reading and assimilating them. 
Mr and Mrs D were unhappy that Tesco wouldnt tell them exactly when the transfer would 
go through, but it didnt have to. Thats commercially sensitive information that wasnt 
available to the general public, including Tescos customers. Tesco told all its customers 
what it could, when it could. Mr and Mrs D had no right to any special treatment or 
information, they simply had to wait to be told along with all Tescos mortgage customers.
Tesco made an announcement in May 2019 that it had ceased new mortgage lending and 
was actively exploring options to sell its mortgage portfolio. In September 2019 it was 
announced who the new lender would be, and it was said It is anticipated that beneficial 
ownership will transfer at the end of September 2019 with legal title occurring by the end of 
March 2020. The transfer completed in March 2020.
Having considered everything, Im satisfied Tesco did nothing wrong in the transferring of its 
mortgage book to the new lender.I understand Mr and Mrs D arent happy with who the new lender is, but thats not something 
I can interfere with. The new lender is regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority and 
Tesco was entitled to use its commercial discretion to decide who to transfer its mortgage 
book to. I cant consider Mr and Mrs Ds concerns about the new lenders business practices 
here as this is a complaint against Tesco. And Tesco did nothing wrong  and didnt breach 
any rules  in agreeing to transfer its entire mortgage book to the new lender. It didnt need 
Mr and Mrs Ds input into its decision, and it didnt need their consent.
Section E of the terms and conditions also states the following, at condition 11
You agree that we may pass on any information or documents relating to the agreement 
to:
(a)Any transferee or potential transferee; and
(b)Any person that provides or may provide funding or financial or other services to us 
for our lending business; and
that any transferee or potential transferee may pass on any information or documents 
relating to the agreement to any person providing funding or financial or other services to 
it in relation to the transfer.
Tesco was allowed to use Mr and Mrs Ds data for dealing with their mortgage, and it was 
allowed to pass their data to the new lender as part of the transfer.
Shortly after Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage completed the General Data Protection Regulation 
(GDPR) legislation came into force (in May 2018).
Whilst Mr and Mrs D had the right, under GDPR, to request Tesco stop using their personal 
data thats not as straightforward as it sounds. Tesco had a lawful basis to continue 
using Mr and Mrs Ds data to deliver the contractual service to them; that is to administer 
their mortgage account and undertake the transfer to the new lender. If Mr and Mrs D 
wanted Tesco to stop using their data  including passing their data to the new lender as 
part of the transfer  then they needed to repay their mortgage in full. For all the time the 
mortgage was in force Tesco didnt have to stop using Mr and Mrs Ds data; that wasnt 
something Mr and Mrs D were entitled to insist on.  As it was acting in accordance with the 
contract Mr and Mrs D had entered into - and within GPDR guidelines - there was no reason 
for Tesco to waive the ERC for Mr and Mrs D.
Any concerns Mr and Mrs D have about the way the new lender deals with their data are a 
matter they need to take up with the new lender at the time. I cant consider any problems 
that might occur with a third party (that is, the new lender) in this complaint against Tesco.
I understand Mr and Mrs D received a phishing text message purporting to be from the new 
lender and they feel this is evidence there was a data breach. But thats not so. Phishing 
texts are just that, theyre not connected to any particular bank or activity. It was no more 
than a coincidence that Mr and Mrs D received a text naming the new lender, as it was just 
as likely that they could have received a text naming a different financial business.
If Mr and Mrs D believe Tesco acted outwith the GDPR legislation then thats something they 
can raise with the Information Commissioners Office. But in terms of this decision Im 
satisfied Tesco acted appropriately and didnt have to do what Mr and Mrs D wanted. 
Tesco has transferred the mortgage to a lender which does not offer Clubcard points against 
mortgage repayments. The award of Clubcard points is not a contractual term. Its a flexible feature which can be varied or halted at any time. Im satisfied that this was set out in the 
special conditions section of the mortgage offer: 
The rate at which you may earn Clubcard points may be changed, and the award of 
Clubcard points on your mortgage payments may be stopped completely, at any time 
(even after we have paid the mortgage funds to you) to reflect changes in the costs of 
offering and administering the Clubcard Scheme.
So whilst I fully understand that the ability to earn Clubcard was an attractive incentive, its 
not a binding contractual term; Tesco was within its rights to terminate this feature when it 
decided to exit the mortgage market.
Tesco was entitled to set a cut-off date (27 September 2019) after which no further Clubcard 
points would be earned against mortgage payments. I understand Tesco continued to 
administer the mortgage account for some months after that, but that doesnt mean it was 
under any obligation to continue to award Clubcard points after the cut-off date.
In any event, Tesco paid a one-off lump sum of Clubcard points to Mr and Mrs S in 
November 2019 equivalent to the amount of points they would have earned on their 
contractual monthly payments until the end of their fixed term, so they didnt miss out on any 
points.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means well not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion on 
the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 January 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman