DRN-4092502
The complaint
Mr Y says Lendable Ltd irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
Mr Y took out two instalment loans from Lendable. The first, in September 2020, was for 
£3,500; the monthly repayments were £156.39 and the total repayable was £5,686.84. The 
second, in November 2021, was for £1,500; the monthly repayments were £63.55 and the 
total repayable was £2,777.79. Both loans had a 36-month term.
Mr Y says Lendable should have checked his credit file and would have seen he had bad 
credit markers, multiple CCJs, unresolved debts from 2012 to 2022 and a low income. It was 
clear he was struggling and Lendable should not have lent to him.
The loans have caused him financial harm as well as extreme mental health issues, leaving 
him frequently feeling suicidal. He asks for both accounts to be closed in full.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ys complaint. She said the lenders checks were 
proportionate for loan 1 and did not show any signs that Mr Y would struggle to repay the 
loan. She felt Lendable ought to have carried out more detailed checks for loan 2, but from 
the available evidence she could not conclude that better checks should have led to a 
different lending decision. 
Unhappy with this assessment Mr Y asked for an ombudsmans review. He asked we relook 
at the loans, saying on a different case the investigator had concluded the lending was 
irresponsible. He needs to get out of this debt to move on with his life.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website
and Ive followed it here.
The rules and regulations when Lendable lent to Mr Y required it to carry out a
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he
owed in a sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability
assessment or an affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So Lendable had to think about
whether repaying the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse
consequences for Mr Y. In other words, it wasnt enough for Lendable to simply think
about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the
repayments on Mr Y.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
- the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
- the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact that 
the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to make 
repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate
check shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether Lendable did what it needed to before agreeing to
lend to Mr Y. So to reach my conclusion I have considered the following questions:
- did Lendable complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing       
Mr Ys loan applications to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loans in a 
sustainable way?
- if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
- did Lendable make fair lending decisions?
- did Lendable act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I can see Lendable asked for some information from Mr Y before it approved the loans. It
asked for details of his monthly income and verified this with a third-party source. It checked 
Mr Ys credit file to understand his credit history and current commitments. From these 
checks combined Lendable concluded Mr Y had enough monthly disposable income to 
afford to repay the loans.
Loan 1
I think Lendables checks were proportionate given the stage in the lending relationship and 
the monthly repayments relative to Mr Ys income. And I find that it made a fair lending 
decision based on the results. Ill explain why.
Mr Y declared a monthly income of £2,000. Lendables income verification gave a lower 
figure of £1,663 and so it used that figure. Its credit check showed Mr Y had active debts of 
£2,992 across six accounts, none of his accounts were overlimit and they were all up to 
date. He had one CCJ that was registered in 2015. I wouldnt expect that one historic 
adverse entry to be a reason to decline the application. Mr Y told Lendable the loan was to 
repay existing debts so it was fair for it to assume his existing monthly credit commitments 
would reduce and he was not overly indebted. Based on the information it gathered I think it 
was fair for Lendable to conclude the loan was sustainably affordable for Mr Y.
It follows I dont think Lendable was wrong to give loan 1 to Mr Y.
Loan 2 On this occasion I think Lendable ought to have carried out a fuller financial review before 
lending. I say this as its credit check showed Mr Ys indebtedness had increased to £10,883. 
I acknowledge there was no adverse data on his file in relation to his active accounts, but 
given the sharp increase in borrowing in 12 months I think Lendable should have reacted to 
this and done more. It had not asked about his outgoings at all.
In situations like this we look at bank statements for the three months prior to application. I 
am not saying Lendable had to do this, but it is a way for me to understand Mr Ys actual 
financial position at the time and therefore what better checks would most likely have shown 
the lender. Having reviewed Mr Ys statements I cant fairly conclude Lendable ought to have 
made a different decision had it completed better checks. His statements show no signs of 
financial difficulties such as a reliance on an overdraft, payday loans, retuned direct debits, 
or of financial instability such as frequent gambling. His account was always in credit and 
there was a relatively high level of discretionary spend.
In addition Mr Y had met all his contractual repayments for loan 1 at the time of this second 
application.
It follows I dont think Lendable was wrong to give loan 2 to Mr Y.
Mr Y raised that he had debt problems going back to 2012 but his credit report would only 
show entries from the previous six years. So Lendable would not have known this. Plus, we 
would not automatically conclude a lender should decline an applicant because of historic 
adverse data if the applicant appears to now be financial stable and no longer having 
problems managing their money. To be clear, I am not saying Mr Y wasnt under financial 
pressure at the time of each application as he describes. Rather that from the proportionate 
checks the lender did for loan 1, and from its checks plus the proxy checks I have done for 
loan 2, I cannot fairly conclude it could have been aware of this.
I have then considered if there is any evidence Lendable acted unreasonable or unfairly 
towards Mr Y in some other way. I cant see that it did. I am sorry to hear that Mr Y is now 
struggling financially, and that this has severely impacted his mental health. I hope he now 
has the support he needs. If not, there are organisations that can help with free debt advice 
 such as Step Change on 0800 138 1111, and with mental health and wellbeing - such as 
MIND on 0300 123 3393. 
I would urge Mr Y to contact Lendable to agree an affordable repayment plan, and I would 
remind Lendable of its ongoing obligation to treat Mr Y fairly, and with forbearance.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Ys complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 June 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman