DRN-1399119
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy with the way his claim was handled by RAC Insurance Limited.
What happened
Mr W had breakdown cover with RAC. He was on holiday with his wife and their three young 
children when their car broke down in France. They were on their way to Switzerland at the 
time where they were staying with friends.  
Mr W said RAC arranged for his car to be taken to a local garage but was then effectively 
abandoned by the insurer and left there until it closed. Not knowing how they were to 
continue their journey without a hire car, and effectively being left by the roadside, Mr W said 
he had to arrange for a taxi to take them part way to Switzerland. He was then met by his 
friend, who drove the remainder of the journey.  
Mr W said his whole trip was ruined because RAC failed to source a suitable vehicle in good 
time. He also highlighted the costs he incurred were in excess of £1,600. He wanted RAC to 
compensate him to the tune of £4,000 
RAC accepted it could have handled things better and said it should have arranged two hire 
cars as it was unable to source a seven-seater car like Mr W had. It decided to cover the 
costs for the two taxi journeys and three nights hotel accommodation. These costs were 
approximately £1,620. RAC also offered £280 compensation for the way it handled the 
claim. 
Our investigator said RAC had done enough to put things right. She agreed that it should 
have provided Mr W with other options when it was unable to source a seven-seater vehicle, 
but felt that overall, the compensation offered was fair. She also highlighted RAC had paid 
for a third night in a hotel which was beyond the scope of the policy. 
Mr W didnt agree with her findings and neither did I. I set out my provisional thoughts which, 
in summary, were that RAC should have done more and offered two hire cars for Mr W and 
his family to continue their journey. I accepted this was peak holiday season and therefore 
made it difficult to find larger hire cars, but there wasnt much persuasive evidence that 
demonstrated this was given due consideration. I questioned this as the policy afforded Mr 
W with £2,500 worth of cover and those costs would have been within the policy limit. 
I also said it was fair that RAC pay back the money Mr W was out of pocket because had 
RAC done what it should have from the outset, then these costs would not have existed. And 
so, I didnt think it fair that RAC considered these reimbursements as compensation. I said 
the £280 compensation on offer was, therefore, not enough and should be increased to £600 
for the overall trouble and upset caused. 
Mr W accepted this but RAC didnt. So, its now for me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding Mr Ws complaint for the same reasons I gave in my 
provisional findings. I think RAC should have done more to support Mr W during that time 
and it should have sourced two hire cars so that he and his family could continue with their 
holiday. I note this was briefly discussed as Mr W had asked RAC to consider it, but he was 
told the costs would be too high and therefore, it would not be a feasible option. But I dont 
agree because Im persuaded it would have been within the policy limit. This was further 
supported by RACs final response to his complaint  which acknowledged it should have 
happened. 
I also note Mr W was able to find a seven-seater vehicle for hire and shared this information 
with RAC. But this too was rejected because of the cost. I agree this was an expensive 
option, but if RAC was willing to pay for two hire cars, then I think it could have considered 
Mr Ws suggestion more seriously as the costs looked similar. 
Im satisfied that RACs actions had a profound impact on Mr W and I sympathise with the 
poor experience he received. Hed planned a holiday and was without a car for the most part 
of it. I say most part because he was eventually able to borrow a car from someone he 
knew. But this was only for a day and so, Mr W missed out on being able to enjoy his holiday 
in the way hed anticipated. I should also highlight that Mr W had planned to stay at another 
hotel in for a special occasion with his wife and was unable to because he had no car. The 
hotel being located in the mountains made it impossible for Mr W to get to. And so, he lost 
out on that as a result of RAC not arranging the hire car.  
RACs terms say;
we will normally arrange a hire car equivalent to, but not necessarily the same as, your 
eligible vehicle, if there is one available. If your eligible vehicle is an MPV we may arrange 
two hire cars 
RAC did eventually offer one hire car but this wasnt suitable because there was no room for 
their luggage and the childrens car seat were unable to fit. And so, this wasnt a suitable 
option for safety reasons.  
When it came for Mr W to leave Switzerland and collect his car, which was at the repair 
garage in France, he asked RAC how he should travel back. RAC wasnt able to give an 
answer in good time. This meant Mr W had to stay another night in the hotel. This was 
unplanned and so RAC agreed to cover the cost. It said this outside the scope of its policy, 
but I disagree. The policy terms afford cover for hotel stays if needed. It says itll contribute 
£25 per person, per night. And so, whilst I acknowledge RAC paid more than that, I still think 
it was fair for it to. I say that because I think it was RACs responsibility to get Mr W to his car 
as it hadnt arranged his hire car, or any reasonable alternative. And because this didnt 
happen, he needed to stay another night at the hotel. 
After several phone calls to RAC, it agreed that Mr W should take a taxi back to his car the 
following day. RAC agreed to pay for the taxi and I think, given what Ive just explained, this 
was a fair suggestion. 
When Mr W arrived, it was late and having been in the car for a lengthy period of time, RAC 
agreed to cover the cost of another hotel stay and because his car still wasnt ready. I 
thought that was reasonable too and still within the scope of the policy. 
RAC said it paid for a third nights stay at a hotel night which wasnt part of the agreement it made with Mr W. RAC is unable to explain why it did this and so is Mr W  mainly due to the 
amount of time thats lapsed. RAC has suggested this should, therefore, be considered as 
compensation. I understand the connection its attempting to make here, but Im not 
persuaded it should reduce the compensation I recommended as part of my provisional 
findings. And thats because I think the impact of RACs actions were considerable enough 
to justify the amount of compensation Ive awarded for the overall trouble and upset caused.   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Im upholding Mr Ws complaint and RAC Insurance must 
now pay Mr W £600 for the trouble and upset it caused him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2020.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman