DRN-3555512
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading ad Barclaycard, defaulted his accounts.
What happened
Mr J had health issues which affected his ability to work and which meant he couldnt make 
the monthly payments required on his two Barclays credit accounts which both fell into 
arrears as a result. Mr J contacted Barclays and explained his personal circumstances to 
them, and Barclays agreed to put a hold on Mr Js accounts. 
Several months later, Mr J learned that Barclays had defaulted his two accounts for non-
payment. Mr J wasnt happy about this, especially as Barclays had confirmed to him that he 
didnt need to make payments on those account because of his health issues. So, he raised 
a complaint.
Barclays looked at Mr J complaint. They explained that theyd sent default notices to Mr J 
and that Mr J hadnt been able to make the payments necessary to bring his accounts out of 
arrears by the time given in the default notices. Barclays therefore didnt feel theyd acted 
unfairly by defaulting the accounts when they had, and they didnt uphold Mr Js complaint.
Mr J wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that Barclays had acted 
unfairly in how theyd managed this situation, and so they also didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr J remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how Mr J might have been upset to have learned that Barclays had 
defaulted his accounts, especially as hed told Barclays about his financial difficulties, and 
given that Barclays had confirmed to him that as a result that they werent expecting him to 
make payments towards the accounts.
However, while Barclays did agree to place a hold on Mr Js accounts in April 2017, this hold 
only applied to the accrual of interest on the account. Additionally, while Barclays didnt 
expect Mr J to make monthly payments toward his accounts during the hold period if he 
couldnt make such payments, Barclays did confirm to Mr J that if he didnt make the due 
monthly payments, his accounts would still be considered as falling into arrears. 
In this regard, I note the following, from the letter sent by Barclays to Mr J, dated 19 April 
2017:
Thanks for getting in touch with us about your account. We understand that youre 
having difficulty making your payments at the moment Thats why, for 30 days, we 
wont charge you any further fees or interest.
We do still need to update the Credit Reference Agencies and let them know that 
youre making less than your minimum payment each month and that you are still in 
arrears, which may make it harder for you to get credit in the future.
The letter also confirms to Mr J that if he continues to be unable to make at least the 
minimum monthly payments required on his accounts, Barclays will eventually close his 
accounts and register defaults against them.
Furthermore, when Mr J had first explained his financial difficulties to Barclays in April 2017, 
Barclays had undertaken an assessment with Mr J f his monthly income and expenditure 
which had shown that Mr J had less money coming in per month than he had outgoing on 
essential spending. Under such circumstances, it wouldnt generally be expected that 
Barclays would insist on monthly repayments from Mr J, because Mr J had been able to 
demonstrate that he couldnt reasonably afford to make them.
But as Barclays letters to Mr J alluded to, it also wouldnt be expected that Barclays wouldnt 
record Mr Js accounts as being in arrears when Mr J didnt make the monthly payments that 
contractually remained due on those accounts. This is because the contractual requirement 
to make monthly payments to a credit account remains in place, even when a credit provider 
has accepted that an unforeseen change in an account holders circumstances means that 
that account holder cant reasonably make those payments.
Barclays asked Mr J to keep them regularly updated as to his financial position. Accordingly, 
Mr J contacted Barclays again in May 2017 and explained that his circumstances hadnt 
changed. Mr J then contacted Barclays in July 2017, and again explained that his position 
remained essentially unchanged.
When Mr J spoke with Barclays in July 2017, he hadnt been able to make any payments to 
his accounts for three months, which meant that both his accounts were in a position of 
prolonged arrears. Because of this, following Mr Js update call in July 2017, Barclays sent 
further letters to Mr J, dated 19 July 2017, advising that they would be defaulting his 
accounts if he wasnt able to clear the arrears that had accrued on those accounts by 21 
September 2017. These letters also advised as followed:
If you can clear any payments due, please call us Its really important that you call 
us first or we wont be able to stop the default from being registered. Before you call, 
make sure youve got all your income and expenditure details to hand.
Once youve caught up with your payments, youll then need to start paying your 
standard minimum payments (including interest) and well update the Credit 
Reference Agencies.
You wont be able to use any cards on your account as theyre permanently 
cancelled. Thats because were now focussed on helping you repay what you owe.
Upon consideration, I feel that Barclays decision to issue these default notices was 
reasonable. This is because Mr Js accounts had fallen into sustained arrears and also 
because Mr J had confirmed to Barclays that he didnt anticipate being able to clear the 
outstanding arrears in the foreseeable future. 
In such circumstances, it wouldnt generally be expected that Barclays would allow Mr Js 
accounts to remain open, because this would result in Mr J becoming more indebted with 
each passing month. Instead, it would be generally expected that Barclays would default Mr Js accounts as soon as was reasonably permitted. This would have the effect of freezing 
the balance outstanding on Mr As accounts and preventing him from falling further into debt.
By sending the default notices to Mr J in July 2017, after receiving confirmation from him that 
his financial position hadnt changed, Barclays were taking steps to ensure that they 
defaulted Mr Js accounts as soon as was reasonably permitted, in line with what would 
generally be considered good practice by Barclays in those circumstances.
The default notices that Barclays issued did give Mr J two months, until 21 September 2017, 
to recover the position of his accounts and to notify Barclays that hed done so. But Mr J 
couldnt clear the arrears outstanding on his accounts, and he didnt telephone Barclays 
again before the 21 September deadline given on the default notices. As such, Barclays sent 
Mr J letter dated 21 September 2017 confirming that they had defaulted his accounts and 
advising of the balances that remained outstanding for him to pay.
Im aware that Mr J believes that he did speak with Barclays again before 21 September 
2017. But Barclays have provided a detailed list of their contact notes for these accounts, 
and this confirms that after Mr J spoke with Barclays in July 2017, he didnt contact Barclays 
again until 17 October 2017  almost one month after his accounts had been defaulted.
I also dont feel that even had Mr J spoken with Barclays before the 21 September deadline 
that events would or reasonably should have transpired any differently here. This is because 
Mr Js health and financial position remained essentially unchanged, which meant that Mr J 
wouldnt have been able to clear the arrears on his accounts if hed been able to speak with 
Barclays before the default date. As such, Im satisfied that it would in all likelihood always 
have been the case that Mr Js accounts would reasonably have been defaulted by Barclays, 
regardless of whether Mr J had been able to speak with Barclays beforehand or not.
Finally, I note that in his correspondence with this service, Mr J has made repeated 
reference to his being at fault for the missed payments. I can appreciate why Mr J might 
use this terminology, and my understanding is that Mr J believes that because Barclays had 
confirmed to him that he didnt need to make the monthly payments that he wasnt at fault 
for not making them, and so the accounts shouldnt have been defaulted.
However, the position Ive just outlined above isnt correct. And as I hope Ive been able to 
explain during this letter, it wasnt the case that the contractual requirement for Mr J to make 
the monthly payments was ever suspended. Instead, Barclays accepted that Mr Js personal 
circumstances were such that he couldnt reasonably make those payments. But Barclays 
acceptance of that point didnt stop the accounts from being considered as falling into 
arrears when Mr J didnt make the contractually required monthly payments, and this was 
regardless of the understandable reasons why those payments couldnt be made.
All of which means that I find it difficult to conclude that Barclays have acted unfairly towards 
Mr J as Mr J believes here. This is because Mr Js accounts did fall into arrear because he 
unfortunately wasnt able to make the monthly payments required on them. And when Mr Js 
accounts had fallen several months into arrears, and Mr Js personal and financial 
circumstances hadnt improved, Im satisfied that it was fair and reasonable for Barclays to 
then issue the default notices and later default the accounts as they did.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr J was wanting here, but it follows from the above that I 
wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Barclays to take any further action. I hope 
that Mr J will understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I 
have.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this account.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman