DRN-4357674
The complaint
Mr J complains that AWP P&C SA has unfairly declined part of his claim under his travel 
insurance policy. Mr J is also unhappy with the service provided by AWP P&C SA during the 
claim.
What happened
Mr J was due to fly from the Isle of Man to Gatwick airport. He was then due to stay in a 
hotel before flying onto his final destination the following day. Unfortunately, Mr Js flight to 
Gatwick was cancelled. So that he didnt miss his connecting flight, Mr J booked a new flight 
the next morning which went to a different London airport.
Mr J was refunded by his airline but had paid more for the new flight. Mr J made a claim to 
AWP for the additional airfare cost as well as the accommodation at Gatwick which hed 
been unable to use. AWP has paid the additional airfare cost but declined the unused 
accommodation. AWP has said that its not something thats covered by the policy.
Mr J has also raised issues with the service provided by AWP during the claim. This includes 
the delay in settling his additional airfare. It also includes AWP using a number of reasons to 
decline the unused accommodation costs, sometimes including words that are not in the 
terms and conditions and quoting clauses that arent in the terms and conditions at all.
AWP has agreed the service they provided could have been better. They offered Mr J £50 
compensation for delays. AWP stated that they will, at times, add text to clarify an 
explanation, this is usually set out in bold or capitalised to bring further emphasis. AWP 
apologised to Mr J that this wasnt explained more clearly to him.
Our investigator thought that AWPs offer was fair. They didnt think that AWP had wrongly 
declined the unused accommodation part of the claim. They didnt think any additional 
compensation was warranted for the service aspects. Mr J didnt accept the outcome of the 
complaint.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Unused accommodation costs
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. They 
must also not turn down claims unreasonably. So, Ive considered, amongst other things the 
terms of Mr Js policy and the circumstances of his claim, to decide whether I think AWP 
treated him fairly.
In response to our investigators assessment, Mr J has set out that he thinks the unused 
hotel costs should be covered under either section 1 or section 3 of the policy terms and 
conditions.
Under Section 1  Cancellation or curtailment, the policy covers Mr J due to the following 
necessary and unavoidable events:
Cancellation of the trip: or
You fully curtail (cut short) your trip before completion or partially curtail (interrupt) 
your trip for more than 48 hours; or
You have to make an early return home
From what Ive seen, none of the above events are applicable in this case. However, even if 
they were, the policy terms state that it has to have been as a result of specific events. A 
flight being cancelled isnt a listed event. In the circumstances, there isnt a valid claim under 
this section of the policy.
Section 3 is split into 4 different sub-sections.  Mr Js additional flight costs have been 
covered under Travel delay but Mr J believes his unused hotel costs should be covered 
under Accommodation disturbance. The accommodation disturbance terms are as follows:
We will pay you up to £5,000 for:
Your unused travel, accommodation and other pre-paid charges that you cannot claim 
back from any other source together with any reasonable and necessary extra travel 
(including up to £200 for taxis and hire cars) and accommodation expenses, which are of a 
similar standard to that of your pre-booked travel and accommodation, if you have to:
1. Move to other accommodation at any point during your trip if you cannot use your 
booked accommodation as a result of:
a. Fire, flood, earthquake, explosion, volcanic eruption and/or volcanic ash 
clouds, tsunami, landslide, avalanche, hurricane, storm; or
b. An outbreak of an infectious disease
2. Cut short your trip with prior authorisation from our 24-hour medical emergency 
assistance service, if you cannot use your booked accommodation and you need to 
be repatriated to your home as a result of:
a. Fire, flood, earthquake, explosion, volcanic eruption and/or volcanic ash 
clouds, tsunami, landslide, avalanche, hurricane, storm; or
b. An outbreak of an infectious disease; or
c. The Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO) or the 
equivalent regulatory authority in your home country or the country you are 
in recommending evacuation from the country or specific area you have 
travelled to, providing that advice came into force after you left your home 
country to commence the trip.Mr J has said that the commas in the above term means that from if you have to onwards 
isnt applicable to his claim. However, I disagree. This is because the term sets out initially 
which costs are covered followed by what needs to have happened for these costs to be 
covered. As Mr J didnt move to other accommodation or cut short his trip as a result of the 
listed reasons above, Mr J isnt covered for the unused hotel costs under this part of the 
policy.
Although I have empathy for Mr Js situation, Ive looked over the policy and dont think his 
unused hotel costs are covered by the policy. Mr Js additional flight costs were covered 
under the Travel delay section of the policy. However, this also doesnt cover the unused 
hotel costs as it only covers Your reasonable additional travel and accommodation 
expenses and not unused accommodation costs as a result of a delay. Mr J did have 
additional travel costs which havent been paid, this was to get him from one airport to 
another, but Mr J has informed us that he didnt include these within his claim. So, I havent 
considered them under this complaint. If Mr J wishes to claim these costs, hell need to raise 
them with AWP.
Whilst I appreciate that Mr J wasnt able to use his pre-booked accommodation and his 
journey wasnt as straight forward as he would have liked, he was able to get to his final 
destination at no extra cost.
Mr J has asked whether not paying out for unused accommodation and extra flight 
reimbursement is an industry best practice. With insurance, no policy will cover every 
potential loss or set of circumstances. The insurer will set the policy terms and conditions 
and its the customers decision if they want to proceed with the policy. There is no obligation 
for AWP to cover both unused accommodation and extra flight reimbursement and with this 
policy they chose not to. 
Based on the reasons above, I dont think AWP has treated Mr J unfairly in not paying his 
unused hotel costs.
Service issues
In their final response letter, AWP admitted that there were delays in dealing with his claim. 
Mr J didnt accept this as he was unhappy with the other service issues. However, he hasnt 
raised dissatisfaction about the compensation amount to us for the delays. So I wont be 
looking into this aspect in this decision.
I understand Mr J has queried comments made by the investigator. Bu my role here is to 
assess the complaint again and reach my own opinion on whats fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances. This is what Ive done.
Mr J raised his dissatisfaction with AWP about the wording of terms they used as a result of 
an email sent by AWP on 28 December 2022. AWPs email stated the following:
Please be advised that according to the Policy Wording, if the flight is delayed/cancelled and 
an alternative flight wasnt provided within 12 hours, we can pay up to £5000 for either:
a. The refund your share of the cost of your trip that you cannot claim back from any 
other source as a result of the abandonment of your trip; OR
b.Your reasonable additional travel (including up to £200 for taxis and hire cars) 
and accommodation expenses, which are of a similar standard to that of your pre-
booked travel and accommodation and which cannot by claimed back from any other 
source, if you have to make alternative arrangements to reach your destination.Mr J raised that the advisor had added the word either. He set out the term on page 19 
under the accommodation disturbance sub-section. He went on to add that the advisor had 
misrepresented the terms and conditions text of together by omitting that word and 
inserting a bogus text of as a result of the abandonment of your trip; or b your. Again Mr J 
then set out the term on page 19 under the accommodation disturbance sub-section.
Whilst I accept that AWP added some bold and capitals to the policy terms in their email, 
AWP acknowledged this and apologised to Mr J for this in their complaint response.
I dont agree that AWP added words, omitted words or inserted bogus text to the policy 
terms and conditions. This is because the terms quoted by AWP are from a different section 
being quoted by Mr J. AWP are quoting from travel delay sub-section but Mr J is quoting 
from the accommodation disturbance sub-section. As such, I dont think that AWP needs to 
do anything in regard to this part of the complaint.
My final decision
AWP P&C SA has already made an offer to pay £50 to settle the complaint and I think this 
offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that AWP P&C SA should pay £50.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2024.
 
Anthony Mullins
Ombudsman