DRN-3425565
The complaint
Mrs H says Santander UK Plc, has treated her unfairly in relation to a transaction on her 
credit card which paid for a battery for an electrical device.
What happened
In April 2019 Mrs H paid an online supplier just over £225 for two batteries for the device. 
She paid on her Santander credit card using her husbands online account with the Supplier. 
In 2021 she says one of the batteries began bulging and deformed and she says she felt it 
had become unusable and potentially dangerous. So she complained to the Supplier. The 
Supplier said it was out of the one-year warranty that came with the battery so it couldnt do 
anything. So she took her claim to Santander.
Santander looked into the matter and decided that it couldnt dispute the transaction through 
Chargeback as it was out of time. It also felt that Mrs H hadnt done enough to show the 
battery was not of satisfactory quality at the point of sale. So it didnt refund her the cost of 
the battery.
So Mrs H brought her complaint to this service. Our Investigator felt Santander had treated 
Mrs H fairly. And Mrs H remains unhappy and so her complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs H used her Santander credit card to pay the Supplier for the battery. This means 
Santander has certain responsibilities to Mrs H which arise from the relevant law, 
specifically, Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act). There is no need for me 
to go into great detail about how this operates, but in summary Section 75 has the effect of 
allowing Mrs H to hold Santander liable for breaches of contract by the Supplier, or 
misrepresentations made by it in relation to the agreement made. Again without going into a 
large amount of detail a breach of contract occurs when one party to a contract fails to 
provide what it has agreed to under that contract. Misrepresentation is when something is 
said which is relied upon and transpires to be untrue leading to detriment.
Santander is also a member of a card network which provides card services. And this 
network has rules (the Card Scheme) which includes giving Santander an avenue for card 
transactions to be disputed, namely through the Chargeback process.
could Santander challenge the transaction through a Chargeback? 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute about a transaction, as Mrs H 
does here, Santander (as the card issuer) can attempt to go through the Chargeback 
process. Mrs H doesnt dispute that she used her Santander credit card here. Nor does she 
dispute the amount, date, or any other details about the transaction itself. So I dont think 
Santander couldve challenged the payment on the basis Mrs H didnt properly authorise the 
transaction, given what Ive just set out.
Santander is required to consider whether there is a reasonable prospect of success when it 
is considering whether to go through the chargeback process or not. If it does go through the 
process, then it must do so properly. But ultimately the Card Scheme has the final say on the 
process.
Santander has pointed to the Scheme rules about time limits to raise Chargebacks. And it 
notes that the transaction was in April 2019, but it says Mrs H didnt raise the issue with it 
until 2021, by which time it was a long way outside the time limits. Ive considered the 
Chargeback rules and I can see that Mrs H didnt raise the matter for a long time after the 
time limits for raising a chargeback had expired. So I dont think Mrs H has lost out here 
because Santander didnt raise a Chargeback as it would have failed for being out of time.
Section 75
Before deciding on whether there is breach or misrepresentation here there are some 
requirements set out in the CCA which also have to be met before these issues can be 
considered. One of these tests is around financial limits and having considered these I think 
on balance that Mrs Hs claim meets the financial limits criteria.
Another test in the CCA for a valid claim is that there must be a debtor-creditor-supplier 
arrangement in place. This is often referred to as the DCS relationship or simply DCS. This 
means that there needs to be the necessary three-party relationship. This often looks like:
A debtor (who makes repayments to the creditor for the borrowing for the purchase)
A creditor (who has to send the borrowed amount direct to the supplier)
A supplier (who has to provide what was purchased to the debtor)
This means the person who paid for the goods (the Debtor-Mrs H) should have a contractual 
relationship with whoever supplied the goods or Services (the Supplier) as well as with the 
credit provider (the Creditor-Santander). 
Santander has pointed to the fact that Mrs Hs card was used but it was Mr Hs account with 
the Supplier that was used to make the purchase. Im not necessarily persuaded by this 
because it could easily be the case that this situation would be covered under Mr H and Mrs 
Hs joint affairs and / or this to be considered a situation where contrary to the paperwork a 
court could find that both were actually contracting and both receiving benefit. Either of these 
situations would be enough to consider that DCS would be intact. But for reasons I shall 
explain I dont consider this to be a deciding issue in this matter.
For a claim such as Mrs Hs to be successful she needs to demonstrate that the battery 
wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of sale. This test is set out in the Consumer Rights 
Act 2015. Section 9 (3) states that satisfactory quality includes being fit for purpose and 
durable. Mrs H has said that the battery concerned worked for a prolonged period of time. 
So much so that when she talked to the Supplier about it they pointed out that the one-year 
warranty provided with the battery had already expired.
Mrs H says she thinks a battery costing what this one did should be durable and last 
significantly longer than this one has. But what she hasnt shown is any persuasive evidence 
that the problems with the battery she says are present were inherit when she bought the 
battery. It could be that the battery is now like it is through issues with its storage or its use 
(neither of which would be covered) rather than from an inherit fault with the battery present 
when she purchased it. The rules are clear that after such a period of time of normal use the 
onus is on Mrs H to demonstrate it was of unsatisfactory quality at the time of purchase. And Ive not seen any persuasive evidence to show this to be the case. I appreciate Mrs Hs 
views on the matter are that for that price it should be more durable. And I note that Mrs H 
points to the other battery bought at the same time and used in conjunction in the same 
device doesnt exhibit these issues. However this doesnt persuasively demonstrate that 
there is a durability issue with the battery which was inherent at point of sale.
And the test I must apply here is whether Santander have treated Mrs H unfairly in its 
consideration of her S75 claim to it about the battery. And Im not persuaded it has. Its 
arguments about evidence and the battery are reasonable and fair. So I dont think Mrs Hs 
complaint should succeed.
Mrs H has made the following argument which I think it important to address Under the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 Goods and Services have to free from faults and work for a 
reasonable amount of time which can be up to six years. She has then gone on to argue 
that as the battery cannot be used now and is less than six years old then the Supplier is in 
contravention of the Consumer Rights Act. She accepts that certain items wouldnt be 
expected to last six years and uses flip-flops as an example. But does think this battery 
should last longer than twelve months.
From what I can see Mrs H has conflated a number of parts of the Consumer Rights Act into 
a meaning which isnt in the CRA. Under the CRA goods and services have their own 
sections and different tests to establish whether there is a liability there or not. New goods 
are required to be free from minor defects. And the limitation period for bringing actions 
regarding the purchase of goods is six years. But this doesnt mean goods must work for a 
reasonable period of time or up to six years. 
Nevertheless even if the test was as Mrs H states she still hasnt provided persuasive 
evidence that the battery was of unsatisfactory quality when she bought it. So I cannot say 
that Santander has treated her unfairly by declining her claim.
I appreciate this isnt the decision Mrs H wants to read. However she simply hasnt shown 
the battery wasnt durable or of unsatisfactory quality when she bought it. And I think 
Santander treated her fairly in relation to her chargeback. And as the warranty was already 
expired when she raised her dispute I dont think Santander have treated her unfairly in 
relation to that either. So I cannot uphold her complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Santander UK Plc. It 
has nothing further to do in respect of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman