DRN-1404387
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Covea Insurance plc has unreasonably amended several of the terms 
of her income protection policy, leaving her with less insurance for a greater cost. 
To resolve the complaint, she wants Covea to honour the policy terms as originally agreed or 
to refund the premiums she paid for the cover. 
What happened
In January 2019, Mrs H took out a Covea Lifestyle Protector policy through a third party 
broker. It offered her accident, sickness and hospitalisation cover for a monthly premium of 
£45.25. Mrs H also took out additional unemployment (redundancy) benefit. 
In June 2019, the policy administrator contacted Mrs H to explain Covea intended to 
increase the premium for her policy from 1 September 2019 onwards to £70.14. It said this 
was because the premiums currently being charged on the Lifestyle Protector policies were 
now insufficient to cover the administrative costs of operating the policy.  
Further, it also said Covea was amending other provisions in the policy, removing the day 
one claim provision to a nominated deferred period of either 14 or 30 days, requiring proof 
of earnings for any claim and confirming that it could not pay more than 60% of a 
policyholders gross earnings as a maximum monthly claim value.  
Mrs H complained via the administrator. She said that she shouldnt be the subject of a 
premium increase because other people had made more claims than Covea had expected. 
She felt that it had taken advantage of vulnerable customers. She asked for Covea to either 
reverse the changes or return her policy premiums.
Covea rejected Mrs Hs complaint. It issued a written response on 23 July 2019, where it 
said the changes had been applied to all customers with Lifestyle Protector policies. Covea 
also noted that the policy terms allowed it to revise the terms with sufficient notice. It said the 
changes were relevant to all insured customers regardless of when the cover was 
purchased. Given that it would have considered any claim submitted throughout the period 
of cover, it was not able to consider a refund of the premiums paid.
Mrs H pursued her complaint with this service, where she explained that she was now 
without cover whatsoever. She cancelled the Covea policy because it was unwilling to 
change its decision to increase the cost. 
An investigator from this service looked at the complaint. He said he didnt think Covea had 
acted unfairly. He reached that conclusion because the terms of Mrs Hs policy allowed 
Covea to make changes to the policy providing it gave her 30 days written notice. Since it 
had done so, the investigator didnt find it to have done anything wrong.  
Mrs H disagreed and asked for the matter to be passed to an ombudsman. She said she 
was very disappointed, particularly since Coveas actions had forced her to cancel the policy. 
And because her employment was subject to a restructure, this was preventing her from 
completing a successful insurance application elsewhere. 
Mrs H said the cancellation was causing her significant worry, especially as a single parent. 
Finally, she said she worked for an insurance company and had never known actions like 
Coveas mid-way through a policy term.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise the strength of feeling Mrs H has about this matter, and I do recognise this has been 
a stressful time for her given her particular employment and family circumstances. However, 
I agree with the outcome reached by our investigator and for principally the same reasons. 
That means I wont be asking Covea to do anything further. 
We are not a regulator; that role falls to the Financial Conduct Authority. So, I cannot insist 
that a business reverses a policy decision or undoes an exercise of reasonable commercial 
judgement. Likewise, its not my role to say how much an insurer should charge, what 
factors it should assess, or how much risk to attach to each of those factors when it 
determines a premium value. Insurance is an assessment of risk. And this service generally 
takes the view that, providing customers are treated equally and fairly, an insurer is entitled 
to charge what it considers appropriate to in order to cover a defined risk. Consumers are 
equally entitled to decide to take out or continue with an insurance policy on that basis.
Our role is to provide dispute resolution by looking at both sides of a complaint and deciding 
if a business has acted unfairly or unreasonably. In this case, that means looking at Coveas 
actions in relation to the insurance contract between itself and Mrs H. 
Mrs Hs policy terms and conditions say:
IMPORTANT
This Policy is for monthly periods, and We do not guarantee that this Policy will be 
available indefinitely. 
Your Premium and the benefit provided under this Policy is based on the historical 
performance of this product. Your Premium and the benefit provided under this Policy 
are not guaranteed to remain at the same level throughout the life of Your Policy. We 
reserve the right to amend the Premium and/or benefit(s) provided under this Policy 
at any time, by providing 30 days notice, in writing, to You We cannot foresee every 
circumstance under which Your Premium and/or benefit provided will change, 
however, a few reasons are listed below:
The Premium and/or benefit provided may change if:
the level of claims costs are significantly different to the level We had 
expected,
our administration and/or distribution costs change,
the level of benefit provided, or amount of Premium charged for this Policy is 
significantly different than the projected costs of the Policy,
there are changes in tax or other government or regulatory charges which 
affect Your PolicyWe will notify You in advance of any Premium and/ or Policy benefit(s) changes 
Upon notification. You are under no obligation to continue Your Policy at the revised 
Premium and/or benefit levels, but the previous Premium and/or benefit levels will no 
longer be available to You. 
If You do not wish to continue with Your cover You can cancel Your Policy by 
following the details in Section 7.
Any change in Your Premium will not depend upon Your individual circumstances, for 
example, Your health or the number of claims that You make the assessment of 
future Premiums and/or benefit provided under this Policy is based upon the 
premium being charged for everyone insured under this Policy, and not You 
personally.
Covea has acted in accordance with the policy terms set out above. It provided Mrs H with 
the requisite notice that the premium and benefit levels were being amended and it 
explained this was because projected overheads, number of claims and the administration 
costs of the policy had affected the amount it had to charge for Lifestyle Protection policies. 
Though it was upsetting for Mrs H, Im satisfied that this was a commercial decision which 
Covea was entitled to make. Mrs H was treated equitably; she was notified in the same way 
as other customers in the same circumstances, and the premium increase and other benefit 
changes were applied equally. 
I realise Mrs H feels that she has paid premiums unreasonably from January 2019 and she 
is naturally disappointed that she has had to cancel the policy. But even if this complaint 
could be upheld, I wouldnt agree that Mrs H ought to be returned the premiums she had 
paid for previous months. Those premiums were paid in return for Covea providing income 
protection and unemployment cover to the point of cancellation and if Mrs H had needed to 
make a claim during that time, she would have been able to do so. 
I would not therefore propose returning premiums where Mrs H has had the benefit of 
insurance that she wished to take out, merely because the insurer has now exercised a 
policy term to make adjustments going forward. Similarly, because Covea was entitled to 
make those changes, I cannot order it to revert to Mrs Hs previous policy terms either. 
My final decision
I realise my decision will not be what Mrs H has hoped for. However, I do not find Covea to 
have acted unfairly in relation to its decision to revise the terms of its Lifestyle Protector 
policies, or to apply these to Mrs Hs policy. I therefore reject this complaint. Under the rules 
of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or reject my 
decision before 25 November 2020. 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman