DRN-2107076
The complaint
Mrs C complains NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua (NewDay) acted irresponsibly when, on more 
than one occasion, they increased the credit limit available on her credit card account. 
What happened
Mrs C had a credit card account with NewDay and says they increased the credit limit on her 
credit card account on two occasions when they should have known she was in financial 
difficulty. Mrs C says leading up to the increases she had various pay day loans, had been in 
a debt management plan and made cash withdrawals from her credit card account with 
them. Mrs C says this information would have been known to NewDay when they increased 
the limits on her credit card account, and they didnt carry out sufficient checks before 
granting the increases to her available credit limit. Mrs C also feels NewDay failed to 
respond to her complaint in a reasonable period of time. Mrs C says this has added to her 
stress and anxiety. She has asked that NewDay refund all interest and fees, amend her 
credit file accordingly and pay her compensation for the failure to deal with her complaint in a 
reasonable period of time.
NewDay say when they approved the increased limits on Mrs Cs credit card account, they 
carried out their usual checks including credit reference searches and any previous debt 
management plans had been settled prior to these increased limits. NewDay says there was 
nothing to indicate Mrs C was in financial difficulty at the time the limits were increased, and 
Mrs C was given the opportunity not to accept the increased limits before they were applied 
to her credit card account. NewDay also say at no time did Mrs C advise them she was 
experiencing financial difficulties and the majority of her financial problems occurred after the 
latest credit limit increase was approved. 
Mrs C referred the matter to this service as she hadnt had a formal response to her 
complaint from NewDay. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold Mrs Cs complaint. 
The investigator pointed out that we could only look at increases in the credit card limits after 
September 2014 under the  jurisdiction rules by which we are bound. The investigator felt 
that NewDay carried out sufficient and appropriate credit checks before increasing the credit 
limits on Mrs Cs credit card account. She felt these checks didnt highlight any adverse 
information that would lead NewDay to believe Mrs C was experiencing financial difficulties 
at the time.
Mrs C wasnt happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
I was sorry to learn of the stress and anxiety Mrs C has experienced as a result of the 
financial position she finds herself in and this must have been a difficult time for her. When 
looking at this complaint I have considered if NewDay carried out reasonable and 
proportionate checks before making available increased credit facilities to Mrs C.  
From the information I have seen NewDay acquired Mrs Cs credit card account from 
another provider and inherited Mrs Cs account with a credit limit already in place of £1500. 
As the investigator has pointed out in her view to Mrs C, while Mrs Cs credit card was 
originally opened in 2008, this service can only look at any increased credit limits approved 
by NewDay since they acquired the card with a maximum of 6 years prior to the date of her 
complaint. The investigator referred to our jurisdiction rules, by which we are bound stating :
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service:
(2) more than:
a) Six years after the event complained of occurred; or (if later)
b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought reasonably 
to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint
As NewDay havent consented to us considering anything prior to these dates we can only 
look at the issues surrounding the credit limit increases made in December 2015 and 
January 2017. That said, from the information I have seen NewDay only ever increased the 
limit on Mrs Cs credit card on those dates in any event. 
Mrs C says NewDay should have been aware that she was experiencing financial difficulties 
and shouldnt have increased the limits available to her on her credit card account. Mrs C 
has provided this service with details of various payday loan facilities including a catalogue 
account facility letter and a list of debts she says formed part of a debt management plan 
she and her husband had entered into, between 2012 and 2014. Mrs C says this information 
would have been available to NewDay, as well as the fact she had made cash withdrawals 
from her credit card account with them - indicating she was suffering financial stress at that 
time. 
I can understand the points Mrs C is making here and I have looked carefully at the extra 
information she has provided this service. When looking at cases like these I need to 
understand whether businesses like NewDay have taken reasonable and proportionate 
checks before approving increased credit facilities. I can see that NewDay have looked at 
Mrs Cs previous credit history with them and from what I have seen while full use of her 
credit card limit was made by Mrs C, there were no obvious signs of financial stress or 
regular missed payments. 
What happened here is over the time that NewDay had administered the account they only 
increased the limit on two occasions with at least 12 months between the increases   I am 
satisfied this is a reasonable period of time to have passed before offering increased credit 
limits here. While the overall limit increased to a maximum of £2950, this was over several 
years and wouldnt in itself be out of place given the financial history NewDay had at their disposal, which would have indicated Mrs C met her previous financial commitments in the 
12 months leading up to the increased credit limits they authorised.  
While Mrs C says she had made cash withdrawals from her credit card and that is true, 
these werent significant in sum and were intermittent over the periods leading up to the time 
the credit card limits were increased, during the three years of account activity data made 
available to this service. I cant say this would have given cause for NewDay to believe these 
cash withdrawals indicated signs of obvious financial issues.
Its worth mentioning this service has been provided with a credit reference search and this 
shows there are no defaults, county court judgements or missed payments leading up to the 
time the credit card limits were increased. 
With that in mind, I cant see that NewDay would have been aware of any signs of financial 
stress, and if Mrs C was in a debt management plan between 2012 and 2014 as she points 
out, this would have been cleared at least 12 months before NewDay instigated the first 
increased limit in December 2015. Its worth saying that being in a debt management plan, 
once satisfied, isnt a reason for a lender like NewDay to refuse increased lending facilities 
going forward, even if they were aware of it, although theres no evidence to support they 
were. I say this in part, as I cant see that Mrs C ever told NewDay of this previous debt 
management plan or importantly that she was struggling financially at the time the credit limit 
increases on her credit card account were offered.   
Mrs C has also provided this service with details of various payday loans indicating she was 
under financial pressure. Its important to say the majority of the payday loan information Mrs 
C has provided this service, are for loans taken out after the final limit increase in January 
2017. One of those loans was drawn in 2015, however, this was short term and repaid and 
wouldnt have shown any adverse information for NewDay to have been concerned about. 
By her own admission Mrs C has told this service her debts spiked from 2017 onwards and 
from what I can see that is true, but importantly this is after the last credit card account limit 
was increased in January 2017.  
While Mrs C may not agree, on both occasions the credit card account limits were increased, 
NewDay gave her the opportunity to decline these, but she chose not to. On these occasions 
and at any other time leading up to the credit card limits being increased there was an 
opportunity for Mrs C to have let NewDay know, she was under financial pressure. The fact 
she didnt, wouldnt be reason in itself to suggest NewDay neednt have taken any further 
measures to ensure it was reasonable to increase her available credit - but I am satisfied, for 
the reasons I have given, they did take other proportionate and reasonable steps here. 
Mrs C also says she feels NewDay have taken longer than they should to have dealt with 
her complaint, although this in itself isnt something this service would offer redress for, given 
it hasnt prevented Mrs C in bringing the complaint to this service.
While Mrs C will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of NewDay 
here.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman