DRN-3489208
The complaint
Mr H says the breakdown service underwritten by  Acromas Insurance Company Limited 
made an error when it refused to assist him under his motor breakdown policy.  
What happened
Mr H called for assistance at his home when his cars engine wouldnt start following some 
work hed carried out on it. Mr H thought the starter motor had failed due to the high mileage 
on the car. But the technician who attended noted that Mr H had just used a liquid spray 
cleaner for maintenance purposes and that there was still liquid in the engine. He thought 
the starter motor had burnt out. He told Mr H the situation wasnt covered by his policy. The 
breakdown service later confirmed that a policy exclusion applies if a mechanical or 
electrical failure is caused due to work a consumer has done. Mr H said the technicians 
opinion was wrong and he couldnt have seen any liquid without using specialist equipment.
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Hs complaint, after carrying out some research and 
taking technical advice. She noted that too much liquid in an engine could stop it turning over 
and that liquid should be introduced in small amounts - whilst the engine was running - then 
left to run for a time so any residual fluid could burn off. Mr H said the fact that hed removed 
the engines glow plugs would have made a difference, as any excess fluid would have 
escaped. Our technical advisor said the engine couldnt start without the glow plugs unless 
the starter motor was cranked  and Mr H said that hadnt happened. The investigator 
concluded it was more likely than not that the work Mr H had carried out led to the 
breakdown. Mr H then asked for a review of his complaint by an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our role is to decide whether Acromas and its breakdown service acted reasonably in relying 
on the policy exclusion. Taking everything into account, I think they did.
We dont know how Mr H carried out the work on the engine - and in particular we dont 
know how he introduced the liquid in the cleaning spray or how much of it was used. From 
the comments Mr H has made, it appears that the engine was switched off when he did the 
work and introduced the liquid - and that he was then unable to get the engine started. So it 
seems there was no chance for the liquid to burn off. Mr H says the liquid evaporated 
immediately, but theres no evidence of that, and the product guidance says it should be 
used on a warm engine and left with the engine on.
I can see why Mr H thinks the starter motor failed solely due to the cars high mileage. 
Although thats a possibility, I think it would be a huge coincidence if it was working 
immediately before Mr H did the work and not working immediately after that - yet the work 
done had no connection to the failure. 
Mr H says that as the technician who attended couldnt have seen any liquid in the engine, 
he based his diagnosis on the fact that Mr H told the technician hed used a cleaning spray. 
But the technician recorded at the time that he saw liquid. The technical advice Ive been 
given is that he could have seen a reflection of any liquid by using a flashlight (which Mr H 
says he did). The specialist equipment Mr H thinks would have been necessary would have 
made that task easier, but it seems it wasnt essential. 
Mr H told the investigator some time ago that hed send us some written information from a 
garage or garages supporting his version of events, but to date weve received no further 
evidence from him. Based on what Ive seen, I understand why Acromas and the breakdown 
service thought it was more likely than not that the liquid introduced to the engine caused the 
problem, so I dont think they acted unreasonably. 
I know Mr H genuinely believes that the work he did wasnt what led to the breakdown - yet 
hes been left out of pocket, as cover wasnt provided. But as I dont think hes shown that 
Acromas or the breakdown service did anything wrong, I cant uphold his complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2022. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman