DRN-4291205
The complaint
Mr A complains about the way that Legal and General Assurance (Pensions Management) 
Limited (L&G) managed his pension, including the way that it processed a requested 
investment fund switch causing Mr A to suffer losses. 
What happened
Mr A has a stakeholder pension with L&G. In August 2021 Mr A decided to move his pension 
pot from cash to a lifestyle investment profile. Mr A explains that he made an online request 
to move 70% of his pension pot to a five year Lifestyle Profile.
L&G explain that the online switch request was an automated process. And 100% of Mr As 
pension pot was re-invested in line with L&Gs Managed Lifestyle Profile (10-Year Lifestyle 
Profile).
Mr A complained to L&G in January 2022 about the following points:
That L&G had incorrectly executed his fund switch request of August 2021
That L&G didnt send him a confirmation letter following his fund switch
That L&Gs charges were unreasonable on his cash fund and werent clear or 
transparent
L&G investigated Mr As complaint and partially upheld it. It explained that:
Mr As selected fund switch was part of an automated process and said that he had 
selected the 10-Year Lifestyle Profile in the online portal, not the 5-Year Lifestyle 
Profile.
The annual management charge on Mr As pension plan covers the costs of 
administering the plan. It said that the monetary value of the charge is shown on his 
statements and that further information about the charge would have been provided 
in the member booklet and key facts document.
It made a mistake when it reapplied Mr As fund choice following his request to 
change his retirement age on the same date. It said that, after the retirement age 
change it had to reapply the fund manually. And, instead of placing the pension pot 
back into the profile choice, the fund was manually distributed into the specific 
individual funds. It meant that the funds would not automatically adjust as intended 
with the profile.
So L&G offered to correct its mistake and offered £100 for the distress and inconvenience its 
error had caused.
Mr A remained unhappy and brought his complaint to our service. He wanted us to address 
the following:
L&Gs failure to provide him with confirmation of his fund switch
That L&G failed to confirm to him that he could switch his funds again without it 
affecting his complaint
That L&G are incorrect about the lifestyle fund he selected and have not provided a 
sufficient audit
Mr A doesnt accept L&Gs loss calculation which isnt clear enough to be understood
That he now understands the charges but doesnt think L&G have been sufficiently 
transparent about them
Our investigator looked into what happened and partially upheld Mr As complaint. But was 
unable to resolve the issues. And both Mr A and L&G asked for the case to be referred to an 
ombudsman.
I considered the circumstances of Mr As complaint and issued a provisional decision 
explaining what I thought L&G had done wrong. And what I thought it should do to put things 
right. L&G responded to accept what Id provisionally proposed. Mr A responded to explain 
that he still didnt agree with my conclusion. But had no further evidence or comments to 
make.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything in this case a final time my final decision is the same as the 
provisional decision that both parties have already seen. For the following reasons, Im 
upholding Mr As complaint. The reasons for reaching the outcome I have are the same as 
those set out in my earlier provisional decision.
There are a number of issues that Mr A is unhappy with and wants answers on. Our service 
is intended to resolve disputes quickly and with a minimum formality. Mr A has made a 
number of submissions and I have read and considered them all, although I may not 
comment on every one of his arguments in explaining my findings. I understand that my final 
decision is not the answer that Mr A wants so I appreciate he will be disappointed with it. 
However, my decision must be based on the available evidence. And Ive decided what I 
think is fair and reasonable, based on weighing the evidence against a balance of probability 
test.
I will address what I consider to be Mr As complaint issues as follows:
Charges
Im not minded to uphold this complaint issue.
Mr A set out his original complaint to L&G about, what he described as, the high charges 
you have been charging me for just managing cash. He complained that the fact sheet for 
the cash fund didnt state those charges. But the charges he was referring to were the 
annual management charges for his pension pot. They were consistent, irrespective of the 
investment choice that Mr A chose to put his pension pot into.
There is no evidence that the charges havent been applied in line with the terms of Mr As 
pension. And that wasnt Mr As complaint. Mr A considers the charges to be high. But in 
deciding whether Mr A was treated in a fair and reasonable way, I need to consider whether 
L&G made Mr A aware of what the charges would be. The charges were explained in 
monetary value in his statements. Which is fair and in line with regulatory requirements. And 
L&G have provided us with a copy of a letter that Mr A was sent, dated 2 April 2013, that 
enclosed the most recent key features for his Stakeholder Pension Plan. I think that it clearly 
explained the way that charges would affect Mr As pension pot. It gave the percentages that would be applied based on the fund value on a daily basis. And illustrations of the effects of 
the charges. 
I think it is reasonable that L&G send Mr A the key features of his policy at certain points. 
When taking out the plan, obviously, as well as any time that they make changes. And it was 
a change to the charges that led to the 2013 copy being supplied to Mr A. It isnt 
unreasonable to expect that consumers should read that and retain it if they wish. L&G arent 
required to send out the duplicated information for every statement. So I dont think that L&G 
have treated Mr A unfairly here.
Mr As pension pot switch 
Id like to reassure Mr A that I have weighed this matter very carefully. It is the issue that I 
consider to be the crux of Mr As complaint. To be clear, to uphold Mr As complaint I need to 
decide that it is more likely than not that he selected the 5-Year Lifestyle Profile, rather than 
the 10-Year one. As I will explain, with reference to the evidence, I dont think that is the 
case.
Mr A has provided testimony that he wished to select a 5-Year Lifestyle Profile. This profile 
would invest 100% in the L&G Global Equity Fixed Weights 60:40 Index Fund until a 
customer is five years from retirement age. After that it gradually moves from that fund into a 
mixture of a fixed interest and a cash fund. In August 2021 Mr A was around six years from 
his intended retirement age. And he has been consistent from the point of making his 
complaint that he believed that he selected this profile. So, it seems more likely than not that 
is what he intended. 
What I have to decide though, is whether it is more likely than not that Mr A made that 
choice on L&Gs online portal. I understand from his testimony that he says that he did. But 
he has also explained that he only requested that 70% of his pension pot be placed into the 
Lifestyle Profile. 
L&G have shown us evidence, in the form of a screen shot of an attempt to place 70% into a 
Lifestyle Profile, that its system shows the user an error message. That message reads, a 
contribution type invested in a Lifestyle Profile cannot be invested in other funds. I find this 
evidence of the system functionality to be quite compelling. 
Mr A has disputed this fact, suggesting that he doesnt accept that he couldnt have split his 
pension pot with part in a Lifestyle Profile. He says that nothing in the fund information says 
that. But in this regard I think Mr A is wrong. Ive seen both the 10-Year Lifestyle Profile and 
5-Year Lifestyle Profile fact sheets. The explanation of the product definitely implies that their 
purpose is to manage the investments across a whole pension pot. But the sheets also say, 
If you decide to invest in a Lifestyle Profile please be aware that you can only choose one 
profile. Its also not possible to invest in any other funds at the same time. 
When weighed against Mr As testimony I think its more likely than not that he could not 
have split his pension pot in the way he thinks he did. Or that he may have tried to do. Which 
calls his precise recollection into some doubt.
L&G have explained that it has no application for the request as it was done on its online 
platform. So I can understand that it has been harder for it to provide a satisfactory audit of 
the request that Mr A made. Here again, I have considered Mr As testimony. And dont 
doubt what he recalls. But mistakes can happen. It is the very crux of this complaint. Mr A 
wants me to decide that the mistake was L&Gs, but I cannot discount the possibility that 
Mr As online request was for the 10-Year Profile, in error. I highlight again that, in order for 
me to decide that L&G have done something wrong, I have to consider that it making this mistake was more likely than Mr A making it.
L&G have shown us and Mr A a spreadsheet that shows time stamped requests. I agree 
with Mr A that it isnt particularly clear. But L&G have provided us with a reasonable 
commentary with it that is, I think, quite compelling. It explains firstly that the process is 
automated. That is, the request made gets automatically applied by the system following the 
request. And shows that the 10-Year Lifestyle Profile was applied in line with Mr As position 
on it (based on the retirement age of 66 hed changed it to). 
On balance, I think the evidence that L&G received an on-line request to switch to the 
10-Year Lifestyle Profile is more compelling than the evidence that Mr A placed a request to 
switch 70% of his pension pot into a 5-Year Lifestyle Profile. So my decision is that its more 
likely than not that L&Gs online system received the request to move the pension pot into 
the 10-Year Lifestyle Profile. And, as Ive explained, most likely for 100% of the pension pot.
Following Mr As complaint, L&G identified an error in the way that it subsequently dealt with 
the switch. It explains that Mr A called to reset his retirement age to 67. It was in fact what 
Mr As pension age had been set to previously. Although L&Gs system records a change to 
age 66 prior to the requested fund switch. It was in this process that a mistake occurred. It 
isnt the mistake that Mr A believed to have happened. But L&G were correct to have 
identified it and sought to correct it.
The mistake was that, after changing the retirement age back to 67 the pension pot was 
invested across the correct investment split for the 10-Year Lifestyle Profile rather than being 
placed in the Profile. It meant that Mr As pension pot didnt re-align in the correct way when 
Mr A turned 61. This mistake means that Mr A was treated unfairly. Even though Mr A 
doesnt fundamentally agree that L&G are correcting for the right problem.
Did L&G correctly notify Mr A of his fund switch?
L&G provided Mr A with a copy of a letter dated 28 August 2021 that sets out the Lifestyle 
Profile that Mr A was placed in and the split of investments. I take this as reasonable 
evidence that L&G generated and sent Mr A the correct confirmation. Im unable to say that 
Mr A received or saw the 2021 letter. But I think that, as its more likely than not that it was 
sent to him, L&G did nothing wrong. 
I appreciate that Mr A also says that no copy of this letter was included within his online 
documents. Which L&G accept. But explain that these letters arent transferred to that 
format. I dont think that Mr A was disadvantaged by that. Had he accessed the online 
platform to find that letter, I think it would have been just as easy to look at the investment 
split for his overall pension pot to see if it was what he expected.
Have L&G done enough to put things right?
Where a business has done something wrong, the general approach for our service is to try 
to put the consumer into (as close as is possible) the position theyd have been but for the 
mistake. 
I think that L&G correctly identified its mistake and adopted what appeared to be a fair 
approach to rectify that. But they havent yet done that. I can see that Mr A didnt accept 
L&Gs answer. But the mistake that L&G identified was clear. And wasnt the cause of Mr As 
complaint. In failing to rectify that mistake following its loss calculation the impact of its 
mistake has continued. So I think that it would be fair and reasonable for L&G to adjust for 
the impact of its mistake up to date.I understand that Mr A has argued that his fund should be put right as if hed selected the 
5-Year Lifestyle Profile. But, as Ive explained, Ive decided that Mr A more likely than not 
requested the 10-Year Lifestyle Profile. So I dont intend to ask L&G to calculate any loss 
that Mr A may have suffered had it received an instruction to move into the 5-Year Lifestyle 
Profile instead.
L&G told Mr A in its final response to his complaint how he could place any fund transactions 
in the future. And I think he was aware from its response that L&G werent proposing to put 
Mr A into the 5-Year plan. Ive thought about this and have decided that without a clear 
instruction to move him into that profile L&G werent in a position to do that. And having 
looked at all of the correspondence I havent seen that Mr A clearly asked for that switch to 
happen. 
I can see that Mr A later sought clarification whether he could switch his funds without his 
complaint being resolved. But, even if Mr A didnt find it clear enough from L&Gs response 
to his complaint I think that email exchanges between the parties in June 2022 made this 
clear for Mr A. Specifically Mr A was told in an email on 9 June 2022 should you wish, you 
can switch your funds and we can calculate any profit and loss on your plan up until the point 
you complete your fund change. Mr A raised further queries which were responded to, re-
iterating that Mr A could continue to choose the funds he wished. 
L&G calculated that, on 14 June 2022, the value of Mr As pension pot was lower than it 
would have been if it had been corrected for its mistake. And by that time it ought also to 
have been clear to Mr A that he could select funds that he wanted. So I dont think that L&G 
are responsible for any losses beyond 14 June 2022 as a result of fund choices.
But, because Mr As fund ought to have been higher on 14 June 2022, that loss would have 
also experienced investment returns from that date onwards. 
Putting things right
1 L&G must calculate the loss to Mr As pension pot had it been correctly placed in the 
10-Year Lifestyle Profile compared with its actual value on 14 June 2022.
2 L&G must also calculate the actual investment return on Mr As pension pot from 14 
June 2022 until the date of my final decision. And then apply that rate of investment 
return to the loss figure of 14 June 2022 (calculated in step 1). 
3 L&G must increase the value of Mr As pension pot* by the loss on 14 June 2022 
(step 1) and the investment performance on that (step 2).
* If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr A as a lump sum after making a notional reduction to allow for 
future income tax that would otherwise have been paid. If Mr A has remaining tax-free cash 
entitlement, 25% of the loss would be tax-free and 75% would have been taxed according to 
their likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional 
reduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
L&G must also pay Mr A £250 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience that its 
mistake caused. I think this is fair because the majority of Mr As distress has been caused 
by something that I am not holding L&G responsible for. But L&G did make a mistake that 
may not have come to light but for Mr As complaint. Whilst the impact of that can be 
rectified, it left Mr A with uncertainty about what he could do with his pension whilst waiting 
for L&G to respond. And I think that its initial responses to his complaint points werent clear 
enough and caused unnecessary confusion. To be clear, this is a further £150 if L&Gs previous offer of £100 has already been paid. 
L&G should provide its calculations for Mr A in a clear format. And L&G must pay the 
compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr A accepts my final decision. If 
it pays later than this, it must also pay Mr A interest on the compensation from the date of 
my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple. If L&G considers that its 
required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell 
Mr A how much its taken off. It should also give Mr A a tax deduction certificate if he asks 
for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold Mr As complaint and direct Legal and General Assurance 
(Pensions Management) Limited to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2023.
 
Gary Lane
Ombudsman