DRN-2821416
The complaint
Mr K complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc unfairly removed the promotional interest rate on 
his credit card account.
What happened
Mr K says he exceeded the credit limit on his Sainsburys credit card account by a very small 
amount, but it removed the zero percent promotional offer. He says that was unfair and he 
asked Sainsburys to reverse the process and change its mind. Mr K would like the offer 
reinstated.
Sainsburys says Mr K agreed to its account terms and conditions about this issue and says 
it makes clear that if the credit limit is exceeded, then the promotional interest rate is 
withdrawn. It says it has not made a mistake and says it told Mr K in the month before he 
exceeded the credit limt that he had reached 80% of his credit limit.
Mr K brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Sainsburys had acted in line with the agreed terms and conditions by withdrawing 
the promotional interest rate when Mr K exceeded the credit limit. The investigator also 
thought it up to Mr K to manage his account.
Mr K doesnt accept that view and maintains that Sainsburys acted unfairly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr K will be disappointed by my decision.
I have looked carefully at the account terms and conditions which I think Mr K would have 
agreed to when the account was first opened. Those terms and conditions make clear that if 
a credit limit is exceeded then Sainsburys will withdraw any promotional offer. Im satisfied 
that is what took place here that Mr K exceeded his credit limit of £1,800 and Sainsburys 
withdrew his promotional interest offer. So, Im satisfied Sainsburys didnt make a mistake or 
act unfairly but acted in line with those agreed terms and conditions.
I appreciate that Mr K didnt exceed the credit limit by a significant amount and by only £7. 
But I dont think that matters and Im satisfied the important point is that Mr K did exceed the 
credit limit. I also find it was Mr Ks responsibility to manage his account and up to him to 
make sure he didnt exceed the credit limit. Im also satisfied that Sainsburys fairly told Mr K 
that he was close to his credit limit shortly before he exceeded it.
Overall, I find Sainsburys acted in line with agreed account terms and conditions and didnt 
make a mistake or act unfairly. I dont think the call between the parties is relevant or that 
Sainsburys was obliged to reverse or adjust the payments to allow Mr K to keep the 
promotional rate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman