DRN-3327873
The complaint
Mrs M and Mr M complaint about the poor service provided by British Gas Services Limited 
trading as Scottish Gas when they made a claim under their home emergency insurance 
policy. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
Theres no dispute that things didnt go as the should have. British Gas has 
acknowledged it could have provided a better service to Mrs M and Mr M. While I 
accept it made some attempts to resolve the claim and keep Mrs M and Mr M 
updated during the progress of the claim, further attempts could have been made to 
ensure they were appropriately kept updated and this is likely to have reduced the 
need for them to chase British Gas for responses.  
If British Gas had done what it should have during the initial repair, I think its unlikely 
Mrs M and Mr M would have needed to spend the time and effort they did to get the 
issues resolved. I can see British Gas agreed to compensate Mrs M and Mr M for the 
damage caused to their property which is what I would expect it to do in the 
circumstances. But I think Mrs M and Mr M have been inconvenienced in the time 
taken to resolve the issue and its right that they should receive some compensation. 
As Ive said British Gas paid for the consequential damage caused to be repaired. 
Mrs M and Mr M have already agreed to this settlement amount. It also offered £50 in 
recognition of the poor service provided to them. Whats therefore left for me to 
consider is whether the compensation offered by British Gas is proportionate to the 
inconvenience caused to Mrs M and Mr M.
But I dont think it was, I dont think British Gas has fully considered the impact on 
Mrs M and Mr M. They have told us that they had to do a considerable amount of 
chasing to get the issues resolved and British Gass notes show that it acknowledged 
it hadnt responded to them in a timely manner. And while I accept Mrs M and Mr M 
were always likely to suffer a degree of stress and inconvenience with a claim of this 
nature, they ended up having to wait longer than they should have for the issues to 
be resolved. 
In light of the above, I think it is right that British Gas compensated Mrs M and Mr M 
for the additional damage caused to their property and offered further compensation 
for the poor service provided. But taking everything into account, I think it needs to do 
more to fairly compensate Mrs M and Mr M. I agree with the investigators 
recommendation that British Gas pay a further £100 compensation in addition to the 
£50 already offered. 
I recognise Mrs M and Mr M feels the compensation recommended by the 
investigator falls short of an acceptable amount. But we look at the overall impact a 
businesss mistake had on the complainant  rather than awarding compensation 
based on units of time. I see no reason to depart from that approach in this case. 
Ive thought about the impact British Gass error had on Mrs M and Mr M overall. This 
includes the time they spent in finding a contractor as well as the numerous visits to 
their property during this period. I appreciate the experience would have been 
frustrating for them. Having thought about this carefully, I consider a total of £150 to 
be a fair reflection of the trouble they have been put to. 
I recognise the experience would have been frustrating for Mrs M and Mr M. But awards for 
distress and inconvenience from this service are generally modest. It isnt the role of this 
service to punish businesses. I think the amount mentioned above is fair and in line with 
amounts awarded by this service for similar cases. 
Putting things right
I agree with our investigator that British Gas should pay Mrs M and Mr M £100 in addition to 
the £50 already offered for the inconvenience caused to them.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mrs M and Mr Ms complaint. 
British Gas Services Limited trading as Scottish Gas must:
pay Mrs M and Mr M a total of £150 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
 
Jag Dhuphar
Ombudsman