DRN-3818582
The complaint
Mr W says Lendable Ltd irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
Mr W took out a 36-month instalment loan for £6,000 from Lendable on 6 May 2022. The 
monthly repayment was £240.84 and the total repayable was £8,678.94.
Mr W says proper checks were not carried out. He was in a cycle of credit reliance. He 
wants Lendable to freeze interest and charges and allow him to set up a payment plan to 
repay the capital borrowed without this negatively impacting his credit file.
Our adjudicator said Mr Ws complaint should be upheld. He thought Lendables
checks were proportionate, but it did not make a fair lending decision. He said as Mr W was 
already spending a significant percentage of his income on credit there was a high risk this 
loan would not be sustainably affordable.
Lendable disagreed with this assessment and asked for an ombudsmans review. It said the 
majority of Mr Ws debt was across two hire purchase agreements, and out of his five 
recently opened accounts two were hire purchase and one was a phone agreement. Mr W 
was managing all his active accounts well. Its checks did not indicate Mr W was having 
financial difficulties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website
and Ive followed it here.
The rules and regulations when Lendable lent to Mr W required it to carry out a
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he
owed in a sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability
assessment or an affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So Lendable had to think about
whether repaying the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse
consequences for Mr W. In other words, it wasnt enough for Lendable to simply think
about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the
repayments on Mr W.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
- the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
higher repayments from a particular level of income);
- the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact that the total 
cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to make repayments for 
an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate
check shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether Lendable did what it needed to before agreeing to 
lend to Mr W. So to reach my conclusion I have considered the following questions:
- did Lendable complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Ws loan 
application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
- if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
- did Lendable make a fair lending decision?
- did Lendable act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I can see Lendable asked for some information from Mr W before it approved the loan. It 
asked for details of his monthly income and verified this with a third-party source. It did not 
ask about his living expenses. It checked Mr Ws credit file to understand his credit history 
and current commitments. From these checks combined Lendable concluded Mr W had 
enough monthly disposable income to afford to repay the loan.
Im not wholly persuaded these checks were proportionate given the value of the loan and 
the level of debt Lendable saw on Mr Ws credit file. I think Lendable ought to have 
completed a fuller financial review, but I wont comment further on this as even based on the 
checks it completed I dont think the lender made a fair lending decision. Ill explain why.
It could see from the credit check it completed that Mr W had around £37,000 of debt and it 
was costing him around £1,070 each month to service this debt. There were also some 
potential signs that Mr W was under financial pressure  he had used credit to access cash 
(£1,660 in the previous 12 months and £8,611 in the previous 36 months). Giving this loan 
meant Mr W would need to spend over 40% of his monthly income on servicing his debt. I 
think Lendable ought to have realised this meant there was a risk Mr W would not be able to 
sustainably repay his loan  that is, without needing to borrow to repay or without suffering 
some other adverse financial consequence. I dont think the nature of the credit, as Lendable 
argues, changes the risk it was placing on Mr W financial stability. And I note Mr W was only 
able to make his monthly payment for the first three months of this loan term.
It follows I think Lendable was wrong to give this loan to Mr W. I havent seen any
evidence Lendable acted unfairly or unreasonably in some other way towards Mr W. It froze 
interest and offered Mr W a reduced payment plan when he got in touch to say he was 
struggling. 
Putting things right
Its reasonable for Mr W to have repaid the capital amount that he borrowed as he hadthe benefit of that money. But he has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt have
been given to him. So he has lost out and Lendable needs to put things right.
It should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges on the loan and treat all the payments Mr W
made as payments towards the capital.
As reworking Mr Ws loan account will result in him having effectively made 
payments above the original capital borrowed, then Lendable should refund these
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from
the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ws credit file in relation to the loan 
once the capital is repaid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Lendable to deduct tax from this interest. Lendable should give 
Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Ws complaint. Lendable Ltd must put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman