DRN-3381191
The complaint
Mr H complains on behalf of his relative, Miss H, that National Savings and Investments 
(NS&I) were late in paying out funds from a maturing bond resulting in a missed opportunity 
to invest elsewhere.. She would like £250 compensation.
.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
In its final response letter NS&I apologised for the delay in making the payment from 
the matured bond. However, on  investigation, it confirmed that it had made the 
payment correctly, and on time, to the nominated bank account. 
Its unfortunate that the nominated bank account no longer existed. But  NS&I has 
evidenced the bank section details werent completed on the  cashing in form so it 
made the payment to the account it had on its records As the cashing in form states 
this is its process I cant see that it made a mistake.
I appreciate Miss A has evidenced a previous request to change her nominated 
account with NS&I . However,  this was for a different account, so I dont think she 
could assume this would change the nominated account for all accounts she held 
with NS&I. And NS&I has confirmed that this is the case.
As the funds were issued on 17 March 2021, returned on 22 March 2021, and 
successfully processed on 26 March 2021 I dont think there was an unreasonable 
delay in processing the payment.
As I dont feel NS&I made a mistake with its first payment , and didnt unreasonably 
delay in making the payment when it was made aware that the nominated bank 
account had been changed, I cant reasonably ask it to compensate Miss H as she 
would like.
My final decision
My final decision is that  I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman
