DRN-3947211
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy with the way in which Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De
Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. has handled a claim made under his travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr K had the benefit of a travel insurance policy underwritten by Mapfre (the policy).
At the beginning of March 2020, Mr K booked a trip abroad for six nights starting 15 March
2020.
On 15 March 2020  and shortly before Mr K was due to travel abroad the Foreign and
Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against all but essential travel to the country Mr K was
due to travel. This was due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the government restrictions which
had been announced in that country. So, he didnt end up going away.
Mr K made a claim on the policy to be reimbursed for his pre-paid costs associated with his
trip. That included the up-front costs hed paid for accommodation and for his flights. 
Mapfre hasnt settled the claim because the cancellation section of the policy only covered
irrecoverable losses. And it required more evidence from Mr K showing that he couldnt get
back the pre-paid costs he was claiming for. Unhappy that Mapfre hasnt yet settled his claim 
 and the time taken by it to handle his claim  Mr K complained to our service.
Our investigator looked into what happened and partially upheld Mr Ks complaint. She didnt
think Mapfre had acted unfairly by asking certain information from Mr K, which resulted in a
delay to the claims decision. Nor did she think it was unreasonable for Mr K to try to obtain
further evidence about whether he could change the date on which he was due to stay at the
hotel hed booked to a later date. However, our investigator did ask Mapfre to reconsider Mr
Ks claim for his flight as hed provided evidence that the airline hadnt provided a refund.
Mr K disagreed. So, his complaint was passed to me to consider everything afresh to
decide. I issued my provisional decision in November 2022 explaining why I wasnt intending 
to uphold Mr Ks complaint. Mapfre didnt reply but Mr K was able to provide further evidence 
from the accommodation provider and airline. 
In light of the further information received, I asked our investigator to write to the parties in 
January 2023 explaining why I now intended to direct Mapfre to reconsider Mr Ks claim for 
the cost of the accommodation. I also explained why I felt Mr K still hadnt been able to 
establish that hed been unable to get back the cost of the flights.
I invited both parties to reply. Mapfre didnt respond. Mr K asked us for the evidence showing 
that hed received a refund by way of credit note for one of the flights. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mapfre has an obligation to treat customers fairly. It should also handle claims fairly and
promptly and it mustnt unreasonably decline a claim.
Mapfre hasnt settled Mr Ks claim because it says it needs more evidence to establish that
his losses are irrecoverable. Mr K didnt end up going on his trip, so I think its the 
cancellation section of the policy (starting at page 18) which is relevant here. This section 
provides cover for a trip being cancelled (including unused travel and accommodation 
expenses Mr K paid for) for certain insured events. But it makes clear that this is only for 
expenses which he cannot get back. That term is common in travel insurance policies.
When making a claim under the policy its for Mr K to establish his claim and that he was
unable to get back the expenses he was claiming for. Although, this has delayed a decision
being made about whether his claim is accepted, I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable
for Mapfre to request documentary evidence from Mr K showing that hed attempted to get a
refund of the accommodation and flight costs  or whether refund vouchers or alternatives
were offered. As Mr K hadnt provided that evidence at the time, Im satisfied Mapfres acted 
fairly and reasonably by awaiting this before deciding his claim.
However, more recently, Mr K has been able to provide further documentary evidence 
relevant to his claim. 
The claim for flight costs
The evidence Ive seen from the airline dated April 2020 supports that Mr K received a cash 
refund from the airline for one of his flights and a credit note for the other. I asked Mr K to 
provide information about the credit note he received; including its terms and whether hes 
had the opportunity to redeem credit note. 
Since issuing my provisional decision, Mr K says that he wasnt notified about the credit 
note. He asked the airline some further questions around the credit note and he received a 
reply to say flights are non-refundable but giving details of one of the flights for which he did 
receive a refund. The airline hasnt been able to provide any further information about why 
Mr K received correspondence in April 2020 showing that he received a refund for one of the 
flights and credit for the other. Nor has it confirmed, or explained why, this had been sent in 
error at the time. 
So, based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied on the balance of probabilities that Mr K did most 
likely receive a credit note in or around April 2020. And due to the limited information, Ive 
received about that, I dont think I can fairly conclude that the terms of the credit note were 
unfairly restrictive. Or that Mr K couldnt have benefitted from the credit note.
Although a credit note isnt the same as a cash refund, under the terms of the policy, I
dont think Mr K has established that the cost of the flight is an expense that he hasnt been
able to get back.
The claim for accommodation costs
Ive seen documentary evidence showing that Mr K didnt stay at the hotel on the dates hed
booked. Since bringing a complaint to our service, Mr K had been able to provide evidence 
from the hotel that he wasnt refunded the cost of the accommodation.
The booking confirmation he received confirming his dates of stay and the amount paid says 
that: this booking is non-refundable. Changing the dates of your stay is not possible. 
However, theres also evidence that on 14 March 2020 (so a day before he was due to
travel), the hotel emailed Mr K to say: we would like to inform you that we can keep themoney youve paid for the next three months for a future reservation
Before issuing my provisional decision, I asked Mr K to contact the hotel to see whether it 
would extend the window for him to be able to rebook his stay  given that it had previously 
been extended by three months. At that time, Mr K was reluctant to do so. So, without any 
further evidence, I didnt think it was fair to conclude that the amount he paid for his 
accommodation was something that he couldnt get back. As although he might not have 
been able to receive a cash refund for the booking, I didnt think hed established that this 
was an expense he couldnt get back through a credit note to be used against a later 
booking.
However, since issuing my provisional decision, Mr K has been back in touch with the 
accommodation provider. Its confirmed that it initially offered a credit note for all bookings
affected by Covid-19 until August 2020. And that this was extended to the Autumn of 2021. 
However, it wont be extending this further. Im satisfied that Mr K hasnt had use of the 
credit. Given the impact of Covid-19 and on international travel  at least up until mid-2021 - 
Im satisfied that Mr K wouldve had limited opportunity to have used the credit for the 
accommodation.
Whilst I dont think Mapfre has acted unfairly by awaiting further evidence about the 
accommodation expenses before deciding this claim, Im now satisfied that the unused 
accommodation costs is an expense which Mr K has been unable to get back under the 
cancellation section of the policy. 
Putting things right
I direct Mapfre to reconsider Mr Ks claim for the unpaid accommodation in line with the 
other terms of the policy on the basis that it is an irrecoverable expense he incurred.
My final decision
I partially uphold Mr Ks complaint and direct Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De
Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. to put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman