DRN-3869213
The complaint
Mr P complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc (Sainsburys) were unreasonable to reject a 
claim he made to them under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in November 2022. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
What happened
Mr P signed a contract with a supplier Ill call H in May 2021. He paid a deposit of £4,315
using his Sainsburys credit card.
The contract was to convert a garage into a usable room and alter a utility room. The work
included a new roof, modification of door openings and the need to insulate the floor and
level it with the kitchen floor.
At the end of July 2021 Mr P emailed H telling them he wanted to cancel the contract
because they couldnt give him a date when work would start. He said it was now 10 weeks
since hed signed the contract and hed only been given a vague start date of somewhere
towards the end of August or early September 2021. He also explained that he was
concerned about Hs suggested resolution to a problem with a variation in the floor height
that would currently make it difficult to lay an adequate depth of insulation. He explained that
whilst he had initially agreed with the approach suggested by H he no longer thought it
correct.
H explained that there was no right for Mr P to cancel his contract, so Mr P made a claim to
Sainsburys as he had a like claim against the provider of credit as he did against the
supplier.
Sainsburys didnt uphold his claim. They said thered been no breach of contract or
misrepresentation as H was prepared to complete the work and a solution had been found
by H to achieve the correct insulation and level the floors.
Our investigator thought there had been a breach of contract. She noted that the contract
said it was conditional upon a satisfactory report by the companys surveyor She said 
that Mr P should therefore have expected to receive a copy of that survey and as H
had now explained that there was no written report completed, only a visual inspection by
the company director, who was also a surveyor, there was a breach of contract. She
suggested Sainsburys should therefore refund Mr Ps deposit.
Sainsburys didnt agree with the investigators view and they therefore asked for a decision
by an ombudsman.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr P, but Im not currently expecting to uphold this complaint. Please
let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or in whole, with a credit
card, as is the case here, it might be possible to make a section 75 claim. This section of the
Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit
agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as against the supplier if
there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take
section 75 into account when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I
dont have to reach the same view as, for example, a court might reach when considering
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have
been met.
Was there a breach of contract because a written survey wasnt supplied?
Clause 2 of the contract says This contract is conditional upon a satisfactory report from the
companys surveyor. Upon receiving the survey report the company has the right by written
notice to cancel the contract
Im not persuaded that the contract dictates a written survey should be completed. The terms
dont exclude a report being made orally. I dont think theres any suggestion in the terms
and conditions that Mr P should be provided with a copy of a written survey either.
I dont think the lack of a written survey can therefore fairly be considered to be a breach of
contract. Theres no dispute that a representative from the business came to look at the
property and provided his views on the building work. H have explained that individual was a
surveyor and I think its reasonable to suggest a survey by a company surveyor was
therefore completed, as the contract required.
Was there a breach of contract because it wasnt completed in a reasonable time? 
Mr P has explained that a representative of H visited the property in May 2021 and identified
the problem with the floor. He says that the representative went away to consult Building
Regulations and that when he returned in early June 2021 he proposed a solution.
In an email to H on 30 July 2021 Mr P referred to that proposal and explained that at the
time we reluctantly agreed to this.
So, I think its clear that by at least mid-June a survey/inspection had been completed, a
solution to the floor levelling problem had been agreed, and that any condition in clause 2 ofthe terms and conditions that may suggest H could withdraw from the contract had been
removed.
The contract didnt stipulate a date on which the work would start. Section 52 of the
Consumer Rights Act (2015) explains that in those circumstances the contract is to be
treated as including a term that the trader must perform the service within a reasonable
time.
But I dont think its fair to suggest the delays in starting the work have been unreasonable.
Ive read the reasons Mr P wanted the work completed and I can understand the urgency.
Mr P has explained that it was suggested work would start within 10 to 12 weeks. But I dont
think that period could start until the survey was completed and a solution to the flooring
issue was agreed. That appears to have happened in early June 2021 and as Mr P was
expecting to wait up to 12 weeks I think a reasonable start date would have been in early
September 2021. Whilst the email from H on 12 July 2021 doesnt provide a definitive date it
does suggest work will commence in late August to early September 2021. I think that was a
reasonable timeframe, it was within the 10 to 12 weeks Mr P says he was given at the onset.
I think the delays after 30 July 2021 have been as a result of Mr P raising new concerns
about the floor levelling proposal. H offered to send a representative to his property to
discuss that issue in August 2021 but Mr P refused and as no agreement was reached I
dont think it would be fair to suggest H have delayed the build unreasonably. Im not
therefore persuaded theres been a breach of contract on those grounds.
Has there been a breach of contract because a service hasnt been performed with
reasonable skill and care?
Section 49 (1) of the Consumer Rights Act (2015) says that:
Every contract to supply a service is to be treated as including a term that the trader must
perform the service with reasonable care and skill.
Mr P suggests H havent completed the service with reasonable care and skill as he says the
surveyor failed to contact Building Regulations and to identify an appropriate solution, and
that a simpler resolution was possible as he has subsequently discovered by contacting
Building Regulations himself.
Unfortunately, much of what is alleged here was in conversations between Mr P and Hs
surveyor. Im not persuaded I have sufficient information to suggest the wrong advice was
given. Ive not been provided with clear information about what was agreed. H seem to
suggest that a small area of floor would need to be levelled and Mr P suggests they wanted
to create a ramp and also that they were proposing to breach building regulations. But that
agreement isnt written down and Ive no information to suggest the survey wasnt completed 
with adequate care. I dont therefore think there has been a breach of contract on those
grounds either.
I think its fair to suggest the actual building work will be subject to Building Regulations and
that H are responsible for ensuring thats the case. As that work hasnt yet started its not
possible to say whether its been carried out with reasonable care and skill.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im not expecting to uphold this complaint.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Sainsburys agreed with my provisional decision and explained that as far as they were 
aware the merchant was still prepared to complete the work.
Mr P didnt agree and provided a very detailed response. He noted the events happened in 
2021 and not in 2019 as Id suggested in my provisional decision. Im very sorry I got that 
wrong and Ive amended the dates in the extract of my provisional decision Ive set out 
above in order to avoid any inaccuracies.
Mr Ps response ran to 10 pages. For brevity, I wont list all of the points he has raised here 
but I have read that response in detail and Ive reviewed the evidence he sent in. Some of 
the points Mr P has raised I can see he has previously mentioned, and I have already 
reviewed. That also applied to the photographs and emails he sent in as they were already 
in the file presented to me. I mean no disrespect to Mr P when concentrating my comments 
on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed 
to take it on board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in 
order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Mr P elaborated on why he believed the service hadnt been completed with reasonable care 
and skill. He made reference again to the building regulations that he said allowed for a 
lesser provision in relation to adjoining floor levels in these circumstances. The surveyor 
had proposed a solution to the flooring problem in June 2021 and in July 2021 an email from 
Mr P explained that at the time he reluctantly agreed to it. Im not persuaded therefore that 
by not proposing a lesser provision the surveyor had not acted with due care and skill. It 
appears that the solution he suggested in June 2021 and that was accepted by Mr P (albeit 
reluctantly) will still meet building standards and I think its fair to suggest any building work 
that may take place will be subject to Building Regulation approval. 
Mr P says it wasnt agreed that the door would be changed to open into the kitchen and not 
the garage area. He says the contract only allows for the closure to be removed and a new 
door opening provided. That contract was drafted before the surveyor visited and before his 
proposed solution was reluctantly accepted by Mr P. Im not persuaded I have sufficient 
evidence to suggest this means the contract was breached as would need to be the case if I 
were to suggest Sainsburys had been unreasonable not to uphold the section 75 claim.
Whilst Mr P says the lack of a written survey allows the business to say whatever they 
choose to say, Ive already explained why I believe there was no requirement for a written 
survey. I dont think the wording in the contract was misleading or that it could fairly be said 
to create a false impression that a written survey would be completed.
With regard to the delivery of the project Mr P disputed my interpretation of section 52 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 2015 (section 52) as he said the contract did fix a start date. Ive 
reviewed the contract again and I still dont think a start date is confirmed. The contract only 
suggested the business would contact Mr P to arrange a mutually agreeable start date and 
in those circumstances, as Ive already explained, section 52 says the contract is to be 
treated as including a term that the trader must perform the service within a reasonable 
time. Ive read Mr Ps further submissions in relation to the start date, but I dont think 
theres any new information in those submissions that would lead me to change my view that 
H havent delayed the build unreasonably. Mr P explains that the point at which he believed 
he had to cancel the contract was in July when he realised nothing had been ordered. But, 
as I explained in my provisional decision, I think a reasonable start date would have been in early September 2021 and Im not persuaded that I have sufficient evidence to suggest any 
lack of ordering would delay that start any further.
Whilst I understand Mr Ps strength of feeling about this matter Im afraid Ive not seen 
sufficient evidence to suggest Sainsburys have been unreasonable here and Im not asking 
them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman