DRN-1104799
The complaint
Mr T complains that U K Insurance Limited ("UKI") provided him with poor customer service 
when calling it about his contents insurance policy.
What happened
Mr T held his contents insurance with UKI for many years. In mid 2019 he called UKI about a 
renewal quote he'd received. He said he hoped it would meet a quote he'd found with 
another insurer. But Mr T said the representative wasn't interested in his custom and 
wouldn't meet the quote he'd found. He also complained about the service he'd received on 
UKI's web chat service.
So he wanted to complain to UKI. But upon review its website, Mr T discovered he was 
unable to complain online as he wanted to, and said this breached its obligations set by the 
FCA as it was a barrier to complaining.
UKI responded to say it doesn't have the facility to allow consumers to complain by email, 
but it does provide details of how someone can complain by phone or post. It said it also has 
a web chat service that can be accessed from its website.
Mr T brought his complaint to our service and said he wants UKI to acknowledge it is 
creating barriers to complain. And he said he wanted it to pay him around £60 to 
acknowledge the poor service it provided and to compensate him for the hours he's spent on 
the phone complaining.
One of our investigators looked into what happened and didn't uphold the complaint. He said 
he'd listened to the call and UKI's representative had been clear that it couldn't meet the 
quote Mr T had found elsewhere. The investigator said he didn't think the agent had 
sounded disinterested and that the call was handled reasonably.
UKI hadn't provided a copy of the web chat at this time, but the investigator said he'd been 
given nothing by either party to suggest something went wrong during that conversation. So 
in the absence of this he didn't uphold the complaint. He since obtained a copy of this web 
chat conversation from UKI and shared this with Mr T.
The investigator also said while UKI might not allow customers to complain in the way Mr T 
wanted, he didn't believe it had placed any unreasonable barriers to prevent him from 
complaining.
Mr T disagreed, he said UKI's behaviour was a clear breach of its obligations. And he said 
the attitude of its staff wasn't acceptable, including the web chat. Because he disagreed the 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, I'm not upholding this complaint.
Our service isn't the regulator, our role is not to penalise or punish businesses. Nor is it to 
direct businesses to use particular practices or make general commercial decisions. So 
while I can understand Mr T may be unhappy with the complaint channels UKI currently 
uses, this is ultimately its own decision. And in any case, given Mr T contacted UKI both by 
phone and online, so I can't see that its channels prevented him from complaining.
I have listened to the call between UKI and Mr T, and considered the customer service it 
provided. Mr T said UKI's representatives acted in an unacceptable manner. The call in 
question lasts about two minutes and the staff member is professional and polite in their 
responses to Mr T throughout. The call ends politely and Mr T doesn't express any 
dissatisfaction with what he's told.
Mr T has also complained about the web chat conversation he had with UKI, specifying he 
felt the tone was condescending. He highlighted the agent saying "Not a problem ... enjoy 
the rest of your day!" Having read the entire conversation I'd note the conversation is very 
brief, and the tone from UKI's agent is also polite and professional throughout.
So while I appreciate Mr T feels strongly that UKI hasn't provided him with good customer 
service, I've seen nothing to support this and I don't agree. As a result I'm not persuaded 
UKI has done anything wrong, and I'm not asking it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the above reasons, I'm not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2020.
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman