DRN-3829301
The complaint
Mr E complains that Big Media Presence Limited t/a Contractcars wont refund the fees he 
paid after he cancelled his order for a new car.
What happened
In April 2022, Mr E placed an order for a new car with Contractcars. He signed an order form 
on 28 April 2022, agreeing to be supplied with a new car under a personal contract hire 
agreement. The order form recorded that the expected delivery date of the car would be 26 
weeks later approximately.
On 20 May 2022, Mr E confirmed he wished to cancel the order. He said that a change in his 
personal circumstances meant he no longer wanted the car, and he asked Contractcars to 
refund the £660 in fees he paid it  but it refused to refund any of this.
Mr E complained to Contractcars. He said hed had very limited interaction with it and 
keeping his money wasnt the right thing for it to do. And although Contractcars had offered, 
as a gesture of goodwill, to deal with a future order without charge, Mr E said he was not in a 
position for the foreseeable future to order another car.
Contractcars rejected Mr Es complaint. It said the terms and conditions on the order form 
signed by Mr E confirmed that any monies paid were non-refundable in the event of 
cancellation. It said that this was because the payment was a processing fee for its 
professional services.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said he thought it should be upheld. He 
explained that the Consumer Credit Act 1974 set out what could be charged if an agreement 
was cancelled before the goods were supplied. He said he thought the quotation and order 
were a linked transaction to the personal contract hire agreement that Mr E didnt proceed 
with, and because of this, the maximum that Contractcars can charge for its work is £5.
Contractcars didnt agree so the complaint comes to me to decide. It said the fee reflected 
the work it had undertaken and the time it had spent on Mr Es behalf. And it said that as its 
processing fee wasnt part of any credit agreement, it wasnt certain that a complaint about it 
would fall under this Services jurisdiction.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. And, in making my decision, Ill also set out set out the relevant 
parts of the legislation and regulators rules that are applicable in this case.
The Perimeter Guidance Manual (PERG) of the Financial Conduct Authority handbook says: 
2.7.7E There are six activities that fall within credit broking. These are:
(2) effecting an introduction of an individual who wishes to enter into a consumer hire 
agreement 
I think thats what Contractcars were doing here, and I think the processing fee is a fee 
associated with processing a credit agreement. Accordingly, I think the activity carried out by 
Contractcars for which they charged a processing fee was an ancillary activity carried out in 
relation to their regulated credit broking activities. And this can therefore be considered by 
this Service.
Section 19 of the CCA says: 
(1) A transaction entered into by the debtor or hirer  with any other person (the 
other party)  is a linked transaction in relation to the actual or prospective 
regulated agreement (the principal agreement) of which it does not form part if  
(c) the other party is a person mentioned in subsection (2), and a person so 
mentioned initiated the transaction by suggesting it to the debtor or hirer  
who enters into it  
(i)to induce the creditor or owner to enter into the principal agreement; or 
(ii) for another purpose related to the principal agreement; or 
(iii) where the principal agreement is a restricted-use credit agreement
(2) The persons referred to in subsection (1)(c) are  
(a) the creditor or owner; 
(b) a person who, in the negotiation of the transaction, is represented by a 
credit-broker who is also a negotiator in antecedent negotiations for the 
principal agreement; 
(c) a person who, at the time of the transaction 
(3) A linked transaction entered into before the making of the principal agreement 
has no effect until such time (if any) as that agreement is made.
Mr E was looking to enter into a personal contract hire agreement with a third-party finance 
provider, which was to be initiated and arranged by Contractcars. So, under CCA 19, the 
quotation Mr E signed is a linked transaction to the contract hire agreement. And it has no 
effect until the contract hire agreement came into force. Which didnt happen.
Contractcars maintains that the processing fee is still payable as this doesnt form part of the 
credit agreement.
Section 155 of the CCA says payments for credit broking should be refunded if the 
consumer doesnt enter into the finance agreement within six months. Specifically, it says:
(1) Subject to subsection 2(a), the excess over £5 of a fee or commission for his 
services charged by a credit-broker to an individual to whom this subsection applies 
shall cease to be payable or, as the case may be, shall be recoverable by the individual if the introduction does not result into his entering into a relevant 
agreement within the six months following the introduction  
(2) Subsection (1) applies to an individual who sought an introduction for the purpose 
which would have been fulfilled by his entry into  
a) a regulated agreement
Im in agreement with Contractcars that the processing fee doesnt form part of the credit 
agreement. But a credit agreement is the regulated contract hire agreement between Mr E 
and any third-party finance provider  an agreement that wasnt entered into. The processing 
fee, as confirmed by the quotation, was Contractcars fee for locating and sourcing the car. 
So, this is a fee or commission for services charged by a credit broker, which, under CCA 
155(1) is fully refundable, less £5. So, Im satisfied that the processing fee, less £5, should 
be refunded to Mr E.
Putting things right
Mr E did not proceed with a credit agreement. Section 155 is clear that in those 
circumstances the processing fee, less £5, should be refunded. Mr E has been deprived of 
that money so, Contractcars should also add interest to the refund from the point at which 
Mr E signed the cancellation paperwork  the point at which Mr E couldve reasonably 
expected to have had his money returned.
Contractcars should
refund payments made by Mr E to it, less £5
apply 8% simple interest to that refund, calculated from the date Mr E cancelled the 
order to the date of settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Big Media Presence Limited t/a 
Contractcars to pay compensation to Mr E as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 February 2023.
 
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman