DRN-2026794
complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance policy (MPPI) policy taken 
out with a mortgage in 2000.
Mrs C and Mr D say that Bank of Scotland (trading as Halifax) mis sold them the MPPI. 
background
Mrs C and Mr Ds mortgage was taken out in joint names  but the policy only covered Mr D.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint  but didnt think that it should be upheld. 
Mrs C and Mr D didnt agree  so the complaint has been passed to me to make a final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs C and Mr D say that they didnt know they had MPPI  they say that it was added 
without their consent and that they werent told that it was optional. But I think that Halifax 
did show that the MPPI was a separate optional product  and that Mrs C and Mr D chose to 
take it out  although I can understand why they dont remember as the policy was taken out 
20 years ago. I know this will be disappointing for Mrs C and Mr D  so Ill explain why.
Halifax has provided paperwork from the time that the mortgage and MPPI policy were taken 
out  including a mortgage application, and separate MPPI application form. On looking at 
these, I can see that on the mortgage application, the MPPI is set out as an optional 
insurance product  and Mr D has signed to agree to taking it out. The separate MPPI 
application form then goes on to set out the costs and benefits of the policy. Mr D has also 
signed this application form.
Halifax recommended the MPPI to Mrs C and Mr D  so it had to make sure that the policy 
was right for them  and from what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. For example  Mr D, as the person covered by the policy, wasnt affected by any of the 
exclusion or limits on the policy  and Mrs C and Mr D seem to have had a need for the 
cover.
Mrs C and Mr D also say that they couldnt afford the MPPI  and that the purpose of taking 
out the mortgage was to downsize and reduce their outgoings. They say that the MPPI 
repayments pushed them in to further debt  and that they couldnt afford their mortgage 
repayments because of it. But the costs of the policy were clearly set out in the MPPI 
application. And as Ive said above, Mrs C and Mr C knew they had a choice in taking it out. 
It also looks like Halifax completed a review of their finances  including existing debts to be 
refinanced or not, by the new mortgage  taking in to account what was affordable for them. 
And its also worth saying that the MPPI couldve provided valuable cover for an important 
outgoing, should Mr D have become unwell or lost his job.
Its possible that some of the information Halifax gave to Mrs C and Mr D wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been. But as they chose to take it out, it looks like they wanted this type of cover. 
So, I dont think better information about the MPPI would have put them off taking out the 
cover.
This means that Halifax doesnt have to pay back the cost of the MPPI to Mrs C and Mr D. 
Ive thought about everything that Mrs C and Mr D have said  but these points dont change 
my decision.
other considerations
Ive also thought about whether Bank of Scotland (trading as Halifax) needs to give back 
Mrs C and Mr D some of the commission they paid on the MPPI policy. But the Supreme 
Court ruling, and subsequent rules and guidance only apply to credit agreements (in this 
case, Mrs C and Mr Ds mortgage account) taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or which were 
still running on 6 April 2008. And from the information Ive seen, these dates dont apply. So, 
Bank of Scotland (trading as Halifax) doesnt have to pay back any of the commission they 
paid. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 January 2021.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman