DRN-2899412
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as S has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) 
unfairly turned down its business interruption insurance claim.
Mr G, a director of S, has brought the complaint on Ss behalf.
What happened
S held a business interruption insurance policy with RSA. It claimed on its policy in March 
2020 after being impacted by the Governments response to the Covid-19 pandemic. 
RSA said Ss claim wasnt covered by the policy. They said that the extension for disease 
didnt provide cover because Covid-19 wasnt one of the diseases listed in the policy; and 
the extension for public emergency didnt provide cover because S hadnt closed due to an 
emergency in the vicinity of its premises. 
S complained to our service, as it thought the extension for public emergency should provide 
cover for the circumstances of its claim. 
While we were looking into things, RSA let S know that the High Court had considered the 
public emergency wording in its policy as part of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) test 
case. However, following the outcome of the test case, RSA maintained that they had made 
the correct decision in turning down Ss claim. 
Our investigator looked into Ss complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He didnt think 
the extension for disease provided cover, as Covid-19 wasnt a specified disease within the 
policy. And he didnt think S had closed due to an emergency in the vicinity of its premises. 
So he thought RSA had turned down Ss claim in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy. 
S disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. It said, when buying the policy, it had 
been told the policy provided cover for business interruption. So it thought RSA should pay 
its claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact on 
Ss business. However, Im not going to uphold its complaint. Ill explain why.  
 
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to 
see if RSA have acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy when declining Ss claim. S doesnt seem to dispute that there isnt cover under the 
extension for disease, so I will focus my decision on the extension for public emergency. 
However, for completeness, I also dont think there is cover under the extension for disease, 
as Covid-19 isnt one of the diseases specified in the policy.
Public Emergency
 
This extension provides cover for interruption or interference with Ss business due to:
The actions or advice of a competent Public Authority due to an emergency 
likely to endanger life or Property in the vicinity of the Premises which prevents 
or hinders the use of or access to the Premises.
When reaching a decision, Im required to take account of relevant law. I think the High 
Court judgment is relevant to Ss complaint as the judges considered the extension in 
Ss policy and that part of the judgment wasnt appealed to the Supreme Court. 
Paragraphs 466-467 of the judgment say:
we do not consider that the entire country can be described as in the vicinity
of the insured premises on the wording of this policy. It follows that the 
government action and advice in response to the national pandemic cannot be 
said to be due to an emergency in the vicinity, in the sense of in the 
neighbourhood, of the insured premises.
There could only be cover under this wording if the insured could also 
demonstrate that it was an emergency by reason of COVID-19 in the vicinity, in 
that sense of the neighbourhood, of the insured premises, as opposed to the 
country as a whole, which led to the actions or advice of the government...
I see no reason to depart from the judgment. I think this extension was intended to 
provide cover in the event of an emergency in Ss local area. And while there may well 
have been a number of cases of Covid-19 within the vicinity of Ss premises, I dont 
think the Governments response to the national pandemic was due to an emergency in 
the vicinity of S as opposed to the country as a whole. 
S has also indicated that it was told the policy would cover all business interruption. If S 
thinks it was given incorrect information when it bought the policy, it would need to 
raise that as a complaint with the seller of the policy first and it would be considered 
separately. 
I appreciate my decision will be disappointing for Mr G, but having considered things very 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require RSA to pay Ss claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman