DRN-3544572
The complaint
Mr L complains through his representative that Lendable Ltd lent him money on high cost 
loans that he couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
Lendable provided Mr L with the following loans:
Date of loan Amount lent Monthly 
instalment)Term of loan Date repaid
Loan 1 8/8/2017 £3,500 £145 36 months 4/2/2019
Loan 2 26/6/2018 £3,000 £85 54 months Still 
outstanding
*rounded up
He paid all the instalments and made an early repayment on loan 1, but got into difficulties 
with loan 2, missing several payments. I havent seen any up to date position on this loan, 
but I believe its still outstanding.
Mr L complained to Lendable that the loans were unaffordable to him. Lendable said that it 
carried out all necessary verification and credit checks on both loans and assessed both as 
being affordable.
Our adjudicator said that Lendable had made a fair lending decision in respect of loan 1, but 
that it shouldnt have lent the money for loan 2. This was because he thought Mr Ls 
combined regular consumer credit repayments, including the monthly repayments for loan 2 
represented a significant proportion of his income. So he said there was a significant risk 
that he wouldnt have been able to meet his existing commitments without having to borrow 
again.
Lendable didnt agree. It pointed out that firstly, his credit file showed he had two unsecured 
loans, a credit card, and a current account (with a £750 overdraft facility available to him). 
The information showed that Mr L had kept up with the repayments across these accounts 
for at least 36 months - but also that he was not using all of the credit available to him. For 
example, he had not spent to the limit of his credit card account and had not made use of his 
current account overdraft facility for at least eight months prior to his application.
Secondly, a proportion of his debt consisted of repayments made to his hire purchase (HP) 
account. It would suggest that making repayments to this sort of account is not
reasonably indicative of the customer being in financial difficulty - as it does not suggest a 
reliance on using credit to meet living costs.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did Lendable complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr L 
would be able to repay the loans in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr L would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required Lendable to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Ls ability to make the repayments under the agreements. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Lendable had to think about whether repaying 
the loans would be sustainable. In practice this meant that Lendable had to ensure that 
making the repayments on the loans wouldnt cause Mr L undue difficulty or significant 
adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet repayments out of 
normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without failing to make any 
other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and without the 
repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Lendable to simply think about the likelihood of it getting 
its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr L. Checks also 
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that such a check ought generally to have been more thorough:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
a higher repayment from a particular level of income).
The greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during which a 
customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal 
that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Both loans required repayment over a significant amount of time so Lendable should have 
carried out a thorough assessment in each case to ensure that the loans were affordable. In 
respect of both loans, Lendable has supplied the information it considered when issuing the 
loans. However, although I can see the information concerning Mr Ls credit commitments, I havent seen an assessment of his disposable income in either case, as Lendable assessed 
what percentage of Mr Ls income was available for discretionary and living expenses, 
without specifying what it assessed those were. Mr L has supplied bank statements in 
respect of the first loan (although these werent seen, or requested by Lendable), so Ive 
drawn some assumptions from those statements.
loan 1
Mr L had a credit card with a balance on it of around £1,400, and an HP loan for which he 
was paying £177 a month. L assessed that after payment of his credit debts (allowing 3% a 
month of the balance in respect of the credit card), these amounted to around 24% of his 
monthly income which it assessed at £1,462. Looking at his bank statements I think 
Lendable made a reasonable assumption that Mr L would have the necessary disposable 
income to meet the new loan repayments. The credit report didnt show any defaults or 
recent use of an overdraft.  So I think it made a fair lending decision in respect of this loan.
loan 2
This loan was issued whilst Mr L was still paying for loan 1 and had over two years left to 
pay. The new loan didnt pay off the old loan. So, taking into account both loan payments, a 
further loan, a credit card debt that had increased to over £2,350 and Mr Ls HP loan, 
Lendable calculated that his credit to income ratio was nearly 40%. Considering how much 
this figure had increased since loan 1 I think this was very high. And, taking into account that 
Mr Ls income was the same as at loan 1, I think at his was an indication that the loan was 
unaffordable.
Lendable has said that the existence of the HP account isnt indicative of financial difficulty. 
That may be so, but it still needs to be taken into account in calculating credit commitments. 
And the regulations say potential indicators that the level of affordability risk arising out of the 
agreement may be high include circumstances where the total value of the customers 
outstanding debts relative to the customers income is high. Further, although Lendable 
points out that Mr L hadnt spent to the limit of his credit card this was only because he had 
previously had a limit of £1,750, which by the time of the new application had increased to 
£2,500. He hadnt reached the new limit but was only £150 off it.
So I think, bearing in mind the change in Mr Ls credit record since loan 1, with no increase 
in income, that loan 2 was unaffordable. I dont think Lendable made a fair lending decision.
Putting things right
Mr L has had the capital sum for loan 2 and its fair that he repays this. So I will require 
Lendable to do the following:
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan.
Treat any payments made by Mr L as payments towards the capital amount.
If Mr L has paid more than the capital, refund any overpayments to him with 8% 
simple interest* from the date they were paid to the date of settlement.
But if theres still an outstanding balance, Lendable should come to a reasonable 
repayment plan with Mr L.
Remove any adverse information about loan 2 from Mr Ls credit file.*HM Revenue & Customs requires Lendable to deduct tax from this interest. It should give
Mr L a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint concerning loan 1.
I uphold the complaint concerning loan 2 and require Lendable Ltd to provide the remedy set 
out under Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman