DRN-3038634
The complaint
Mr A complains that Ikano Bank AB (publ) has applied a default to his credit file despite 
agreeing to accept a partial settlement for a loan.    
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. In my provisional decision I explained why intended to uphold Mr As complaint. In 
brief, I said: 
- Mr A contacted Ikano in October 2020 and asked it to accept a partial settlement for 
a loan. Mr A told Ikano he was due to emigrate 
- Ikano agreed to accept £2,000 against a balance of £5,300
- Ikano went on to record a default on Mr As credit file as well as confirming hed 
made a partial settlement
- Mr A complained but Ikano didnt agree any errors had been made and didnt offer to 
remove the default
- An investigator at this service upheld Mr As complaint and asked Ikano to delete the 
default from his credit file. They also asked Ikano to pay Mr A £100 for the distress 
and inconvenience caused
- As Ikano asked to appeal, Mr As complaint was referred to me. I provisionally upheld 
Mr As complaint and said Ikano failed to make it sufficiently clear that making a 
partial settlement would lead to a default being recorded on his credit file 
- I said Ikano should give Mr A the option of reinstating his loan and monthly 
repayments at which point, it should remove the default from his credit file. I also said 
Ikano should pay Mr A £300. 
- Mr A didnt agree the settlement was fair and said the default should be removed and 
existing partial settlement should remain in place 
- Ikano responded and said systems limitations mean it isnt able to reinstate the loan 
- Ikano was asked to respond with alternative options to resolve Mr As complaint. We 
also explained that if no alternative was provided, Id likely tell Ikano to remove the 
default entry entirely
- No further contact from Ikano has been received
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ikanos response explained limitations caused by the way its loan system works means it 
cant reinstate the loan. I asked Ikano to respond with an alternative option, but no further 
information has been provided. I explained that if no reasonable alternative exists, I would 
most likely tell Ikano to remove its entry entirely. 
As I said in my provisional decision, Ikano failed to make the consequences of agreeing a 
partial settlement sufficiently clear to Mr A when it discussed the process with him. I remain 
of the view that if Mr A had been given the correct information he wouldnt have proceeded.
As I still think Mr As complaint should be upheld, Im going to proceed on that basis. Ikano 
has told us it cant put the proposed settlement in place so Im going to proceed in line with 
guidance weve given since the provisional decision was issued.   
Putting things right
To resolve Mr As complaint Ikano should: 
- Remove the default and any adverse information recorded on Mr As credit file from 
October 2020 
- Pay Mr A £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr As complaint and direct Ikano Bank AB (publ) to settle in line 
with the above guidance.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman