DRN-4447774
The complaint
Mrs S has complained Santander UK plc wont refund money for two transactions on a credit 
card that werent authorised.
What happened
Mrs S is the main cardholder on a credit card account with Santander. Her husband, Mr S, is 
a secondary cardholder. His card, ending 5430, is where the fraud occurred. I will refer to 
him throughout for ease.
In April Mr S received a text explaining hed need to pay £1.50 to release a parcel from 
Royal Mail. As he was expecting something from overseas, he arranged to do this. Very 
shortly afterwards he received a text from Santander alerting him to suspicious activity on his 
credit card.
After calling Santander, he confirmed two transactions that werent his and was told as they 
hadnt been processed, they would be returned. This didnt happen. Mr S complained to 
Santander that hed not made these transactions. Santander believed their evidence showed 
Mr S had authorised these transactions within his Santander app.
Mr S brought Mrs Ss complaint to the ombudsman service. Our investigator felt the 
evidence Santander provided to us wasnt clear despite questioning Santander carefully 
about what certain aspects meant. On the other hand Mr Ss evidence was clear that hed 
been a victim of a scam and she could identify a clear point of compromise. She asked 
Santander to refund the transactions debited to Mr Ss credit card.
Santander disagreed and provided further evidence. In light of the continued disagreement, 
an ombudsman has been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The regulations which are relevant to Mrs Ss complaint are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs). These primarily require banks and financial institutions to refund 
customers if they didnt make or authorise payments themselves. 
To help me come to a decision, Ive reviewed the evidence Santander provided as well as 
what Mr S has told us. 
I believe these transactions were carried out by a third party and not Mr S. I say this 
because:
Mr S has shown us the text he received about having to pay £1.50 to Royal Mail. In 
making this payment, I believe a third party was able to obtain Mr Ss credit card 
details along with sufficient other information to be used to carry out two disputed 
online transactions.
Santander has provided us with evidence they claim shows Mr S approved these 
transactions using the Santander app. This process  like most third-party 
authentication processes for card payments  depend on the merchant using the 
required method of authentication. If these were disputed transactions, I wonder 
whether the merchant was able to simulate authentication although I admit the 
evidence is not clear on this.
Mr S vehemently denies having authenticated these transactions using his app. I 
have to wonder why he would authenticate two transactions for over £430 each 
carried out on an overseas website when, as I believe all parties agree, Mr S didnt 
make the payments.
There are two clear parts to authorisation under the PSRs: authentication and 
consent. Theres nothing in Mrs Ss credit card terms and conditions which would 
contradict this. Ive seen no evidence to show Mr S consented to these two disputed 
transactions. In fact any evidence there is about where these transactions were 
made suggest the use of an overseas IP address.
Santanders own complaint notes state if possible that consumer has been socially 
engineered, and wasnt aware of the payment, claim should be upheld. Im 
disappointed they didnt follow their own processes when the social engineering 
aspect to this seems clear to me.
Putting things right
As Im satisfied there is insufficient evidence to show Mr S authorised these two 
transactions, Santander will need to re-credit Mrs Ss credit card account for the two 
disputed sums of £535.87 and £439.05, along with any associated fees or charges, including 
interest.
Santander did not provide us with statements, so I dont know whether Mrs S paid her credit 
card bill in full by 24 May 2023 or, in light of the disputed transactions, only paid what she 
believed was owed.
If Mrs S paid the bill in full, Santander will also need to pay 8% simple interest on £974.92 
from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is to instruct Santander UK plc to:
Rework Mrs Ss credit card account to show the two disputed transactions were not 
authorised, ensuring that there are no fees, charges or interest related to these two 
transactions; andPay 8% simple interest on £974.92 to Mrs S if she paid the credit card bill in full by 
the due date in May 2023.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman