DRN-3305727
The complaint
Mrs B complains about Fairmead Insurance Limiteds handling of her claim for storm 
damage and its subsequent decline decision, under her buildings insurance policy. 
What happened
In February 2020 Mrs B contacted Fairmead as the extension of her home had been flooded 
because of storm Dennis. 
Fairmead arranged an inspection by its loss adjustor and accepted Mrs Bs claim under the 
insured loss of flood. It says the patio outside the extension had flooded and sandbags, Mrs 
B had installed, didnt prevent water entering her house. Drying of the property was 
arranged, with some skirting boards removed. Mrs B also arranged for a dehumidifier to be 
installed. The drying works were completed in July 2020. 
The inspection notes show Mrs B wanted to use the contractor who built her extension to 
carry out restoration work. A cash payment was thought to be the most suitable form of 
settlement in these circumstances so Mrs B could use this to pay her contractor. 
Mrs B says the extension wasnt flooded from the garden. There were damp patches, but 
this wasnt caused by water flowing into her property, it came up through the flooring. She 
says other areas of her home wouldve been flooded if what Fairmead said was true. She 
also says compost bags not sandbags had been used and her contractor didnt think another 
soakaway was needed, as one was already in place.  
Mrs B says between April and September 2020 she suffered a bereavement and a period of 
ill-health. This meant regular visits to hospital and afterwards feeling unwell for several 
weeks on each occasion. Because of this she didnt arrange for carpet to be installed in the 
now dried out extension room. In September Mrs B noticed a further damp patch in the 
concrete floor and contacted Fairmead again. 
Fairmead says it offered to carry out further drying work if the damp was connected to the 
original claim. It says this was delayed as Mrs B wanted to receive her Covid vaccinations 
before contractors again visited her home. Fairmead says a visit took place in March 2021 
and high moisture readings were identified. Further investigations pointed to a potential leak 
from a radiator pipe. Fairmead says Mrs B was advised to arrange further investigations. 
Mrs Bs insurance broker was prompted by Fairmead to contact her. It says her broker 
assisted by arranging excavation of the affected area. Mrs B says the contractors left a large 
hole in her floor and didnt return to repair the damage. Fairmead says this wasnt its 
responsibility as her buildings insurer and it didnt arrange the excavation work. 
Fairmead says the excavation showed that a pipe had been installed incorrectly, which was 
compromising the damp proof course. It says Mrs Bs broker told her that her buildings 
insurance didnt cover this. It says Mrs B disputed this was the cause of the damp and 
requested that the inspector who visited in March 2020 should return to ensure the correct 
decision had been made. A further inspection took place in June 2021 by the same loss 
adjustor from March 2020. 
Fairmead says following this inspection it was correct to record the loss as the result of a 
flood. But it says the subsequent issues with damp are not the result of this cause. Salt tests 
confirm the damp is from rainfall entering the property via the defective damp proof course. 
In addition, it says an area of defective damp proof course was noticed under the step of the 
French doors. It says this allows water to enter the concrete floor when the patio area floods.   
Fairmead says no soakaway channels had been dug as of July 2021  which it had advised 
Mrs B to arrange in 2020. Its inspection also revealed that the patio slabs were laid over 
non-porous plastic sheeting, which it says creates the flooding outside the French doors. 
Fairmead says it loss adjustor explained to Mrs B that these issues were considered 
maintenance matters and arent covered by her policy.
Mrs B says there have been no issues with damp for the 22 years her extension has been 
built. She doesnt think the damp course is the problem. She also says the sheeting under 
the patio is porous and not as the business claims preventing water draining away. She says 
on the two occasions when technicians came to investigate the excavated floor it wasnt 
raining. Mrs B says this contrasts with Fairmeads comments that it was raining both times. 
Mrs B wasnt satisfied with Fairmeads response and referred her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold her complaint. She thought Fairmeads investigation showed 
the cause of the repeat dampness wasnt linked to the flood claim. She thought its view was 
persuasive that the cause of this was a compromised damp proof course.          
Our investigator initially thought the investigations had revealed a potential leak. And this 
could be considered as a separate claim. However, this was a misunderstanding. No leak 
was identified, so there was no scope for a further claim. 
Mrs B disagreed with this outcome and asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold Mrs Bs complaint. I understand this will be a 
disappointment for Mrs B, but I will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
Its Mrs Bs role to show that an insured event has occurred, if she can do this then generally 
the insurer must accept the claim, unless it can rely on a valid exclusion not to. In this case 
Mrs B made a claim for storm damage because of heavy rainfall that fell during the named 
storm, Dennis.
Fairmead accepted there was a claim. But it says the cause was attributable to that of a 
flood, not a storm. I note both causes are covered by Mrs Bs policy. Fairmead says flood 
was the cause of the damage and provides a dictionary definition of what this is. It says:
An overflowing of a large amount of water beyond its normal confines, especially 
over what is normally dry land.
To cover or submerge (a place or area) with water.
Water to arrive in overwhelming amounts or quantities. Mrs B has raised concerns with her claim being classed as the result of a flood as opposed 
to storm damage. I have thought about whether the cause of the loss used by Fairmead was 
appropriate and whether it has impacted on her claim. 
Fairmead has shown that water collected on the patio outside the French doors of Mrs Bs 
extension, for several reasons. Mrs B says she used compost bags to create a barrier 
against water entering her home, because of water pooling in this area. I think this clearly 
shows water built up in an area adjacent to Mrs Bs property that the water has resulted in 
damage. So, I think it was reasonable to attribute the cause of the loss to flood damage. 
I have considered the loss adjustors report following the inspection in March 2020, to 
understand what she found. The report says:
We are advised that during the recent storm considering caused by storm Dennis, 
excessive rain collected on the patio area outside of the insureds French doors and despite 
sandbags being deployed, the water entered through the bottom of the doors into her 
extension room. 
New skirting boards will be required and the concrete slab will take approximately one month 
to dry and the room needs re-emulsioning.
The insured will get her original contractor who built the extension to room to undertake 
the decorative works and he is also planning to dig soakaways in the garden for the excess 
water to drain as the land has shifted over time sloping down towards the property, allowing 
water to collect outside the French doors. 
The second report from the inspection in July 2021 says:
We met with the [contractor] technician at the insureds property. We were shown the two 
separate areas of dampness which have occurred after the original flood and which were 
subject to trace and access work and salt sampling by [contractor]. We understand from 
[contractor] this dampness has not been caused by a leaking pipe and is most likely excess 
rainwater which enters via the defective damp proof course around the edge of the property. 
There is clearly an area of defective damp proof course under the step of the French 
doors which allows water to enter the concrete floor whenever the patio is flooded. We 
discussed our original visit with the insured and she denied that the water had entered via 
the doors of the patio but had somehow entered the concrete  method unknown. She says 
it was not flood. However initial notification says that water was entering via the patio doors 
from the flooded patio and sandbags were deployed with water was [sic] coming over the 
top, so much so she had to go and stay with friends. 
The [contractor] technician has visited twice when it has been raining heavily to identify the 
deposits found in the concrete floor and the insured was adamant that he had never visited 
when it had been raining. 
This is not an insurable peril and would be treated as general maintenance or wear and 
tear and it is her responsibility to get this sorted. We also suggested she gets her own 
contractor to check the flooring as she does not accept any of the previous investigations by 
[contractor] and she said she had done this and nothing had been foundWe again 
reiterated that as far as we could see and as [contractor] have advised this is not an 
insurable peril and would therefore not be covered.   
It is to be noted that her contractor was going to be instructed to dig soak away channels 
which we suggested after our visit. However, this has not been undertaken and we noticed that the patio slabs have been set on non porous plastic sheeting which does not allow water 
to drain away and created flooding in front of the patio doors. 
In summing up we are of the opinion that she has not been proactive in undertaking any of 
the recommended solutions to the patio area and if it rains again a similar situation could 
occur due to her lack of remedial actions. 
I have looked at the inspection photos that show areas of damp on the exterior extension 
room wall. The photos also show where areas of gravel reach the level of the damp proof 
course externally. The photos show salt deposits above the damp proof course on the 
exterior bricks, which indicates the level reached by the flooding. The photos also show the 
area of damp proof course directly below the patio doors, which is highlighted as defective 
by the inspection report. 
We arent experts in this area and must rely on the information provided by those who are. 
Fairmead has provided comprehensive explanations in its experts inspection reports that 
the ongoing dampness is not the result of the original flood claim in February 2020. It has 
identified defects with the damp proof course and issues with the patio area allowing water 
to pool and cause ongoing dampness internally. Having considered this information, I think 
Fairmeads view of the cause of the damp is persuasive. So, I dont think Mrs B has shown 
that she suffered an insured loss for the claim she made in September 2020.
The policy terms under the General Exceptions section say:
This policy does not insure the following: Loss or damage arising from: 
- gradual causes 
- wear and tear.
Fairmeads loss adjustor says the cause of the damp issue can be attributed to a 
maintenance issue or wear and tear. Given the causes identified, this seems reasonable and 
is not a cause covered by Mrs Bs policy.  
I acknowledge Mrs Bs view that a defective damp proof course is not the cause of the 
problem. But I havent seen evidence from an expert showing that this is the case. Similarly, 
I note her comments that the sheeting beneath the patio is porous - and that it isnt 
necessary to create further drainage. But again, I havent seen evidence that this is the case.  
Mrs B says the drying certificate included a guarantee for 12 months. I understand the point 
she is making, as further dampness was identified within this period. But Fairmead has 
shown this dampness is not related to the flood claim but is the result of a defective damp 
proof course. This isnt covered by her insurance policy, and the drying work wasnt intended 
to resolve this issue. 
I understand the excavation hole arranged by Mrs Bs insurance broker was left unfilled. I 
can understand that this has been a cause of concern. But this wasnt something Fairmead 
arranged or is responsible for. So, I cant ask it to take any action to resolve this point.  
Im sorry to hear of Mrs Bs bereavement and ill health. This must have been a difficult time 
for her, and I can understand why dealing with this claim has been upsetting. I hope she is 
able to resolve the damp issues in her extension room.
Having considered all of this I dont think Fairmead treated Mrs B unfairly when it recorded a 
flood claim and arranged drying of the property and a settlement payment for repairs. I also 
think it behaved fairly in determining Mrs B hadnt shown she had suffered an insured loss 
and declining her later claim. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do anymore.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman