DRN-2093950
The complaint
Ms M says Santander UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy in 1995 to go with a mortgage.
What happened
Our adjudicator thought Ms Ms complaint should be upheld but Santander didnt agree. So, 
the complaint came to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision in respect of this complaint on 2 July 2020, I quote from it 
below so forms part of this final decision. In my provisional decision I set out the reasons 
why I was minded not to uphold Ms Ms complaint about the miss-sale of the PPI. 
In the letter accompanying the provisional decision I asked the parties to the complaint to let 
me have any further representations that they wished me to consider by 1 August 2020. At 
the time of writing, I have not received any further submission from Santander but I have 
received a response from Ms M. I consider that sufficient time has been given for a response 
had Santander wished to make one. So, I am proceeding to my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ms case.
In my provisional decision I explained that,
Where there isnt much evidence (as is the case here) or theres contradictory evidence 
for me to consider, I need to make my decision based on a balance of probabilities  that 
is to say, Ill consider what I do have, look at what both sides have said, and make a 
decision based on what I think most likely happened.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it, 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context.
I am currently minded not to uphold Ms Ms complaint. I explain why below.
Its not straightforward trying to decide on cases when there are no documents available 
from the time of the sale. Its maybe not surprising that neither party has been able to 
provide the application for the time, as these events happened over 24 years ago.
Ms M recalls taking the cover but told us she did so as she was advised her mortgage 
application would be more likely to be approved if she did. Santander said the PPI started 
in November 1995 and the start date for the credit was in December 1999. So, the policy 
appears to have been sold as a standalone policy, separate to the application for any 
credit. And Ive not seen anything that clearly shows Santander didnt make Ms M aware 
the PPI was optional. Considering how long ago the sale was in this case, I havent seen 
sufficient evidence to be able to uphold the complaint on these points.
So whilst acknowledging that things could have happened just as Ms M said, having 
considered all the submissions I have received in this case, I think its more likely that 
Santander wouldve made Ms M aware that the PPI was optional and that she chose to 
take it, even though she may not remember that now, many years later.
Santander recommended the PPI to Ms M so it had to check if it was right for her. Having 
considered all the submissions made in this case, I have seen insufficient evidence to 
think that the PPI was unsuitable for Ms M.
In saying this I have noted that Ms Ms representatives think differently. Ms M told us 
she had a pre-existing medical condition that made the policy unsuitable for her.
And Ms M told us she was employed on a six month contract in November 1995 of 
which shed worked five months already. I have a copy of the product document 
Santander says applied to this sale. The policy stated,
To qualify for Paymentcare, you 
must Have been:
Employed for at least 16 hours a week continuously for at least 6 months at the time 
of applying for cover, or
self-employed continuously for at least 6 months, 
or on a fixed-term contract that has at least 12 
months to run when your cover is due to start.
Ms M told us she didn't have 12 months left to run on her contract as she was on a 
succession of six month contract from 1994 and for over 10 years. So, Ms M thinks this 
also made the policy unsuitable for her.
We asked Santander for their thoughts on these issues. They referred us to the contact that 
Ms M made to them directly in March 2019. Ms Ms representatives told us Ms M didnt 
know she was making a PPI complaint at that time but rather that she was making a 
complaint about paying premiums to protect a mortgage that had been repaid. Santander 
has provided its notes from that call. I repeat the call notes as they were provided. It 
consists of a series of questions asked of Ms M and her answers.
Can you tell me the reason for your complaint today? ppi missold: I dont even no I had 
ppi Were you employed at the time that the policy was taken out? YesIf Yes, was this employment full time, part time or were you self-employed? Full 
time At the time of taking the policy did you have any known medical conditions? 
No.
At the time of taking the policy did your employer offer sick pay and redundancy if 
needed and if so what are the details? Sick pay  yes
Redundancy  yes.
This seems to suggest that when asked questions that were fairly clear in nature, Ms M 
gave answers that suggest, she knew she was making a PPI complaint, that she had not 
had any known medical conditions at the time of the sale, and that she was a full time 
employee who was entitled to sick pay and redundancy cover (unlike a contractor).
So, Ms Ms actual circumstances are in some doubt. We asked Ms M for evidence to 
support her later testimony about these matters and, at the point of writing, we have 
received none. Whilst thats maybe not surprising considering the time thats passed since 
the sale, it means there is a lack of clarity surrounding Ms Ms circumstances at the time of 
the sale. So, considering everything thats been submitted in this case, and considering the 
length of time that has passed since the sale in this case, without further evidence to 
support Ms Ms more recent testimony, I am unable to uphold her complaint on either of 
these issues.
So, on balance, Ive seen insufficient evidence to think Ms M was ineligible for the policy 
or that shed have been affected by any of the main exclusions from or limitations to the 
cover the policy offered.
And having thought about the circumstances of Ms M at the time, I think she could have 
found the policy useful. The PPI would have paid out in addition to whatever sick pay Ms 
M may have been entitled to and would have protected the modest savings Ms M told us 
she had.
This policy could have paid the benefit amount for at least up to 12 months, in the event Ms 
M suffered from ill health, or lost her job. So, having thought carefully about this, I think Ms 
M could have found the policy useful.
So, on balance, I have seen insufficient evidence currently to think the policy was 
unsuitable for Ms M.
Santander also had to make sure Ms M got the information she needed to decide if the 
PPI was right for her. Its possible that the information Santander gave Ms M about PPI 
wasnt as clear as it couldve been. But for the same reasons that led me to conclude 
currently that the policy wasnt unsuitable at the time of the sale, I dont think that 
clearer information about the policy would have led Ms M to make a different decision.
So, I dont think that Santander has to refund all the money that Ms M paid for the policy. 
But it has offered to refund some of the money that Ms M paid for it. So, I dont think it need 
to do anything more than it has already offered to do.
In her response to the provisional decision, Ms M provided evidence to show that she had 
a mortgage in 1998 with Santander. So, the policy may not have been sold as a 
standalone policy as I said in the provisional decision. Ms M thinks that demonstrates that 
her recollection, that she was told she had to take the cover to get the mortgage, is more likely than Santanders testimony that she was given a choice and chose to take the cover. 
Im not persuaded thats the case just because the policy appears not to have been a 
standalone policy. 
When thinking about whether Ms M took the cover knowing she had a choice to do so, Ive 
noted that both parties have different accounts of what happened in 1995 with respect to 
the optional nature of the sale. Ive also thought about the fact that these events occurred 
over 24 years ago and I have no physical evidence from the time of the sale to look at, that 
speaks to the optional nature of the sale or otherwise. However, considering how long ago 
the sale was in this case, and in the absence of any evidence that supports Ms Ms 
testimony, it remains the case that I havent seen sufficient evidence to be able to uphold 
the complaint on these points.
And whilst Ive read and thought about everything that Ms M has said in this case, I have to 
note that she has yet to provide a single piece of evidence that supports her testimony about 
her employment status or the pre-existing medical condition she told us about. 
So, I have considered again all of the evidence and arguments from the outset in order to 
decide what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. In the absence of 
any further evidence in support of the testimony each party has provided, I find no reason to 
depart from my original findings as set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and within my provisional decision, I do not uphold Ms Ms 
complaint and I make no award against Santander UK Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 October 2020.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman