DRN-3892561
The complaint
Mrs D complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) lent to her 
irresponsibly.
What happened
AESEL approved Mrs Ds application for a credit card in 2019 with an initial credit limit of 
£1000.
Mrs D thinks that AESEL lent to her irresponsibly because she couldnt afford to repay the 
credit without incurring further debt.
AESEL disagrees. It says it used the information provided by Mrs D and carried out credit 
checks before approving the application and found nothing to indicate that Mrs D wasnt able 
to sustainably repay the borrowing.
Our investigator agreed with AESEL and said that the information about Mrs Ds financial 
circumstances at the time of the application didnt indicate that Mrs D was experiencing 
financial difficulties.
Mrs D didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending is set out on our 
website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering Mrs Ds complaint.
Before providing credit to a customer, wed expect AESEL to carry out reasonable and 
proportionate checks to ensure that the lending is sustainably affordable.
AESEL has said that it used the financial information provided by Mrs D along with 
information provided by the credit reference agencies.
There isnt detailed information about the checks carried out by AESEL. So Im unable to say 
whether the checks carried out were reasonable and proportionate. Because of this, Ive 
gone on to consider what reasonable and proportionate checks would have shown. Ive 
considered the information provided by Mrs D about her financial circumstances at the time 
of the application including her bank statements. Ive also reviewed Mrs Ds credit report. 
Ive taken into account what Mrs D has said about being on maternity leave at the time of the 
application. Mrs D has told this service that she had her first child in January 2019 and that 
prior to this she was employed earning around £30,000 per year. Mrs D has told this service 
that she returned to work after maternity leave in July 2019. Based on the information Ive 
seen, I think its likely that Mrs D stated that she was employed and earning £30,000 when 
she completed the application form. I say this because there isnt an option on the form to 
record maternity pay. And Mrs D was due to return to work the month after she completed 
the application.
Mrs D has told this service that on her return to work following maternity leave she was 
earning £1432 per month.
Ive reviewed Mrs Ds bank statements covering the period leading up to the credit 
application. Theres nothing in the statements to indicate that Mrs D was in financial 
difficulties or that she had insufficient disposable income to sustainably repay the lending.
Ive also reviewed Mrs Ds credit report. Theres no adverse information or any other 
information which wouldve given AESEL cause for concern that the credit wasnt affordable.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks 
wouldve shown that Mrs D was likely to be able to sustainably repay the credit. Im unable to 
say that AESEL has lent irresponsibly.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman