DRN-3022984
The complaint
Mr H complains about how Phoenix Life Limited have calculated his monthly pension 
payments. He says he is receiving less than he is due.
What happened
In 1990, on the advice of Phoenix, Mr H transferred the benefits hed accrued in a deferred 
occupational pension scheme (OPS) into a personal pension plan (PPP). Upon transfer, his 
OPS had an annual guaranteed minimum pension (GMP) of around £6,644 at his normal 
retirement age of 65.
Phoenixs advice was reviewed as part of the regulators industry wide pension review in 
2001, and it was found that the advice was unsuitable. As a result, Phoenix offered to 
increase the size of his pension fund by 87.42% in order to compensate him for the lost 
guaranteed benefits of his OPS. Mr H accepted this offer.
In the run up to Mr Hs retirement date at the end of 2020, he was in communication with 
Phoenix, who told him that the value of his pension fund meant he would only get the GMP. 
But he didnt think that this was fair. He complained that the GMP shouldve been increased 
proportionately to reflect the compensation Phoenix had paid into his fund. Because if not 
the compensation would be worthless. He also complained that he should receive his first 
pension payment one month before his retirement date, as the terms of the plan meant he 
would receive his payments in advance.
But Phoenix explained in its final response letter that the value of his pension fund, including 
the compensation payment from 2001, wasnt enough to provide him anything more than the 
GMP of £6,644.04. This was because there hadnt been sufficient investment growth in his 
fund over the term of the plan. So, it was unable to pay him more than the GMP. Phoenix 
also explained that in advance meant his first pension payment would be made on the 
actual date of retirement, and not one month before.
But having reviewed its communication with Mr H in the run up to his retirement, Phoenix did 
agree that there had been some failings in the service it had provided. It agreed it had failed 
to identify his complaint properly on two occasions. It said it had given him incorrect 
information about when his first pension payment would be made, and had led Mr H to 
believe hed receive his claim forms earlier than he would. 
Phoenix said it wouldnt pay him more than the GMP, but agreed to backdate his first 
payment, which had been delayed due to the complaint investigation, to his normal 
retirement date, adding 8% simple interest to this amount. It also agreed to pay Mr H £250 
compensation.
But Mr H wasnt happy with this and complained to our service. He said he believed he was 
entitled to an increased pension over and above the GMP and in line with the compensation 
Phoenix had awarded him in 2001. He also said hed only accepted the backdated pension 
payment and £250 compensation on the basis that our service would review his plan and 
help resolve the dispute.
But our investigator didnt think Phoenix had treated Mr H unfairly. He thought that it was 
entitled to only pay Mr H the GMP as the pension was underfunded due to poor investment 
growth. And he thought the offer of £250 was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
But Mr H didnt agree. He maintained that the amount of pension being paid to him should 
take into account the 2001 compensation award and be in addition to the GMP that was in 
place. Otherwise hed not benefit in any way from the compensation awarded in 2001. As no 
agreement could be reached the complaint has come to me for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And from my review I can see the only matter which remains in dispute here, is whether 
Mr H should receive a pension in excess of the GMP, to reflect the compensation Phoenix 
paid in 2001. Having considered everything, I agree with the investigator, for largely the 
same reasons.
Firstly, I think it will be helpful to explain what a GMP is and how it works.
State Earning Related Pension Scheme (SERPS) was a top-up to the basic state pension 
payable at the consumers state pension age. This meant that in addition to their basic state 
pension, consumers would also receive a SERPS pension at retirement. A consumer 
qualified for SERPS by being employed, and the benefits were built up by National 
Insurance contributions (NIC) made by both the consumer and their employer. So the 
amount of SERPS was dependent on the consumers earnings.
But some OPSs, such as Mr Hs scheme, chose to opt-out of SERPS. So instead of building 
up an additional state pension, additional benefits could be built up by redirecting some of 
their NIC to the OPS. But in order to do this, the OPS would have to agree to pay the 
employee a minimum level of benefits at the state pension age. This was known as the GMP 
and was to ensure a consumer didnt lose out as a result of the scheme being contracted out 
of SERPS.
When Mr H transferred the benefits of his deferred OPS to a PPP, Phoenix life had to agree 
to honour the GMP, whilst investing his funds with the intention that the fund value would 
grow, so that hed hopefully be able to purchase an annuity which was in excess of the 
GMP. Irrespective of the value of the pension fund at his retirement age, Phoenix were 
obliged to pay Mr H an annual pension of at least the GMP.
In 2001, as a result of the pension review, Phoenix paid a compensatory lump sum into 
Mr Hs pension fund. This was calculated using the methodology set down by the regulator 
at the time. But it is important to point out that this was a lump sum which increased the 
value of the fund. It did not affect the GMP, which had been calculated from the amount of 
NIC hed made whilst a member of the OPS. This GMP was unaffected by the value of the 
pension fund.
But because of poor investment returns over the following years, Mr Hs pension fund 
(including the increase following the compensation payment) didnt grow as much as was 
anticipated at the time of the advice and the review in 2001. And when it came to his 
retirement age the fund hadnt grown sufficiently to be able to purchase an annuity to even 
match the GMP, let alone exceed it. But because of the nature of the GMP, Phoenix had to 
honour it even though there were insufficient funds within his pension to do so.So, whilst I have some sympathy with Mr Hs position in that he says hes not benefitted in 
any way from the compensation he was given in 2001, I cant fairly say that Phoenix have 
done anything wrong here. The size of his pension payment is dependent on the value of his 
pension fund at retirement, and due to the poor investment returns over the term of the plan, 
this has meant he cannot receive any more than the GMP. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2022.
 
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman