DRN-2691043
The complaint
Miss P complains that Nationwide Building Society delayed sending her a letter which meant 
her mortgage application was refused.
What happened
Miss P says she asked Nationwide for a letter confirming her loan had been repaid. She 
says she needed the letter as part of a mortgage application but as she didnt receive it in 
time, it fell through. Miss P would like compensation for the distress she was caused.
Nationwide accepts it didnt action Miss Ps request when she called it in March 2020. It says 
it sent the letter later that month and has offered £25 compensation for what took place.
Miss P brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Nationwide had offered a fair and reasonable compensation amount for the short 
delay in sending the letter and didnt think there was any evidence the delay was linked to a 
mortgage application being refused.
Miss P doesnt accept that view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Nationwide has made a fair and 
reasonable compensation offer. I appreciate Miss P will be disappointed by my decision.
There is no question here that Nationwide made a mistake and there was a delay in sending 
Miss P confirmation that her loan had been repaid. Im satisfied the delay amounted to some 
days and that Nationwide has fairly apologised for the mistake and offered what I think is a 
fair and reasonable compensation amount of £25.
I appreciate Miss P says the delay meant her mortgage application was refused. But I dont 
think Miss P has provided any evidence of that from the lender in question or that she has 
explained why it would have reached that decision. I also think Miss P could have told the 
lender that the loan had been repaid and the lender would have carried out affordability 
checks in any event. 
Overall, I cant fairly ask Nationwide to increase the compensation offer in these 
circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that Nationwide Building Society has made a fair and reasonable 
compensation offer of £25. Miss Ps acceptance of that offer would be in full and final 
settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 May 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman