DRN-3471501
The complaint
Mr A complains about how Barclays Bank UK PLC dealt with a cash withdrawal.
What happened
Mr A says he went to a Barclays branch in July 2021 to withdraw £300 cash. He said he 
made the withdrawal inside the branch but before he put his account card away, the money 
had been taken back by the cash machine. Mr A says he then withdrew a further £300 from 
his account but later realised both withdrawals had been recorded on his account. He would 
like the £300 he didnt receive refunded.
Barclays says its branch manager viewed video footage of the branch which showed Mr A 
making both withdrawals. It says the second withdrawal was with the help of a staff member. 
Barclays says it checked the cash machine on two separate occasions and it balanced on 
both. It doesnt accept making a mistake and will not refund the money.
Mr A brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator thought the cash machine had been checked and if there was a mistake would 
have expected it not to have balanced. The investigator also thought Barclays staff had 
viewed the video footage which showed two separate withdrawals and didnt think in those 
circumstances he could fairly hold Barclays responsible for a mistake.
Mr A doesnt accept that view and says Barclays should have kept the video footage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr A will be disappointed by my decision.
I appreciate Mr A would have liked Barclays to have kept the video footage from July 2021. 
But Im satisfied that Barclays branch manager viewed that footage and concluded that Mr A 
made two separate cash withdrawals. I dont think it reasonable to have expected Barclays 
to have kept the footage in circumstances where Mr A brought his complaint to us in March 
2022 which was some eight months after the incident in branch.
I can also see that Barclays has fairly checked the cash machine on two separate occasions. 
I think it likely on balance that if the cash hadnt been taken that there would be a balance on 
it of £300. Barclays says there was no balance and that provides additional evidence that the 
money was taken.
Overall, I think it likely that the cash was withdrawn, and I cant fairly conclude Barclays 
made a mistake in circumstances where its manager checked the video footage and where it 
checked the cash machine balance. It follows that I cant fairly order Barclays to repay Mr A 
the £300.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman