DRN-3496476
The complaint
Mrs C has complained that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) has unfairly declined her claim 
under her legal expenses policy. 
For the sake of clarity when I reference UKI I mean both the underwriter and any agents 
working on its behalf. 
What happened
Mrs C has a Family Legal Protection policy with UKI. In 2021 she contacted the underwriter 
in order to bring a claim for damage to her property. She believed that the damage was 
caused by construction work carried out by her neighbours which ultimately resulted in a 
leak in her home following a period of stormy weather and heavy rain. 
UKI sent a loss adjustor to Mrs Cs home to inspect the damage. The loss adjustor 
concluded that they could not be sure the damage was the result of the nearby construction 
work and so didnt think Mrs Cs claim would likely be successful if brought to court. For that 
reason UKI declined Mrs Cs claim.
Unhappy with UKIs response Mrs C brought her complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators looked into the complaint and found that UKI had acted fairly and reasonably 
within the terms of the policy. For that reason he didnt uphold Mrs Cs complaint. 
Mrs Cs strongly disagreed with the investigators opinion. She said that the loss adjustor 
hadnt properly considered the damage and that it was unreasonable for UKI to expect her to 
pay for another report to disprove the initial reports findings. She said she had been paying 
her insurance premiums in good faith and it was the job of the underwriter to prove the 
damage caused to her home was the fault of her neighbours building work. 
As Mrs C didnt accept the investigators findings she requested an ombudsman review her 
complaint again and so its been passed to me for consideration. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the findings reached by our investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. I know this will come as a disappointment for Mrs C so Id like to explain why.
I also want to acknowledge that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. But I want to 
assure both parties that Ive reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment
on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on
what I think are the key issues. Our powers allow me to do this. This simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
In order to understand whether or not UKI have acted fairly in regard to Mrs Cs claim its 
important to understand the basis for declining it. The policy document for the legal 
expenses cover Mrs C has with UKI states the following:
We will provide cover under section 4 Family Legal Protection as long as:
we and the appointed representative agree that your claim has reasonable
prospects of success for the duration of the claim
This is a standard clause in most legal expenses policies and protects the underwriter from 
having to bear the costs of claims that are unlikely to succeed in court. 
When the loss adjustor attended Mrs Cs home on behalf of UKI they reviewed the damage, 
as well as noting where the building work had taken place, and the time that had passed 
between that work and the damage appearing in Mrs Cs home. Having done so, and having 
also considered the information provided by Mrs C in regard to the cost of repairing the 
damage, they didnt believe there was sufficient evidence to link the damage to Mrs Cs 
home with the work carried out by her neighbour. For this reason, they said based on what 
they had reviewed to date, they didnt think Mrs Cs claim against her neighbour would likely 
be successful if it went to court. 
Following receipt of the loss adjustors report UKI declined Mrs Cs claim on the basis of the 
above policy wording. Mrs C responded to say the loss adjustor hadnt properly considered 
the damage to her property and that she wanted another report. UKI confirmed that it was 
satisfied with the report it had received but that if Mrs C wanted to provide another report at 
her own cost, that would challenge the findings of its cost adjustor she was welcome to do 
so and UKI would reconsider her claim if she did. 
Mrs C was unhappy with this as she felt it was unfair of UKI to expect her to pay for a report 
when her insurance policy should provide cover for this. I can understand why Mrs C feels 
this way. She has said she paid her insurance premiums in good faith and the cost of 
proving the damage was the result of the building work carried out by her neighbour should 
rest with UKI. However, UKI did cover the cost of getting a report on the damage already. It 
did that when it sent the loss adjustor to Mrs Cs home to inspect the damage. And that 
report said there was little evidence to support Mrs Cs belief that the damage was the result 
of her neighbours actions. So UKI declined the claim. 
If Mrs C wants to challenge the findings of the report provided by UKI she must do so at her 
own cost. This is standard procedure. Normally in circumstances like this if a second report 
is provided by the policy holder, in this case Mrs C, and it throws sufficient doubt on the 
initial report, it may result in the claim being accepted. Should that happen its likely the 
underwriter would cover the costs of the second report as part of the overall claim 
settlement. However, there is a risk involved in this. If Mrs C opted to pay for a second report 
herself, and it came to the same conclusions as the first report did, she would have no recall 
for the costs and UKI wouldnt be obliged to reopen her claim. 
I can understand Mrs Cs frustration at the position she finds herself in. Its not in dispute that 
her home has been damaged and she is experiencing leaks. However, as I explained above 
what I need to consider is whether or not UKI has behaved in a fair and reasonable manner. 
And having considered everything that has happened in relation to Mrs Cs claim I believe it 
has. The policy wording allowed it to decline the claim for the reasons it has, and I believe 
that exclusion was applied fairly. UKI sought a report from qualified professionals to assess 
the damage and likely success of the claim. The report it received back was based on 
everything that had been provided by Mrs C, and observed by the loss adjustor, and said the 
claim was unlikely be successful. UKI gave Mrs C the opportunity to provide her own report and said it would reconsider her claim if she was able to challenge the findings it had relied 
on. Mrs C hasnt done this, which is obviously her choice, but not something I can hold UKI 
responsible for. 
Therefore, having taken everything into consideration, I dont think UKI has done anything 
wrong and I wont be asking it to reconsider Mrs Cs claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint against UK Insurance Ltd. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2022.
 
Karen Hanlon
Ombudsman