DRN-2205196
The complaint
Mrs A is unhappy with HSBC UK Bank Plc regarding a debt she is being asked to pay back, 
despite HSBC being previously unable to evidence where the debt originated.
What happened
Mrs A had a debt with HSBC from a current account that had been defaulted. The account 
was defaulted in 2009 and HSBC has provided this service with evidence that the balance 
was £1,346.75. HSBC says Mrs A was paying £10 a month by direct debit to pay off the 
debt. In August 2019, Mrs A asked HSBC where the direct debit was going. Despite what it 
has now said it told her then it didnt know. Mrs A therefore made a claim under the direct 
debit guarantee scheme and the money she had paid was returned to her. Following this 
HSBC worked out where it thought the money had been going and pursued her for the debt. 
Mrs A is unhappy with this.
The investigator looking at this complaint had previously considered a related complaint from 
Mrs A. The investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He said he was satisfied 
after looking at all the evidence that the £10 payments Mrs A was making to a HSBC 
account over the years were to pay off an account, she had with them, which closed with an 
overdrawn balance in April 2009. This meant that when Mrs A completed her direct debit 
guarantee claim in August 2019, this returned all the money to her which she had previously 
paid off the debt. So, in the investigators view it followed, that this money was reasonably 
owed to HSBC. Given the confusion caused by HSBC being unable to identify where the 
payments were going, he thought it was reasonable that HSBC allow some form of 
repayment plan suitable to Mrs A to recover its funds. He also wouldnt expect any 
repayments or outstanding balance to affect Mrs As credit file negatively, as this debt was in 
relation to an account that defaulted in 2009.
Mrs A didnt agree. She said HSBC has failed to provide evidence to her of how much the 
debt was in 2009. She is not sure how it was concluded that the amount she received back 
from her guarantee claim is now the amount she owes HSBC. She still does not know who 
she was paying £10 per month as HSBC advised her in August 2019 that it did not know 
where the money was going and hence, she made a guarantee claim. She said HSBC had 
threatened her over the phone (which she assumed had been recorded) and had been very 
rude when she had asked for this information causing her to become distressed particularly 
as she is worried this might affect her mortgage application. HSBC had referred the debt to a 
collection agency without providing her with the information she requested.
When I first looked at this case, I asked the investigator to send Mrs A the evidence HSBC 
provided to the investigator which satisfied him that the debt existed and that the £10 per 
month was going to pay it off. Mrs A didnt make any further comments about the debt 
following receipt of this information.
Unfortunately, HSBC was unable to provide this service with a copy of a recording of the call 
in question. A second investigator then issued a view saying that we didnt have enough 
evidence to suggest HSBC had been rude and threatening.
Mrs A felt that HSBC tells her one thing and this service another.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the evidence provided by HSBC and am satisfied that the £10 per month 
payments were going to pay off Mrs As debt from her HSBC account which defaulted in 
2009. I am also satisfied that HSBC returned the money under the direct debit guarantee in 
error. 
I understand Mrs As distress here and am sympathetic to her. It must have been very 
upsetting to discover, after receiving the money under the guarantee, that HSBC wanted it 
back. But the money isnt hers its the banks money. I think that it is reasonable that Mrs A 
should therefore pay this money back to HSBC. HSBC has said that it will be seeking to 
agree a repayment plan with Mrs A. And Mrs A says that if I find that she owes the money 
she would like to repay it by instalments. I think this is fair. HSBC has also confirmed that it 
wont report anything to credit reference agencies about the debt which I also think is fair. 
For completeness it has said that it sometimes has to issue county court judgments if a debt 
is unpaid. Hopefully HSBC and Mrs A can agree a plan so that Mrs A can pay HSBC its 
money back and this wont be necessary. But as I think HSBC is entitled to get its 
moneyback I dont think it is wrong for HSBC to retain this option.  
Finally, although I appreciate Mrs A has been upset, I dont think HSBC threatened her. I 
think all HSBC has done is seek to recover money it was entitled to recover. This is an 
unusual set of circumstances and I think trust has been eroded on both sides. I hope that 
they can now both work together to agree a plan for the debt to be repaid.
So, in conclusion, whilst both sides agree HSBC made a mistake, I dont uphold this 
complaint as I think HSBCs response has been reasonable, so I wont be ordering it to do 
anything more than it has offered to do.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2021.
 
Nicola Wood
Ombudsman