DRN-1591084
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Liverpool Victoria Friendly Society has taken many years to trace his 
whereabouts and pay out the value of a endowment savings policy he had with them. 
What happened
Mr S took out a endowment savings policy in 1975 with Liverpool Victoria. I understand the 
initial sum assured on the policy was £150.60 and that Mr S paid premiums of £0.60 every 
four weeks. I also understand premiums were collected by a home visit (a relative who 
worked for Liverpool Victoria). The policy was set up with a term of 25 years and set to 
mature in 1995. 
In 1979, Mr S moved. He didn't update his address with Liverpool Victoria or pay any further 
premiums into the policy. Liverpool Victoria says its standard process would have been to 
send out arrears letters; if they had been returned as gone away a mail suppressor would 
have been placed on the account so no further mail was sent. But if not, then when the 
policy reached maturity, it would also have sent maturity forms to the last known address. It 
isn't able to evidence this now because of the time that has passed. 
In 2018, it started a project to reunite past customers with savings that hadn't been paid out. 
As a result of carrying out a tracing exercise, it was able to locate Mr S and it paid him the 
maturity value of the policy and interest from the date it matured.
Mr S complained as he wasn't happy that Liverpool Victoria hadn't located him sooner, and 
he could have invested the money elsewhere. Liverpool Victoria didn't uphold his complaint 
as it said the onus was on him to update his address with them. Our investigator agreed the 
onus was on Mr S to update his details. 
Mr S has asked for the matter to be reviewed by an ombudsman. In summary, he argues 
that the onus wasn't on him to tell Liverpool Victoria of his change of address, and he 
believes it should have done more to locate him earlier; he argues if it found him in 2018 
then it should have found him earlier. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr S feels strongly about this matter. But there is little I can add to the 
investigator's findings. I agree with her view that the onus was on Mr S to keep Liverpool 
Victoria updated with any new address details. If a business isn't kept up to date with a 
customer's address, then it isn't going to be able to contact them when it needs to. 
I have considered Mr S's arguments about Liverpool Victoria being able to locate him now. 
But I'm not persuaded that means it should have been able to locate him in 1979 when he 
stopped paying premiums, or in 1995 when the policy reached maturity. Technology has 
advanced greatly with ever more information being available on-line and via other easily accessible avenues. These methods of locating a customer simply wouldn't have been 
available to Liverpool Victoria twenty or more years ago. 
In some situations, a business is able to trace a customer through their bank - if they use a 
bank account to pay premiums. But that wasn't the situation here, so that avenue wouldn't 
have been open to it either. Overall, I'm not persuaded Liverpool Victoria has done anything 
wrong. 
In any event, Mr S has been compensated for the loss of use of the funds - interest has been 
added to the maturity value. I understand this was at 8% simple, which is the interest rate we 
would require where a customer has lost out on the use of funds. Although Mr S says he 
might have invested elsewhere, I'm satisfied the interest added is fair compensation for not 
having the funds in 1995. 
Mr S has also queried why he hasn't been paid interest since 1979. The policy was set up to 
mature in 1995, so that is the end date for his investment. Although he stopped paying 
premiums in 1979, in the absence of any instruction from him to surrender the policy sooner, 
he wouldn't have received funds until the maturity date of the policy. I'm satisfied Liverpool 
Victoria has added interest from the correct time, and there is nothing further for it to do. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 April 2020.
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman