DRN-3291151
The complaint
Mr I is unhappy National Westminster Bank Plc didnt cancel one of his loans. And he says it 
applied excessive charges to his accounts.
What happened
In August 2013, Mr I took out two loans with NatWest. He went into branch to take out a 
£5,000 loan but the staff member informed him hed be eligible to borrow £9,000. Mr I 
wanted to go ahead with this loan instead, and so asked for the £5,000 loan to be cancelled. 
NatWest had already processed this loan, so Mr I received a total of £14,000 into his current 
account that day.
NatWest wrote to Mr I twice in August 2013 explaining in order to have the loan cancelled, 
he needed to return the £5,000 back to the loan account. It would only then action the 
cancellation. In early September 2013, it wrote to him and said that as he hadnt returned the 
funds, the loan would now go ahead as per the agreement, and the full balance was due. 
Mr I complained to NatWest in April 2019 about the two loans. He said he requested the 
£5,000 to be cancelled and NatWest made a mistake. He also complained about excessive 
charges on his current account and both loans. NatWest didnt uphold his complaint.
Mr I brought his case to our service. He wanted £15,000 in compensation from NatWest for 
its errors. Our investigator also didnt uphold his complaint. He didnt agree NatWest had 
applied any excessive or unfair charges. And he said that Mr I hadnt repaid the funds in 
order to action the loan cancellation, so NatWest was right to continue with both loans. Mr I 
asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint and said hed provide further information 
by 11 February 2022, but sent nothing further in. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr I has explained that he asked for the £5,000 loan to be cancelled when he applied for the 
£9,000 loan. So he didnt expect to receive the £5,000  which is why he wasnt aware he 
needed to pay it back. I accept that its likely he requested the loan to be cancelled at the 
time, but I can see he regularly used his account on receipt of the loans and so Im uncertain 
how he didnt realise hed received £14,000 instead of £9,000.
Mr I made an online bank transfer of £1,000 the day the loans were taken out. And he 
withdrew £400 at cash points in the three days after receiving the loans  so hed have had 
the ability to see his account balance on both these occasions. And on 7 August 2013 he 
made a further online transfer for £2,000. By this time Mr I had withdrawn/spent over £7,000 
of the loans. And by 13 August 2013 hed reduced his account balance to c.£4,000, meaning 
hed used the full £9,000 and even with what hed paid in separately in this two weeks, he 
was now utilising the £5,000 loan.
On 13 August 2013 Mr I moved £1,000 into his current account by making two £500 
transfers from two other accounts in his name, using online banking. But the same day he 
then moved £4,000 back out of his current account also using online banking  sending 
£2,000 back to each account that paid £500 in. So it seems he again had ample opportunity 
to realise his balance was too high at that time. And it seems strange Mr I paid money into 
his current account to immediately return that amount, and more, back to his other accounts. 
But that he still didnt realise at this time he had far more money than expected and had 
received both loans. And by making the second set of return transactions, he intended to 
credit his current account, before then taking this money back and putting it into overdraft.
NatWest has provided us with the letters it sent Mr I about cancelling the loan. They are 
correctly addressed and so I see no reason why they wouldnt have been received. Afterall, 
the vast majority of correctly addressed post is received. Mr I hasnt suggested he had any 
postal issues at this time. And as NatWest sent three letters relating to this issue, it would be 
very unusual for all three to not have been delivered. So considering these letters and Mr Is 
regular activity on his current account, Im satisfied he did have the opportunity to realise the 
£5,000 loan wasnt cancelled. And held clear instructions about how to ensure it was 
cancelled  by returning the funds. He didnt do this and did spend the money, so Im not 
asking NatWest to refund any payments made or award any compensation to Mr I for its 
administration of this loan.
Mr I has also raised concerns over excessive charges on his accounts. Ive reviewed the 
current account statements we hold and I cant see any incorrect or excessive charges. 
Mr Is outgoings mean he is, at times, charged refund fees; arranged and unarranged 
overdraft fees; and unpaid transaction fees. But I cant see these are incorrectly charged. 
And our service doesnt have the power to comment on the amount of these charges, but we 
can check that charges are applied correctly. And in this case I think they have been.
In relation to his loans, I appreciate NatWest credited Mr Is debts with a partial refund of 
interest from the £9,000 loan, as it failed to send him either correct statements or Notice of 
Sums in Arrears (NOISA) notices for a period of time. But that doesnt mean Mr I is due any 
further money  or that this interest was wrongly charged.
Mr I was due to pay this interest, but as NatWest wasnt compliant with requirements, this is 
why it was refunded. But it isnt required to provide any refunds for the time it was compliant, 
or Mr I wasnt in arrears. And while Mr I made some repayments to this loan, he didnt 
maintain his contractual payments and it was written off in August 2017. I also note he 
stopped making his contractual payments to the other loan in May 2014. And this was also 
written off in August 2017. I see no reason hes due an interest refund on the £5,000 loan. 
And as Mr I didnt pay back what we owed, he isnt due any sums directly.
I cant agree NatWest acted unfairly in not cancelling Mr Is £5,000 loan. It made it clear to 
him in its letter of 13 August 2013 what he needed to do to have the loan cancelled  and 
chased this on 23 August 2013, but Mr I didnt return the funds. And by 23 August 2013 hed 
already used a portion of the money. As he didnt follow the steps to cancel the loan, he was 
liable for it. And Ive not seen any evidence NatWest excessively charged his accounts, so I 
dont agree he is due any compensation or further refunds from it.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Is complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2022.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman