DRN-2849730
The complaint
Mr H complains to CMC Spreadbet Plc about losses on his trading account. He says he was 
unfairly encouraged to invest in a foreign market with which he had no experience and as a 
result, lost around £17,000 in a week. He also questions whether he should have been able 
to have a leveraged trading account at all given his circumstances and seeks compensation 
for his losses.
 
What happened
Mr H opened a trading account with CMC in July 2013. He was asked questions about his 
financial situation and understanding of trading before CMC opened his account. Shortly 
afterwards, CMC realised they shouldnt have let Mr H open his account without warning him 
about the risks involved. So they emailed Mr H to let him know and told him that if he wanted 
to keep his account open, hed need to use a link to acknowledge the risks involved. 
In 2015, Mr H wanted to begin trading but the link had expired. CMC sent him an email 
explaining the risks and he responded by email to agree hed read, understood and 
accepted them. Ive seen a summary of Mr Hs trading activity since then:
2015  traded across four months making around £240 but losing around £700,
2016  traded across five months making around £700 but losing around £1,000,
2017  traded across ten months making around £7,500 and losing around £5,700,
2018  traded for only one month making around £5,500 but losing around £11,300,
2019  no trading,
2020  traded for three months making around £15,000 but losing around £27,000.
It was these later larger losses which ultimately led to Mr H making a complaint  in April 
2020 he emailed CMCs client management team requesting a refund and said hed lost 
around £17,000 trading a different type of oil than he usually would  West Texas 
Intermediate (WTI) rather than Brent  after having seen a pop-up from CMC linking him to 
an article theyd published. 
Mr H felt CMCs article had advised, or at least suggested, that he switch from trading Brent 
to WTI. He did so, and although some of his initial WTI positions made him around £600, his 
subsequent positions held over a weekend went against him  Mr H had traded into Monday 
20 April 2020, when oil prices turned negative for the first time in history. WTI fell to -$37 per 
barrel so Mr Hs long positions at around $17 to $19 were stopped and closed out, losing 
around £16,600. 
CMC looked into Mr Hs concerns but didnt agree theyd done anything wrong. Regarding 
their communication, they pointed to the disclaimer within it which said:
CMC Markets is an execution-only service provider. The material (whether or not it states 
any opinions) is for general information purposes only, and does not take into account your 
personal circumstances or objectives. Nothing in this material is (or should be considered to 
be) financial, investment or other advice on which reliance should be placed. No opinion given 
in the material constitutes a recommendation by CMC Markets or the author that any 
particular investment, security, transaction or investment strategy is suitable for any specific 
person.
They explained that the content of their publication had summarised the market conditions 
for oil and outlined potential options to traders who might have been looking to take an oil 
position  importantly, they didnt feel any advice had been given. They said Mr H remained 
responsible for his trading decisions and the profits or losses that flowed from them. 
Unhappy with this, Mr H asked for our help. He told us that he hadnt read a CMC article 
before, and felt this one deceitfully tricked him into investing  especially as he felt WTI was 
quite different to Brent. He thought CMC had shown a grave level of irresponsibility by 
pushing the foreign market onto him and didnt feel the disclaimer in the footer was a 
suitable defence. He also didnt think the use of the words we suggest ought to absolve 
them of responsibility for what they said and instead felt advice had been provided. 
Ultimately, he didnt think CMC should be able to trick clients into trading products and 
defend themselves with disclaimers  he thought the article was a deceitful attempt to entrap 
private investors. 
Mr H also shared his concerns with us around his general access to this sort of trading  he 
thought CMC ought to have been aware of his financial circumstances and realised his 
losses were in line with his annual take-home salary. He recalled mentioning another 
considerable loss which hed complained about the prior month, but felt CMC had taken no 
notice of the impact trading was having on him. He thought it was wrong for CMC to have 
systematically allowed him to deposit significant funds while chasing his losses, all the while 
pushing him towards an alternative product he had no experience with. 
One of our investigators had a look into whatd happened but didnt agree with Mr H:
Regarding his appropriateness for trading  while an account wasnt appropriate in 
2013, when Mr H began trading in 2015 he agreed to the risks and proceeded 
regardless. And trading thereafter wouldve been appropriate given the knowledge 
gained. As the account was execution only, there was no onus on CMC to monitor 
Mr Hs account or losses  there wasnt anything to show Mr H had mentioned 
concerns that CMC ought to have acted on.
Regarding CMCs oil pop-up  he didnt agree that what Mr H had seen was advice 
or that he was encouraged to invest. CMCs communication was information only and 
didnt amount to a personal recommendation  it also didnt suggest Mr H change 
from Brent to WTI, instead its focus was on trading forwards rather than cash, 
regardless of the underlying. And though there was a suggestion of using forwards 
rather than cash in relation to lower holding costs, this wasnt relevant as Mr H traded 
cash. 
Mr H didnt agree and said, in summary:
He didnt think CMC had followed good industry practice and that theyd been 
irresponsible with regards to due-diligence as well as marketing. In 2013 CMC failed 
to take into account he had no income and no experience  this should have raised a 
red flag. And in 2020 the pop-up encouraged him to dabble in unfamiliar markets.
He didnt think CMC had given him a warning about his appropriateness for trading.
He thought our investigator had agreed the article could be seen as overly 
persuasive, so the fact he didnt invest in forwards was irrelevant  the point was that 
a responsible company should look at their articles as a whole. He remained of the 
view the article promoted WTI over Brent.
In an email to CMC on 3 March 2020 he had raised concerns about his losses and 
asked why that hadnt raised any red flags  hed said:
Please note that in the meantime, while the funds are being withheld there are 
significant consequential losses as a result of you unjustifiably pricing me out of the market. Please resolve the complaint as soon as possible as I will ultimately be 
claiming these losses. 
He didnt agree he could now be considered an experienced trader with a great 
knowledge of the markets as hed incurred massive losses  instead, it proved the 
opposite, and that the account had never been appropriate.
Our investigator thought about what Mr H had said but wasnt persuaded to change his view. 
He looked at Mr Hs trading history from 2015 onwards but felt it demonstrated extensive 
trading across sporadic periods  he explained experience wasnt defined by success, so 
Mr Hs points about his losses werent relevant, instead hed gained an awareness and 
understanding of leveraged trading. He also highlighted the appropriateness assessment 
looked at his knowledge and experience, rather than his personal and financial 
circumstances. And he didnt agree the 3 March 2020 email raised wider affordability 
concerns or suggested Mr H was suffering from financial hardship, instead it read as though 
he wanted the complaint resolved swiftly. Though Mr H thought CMC ought to have done 
more, our investigator didnt agree.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As CMC are a regulated firm theyre subject to the rules set out in the regulators handbook 
 the conduct of business (COBS) section is whats relevant here. CMC werent required to 
assess the suitability of Mr Hs upcoming trading given they werent going to be giving him 
any advice  his account was opened on an execution only basis so it was for him to decide 
which trades to make. However, COBS 10 required CMC to assess his appropriateness to 
trade as he did. In other words, this required them to gather relevant information from Mr H 
in order to decide whether he had the necessary knowledge and experience to understand 
the risks involved. 
Looking at the answers Mr H provided, I can see that he didnt have the knowledge and 
experience to pass the appropriateness test. He was aged 23 when he opened the account, 
he said he had no trading experience, no professional experience, was a student with no 
income and had between £1 and £19,999 in savings and investments. He was also asked 
questions about his investment knowledge  these included the concepts of margin, 
leverage, volatility as well as his familiarity with the online platform and his responsibilities 
around management of the account  he answered all of these questions correctly. 
CMC allowed Mr Hs account to be opened, but I note a few weeks later they realised theyd 
made a mistake as Mr H shouldnt have been considered an appropriate candidate for 
trading. In such instances, the rules asked CMC to warn Mr H about this to see whether hed 
like to proceed regardless. As CMC hadnt provided this warning, they emailed Mr H on 
7 September 2013 with the subject Important information about your trading account  
please read. It said:
Due to a technical problem during the account application process, we were unable to provide 
you with a warning notice advising you that we consider our products and services may not 
be appropriate for you, which was based on the information you provided in relation to your 
knowledge and trading experience.
Due to the fact we were unable to provide you with a notice at the point of application, we 
urgently require you to undertake some action before we can allow you to continue trading on 
your account. Please note that, as such, your account has been temporarily suspended, 
prohibiting you from placing any further trades. You will however be able to withdraw funds.Any open positions on your account will be closed out at the price as at the close of trading on 
Friday 6th September 2013, in order to prevent any potential loss. Your account will be 
reinstated for you to continue to trade as normal once this process is complete, we will 
provide you with a notice alerting you to this.
If, after taking into account the information above, you still wish to proceed trading using your 
account, please click here and ensure that you have read, understood and agreed to the 
notice provided. You will remain unable enter any new positions to trade on your account until 
you have completed these steps.
If however, based on the information above you wish to close your account please call our 
Client Management team on [phone number] immediately.
Please ensure you take the relevant action pursuant to this email within 7 days of the date of 
this email.
Mr H hadnt actually started trading, so he wouldnt have been affected by CMCs decision to 
close positions or limit activity. The link provided in the fourth paragraph would have taken 
Mr H to read a notice which hed have needed to agree to in order to reactivate his account. 
But Mr H didnt take any action at the time. 
It wasnt until 2015 that Mr H went back to CMC when he wanted to start trading. As his 
account wasnt activated and the link in the email had expired, CMC emailed the warning to 
Mr H instead. Their email dated 29 April 2015 said, in part:
Spread bets and Contracts for Difference (CFDs) are leveraged products and carry a high 
level of risk to your capital as prices may move rapidly against you. It is possible for you to 
lose more than your deposits and you may be required to make further payments. These 
products may not be suitable for all customers therefore ensure you understand the risks and 
seek independent advice.
Please consider the points below and confirm you understand these if you still wish to 
continue using your live trading account with us:
Spread betting, CFDs and FX are leveraged products and carry a high level of risk to 
your capital as prices may move rapidly against you;
It is possible to lose more than your deposits and you may be required to make 
further payments; and
You consider that you have a sound understanding of the features and risks of 
trading in Spread betting, trading CFDs and FX.
If you agree with the above statements please reply with the phrase I confirm that I have 
read, understood and agree to all of these points.
Mr H replied around an hour later and said I confirm that I have read, understood and agree 
to all of these points.
Ive reviewed Mr Hs answers to the appropriateness questions and agree an account wasnt 
appropriate, whether that be in 2013 or 2015 as there was no change. For this reason, and 
in line with COBS 10.3.1(1), CMC needed to warn Mr H the product wasnt appropriate. 
Despite Mr Hs concerns that the warning was a generic message, I note at the time COBS 
10.3.1 (2) did say the warning may be provided in a standardised format. 
I will also note before I continue that Mr H has relied on COBS 10.3.2 in his response to our 
investigator, but this covered instances where applicants failed to give the firm enough 
information to assess their appropriateness for trading, for example where they failed to 
answer questions. In this case, Mr H did answer the questions and the information CMC 
received was enough for it to assess the product envisaged was not appropriate, so COBS 
10.3.1 remains relevant.Looking at the wording CMC used when they emailed Mr H in September 2013, I note they 
opened with:
Due to a technical problem during the account application process, we were unable to 
provide you with a warning notice advising you that we consider our products and services 
may not be appropriate for you, which was based on the information you provided in relation 
to your knowledge and trading experience. 
I think this made clear that Mr H should have received a warning in relation to the answers 
hed given, but this hadnt occurred due to a technical issue. CMC said trading may not 
have been appropriate for Mr H, but my view is that they ought to have been clearer and 
said it simply wasnt appropriate. That said, Ive not been persuaded this would have altered 
Mr Hs decision to trade thereafter. I say that because Mr H didnt simply accept a warning, 
begin trading, lose money and complain in quick succession. Instead, two years later he 
began trading  made some profits, made some losses  yet continued on and off for 
another six years. He wasnt someone who appears to have gotten into something theyd not 
foreseen or understood  he continued to trade with varying outcomes and not insignificant 
losses, and Im not sufficiently persuaded that had CMC switched the word may for are 
Mr H wouldnt have proceeded or gone on to agree hed read, understood and agreed to the 
risks. 
Also in relation to how Mr H was warned, I think the considerable period of time that passed 
before Mr H began trading was a natural cooling-off period which invoked quite a different 
mindset to if Mr H had immediately accepted the risks and uninterruptedly rushed into 
trading. In addition, I note that Mr H didnt have to simply tick a box to trade  he had to 
email CMC and write out that hed read, understood and agreed to things like; there being a 
high level of risk, that prices might move rapidly, that he might lose more than his deposits 
and that products may not be suitable for all customers. So he had time out and had to re-
engage with the process in order to continue. 
Having given the warning, and with it being accepted, CMC then had the option to either 
reactivate Mr Hs account, or to not. They chose to proceed and allow Mr H to begin trading. 
Despite the fact CMC didnt consider him an appropriate candidate for trading, it doesnt 
follow that they did anything wrong by letting him open or reactivate his account anyway. I 
say that because if a firm warns the client of their concerns but they wish to proceed, the firm 
is able to open an account. 
This said, as Mr H points out guidance at COBS 10.3.3 asked CMC to have regard for the 
wider circumstances. Consideration for whether it was fair and reasonable for CMC to let 
Mr H trade involved a balance between the rules and guidance. CMC had to treat Mr H fairly 
and act in his best interests, but Mr H would now say that allowing him to open the account 
and commit so much of his money wasnt in his interests. 
Despite this, we must recognise that the rules allowed businesses to open these sorts of 
accounts despite failure of appropriateness tests if warnings were given. The guidance and 
the rules cant be incompatible  spread betting or CFD trading cant be so contrary to a 
customers interests that they could never open an account if they failed an appropriateness 
test, or thats what the regulator would have said in the rules. So all the circumstances must 
be considered and a balanced view taken.
Arguably CMC could have done more to consider Mr Hs particular application before 
reactivating his account. Yet we must also recognise they warned him it might not have been 
appropriate for him. He chose to accept those warnings and proceed anyway. He chose to 
trade and indeed did so for some time. None of these were things CMC advised him to do. So despite Mr Hs inexperience and financial situation, I dont think it would be fair or 
reasonable for the risks he accepted at the time and the decisions he made to trade to now 
be transferred to CMC by way of them compensating him for his losses. Instead, CMC 
fulfilled the requirements set by the regulator, so I dont agree they fell short of whats 
expected.
Ive also thought about any changes in circumstances Mr H shared thereafter  I have seen 
he updated his financial circumstances in 2016 to say he had an income of below £19,999 
and in 2017 to say he was employed in retail earning between £20,000 and £49,999. The 
same position was again confirmed in 2018. Given this, I havent seen anything to suggest 
CMC ought to have reviewed his account. 
Mr H does however feel CMC ought to have known he shouldnt have been trading  he 
points to large losses which he now says he was unable to bear. Ive thought carefully about 
this, but I havent seen anything to suggest CMC were put on notice Mr H was struggling or 
that they ought to restrict his trading. Indeed, Mr H did make losses over the years he 
actively traded, but this isnt unusual for an account of this nature and was something 
flagged by the additional risk warning Mr H accepted. Losing money in its own right wasnt a 
reason for CMC to intervene and restrict access. 
The only thing Mr H has been able to point to is his email to the firm on 3 March 2020 which 
I quoted above. Within that, I accept Mr H told CMC there were significant consequential 
losses in play, but I dont think this was enough for them to have taken action to restrict his 
account at the time. I say that because the comment followed on from him saying in the 
meantime, while the funds are being withheld and because he didnt explain what impact 
this was having on him. To CMC, the comment couldve read as though the consequences 
were short-term, like cash flow, and that he wanted his complaint resolved swiftly  Mr H 
didnt say, as he now does, hed lost a considerable amount compared to his salary, or that 
he was either in or heading towards financial hardship, or that there were struggles of other 
sorts. So I dont agree CMC ought to have been on notice there was an issue, or that what 
he said was enough for a red flag as Mr H suggests. Its also important to note that if Mr H 
felt his situation then was a red flag and that he shouldnt have been trading he could have 
stopped, but he chose to continue. So from what Ive seen, I dont think CMC knew to 
intervene. 
As Im of the view CMC had no reason to prevent Mr H from continuing to trade, Ive lastly 
thought about the communication about oil products which Mr H says triggered his largest 
losses and led to this complaint being made.
CMC have shared an example with us of what the pop-up Mr H would have seen looked like. 
Mr H has shared the article he read with us too. I can see that in some form, its still 
accessible on CMCs website, albeit slightly different to some of the text hes shared with us. 
Ive read it all carefully. The article date on CMCs website is 15 April 2020, and I can see 
that prior to this date, Mr Hs trading activity throughout April was mainly in Brent along with 
a few currency pair trades. From 17 April onwards, Mr Hs only trades were in WTI. I 
therefore agree it does seem Mr H found CMCs article influential. Prior to 17 April 2020, 
Mr H had only traded WTI a few times (in February 2016) so it was a change in focus for 
him. This said, finding an article influential doesnt mean it amounts to investment advice. 
Nor does it mean there was something wrong with it, such as it being misleading or 
pressurising. We must look closely at what was said. 
Considering the opening sentences of the article, I can see CMC were speaking to the 
impacts the pandemic was having on oil prices before they went negative. They said:We are in truly unusual times. The shutdown of large parts of the global economy has 
temporarily created a huge drop in demand for oil, which has had the knock-on effect of 
causing issues with the pricing structure. This has led to exceptional holding costs on oil 
spread bets and CFDs In this article, we aim to clarify why this is the case and potential 
options traders have.
The article went on to explain holding costs and why theyd risen, as well as address how 
long the situation would last, what the options were as a trader and how to check rollover 
dates. As has been highlighted, I see CMC said they suggested trading forward instruments 
as they were not subject to holding costs. And Mr H has said they also suggested trading an 
alternative such as WTI, pointing to its forward prices as being less than those of Brent, and 
expressing the view that while the WTI holding costs were still high, they werent as dramatic 
as Brent holding costs. 
But I dont agree that what Ive seen amounted to advice  advising on investments is a 
regulated activity and Part II, Article 53 of The Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 
(Regulated Activities) Order 2001 says:
Advising on investments
53.  Advising a person is a specified kind of activity if the advice is
a) given to the person in his capacity as an investor or potential investor, or in 
his capacity as agent for an investor or a potential investor; and
b) advice on the merits of his doing any of the following (whether as principal or 
agent)
i. buying, selling, subscribing for or underwriting a particular investment 
which is a security or a contractually based investment, or
ii. exercising any right conferred by such an investment to buy, sell, 
subscribe for or underwrite such an investment.
The FCAs rules also refer to investment advice involving a personal recommendation:
a recommendation that is advice on investments  and is presented as suitable for the 
person to whom it is made, or is based on a consideration of the circumstances of that 
person.
A recommendation is not a personal recommendation if it is issued exclusively through 
distribution channels or to the public.
In Mr Hs case, his argument implies the content of CMCs article was them pushing advice 
on him. But there is a mismatch between the definition and what happened here. The 
general and public nature of CMCs article available on its website defeats the notion of a 
personal recommendation. It is perhaps arguable that expressing information or making 
suggestions in a public way could sometimes equate to investment advice. But Im not 
persuaded that the overall circumstances in which the information was expressed gave the 
expression the force of a recommendation. Mr H had an execution only account with CMC 
and I do not consider any investment advice was given to conflict with that. 
I also dont agree CMCs article unduly encouraged Mr H to trade in WTI  it may well have 
pointed out differences in its oil products, but I dont agree it went so far as to encourage 
Mr H to trade should he not have felt comfortable in doing so. CMC were providing 
information and the ongoing decision as to what Mr H traded remained his choice, so I dont 
think CMC should compensate him for his losses. Instead those losses stemmed from 
Mr Hs trading strategy that was, like many other traders, that oil prices would recover  
unfortunately what happened thereafter went on to surprise traders worldwide. 
I recognise Mr Hs strength of feeling here and know he will be disappointed with my 
decision, but although I acknowledge he did lose a lot of money I dont agree this means CMC are at fault. CMC warned Mr H about the risks, but he chose to accept and proceed 
regardless. And it was Mr Hs choice to speculate on the price of oil, so I dont think it would 
be fair or reasonable for the risks he accepted at the time and the decisions he made to 
trade to now be transferred to CMC by way of them compensating him for his losses. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Aimee Stanton
Ombudsman