DRN-3098714
The complaint
Mr M complains HSBC UK Bank plc (HSBC) unfairly reported missed payments to his credit 
card account with credit reference agencies.
What happened
Mr M says HSBC reported missed payments on his credit card account without informing 
him of this and wasnt told that a direct debit set up to make his monthly payments had been 
cancelled. Mr M says he repaid the arrears on his credit card account in February 2021 but 
despite this, missed payment markers have been registered against his credit file, which he 
says is unfair. 
Mr M says he completed a new direct debit mandate in February 2021 but due to a system 
error this wasnt set up correctly by HSBC and as a result further missed payment markers 
have been registered against him and he has had to make other arrangements to keep his 
credit card payments up to date. 
Mr M wants HSBC to clear his credit file of any missed payments registered against him. 
HSBC says they wrote to Mr M on a number of occasions regarding the arrears on his credit 
card account along with regular monthly credit card statements. HSBC accept there was a 
system error when the new direct debit was set up in February 2021, which prevented them 
reinstating his monthly direct debit, although they did write to Mr M to explain this. HSBC 
says they havent registered any adverse information on his credit file as a result of the failed 
reinstated direct debit, only the payments missed between December 2019 and January 
2021, which they were entitled to do. HSBC have offered Mr M £50 as an apology over any 
misunderstanding over the reinstated direct debit instruction.
Mr M wasnt happy with HSBCs response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the information available but didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
The investigator felt HSBC had issued sufficient notice in writing to Mr M saying he needed 
to take action to prevent adverse information being recorded with credit reference agencies. 
The investigator also says HSBC had written to Mr M regarding the reinstatement of the 
direct debit but as his consent was not given the file was closed on the matter. The 
investigator felt the £50 offered by HSBC by way of an apology for any misunderstanding 
was fair. 
Mr M wasnt happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and  Ill explain how I 
have come to my decision. 
I can understand that it would have been upsetting for Mr M to learn that missed payment 
markers had been registered on his credit file when he believed he had a direct debit in 
place to meet his monthly credit card payments. 
When coming to a full and impartial decision here, I will consider if HSBC have acted unfairly 
when registering missed payment markers with credit reference agencies. Mr M has told this 
service he didnt receive any notification from HSBC of arrears on his credit card account or 
that there were any issues regarding his direct debit instructions. Mr M states he had monies 
available to meet the payments and has now made up the arrears position and had to make 
manual payments to his credit card account as HSBC have failed to properly reinstate his 
direct debit in February 2021, as he instructed. 
I have considered what Mr M says here and while I understand that he was of the 
impression his direct debit was being made each month, and that is why in part he didnt 
check his monthly credit card statements, I cant say that would excuse him from doing that, 
as it remains his responsibility to ensure his account was being maintained correctly. 
I say this because I have been provided with evidence from HSBC to show his direct debit in 
December 2019 and January 2020 were returned unpaid by his bank and subsequently, he 
was written to by HSBC confirming his direct debit instructions had been cancelled. In 
addition to this I have seen a number of letters from HSBC over the following months, 
advising Mr M that his credit card account was in arrears, inviting him to set up a payment 
plan and what the consequences would be if he didnt, which included reporting this to the 
appropriate credit reference agencies.  
While Mr M says he hadnt received these letters, he has confirmed receipt of the default 
letter and monthly credit card statements, which were sent to the same address, so I can 
see no reason why these other letters, regarding the arrears wouldnt have been received by 
Mr M. So, I am satisfied HSBC acted correctly when they registered missed payment 
markers on Mr Ms credit file for those months the payments were missed, after all HSBC 
have a responsibility to report accurate information on the conduct of their customers 
accounts.  
The second part of Mr Ms complaint centres on the failure of HSBC to correctly set up the 
new direct debit instruction in February 2021, following him paying off the arrears on his 
credit card account. I have been provided with a copy of a letter from HSBC, dated March 
2021 where it confirms they required Mr Ms authority to reinstate the direct debit. While I 
can see this was inconvenient for Mr M and resulted in further concerns over missed 
payments, HSBC have since apologised for that offering Mr M, £50 by way of an apology. 
Its worth saying, from the credit file provided by Mr M, no missed payment markers have 
been recording on his credit file as a result of this part of his complaint.
While Mr M will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of HSBC here. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman