DRN-1971402
The complaint
Mr T and Mrs D complain about how Astrenska Insurance Limited dealt with a claim against 
their travel insurance policy. Reference to Astrenska includes reference to its agents. 
What happened
In May 2018, Mrs D took out a single trip, travel insurance policy for a cruise trip from          
10 January 2019 to 28 April 2019. Mr T was also insured under the policy. 
In March 2019, Mr T was taken ill whilst on the trip. The onboard doctor diagnosed a 
complete heart block. The following day, Mr T and Mrs D disembarked at a planned stop and 
were taken to a hospital, where Mr T had an operation to fit a temporary pacemaker shortly 
following by another operation to fit a permanent pacemaker. 
Astrenska obtained Mr Ts medical records in order to validate the claim. It said Mr T didnt 
disclose that he was awaiting investigations and that, if he had done so, it would have 
charged him a much higher premium. So, it would settle Mr Ts claim on a proportionate 
basis.
After the operation, Mr T and Mrs D wanted to fly to re-join the cruise. Instead, Astrenska 
offered to arrange a business class flight home and a medical escort for Mr T and an 
economy flight home for Mrs D. That offer wasnt acceptable to Mr T and Mrs D. They 
booked their own first-class flights home for much less than Astrenska said it would cost.
Mr T and Mrs D complain that Astrenska gave incorrect phone numbers, delayed their claim, 
withdrew cover for the final three weeks of their trip and finally offered to pay only a 
proportion of their claim. They say that Astrenska was wrong to insist that he needed a 
medical escort on the flight home and didnt offer Mrs D a business class flight. Mr T says 
that he didnt have a prior heart condition before his trip. 
Mr T and Mrs D want Astrenska to pay the claim in full in relation to medical and related 
expenses and the additional expenses they faced because of the way Astrenska dealt with 
the claim  including the cost of their visa extension and loss of the final three weeks of the 
trip. They also want compensation for unnecessary stress. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He didnt think that Astrenska had 
treated Mr T unfairly. The investigator said that it was fair for Astrenska to settle the claim 
proportionately and that it was right to take time to validate the claim. He said that Astrenska 
had dealt with the repatriation issues fairly.
Mr T didnt agree with the investigator. He said:
When he took out the policy, the declaration he made was true.
After he took out the policy, a friend who is a doctor persuaded him to have an ECG, 
which she carried out, the results of which were normal.
He took the print out of the ECG to his GP, who also said that the results were 
normal but who referred him for an MOT, so he was waiting for a routine check, 
which doesnt have to be disclosed to Astrenska.
The UK surgeon he saw after his treatment abroad also said that the ECG performed 
by Mr Ts friend was normal. 
He had no indication that anything was wrong with his heart until he was taken ill 
during the trip. 
They wanted to return to the cruise but Astrenska removed cover.
Astrenska should have authorised the claim immediately. 
They asked for help from the British Consul. 
Eventually, they were able to pay the hospital bill themselves.
Astrenska offered to arrange medically escorted repatriation, which wasnt 
necessary, so they arranged their own flights home. 
He acted in good faith throughout and his claim should be paid in full
If he is asked to pay a proportion of the costs, he becomes the lead insurer and he 
should only have to cover the proportion of the costs that would have been incurred if 
his wishes had been followed. 
There was further correspondence, which I wont set out here. The investigator didnt change 
his view. Mr T asked that an ombudsman consider his complaint, so it was passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im conscious that Ive condensed what I dont doubt was a very worrying time into a short 
narrative. That reflects our service that, wherever possible, aims to be informal. But Im 
satisfied that Ive captured the essence of what happened. 
Its clear and quite understandable that Mr T in particular has very strong feelings about this 
matter. Hes provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which I have read and 
considered. However, I trust that neither he nor Mrs D will take as a discourtesy the fact that 
I focus on what I consider the central issues.     the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant parts of which 
provide as follows:
MEDICAL HEALTH REQUIREMENTS
This insurance policy contains health restrictions that apply to the cover provided under the 
Cancellation, Curtailment, Medical Emergency Expenses and Personal Accident sections.
This insurance policy will not cover you for pre-existing medical conditions 
GENERAL EXCLUSIONS
We will not cover the following:
1)We will not be liable for claims where at the time of purchasing the policy or at the 
time of departure you []:
[]
c) have been put on a waiting list for in-patient treatment or investigation by a 
hospital department; or
[]
If you answer YES to any of the above statements, this insurance will not cover you. Please 
complete the online screening process to obtain cover for these medical conditions. 
We cannot cover you for anything that has not been diagnosed where you are under 
investigation. 
CONDITIONS
[]
10. At the time of purchasing this insurance you will have been asked questions to enable 
us to assess your risk, failure to answer accurately and honestly could invalidate your policy 
and result in a claim not being paid or paid in full. These may include but are not limited to 
questions about your state of health or that of an immediate relative or any planned 
activities.
If the answers change prior to departure you must notify us of this change.
Section 6  MEDICAL EMERGENCY EXPENSES
[]
If you become ill or are injured we have the right to bring you back home, if the treating 
doctor and the Medical Emergency Service doctor agree that you can safely travel home. If 
you refuse to return home, we have the right to stop cover.
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that Astrenska has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Im not upholding the complaint because I dont think that Astrenska treated Mr T and Mrs D  
unfairly. I say that because:contact information
I appreciate that Mrs D had difficulty establishing contact initially with Astrenska. 
Astrenska says that the contact number and e-mail address it gave were correct. Its 
not entirely clear to me what went wrong here, but Ive seen nothing to indicate that 
Astrenska gave Mrs D or Mr T incorrect contact information. In any event, it appears 
that contact was made by 29 March 2019. 
delay in validating the claim
Astrenskas notes show that it was first notified of the claim on 29 March 2019. It 
proceeded to take steps to gather relevant information in order to validate the claim.  
Astrenska required, amongst other things, Mr Ts GP notes.
There was a short delay in Astrenska obtaining and reviewing the medical notes. 
Astrenska also had to consult with its own medical advisers and carry out 
retrospective medical screening. 
Astrenska gave Mr T and Mrs D its final view in relation to the claim on 11 April 2019. 
In the circumstances here and, given the complexity, I dont think that Astrenska 
delayed unduly in dealing with the claim although I appreciate that it was frustrating 
for Mr T and Mrs D. 
whether Astrenska should have paid Mr Ts claim in full.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation  - which includes misrepresentation by 
omission  in relation to a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard of 
care is that of a reasonable consumer. If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has 
certain remedies provided the misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as -  a 
qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer 
must show it would have offered the policy on different terms or not at all if it had 
known the true position.  
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed 
to take reasonable care. The remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends 
on whether the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
When Mr T took out the policy, the only medical condition he declared was cataracts. 
Astrenska thinks that Mr T failed to take reasonable care when he failed to tell it 
about changes to his health before his departure.
Ive looked at the medical information and I dont think that Astrenska acted unfairly 
in concluding that before Mr T and Mrs Ds departure on 10 January 2019, Mr T was 
under investigation for his heart. Ive noted what Mr T says about the circumstances of the ECG, his referral to a 
cardiologist and his explanation for his light-headedness, but the fact remains that in 
July 2018, Mr Ts GP referred him to a cardiologist in relation to bradycardia 
associated with light-headedness. Thats the terminology used by the consultant 
cardiologist when he wrote to Mr Ts GP to report that Mr T hadnt attended his 
appointment on 19 January 2019. Mr T didnt attend, of course, as he was on his trip 
by then and theres a reference by Mr Ts GP to the hospital making this appointment 
without reference to Mr Ts holiday dates, which she says she provided. But its clear 
that Mr T was waiting for cardiology investigations before his departure on the trip. 
So, he should have told Astrenska about that. 
I dont think that Mr T took reasonable care in updating Astrenska about his health 
before his departure on his trip. Im satisfied that this is a qualifying misrepresentation 
by Mr T as Astrenska has shown that if it had known the true position prior to Mr Ts 
departure, it would have asked Mr T and Mrs D to pay an increased premium.
Astrenska has said that it will pay a proportion of Mr Ts claim. So, in effect, its 
classified Mr Ts non-disclosure as careless, rather than deliberate or reckless. I dont 
intend to interfere with Astrenskas classification in this case, as thats the more 
favourable classification for Mr T. If the non-disclosure was deliberate or reckless, 
Astrenska can cancel the policy from the outset and decline the claim entirely. Im 
satisfied that Astrenska acted fairly in paying Mr Ts claim proportionally. 
The fact that Astrenska is entitled to pay Mr Ts claim proportionally doesnt mean 
that Mr T and Mrs D are the lead insurers. Mr T is responsible for the costs he 
incurred in having medical treatment abroad. If his treatment is eligible treatment, 
Astrenska pays the costs covered under the policy. Any costs not covered under 
the policy are Mr Ts responsibility. So, Mr T is responsible for the proportion of 
costs not covered by Astrenska.
repatriation
The policy provides that if the treating doctor and the medical emergency service 
doctor agree that Mr T can safely travel home, Astrenska can arrange for that and if 
Mr T refuses to return home, it can stop cover.  I dont think that Astrenska acted 
unfairly in offering to arrange flights home for Mr T and Mrs D. 
Ive seen nothing to indicate that Mr Ts treating doctors certified that he was fit to   
re-join the cruise. I agree with the investigator that it was unlikely that the cruise 
provider would have been content for Mr T to re-board the ship so soon after 
significant surgery. I dont think that Astrenska was responsible for the curtailment of 
Mr T and Mrs Ds trip: that was a result of Mr Ts ill health and subsequent surgery. 
I dont think that Astrenska was at fault in offering Mr T a business class flight with a 
medical escort. Astrenska is better placed than the treating doctor to determine that a 
medical escort was necessary, as it has more experience in repatriating individuals in 
circumstances such as this. Astrenska  has no interest in inflating the claim for no 
good reason, even when its paying it proportionally. 
Theres no medical evidence to support the assertion that it was medically necessary 
for Mrs D to fly business class. So, I dont think that Astrenska acted unfairly in 
offering Mrs D an economy flight home, as thats whats provided for in the policy 
terms. I appreciate that Astrenskas offer to arrange repatriation wasnt acceptable to Mr T 
and Mrs D and that they arranged their own flights home. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr T and Mrs Ds complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 January 2021.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman