DRN-1204761
 
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Lloyds Bank Plc wont reimburse him for a cheque that was 
rejected.
What happened
Mr W runs a business.
In November 2018, he deposited a cheque for £950 at self-service deposit machine. The 
payment was reversed because the cheque was rejected the same day. He didnt know this 
at the time because Lloyds didnt tell him. 
Mr W complained to Lloyds in June 2019. He asked Lloyds why it hadnt told him about the 
cheque. He also asked for the payers details, as he didnt know who had paid him.
Lloyds couldnt explain why the cheque was rejected.  And it couldnt tell him the payer's 
name. All it could provide were the name of the bank, the account number and the sort code. 
It said he should know from his records who had paid him. And, as it had no proof of having 
told him about the cheque reversal, it paid him £100 compensation
Mr W wasnt happy with this outcome so he brought his complaint to this service. He said 
hes asked the issuing bank for the payers details, but it wont disclose this information. 
Instead, it has contacted its customer, the payer, who hasnt responded.
Mr W is now out of pocket and wants Lloyds to reimburse him for his loss.
An investigator looked into his case and decided not to uphold his main complaint because 
there was no guarantee the cheque would have been honoured. And as the cheque was no 
longer available, he couldnt reach a conclusion on whether it was correctly rejected. So, he 
didnt think it was fair and reasonable to ask Lloyds to reimburse the £950. However, he 
thought the £100 was inadequate compensation for Mr Ws trouble and upset. He 
recommended that Lloyds pay him £200.
Lloyds accepted the recommendation.
Mr W disagreed with the investigators view. He wants Lloyds to pay him £950. Hes asked 
for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im afraid Ive reached 
the same conclusion as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons.I sympathise with Mr Ws frustration. He wants to recover the money, which he is due. He 
made efforts to try to trace the payer through the issuing bank but to no avail. He is now out 
of pocket by £950, which is a considerable sum for his account,
However, Im afraid this doesnt mean that Lloyds is obliged to reimburse him for the 
cheque.  There could be any number of reasons why the cheque was rejected. For example, 
it could have been incomplete or post-dated. Or, there wasnt enough money in the payers 
account to honour the cheque. Unfortunately, by the time Mr W raised a complaint, Lloyds 
no longer had the cheque or an image of it, so it couldnt say why the cheque had been 
rejected. But the cheque was rejected. And so I think I can reasonably assume there was a 
good reason for this and that Lloyds hadnt made any errors. 
I understand Mr W's argument that, had Lloyds notified him earlier, he would have been in a 
better position to trace the customer and ask for another cheque or payment by some other 
means. So, he believes Lloyds is responsible for his loss.  But I think the main point here is 
that there was no guarantee he wouldve recovered the payment. The payer hasnt 
responded to its bank and seems to show no intention of paying. If the payer doesnt want to 
pay, then I think its doubtful Mr W would have been in a better position had he known earlier 
that the cheque was rejected. 
In these circumstances, Im afraid I dont think its fair and reasonable to ask it to reimburse 
Mr W for the £950. This is because theres no guarantee he would have recovered the 
payment from the payer had he known about the cheque earlier. 
Putting things right
Seven months passed before Mr W raised a complaint with Lloyds. By then, Lloyds no 
longer had the cheque and Mr W couldnt remember whod paid him. Im sure Mr W believed 
it would be easy for Lloyds to trace the payer and provide him with a name or even to return 
the cheque. Unfortunately, this wasnt the case. So, Mr W had to approach the issuing bank 
directly. However, as our investigator has explained, the data protection laws mean that the 
issuing bank cannot disclose its customers details to Mr W or even to this service. It has 
done what we would expect any bank to do. It contacted its customer, but that person hasnt 
responded.
I agree that £200 is a fair reflection of the trouble and upset caused by Lloyds. He was left to 
chase the issuing bank which was an additional inconvenience. I note that this has already 
been paid into Mr Ws account and accepted by him.
Im sorry this will be disappointing news for Mr W. I hope the reasons for my decision are 
clear.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not asking Lloyds Bank Plc to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 July 2020.
Razia Karim
Ombudsman