DRN-3083260
The complaint
Mrs A complains that her home insurance claim for water damage wasnt acknowledged by
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited and that she received no updates about it or a decision
about whether the claim was accepted.
What happened
Mrs A took out a home insurance policy with Admiral in September 2014. The policy
continued to renew annually until September 2019 when it lapsed. Mrs As property
remained uninsured until she took out a policy with another insurer at the end of March
2020.
In late April 2020, Mrs A noticed a leak from the toilet in her upstairs bathroom. She had a
plumber attend to fix it in early May 2020. In June 2020 there was a partial collapse of the
kitchen ceiling. Mrs A called out another plumber who noted that there were potentially other
leaks from above that had gone undetected and which had caused damage to the ceiling
joists.
Mrs A contacted her new insurer who sent out a surveyor to inspect the damage. The
surveyor noted that there was evidence of damage caused by an escape of water but that it
had been ongoing for a period of time. The claim was declined on the grounds that the
damage happened prior to the new policys inception.
Mrs A appointed a loss assessor to handle the matter and Admiral was notified about the
loss. Admiral appointed a loss adjuster to inspect the damage and validate the claim. After
the loss adjusters visit, Mrs As loss assessor chased the loss adjuster and Admiral for a
decision about the claim. No updates were provided. In late November 2020, the loss
assessor told the loss adjuster and Admiral that he wanted to raise a complaint that no
response about the claim had been received.
Admiral contacted Mrs A directly in mid-December 2020 to ask her if she wished to raise a
complaint. Mrs A confirmed that she wanted the matter dealt with by her loss assessor only.
Admiral looked into Mrs As complaint and issued its final response in February 2021.
Admiral accepted that the claim had been poorly managed, that no updates had been
provided and that Mrs A was yet to receive a decision about her water damage claim.
Admiral said it would pay her compensation of £300 in recognition of the shortcomings in the
service it provided.
With regard to the claim itself, Admiral said it needed Mrs A to provide it with the date the
loss occurred so it could consider the claims validity. So it asked her to provide it with
confirmation of the date she first noticed the damage along with any further evidence so it
could ensure firstly that it had occurred during the period it was on risk. Admiral said that
once it had this information it would review it and then, it could give the claim itself further
consideration. Admiral referred to the policy terms and conditions and the requirement, when
making a claim, for the incident date, time and caused of the loss to be provided.
Unhappy with the outcome of Admirals investigation, Mrs As loss assessor complained on
her behalf to this service. The loss assessor told our investigator that it was impossible for
Mrs A to provide Admiral with the exact date of loss but he was sure itd occurred during the
five-year period it was on risk. Our investigator looked into Mrs As complaint but didnt
recommend that it was upheld. He thought Admiral hadnt unreasonably declined the claim.
The complaint was passed to me and I issued a provisional decision in September 2021 in 
which I also recommended that the complaint wasnt upheld. I made the following provisional 
findings: 
With regret for the disappointment I know it will cause her, Im afraid I am unable to uphold
Mrs As complaint but for different reasons than those given by our investigator.
Mrs As complaint  brought by her loss assessor  to Admiral was that her home insurance
claim hadnt been properly acknowledged, nor had she received any updates about it or,
most crucially, a final decision from Admiral about whether it was accepting or declining it.
And it was this complaint that was put to Admiral and it was this complaint it issued its final
response about. Ive seen no evidence that Admiral has told Mrs A whether it has accepted 
or declined the claim and Ive seen no evidence that a complaint about that decision has 
been made by Mrs A to Admiral. So any consideration of that issue  whether Admiral has 
reasonably accepted or declined the claim or not  is premature. Until Admiral formally 
communicates its decision about the claim to Mrs A, and until Mrs A has complained about 
it, this service is unable to consider it.
This provisional decision, therefore, solely considers Mrs As complaint about the lack of
communication she received from Admiral about her claim and the fact that it has yet to tell
her if it has been accepted or not.
I can see that Admiral has accepted that it failed Mrs A in this regard, that there was a
breakdown in communication between it and its loss adjuster which meant that Mrs A wasnt
kept up to date. Admiral has apologised for any inconvenience it has caused Mrs A and paid
her compensation of £300 in acknowledgement of its service failings. I think that Admirals
response to this aspect of Mrs As complaint, having taken all the evidence into account, is a
fair and reasonable one. And I also think it is in line with awards this service has made in
complaints of a similar nature. Indeed if this complaint had passed across my desk without
an award of compensation having been made, its unlikely that Id have recommended any
more than that paid by Admiral. So I cant fairly recommend that Admiral does anything
further.
Mrs A has also complained that she is yet to receive a decision about the claim itself from
Admiral. In response to this aspect of her complaint, Admiral has referred Mrs A to the policy
terms which require her to provide it with an incident date, time and cause of damage. The
policy terms form part of the contract of insurance between Mrs A and Admiral. And there
are certain contractual obligations within it which Mrs A must comply with. Admiral has also
referred to the term that permits it to request further information in support of a claim and has
asked that it be provided with evidence to support the loss.
It is generally the responsibility of the policyholder to prove they have suffered a loss thats
covered by the policy. If they can do so then the insurer must pay the claim unless it is able
to rely on one of the policy exclusions to defeat it. In Mrs As case, Admiral hadnt been on
risk for about 7 months when the damage was discovered. So I dont think its unreasonable
that it wants to know when the damage occurred so that it is able to check that it fell within
the period it covered Mrs A. Admiral has said that once this evidence has been provided it
can consider the claim further.Mrs As loss assessor says that Admirals request for an exact date is impossible to comply
with because the incident was fortuitous. But, he says, the damage itself seemingly occurred
during the five years Admiral was on risk but didnt manifest itself until April 2020.
Unfortunately, no evidence has been provided to substantiate that claim. I can see that our
investigator has asked Mrs As loss assessor for invoices for the plumbing work Mrs A has
said she had done since 2016 (there has been reference to other leaks repaired since 2016)
along with the contact details of the contractors so that he can make further enquiries.
Mrs As loss assessor has also said that he has sought the opinion of experienced
colleagues as to the cause and nature of the damage. I can see that our investigator has
also asked for their contact details in order that further enquiries can be made of them.
Unfortunately, none of the information requested by this service in order to assist in
substantiating when the leak that caused the damage actually occurred has been
forthcoming.
In the absence of any such evidence being provided  either to us or to Admiral  I cant
reasonably conclude (given the circumstances around the timing of the claim and the fact it
hadnt been on risk for some months) that Admirals requirement that Mrs A comply with the
policy condition related to the time the loss occurred before it is willing to consider the claim
further, is an unreasonable one in the circumstances. It isnt unreasonable for an insurer to
first want to establish it was on risk when the damage occurred before it goes on to consider
the substance of the claim itself. So, I think that Admiral has treated Mrs A fairly in this 
respect and I dont propose to require it to do anything more.
Admiral let our investigator know that it had received my provisional decision. It made no 
further comment. Mrs As loss assessor replied and said he disagreed with my findings but 
knew they werent worth challenging as they were a cop out. He said I was letting Admiral 
off the hook and that Admiral hadnt done anything with the claim since the complaint was 
made to this service. He said that the investigator and myself had no ideas about what was 
reasonable in the insurance industry. Finally he asked me to give Admiral a deadline to 
handle and deal with the claim and to ask it what itd been doing with the claim. 
The complaint was returned to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Admiral has asked Mrs A to provide it with evidence of when the cause of damage occurred. 
I explained provisionally why I thought it was reasonable for Admiral to ascertain whether it 
was on risk or not at the time the damage occurred before considering Mrs As claim any 
further. As nothing has changed since Mrs A complained to us  by which I mean the 
evidence requested by both Admiral and our investigator hasnt been forthcoming  I dont 
consider it unreasonable that Admiral has taken no further action on the claim. I dont expect 
it will do so as, and until, the evidence to substantiate the loss is forthcoming. 
It follows that I cant reasonably give Admiral a deadline for dealing with Mrs As claim. 
Thats because nothing has changed and Mrs A hasnt given Admiral what it needs in order 
to move the claim along. As nothing has changed I cant fairly require Admiral to handle or 
deal with the claim by a set date. Unfortunately, until Mrs A provides the requested 
information her claim wont progress. Thats because without the substantiation Admiral has 
asked her to provide, it isnt able to decide whether it is liable for the losses Mrs A claims. So 
if Mrs A would like Admiral to consider her claim, it remains up to her to provide Admiral with 
the evidence it needs in order to do so.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2021.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman