DRN-3740118
The complaint
Mr K has complained the Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold him a 
package bank account.
What happened
Mr K held a fee-free Reward account with Halifax before it was upgraded to an Ultimate 
Reward Current Account (URCA) on 18 December 2009. Mr K paid a fee for this account.
On 4 March 2011 Mr Ks account was downgraded back to a fee-free Reward account.
On 10 December 2012 Mr Ks account was upgraded to an URCA again.
Mr K has told us that when he took out the URCA in 2012 he was in need of an overdraft 
facility and was told the only way he could have an overdraft facility was if he took the 
URCA, and as he needed the overdraft facility he agreed.
Mr K has since found that he did not need to have the URCA to have an overdraft facility, so 
he feels the URCA was mis-sold. Mr K also tells us he didnt need the benefits that came 
with the account.
One of our Adjudicators considered Mr Ks complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. As 
Mr K disagreed this complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website
and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. Having considered everything that has
been provided, I dont think the package bank accounts were mis-sold. I will explain why.
I think it may help to explain that where matters are in dispute and evidence is missing, I
must base my decision on what I think was likely to have happened  based on everything
that is available. 
As explained above Mr K opened an URCA in December 2009 that was downgraded to a 
Reward account in March 2011. This account was upgraded again in 2012 back to an 
URCA.
We dont have much information from the time Mr K first opened his URCA in 2009. But this 
isnt unusual considering Halifax isnt required to keep this type of information indefinitely. 
But the information provided by Halifax shows this account was opened in a branch, and as 
Mr K had previously held a free account with Halifax, I think he would have known that a free 
account was an option for him at the time.
I havent seen enough to say Halifax made a tailored recommendation for Mr K to take the 
URCA. So, with this and what we know about Halifaxs sales processes at the time I dont 
think Halifax recommended the account to Mr K. This meant it didnt have to make sure the 
account was right for Mr K, but it did have to give Mr K the information he needed to decide if 
the account was right for him.
At the time this URCA was sold to Mr K it came with worldwide travel insurance, breakdown 
cover, mobile phone insurance, home emergency cover and card protection. The URCA also 
came with a fee-free overdraft up to £300.
I cant be certain what was said at the time Mr K took his URCA, but I think the benefits that 
came with the account would have been discussed at some level. I can see that Mr K made 
regular use of his overdraft facility which fell within the £300 fee-free amount that came with 
the account. The URCA cost £12.50 each month and the overdraft charges on a fee-free 
Reward account were charged at £1 per day. So, the URCA offered a significant saving in 
charges for those that regularly used their overdraft facility.
I think Mr K would likely have thought the overdraft benefit offered by the URCA would have 
been useful to him given his circumstances at the time.
In addition to benefitting from the fee-free overdraft that came with the URCA Mr K also 
registered a mobile phone to the mobile phone insurance and called the home emergency 
provider. So, I think Mr K would have found these other benefits useful too.
I understand Mr K didnt have a need for all of the benefits that came with the URCA, but 
package bank accounts are not tailored to the individual so its often the case that 
customers either dont, or cant use all of the benefits that come with them. This does not 
mean the account was mis-sold.
For the reasons Ive explained above I think Mr K would have found the benefits offered by 
the URCA sold to him in 2009 useful, and thought the account offered good value for money.
Mr Ks account was downgraded in 2011 so he would have lost all the benefits that came 
with the account at this time.
When Mr K upgraded his account again in December 2012, he tells us he was in a branch 
and he was told that if he wanted to have an overdraft facility, he would need to upgrade his 
account to an URCA.
The information provided by Halifax shows Mr K took out this account by telephone and that 
he already had an overdraft facility on the account before the upgrade took place. This is 
further supported by Mr Ks account statements from the time.
With the above in mind I think Mr K would have known he didnt have to have an URCA to 
have an overdraft facility. For me to uphold Mr Ks complaint for this reason I would need to 
see strong evidence to support Mr Ks allegation, which I havent seen. 
From the information available I think Halifax likely recommended the URCA to Mr K in 2012. 
So, it had to make sure the account was right for him.
At the time of the sale an Interview Summary Document (ISD) was produced. I find this to be 
persuasive evidence as it was produced at the time the account was sold.
The document shows that a review took place of Mr Ks circumstances and the following 
information was recorded:he travelled regularly by car
he had a mobile phone
he would like help if his credit/debit cards were stolen
The URCA came with the benefits of worldwide travel insurance, breakdown cover, mobile 
phone insurance, home emergency cover and card protection.
The account was recommended to Mr K as he had a need for the breakdown cover and the 
mobile phone insurance. Mr K also registered a mobile phone to the mobile phone insurance 
which further supports the information recorded in the ISD.
The URCA cost £15 per month in 2012 and offered the same benefits in relation to 
overdrafts as it did when Mr K previously held a URCA in 2009-2011 (a fee-free overdraft up 
to £300, compared to the Reward account that charged £1 per day).
I can see from Mr Ks banking activity between March 2011 when his account was 
downgraded, and December 2012 when it was upgraded back to an URCA, that he made 
regular use of his overdraft facility and paid the £1 per day fee that applied.
So, I think Mr K would have thought the benefits relating to the overdraft facility would have 
been useful to him.
Considering the information recorded in the ISD and how Mr K used his account I think the 
recommendation made by Halifax to take the URCA was reasonable and the account was 
suitable for Mr Ks circumstances at the time.
In summary, for the reasons explained above, I dont think Halifax mis-sold Mr K his URCA 
in either 2009 or 2012.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2022.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman