DRN-1819135
complaint
Mr H says Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
Mr H applied for a credit card in September 1997 and the PPI was also sold at this time. Our 
adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr H disagreed, so the complaint 
was passed to me to look into afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
When selling the PPI to Mr H, Barclaycard shouldve made it clear the policy was optional. It 
also shouldve got Mr Hs agreement to take it out. Mr H says he never agreed to take out 
the PPI and there was no discussion about it. Barclaycard have looked at Mr Hs complaint 
on the basis that it was arranged in branch. Its also said that it advised Mr H to take it out. 
This places a greater responsibility on Barclaycard and the steps it shouldve taken when it 
sold Mr H the PPI. So Ive also looked at Mr Hs case on this basis. 
As the credit card and PPI were taken out during a meeting, I dont know what was 
discussed. Where I have limited information about a sale, I must decide what I think is more 
likely based on the information and evidence I have seen. This doesnt mean that I think Mr 
H is making false claims. It does however mean that I have to weigh up the evidence I have, 
which includes Mr Hs comments and the evidence from the time of sale. 
Barclaycard has given us a copy of the application which was completed following Mr Hs 
discussions with the advisor. Within the application I can see there is a separate section 
called Payment Protection Plan. This is followed by an option to select Yes or No to the 
cover and there is a brief description of what the cover provides. On Mr Hs form the Yes 
option has been selected. Mr H says there was no discussion at all about the PPI. But based 
on what we know about how PPI was sold at the time I think its most likely the details on the 
form wouldve been discussed before Mr Hs application was submitted. I also wouldve 
expected Mr H to read over this form and raise any questions he had at the time before 
signing it.
So based on the evidence Ive been provided, I think its most likely Mr H knew at the time 
that the PPI was optional and that he decided to take it. 
Barclaycard advised Mr H to take out the policy. So it shouldve made sure the policy was 
right for him. Based on what Ive seen of Mr Hs circumstances at the time the PPI was sold, 
I think it was. I say this because:
Mr H appears to have been eligible for the policy. 
Based on what Mr Hs told us about his circumstances at the time of sale he wouldnt 
have been affected by any of the things the policy didnt cover  like known health 
issues or unusual employment arrangements. So there was nothing to stop him 
claiming the full benefit of the policy if hed needed to.
 
Mr H says he wouldve received sick pay from his employer for up to 12 months. He 
also says he wouldve received a redundancy package if he lost his job. Mr H says 
this means the PPI was of no use to him. However, I still think the PPI couldve been 
of use to Mr H as it wouldve paid 10% of the outstanding balance on the card for up 
to 12 months if he couldnt work due to illness or if he was made redundant. This 
wouldve been on top of any employer benefits he may have got, meaning he 
wouldve been able to use this for other everyday living expenses.
 
I havent seen anything to suggest the PPI wasnt affordable to Mr H. And as the 
premium was paid monthly, he could have cancelled the policy at any time if anything 
in his circumstances changed.
 
As well as checking the policy was suitable for Mr H, Barclaycard also shouldve given him 
clear information about the policy so that he could make a proper choice about whether or 
not to take it out. I dont know what steps Barclaycard took to do this and its possible some 
things werent explained as clearly as they shouldve been. But I dont think clearer 
information wouldve changed Mr Hs decision. I think hed still have bought it. I say this for 
the same reasons I think the policy was suitable for him.
Which means Barclaycard doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H. But 
Barclaycard has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because:
Barclaycard got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr H about that. Because Barclaycard didnt 
tell Mr H, that was unfair.
To put that right, Barclaycard has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
Ive thought about everything Mr H has said, and I understand he feels strongly about his 
case so my decision will come as a disappointment. But for the reasons explained above, I 
dont think Barclaycard needs to do anything more to resolve his complaint. 
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard does not 
have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard does have to pay back to Mr H any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand 
it has already paid some of the commission and profit share to Mr H so I dont think it needs 
to do anymore. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2020.Chandni Green
Ombudsman