DRN-2865981
The complaint
Mr R complains about the incorrect pension values provided to him by Aviva Life & Pensions 
UK Ltd which he says has caused him financial loss and should be honoured.
What happened
Mr R took out a personal pension plan (the plan) in 1984 with one of Avivas predecessors. 
This was a conventional with-profits contract which was written as an annuity. Mr R retired 
from work in 2014 and deferred taking the plan benefits until nearer his 65th birthday in 
August 2019.
In June 2017 Mr R was quoted a retirement fund value (vesting quote or quote) of 
£423,177. In April 2018, the quote was £426,962. And in September 2018 it was £432,290. 
From January 2019 Mr R began looking at his annuity options and amongst others, he 
obtained vesting quotes as follows:
February 2019 - £411,349
June 2019 - £403,742
July 2019 - £381,624
August 2019 - £342,498
October 2019 - £363,120
December 2019 - £366,069
Following the August quote, Mr Rs Financial Adviser contacted Aviva and queried the drop 
in values. Aviva said there had been an error in that it had incorrectly calculated the value of 
Mr Rs plan and this was due to a system fault. It said the error had been corrected and the 
latest quotes, were correct. Mr R complained saying he was expecting to draw pension 
benefits and wouldve done so on the higher plan values he received earlier in the year. He 
said as a result of him receiving unreliable information about the value of his fund, he could 
not plan his retirement with any confidence.
Aviva acknowledged it had provided incorrect information prior to the July 2019 quote. But 
explained that Mr Rs plan had been overvalued from 2016 because of an error it had 
identified. Aviva said it had also reviewed final bonus rates applying to the plan in July 2019. 
The general movement in rates was downward. Aviva said Mr Rs plan was affected by both 
this and the error itd identified. Aviva said it wouldnt honour the higher figures quoted as 
these weren't guaranteed and Mr R was never entitled to the higher sums quoted.
Aviva also noted Mr Rs concerns about figures on the annuity options. It explained its 
quotation system had calculated the tax free cash and annuity amounts correctly. But the 
purchase price was quoted incorrectly. Aviva said this was an issue it was aware of and 
would be amended.
Aviva sent Mr R a cheque for £450 for the trouble an upset its mistakes had caused. But 
Mr R wasnt happy with that outcome, so he brought his complaint to us.
Mr R decided to draw benefits in December 2019. Due to delays and a review of its final 
bonus rates, this resulted in him receiving a lower tax-free cash amount. Following a further 
complaint to Aviva, it agreed to honour the quote it illustrated in December 2019.  Aviva 
offered a further £200 compensation for the inconvenience caused for those issues. Mr R 
remained unhappy and referred his complaint to this service. He wanted our service to 
investigate the following matters:
The unexplained decline in value of the plan since September 2018 onwards, 
particularly the final bonus element.
The failure on the part of Aviva to advise about the changes to its methods of 
calculation or policy value changes generally.
The continued errors made by Aviva which he had based his retirement planning.
The slow and incomplete responses to requests for information from Aviva.
The slow implementation relating to the drawdown and whether the issues were 
properly addressed by Aviva.
On the final point, our investigator clarified with Mr R that he (Mr R) was satisfied with the 
offer made in relation to the quote in December 2019. So, this matter wasnt considered as 
part of this complaint. For the earlier errors, our investigator said that she didnt think it would 
be fair to ask Aviva to honour the incorrect quotes it had sent to Mr R, as he was never 
entitled to those plan valuations. She considered Avivas offer of £450 was fair 
compensation for these errors.
Mr R disagreed. He said hed placed reasonable reliance on the figures hed been quoted. 
And whilst he understood the science behind the errors, he didnt think it was fair that he 
should suffer financially as a result of them. He thought Avivas offer of £450 was inadequate 
to make up for the losses he calculated to be around £77,000. He said whilst Aviva said the 
figures werent guaranteed this didnt mean it shouldnt honour what it had said the plan was 
worth. Mr R wanted his complaint referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear to me that Mr R has strong feelings about this complaint. He has provided detailed 
arguments to support his case which I can confirm Ive read and carefully considered. 
However, I trust that Mr R will not take the fact that my findings focus on what I consider to 
be the central issues, and that they are expressed in less detail, as a discourtesy. The 
purpose of my decision isnt to address every point raised, but instead to set out my 
conclusions and reasons for reaching them.
From what I can see Aviva did make errors in terms of the quotes. There is no dispute about 
this. And I can understand Mr Rs frustration. He used the quotes hed been given by Aviva 
to determine the level of income he might have in his forthcoming retirement, only to find out 
that the pension value hed been given was incorrect and lower than he expected. But I think 
what Aviva has offered Mr R is fair compensation. Ill explain why. 
Each year from 2016 Mr R obtained valuations for his plan. Aviva has explained that, due to 
changes in its calculation of enhanced cash option factors in 2016, it inflated the values for 
plans such as Mr R. This meant the values he was given from 2016 to 2019 were incorrect 
and not representative of the true value of the plan. 
I appreciate that Mr R says he should have been given some warning about the changes to 
the calculations but this was a business decision made by Aviva back in 2006. I cant say this, in itself, impacted negatively on Mr R. Its the mistakes that followed from the change in 
the way it calculated the valuations that caused him distress and inconvenience. Similarly, 
the final bonus was something Aviva was entitled to decide based on the performance of the 
underlying fund. It has provided Mr R with a full explanation as to why this had reduced and I 
cant see it has acted unfairly in this regard.
Nonetheless, Aviva did make errors and the accuracy of the plan information it provided over 
a considerable period fell short of what Mr R might reasonably expect. The disparity between 
the quotes and the reality of what Mr R was entitled to was significant so this did raise his 
expectations about what he might receive in retirement. But I need to take into account that 
he was also told the figures he was given werent guaranteed. He was told the final quote 
would depend on market conditions and Avivas calculations. 
However, Ive also taken on board Mr Rs point the fact he was told the figures werent 
guaranteed doesnt mean Aviva shouldnt be liable to pay compensation. And I agree that 
Aviva didnt handle this matter as well as it could have. And it should have realised the 
impact the inflated values would have had, which increased with each quote he received. I 
think the impact here is that his expectations of his retirement income were raised for an 
extended period. It was only rectified when his Financial Adviser contacted Aviva in 2019 
and was told about the errors that had been made on his plan. 
Whilst I dont take lightly the impact of the errors on Mr R, overall, I think the sum offered by 
Aviva of £450 fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience it caused him. Mr R has 
confirmed this amount has been received. So, Im not going to ask Aviva to do any more. I 
know Mr R considers Aviva should honour the earlier higher values. But he was never 
entitled to these. These valuations were as a result of a genuine error by Aviva, which it has 
accepted and has since corrected. It wouldnt be fair for Mr R to receive a value that never 
applied to his plan. 
I also note Aviva did honour a quote which Mr R missed out on due to delays it caused. But 
in that case, the quote from December 2019 did actually apply to Mr Rs plan. So, this is a 
different situation to the one here where the quotes were due to an error and Mr R had never 
been, at any time, entitled to the amounts quoted. So, I dont think he is entitled to 
compensation for financial loss for these incorrect quotes. 
I appreciate Mr R has lost confidence in the figures that Aviva has provided to him. But I can 
see it has now provided him with its calculations together with a summary of how its errors 
impacted on his plan value. I think Aviva has done enough to show Mr R that he was never 
entitled to the inflated quoted amounts.
My final decision
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Ltd has already offered and paid Mr R £450 to settle the complaint 
and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. As it has been paid, my final decision is 
that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Ltd dont need to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2022.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman