DRN-4055464
Complaint
Mr C has complained about a loan Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday Loans) 
provided to him. He says the loan was unaffordable and so should never have been 
provided to him.
Background
Everyday Loans provided Mr C with a loan for £2,600.00 in June 2019. This loan had an 
APR of 149.3% and a term of 18 months. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of 
£5,124.42, including interest, fees and charges of £2,524.42, was due to be repaid in 18 
monthly instalments of just under £285. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed Mr Cs complaint and she thought Everyday Loans 
shouldnt have provided Mr C with his loan. So she thought that Mr Cs complaint should be 
upheld. 
Everyday Loans didnt respond so the case was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Cs complaint. 
Having carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Mr Cs complaint. Ill explain 
why in a little more detail.
Everyday Loans needed to make sure it acted fairly and reasonably when lending to Mr C. In 
practice, what this means is Everyday Loans needed to find out enough about Mr C such 
that it could have a reasonable understanding of whether Mr C could afford to repay any 
credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
The information Everyday Loans has provided suggested that it carried out a credit check 
and obtained bank statements before this loan was provided. The credit check showed that 
Mr C was already significantly indebted. Mr C was already paying out a significant proportion 
of his monthly income towards his existing creditors and had outstanding balances on a 
number of payday and other high-cost loans too.
I also have concerns that the recorded purpose of this loan was debt consolidation. This is 
because Mr C was supposedly going to consolidate, at least some, debts where the total 
amount he would pay was twice the amount borrowed. And the interest on this loan was not 
capped in that way. 
So its unclear to me how this loan, which was on such disadvantageous terms, was going to 
improve Mr Cs already precarious financial position going forward and how Everyday Loans 
could accept what Mr C said at face value in these circumstances.
Overall and having considered everything, Im persuaded by what Mr C has said about 
already being in a difficult financial position at the time he took out this loan. And while its 
possible Mr Cs indebtedness reflected his choices rather than financial difficulty, Id add that 
my experience of these types of cases suggest this is unlikely, in the absence of any 
reasonable or plausible arguments from Everyday Loans, Ive been persuaded to accept    
Mr Cs version of events. 
As this is the case, I do think that Mr Cs existing financial position meant that he was 
unlikely to be able to afford the payments to this loan, without undue difficulty or borrowing 
further. And Im satisfied that reasonable enquiries into Mr Cs circumstances would more 
like than not have shown Everyday Loans that it shouldnt have provided this loan to him. As 
Everyday Loans provided Mr C with this loan, notwithstanding this, Im satisfied it failed to 
act fairly and reasonably towards him. 
Mr C ended up paying interest, fees and charges on a loan he shouldnt have been provided 
with. So Im satisfied that Mr C lost out because of what Everyday Loans did wrong and that 
it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Everyday Loans needs to do to put things right for Mr C
Having thought about everything, Everyday Loans should put things right for Mr C by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges Mr C paid on his loan;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded payments from the date they 
were made by Mr C to the date of settlement;
removing all adverse information it recorded on Mr Cs credit file, if it remains, as a 
result of this loan. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to take off tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans must give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he 
asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Cs complaint. Everyday Lending Limited 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman