DRN-3882013
The complaint
Miss S is unhappy that Santander UK Plc made mistakes when reporting to credit reference 
agencies (CRAs) about her mortgage. She considers this has led to her being unable to re-
mortgage with other lenders and caused her significant financial loss. 
What happened
Miss S holds a mortgage with Santander, which began in 2013. In early 2020, she 
encountered some financial difficulties relating to the Covid pandemic, unexpectedly losing 
her income. She successfully applied to Santander for two three month payment holidays 
covering the period June to November 2020. After this point, Santander agreed a zero 
repayment arrangement for November 2020, December 2020 and January 2021 and during 
this time the account accrued arrears.
Miss S mortgage had three sub accounts, all subject to fixed rates. The fixed rate on one of 
the accounts was due to end in February 2021 and the fixed rates on the other parts were 
due to end in May 2021.
Miss S started a new job in March 2020, although she didnt receive her first pay until the 
following month. Between February and May 2020 Miss S made a number of payments 
towards the mortgage that were less than the contractual monthly payment.
In February 2021, Miss S had contacted another lender (who Ill call L) about a potential re-
mortgage on a five year fixed rate deal. A representative of L told Miss S they were confident 
the re-mortgage would go through. However, not long after, L told Miss S that it couldnt offer 
her the mortgage due to a drop in her credit rating.
Miss S says she then waited a couple of months for her credit score to improve due to 
payments she had been making towards the mortgage, by which time the whole of her 
mortgage had moved to Santanders follow on rate.
In June 2021 Miss S contacted Santander to discuss the situation. She raised concerns that 
it had been misreporting to CRAs. This included in relation to an issue in February 2021 
where she had agreed with Santander that it would collect the full monthly payment by direct 
debit, which didnt happen. She had noticed this and rung a few days later to make a manual 
payment for less than the contractual monthly payment.
Santander upheld the complaint. In summary, it said that it had correctly reported that the 
account was in arrears, but that it hadnt also reported that there had been an arrangement 
in place. It undertook to amend the CRA reporting accordingly and said that it would monitor 
the situation for a few months to make sure the reporting continued to be correct into the 
future.
In September 2021, Miss S referred her concerns to the Financial Ombudsman Service. In 
summary, she said that Santanders error had stopped her from being able to move her 
mortgage onto a lower rate elsewhere. The proposed re-mortgage with L that she had 
initiated in February 2021 had included consolidation of her unsecured debts. As this re-
mortgage couldnt happen, Miss S had needed to continue to pay towards these debts as 
well as try to get back on track with her mortgage.
In early 2022, Santander agreed to capitalise the arrears i.e. the arrears that remained 
outstanding were added to the balance of the mortgage. The mortgage moved on to a one 
year fixed rate deal.
In June 2022, an investigator reached a view on the case. In summary they said Miss S 
credit file might have been affected by a number of factors, but that Santander should pay 
Miss S £150 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused by the incorrect CRA reporting 
prior to July 2021.
Miss S disagreed. In summary she said that there had continued to be CRA reporting issues 
later in 2021, due to some kind of systems issue that Santander had. And that the £150 was 
insufficient given the substantial losses its errors had caused. Miss S said that L had told her 
that the re-mortgage with them would have gone ahead but for the reporting issue. Miss S 
provided a calculation showing what she considered her losses to be, by reference to what 
she had ended up needing to pay and what she would have paid if the re-mortgage with L 
had gone ahead.
Miss S also said she had contacted Santander in July 2022 about moving onto a better rate 
but had been told that the rate she was on was the best it could offer her. She said that she 
had contacted other lenders, all of whom told her that she wouldnt be able to re-mortgage 
elsewhere until enough time had passed from when she had arrears.
The investigator issued another view. In summary, they thought the original outcome theyd 
reached was correct and that the compensation theyd suggested was in line with the 
Financial Ombudsman Services approach to compensation payments.
Miss S continued to disagree and asked for the matter to be escalated to an Ombudsman. 
She made further representations about the nature of the reporting issues and errors and 
how this had caused and continued to cause her financial loss. 
The case was passed to me to decide. I carried out some further investigation. I asked L for 
its comments on the correspondence its mortgage adviser had sent to Miss S in 2021, 
indicating that the re-mortgage on a five year fixed rate would have gone ahead, but for 
Santander not reporting that Miss S had been in an arrangement after the payment holiday 
had ended. 
I also asked it to clarify whether Miss S had submitted a full application.
L responded to say that it was likely the arrears themselves and not the lack of 
arrangement reporting, that had affected its view of Miss Ss creditworthiness. L also 
clarified that Miss S hadnt submitted a full application and that its records indicated that 
Miss S had declared that she didnt have any adverse credit history, including arrears.
Separately, I asked Santander why it didnt offer Miss S more mortgage rate options shortly 
after she capitalised the arrears and then again when she asked for alternatives part way 
through the term of that mortgage. Santander provided me with information to show that 
what it had offered Miss S at both points in time was consistent with its risk classification of 
her, in the context of the mortgage history.
I issued a Provisional Decision (PD) in December 2022. In it, I said:
There are three fundamental issues to consider here:-Can Santanders CRA reporting errors reasonably be said to have caused the
losses that Miss S claims they have?
-What level of compensation is appropriate given the impact of the errors that did
happen?
-Has Santander otherwise treated Miss S fairly?
Can Santanders CRA reporting errors reasonably be said to have caused the losses
claimed by Miss S?
In the course of bringing her complaint, Miss S shared with us a copy of correspondence
received from a mortgage adviser at the lender she approached about a re-mortgage in
February 2021. The correspondence states that were it not for Santanders mis-reporting of
Miss S having not been in an arrangement alongside the arrears, the re-mortgage would
have gone ahead. I can understand why, based on this, Miss S has argued that
Santanders CRA reporting errors caused her a significant financial loss.
However, the lender has since clarified that it was likely to have been the arrears
themselves and not the arrangement reporting, that led to Miss Ss perceived
creditworthiness dropping in the way it did. It has also said that Miss S never submitted a
full application and that when she made her enquiry, she declared that she didnt have any
arrears.
Bearing this in mind, I cannot reasonably conclude that Santanders error in reporting
before July 2021 is likely to have caused Miss S to lose out on that particular mortgage. It
seems likely that it was the existence of the arrears themselves and not the arrangement
reporting that was the key issue preventing it from moving forwards.
It also seems likely that the existence of the arrears has been the main issue preventing
Miss S from re-mortgaging elsewhere in the meantime.
I appreciate that Miss S wouldve had much lower mortgage repayment costs if she had
been able to take out the 5 year fixed rate deal with the other lender. However, bearing in
mind what Ive said above, I cannot reasonably conclude that Santanders CRA mis-
reporting caused her to lose out on it.
What level of compensation is appropriate?
Although the CRA mis-reporting didnt have the impact Miss S thought it did, it nevertheless
caused her unnecessary worry and upset. Not least in the sense that she would reasonably
have been worried about the possible impact the misreporting had and might have on her
in the future.
Miss S has shown that the misreporting wasnt a one-off. For reasons unknown, there was
an error in the reporting in August 2021, after Santander had said it would put things right.
This again caused unnecessary worry, upset and inconvenience.
Taking everything into account, Im currently inclined to say that £350 would be an
appropriate figure of compensation to reflect the impact of Santanders errors.
Has Santander otherwise treated Miss S fairly?
I appreciate that Miss S has felt somewhat stuck with Santander, after getting into arrears.Ive thought about whether Santander has treated her fairly, in terms of when it agreed to
capitalise the mortgage arrears and the rates/options it has offered her at different times.
On balance, I find that it has. Santander is entitled to classify Miss S in terms of the relative
risk she presents to it as a borrower, taking account of the history of her mortgage. Im
satisfied that Santander has treated Miss S the same as it would any customer in the same
situation. So the reporting issue aside, I cant say that Santander has treated Miss S
unfairly.
I asked for any further evidence and/or arguments to be provided by 3 January 2023. 
Santander accepted the provisional findings. Miss S replied to say she disagreed and she 
provided further evidence and arguments for me to take into account. 
In summary, Miss S provided more detail about where she had got to in pursuing a re-
mortgage with L and said that she had made her situation clear (including her arrears) to Ls 
mortgage adviser. Miss S made reference to a number of things the mortgage adviser had 
said in e-mail correspondence to her which indicated that the reason the application couldnt 
go ahead was a sudden fall in her credit score.
Miss S said this fall in her credit score coincided with an error Santander had made not 
collecting the February 2021 mortgage payment by direct debit, after this had been agreed. 
She re-iterated that Ls mortgage adviser had sent her an e-mail confirming that the re-
mortgage would have gone ahead had Miss S been showing as having been in a payment 
arrangement. 
Miss S also questioned the recent information provided to this Service by L, re-iterated that 
the reporting issue hadnt been a one-off and also explained the difficulties she has been 
and is facing financially, which she attributes to Santander. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, Ive made my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive based it on what 
I think is most likely to have happened given the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
Having done all of this, I reach the same overall conclusion as that set out in my PD (which 
forms part of this Final Decision) and for fundamentally the same reasons. I realise this will 
come as a disappointment to Miss S, but I hope my explanation helps her to understand why 
this is the conclusion Ive reached. 
Before I explain why, I want to re-iterate my role as an ombudsman. It isnt to address every 
single point thats been made to date. Instead, its to decide whats fair and reasonable given 
the circumstances of this complaint. And for that reason, Im only going to refer to what I 
think are the most salient points when I set out my conclusions and my reasons for reaching 
them. But, having read all of the submissions from both sides in full, I will continue to keep in 
mind all of the points that have been made, insofar as they relate to this complaint, when 
doing that.
I appreciate Miss S taking the time to convey the difficulties she has faced and continues to 
face and I accept that she has endured a difficult time since the onset of the COVID 
pandemic. I still consider there are three fundamental issues to decide here:
- Can Santanders CRA reporting errors reasonably be said to have caused the losses that 
Miss S claims they have?
- What level of compensation is appropriate given the impact of the errors that did happen?
- Has Santander otherwise treated Miss S fairly?
Can Santanders reporting errors reasonably be said to have caused the losses that Miss S 
claims they have?
In response to my PD, Miss S referenced e-mail correspondence she received from Ls 
mortgage adviser in March 2021, where that adviser suggested the change in how L was 
viewing the proposed application to re-mortgage appeared to be due to something changing 
in Miss Ss credit rating. Miss S points out that this happened not long after she had paid 
less than the full contractual monthly payment in February 2021  which Miss S says was 
due to an error by Santander. 
In order to say that Santander is responsible for Miss S suffering financial (or other) losses 
stemming from L deciding not to proceed with the proposed re-mortgage, I would need to 
conclude that it is more likely than not that any errors made by Santander were the direct 
cause of Ls decision to not proceed with the re-mortgage.
It's possible that what Miss S has said is correct and that an error or errors by Santander did 
cause her to miss out on the re-mortgage with L. However, Im not persuaded this is likely 
the case.
Miss Ss argument is circumstantial, based on the relative timing of events. It is true that the 
correspondence Miss S has provided indicates that Ls mortgage adviser thought the change 
in decision was likely due to some kind of change in Miss Ss credit file. However, whilst it is 
accurate to say that Ls perception of Miss Ss creditworthiness changed some time in early 
March 2021, there is no evidence to show what if anything specifically changed in the way 
Santander was reporting information to CRAs. 
And although (as set out in the PD) Ls mortgage adviser also later told Miss S that the re-
mortgage would have gone ahead but for Santander only reporting the arrears and not that 
she had also been in an arrangement, this isnt supported by what L more recently told us - 
that it was likely the presence of the arrears that caused the issue and not the extent of any 
arrangement reporting.  
Miss S has questioned what L recently told us, pointing out that another of Ls mortgage 
advisers told her in August 2022 that the application was closed down and that the 
information that could be accessed was very limited. 
However, L was able to provide some information relating to the application. The information 
it provided indicates that it had reached an agreement in principle for the re-mortgage in 
early 2021, based on the information Miss S had provided. As part of this, its records show 
that Miss S is recorded as having no arrears. Miss S says she did inform the original 
mortgage adviser (and later, others) of her arrears, pointing to hand-written notes from 
conversations she had with the adviser during February 2021 and correspondence with the 
same adviser in May 2021 and after. I can see from the notes Miss S has provided that the 
word arrears is present and I accept this suggest that arrears were discussed in some way. 
Its not possible for me to be sure why Ls records show Miss S as having no arrears. Its 
possible the original mortgage adviser made some kind of error when capturing information in February 2021. 
This could be why Ls decision changed suddenly  the original decision in principle may 
have been based on the premise that Miss S didnt have any arrears and when it came to 
light that she did, this caused the change in lending decision. 
In its recent submission to this Service, L states that the extent of any arrangement reporting 
would have been unlikely to be material to its lending decision and that the arrears 
themselves would have impacted Miss S credit score at the time. 
The mortgage advisers comments in 2021 are contemporaneous and this does perhaps 
lend some weight to them. On the other hand, Ls recent submission is clear in saying that 
the mortgage adviser shouldnt have said what he did about the significance of the 
arrangement reporting and that what he said was incorrect. I cannot see any reason why 
Ls recent submission should be unreliable.
Regardless, what is key and what I return to is that there is insufficient evidence to show that 
Ls decision to decline Miss S proposed re-mortgage was down to a change in Santanders  
reporting to CRAs at the relevant time and any error that may have led to such a change. 
For the avoidance of doubt, I make no finding on whether Santander made an error 
regarding the February 2021 mortgage payment  because it wouldnt make a difference, 
given the lack of evidence to show specifically what caused L to change its mind. 
That being the case, I still cannot reasonably conclude that Santanders error in reporting
before July 2021 is likely to have caused Miss S to lose out on that particular mortgage. It 
still seems likely that it was the existence of the arrears themselves and not the 
arrangement reporting that was the key issue preventing the re-mortgage with L from 
moving forwards.
What level of compensation is appropriate?
Miss S view that the £350 I said I was minded to award is inadequate stems from her 
perspective that Santanders errors have caused her substantial financial hardship and 
associated worry and upset. 
However, this stems from Miss S not being able to re-mortgage with L in early 2021. 
Following on from my earlier finding, there is insufficient evidence to show that Santander is 
responsible for this.
With that said, I still find that Santanders mis-reporting to CRAs did cause her unnecessary 
worry and upset. She would reasonably have been worried about the possible impact the 
misreporting had and might have on her in the future.
As set out in my PD, Miss S has shown that the misreporting wasnt a one-off. There was
an error in the reporting in August 2021, after Santander had said it would put things right, 
and it remains unclear why this happened. 
Taking everything into account, I still consider that £350 is an appropriate figure of 
compensation to reflect the impact of Santanders errors.
Has Santander otherwise treated Miss S fairly?
Its clear from Miss S response to my PD that she feels strongly that Santander hasnt 
treated her fairly. Much of this relates back to the same issue in terms of the CRA reporting and her perception of the impact this had. Nothing else she has said leads me to conclude 
that Santander has otherwise treated her unfairly.
Putting things right
Santander must pay Miss S a total of £350 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused 
by its mis-reporting to CRAs at times in 2021.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss S complaint about Santander UK Plc and I direct 
Santander UK Plc to do what Ive said above under Putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 February 2023.
 
Ben Brewer
Ombudsman