DRN-2205429
The complaint
Mrs W says Evergreen Finance London Limited, trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk (MoneyBoat), 
irresponsibly lent to her. Mrs W says that if MoneyBoat had carried out sufficient checks 
about her financial situation it would have seen she had other significant debt and short-term 
lending.
What happened
This complaint is about one short-term loan MoneyBoat provided to Mrs W in October 2019. 
The loan was for £400 and was to be repaid over four monthly instalments of £146.54. At the 
time of bringing the complaint the loan is outstanding.
 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mrs Ws complaint. They thought it wouldnt have been 
proportionate for MoneyBoat to have asked Mrs W for the amount of information needed to 
show the lending was unsustainable for her at that point in the lending relationship and there 
wasnt anything in the information that MoneyBoat was aware of that would have led it to 
start verifying what it knew of or what Mrs W had told it. 
Mrs W disagreed. She explained that her and her husband had been going through a really 
difficult time and were already in debt when she took out the loan. MoneyBoat should have 
carried out more checks about her financial situation and not just relied on the credit 
reference agency checks which would already have been out of date when it reviewed them. 
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for decision in my role as 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
MoneyBoat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs W 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that MoneyBoat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MoneyBoat was required to establish 
whether Mrs W could sustainably repay her loan  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Ws complaint. After doing so, Ive decided not 
uphold Mrs Ws complaint. I know Mrs W will be extremely disappointed, so Id like to explain 
how Ive reached this decision. 
MoneyBoat has told us about the checks it carried out before approving the borrowing. It 
asked Mrs W about her monthly income which was recorded as being £1,530. MoneyBoat 
also asked about Mrs Ws normal monthly living costs. These were recorded as being £906 
 which included £365 for her then current credit finance costs. So, this left Mrs W with a 
monthly disposable income of £624. So, in these circumstances I think it wasnt 
unreasonable of MoneyBoat to lend to her. The lending looked affordable on a pounds and 
pence basis. 
Mrs W has said MoneyBoat should have carried out further checks about her financial 
circumstances and shouldnt have just relied upon the credit reference agency reports as 
these can be out of date. But I think it was reasonable for MoneyBoat to have relied upon 
this information bearing in mind the loan was at the first stage in the lending relationship. 
And Mrs Ws stated monthly commitments werent onerous. Its possible that Mrs Ws 
financial circumstances werent correctly reflected in either the information she provided, or 
the information MoneyBoat obtained as a result of its own checks. And Mrs Ws financial 
position may well have been apparent if further information  such as bank statements or 
more in-depth credit checks as examples  had been obtained. 
But as Ive said above, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough 
checks might be reasonable and proportionate. And MoneyBoat could only make a decision 
based on the information it had available at the time. In these circumstances  at the beginning of a lending relationship  I dont think MoneyBoat needed to take further steps to 
verify the information provided. 
I have considered the information MoneyBoat was provided with when it carried out its 
checks. The credit checks did show that Mrs W had a number of unsecured loans but there 
wasnt any adverse information recorded about them to indicate that Mrs W was in financial 
difficulty or wasnt able to afford the repayments. There isnt anything in the information it 
has given us that may have led MoneyBoat to conclude that it should decline Mrs Ws 
application for the borrowing. And there isnt anything to have given MoneyBoat cause for 
concern  bearing in mind this loan was at the beginning of the lending relationship  or to 
have prompted it to ask for more information from Mrs W, whether by phone or email. 
In these circumstances, I think the assessment MoneyBoat carried out for this loan was 
proportionate. I dont think MoneyBoat was wrong to have provided the loan, based solely on 
the information it gathered from its checks and the information Mrs W gave it about her 
financial situation. I dont think MoneyBoats decision to lend to Mrs W was unreasonable. 
Its clear from Mrs Ws testimony that her personal circumstances have been difficult, and I 
am very sorry to hear that. But I hope I have been able to explain to her why I have reached 
the decision that I have. 
My understanding is that the loan is still outstanding. So, Id like to remind MoneyBoat of its 
obligation to treat Mrs W fairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mrs Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2020.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman