DRN-3324429
The complaint
Mr E is complaining about Vanguard Asset Management, Ltd because of the way it handled 
a request to transfer his ISA arrangements from a third-party provider, referred to as the 
transferor. Mr E is unhappy with the time it took to process the transfer and with the service 
he received. 
What happened
Vanguard accepts it was responsible for delaying the transfer, so I wont go into detail 
concerning the circumstances of how it occurred. In short, the transfer completed on 
12 May 2021 but wouldve done so several months earlier, but for the delay. 
Vanguard looked into Mr Es concerns but didnt uphold the complaint and so Mr E referred 
his complaint to this service. Following this, Vanguard accepted responsibility for the delay 
and offered Mr E £300 for the trouble and upset caused. It accepted that it missed several 
emails from the transferor requesting a wet signature on the transfer authority form. Mr E 
didnt accept Vanguards offer and said it should also pay for any investment losses he 
suffered too. 
Our investigator considered the complaint. In short, he upheld the complaint but 
recommended as well as paying £300 compensation for the trouble and upset caused, 
Vanguard should also return Mr E to the position he would have been in if the money had 
been invested on 3 March 2021. 
Vanguard didnt agree to Mr Es claim for investment loss. It noted that he had chosen not to 
place a pending investment order at the time he requested the transfer. So, Vanguard felt it 
couldnt determine what Mr E wouldve done if the transfer had completed sooner than it did. 
It also felt that compensating Mr E further would be unfair on other customers in a similar 
position who had given a pre-existing investment instruction when theres been a transfer 
delay. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached the matter has been referred to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. 
As noted, Vanguard has accepted responsibility for the delay, so it remains only for me to 
decide what represents fair compensation. But for clarity I will consider when its likely the 
investment would have completed but for the delays. Vanguard realised the transferor didnt 
accept the authority form and so it requested a new one on 23 April 2021. 
Following this, the money was invested on 17 May 2021 and so the investment took 16 
working days to complete. Had Vanguard picked up the initial missed correspondence from 
the transferor on 10 February 2021 I think its likely that the transfer wouldve completed 
within 16 working days of that message. So, on 3 March 2021.  
Mr E feels he has incurred an investment loss, as the transfer delay prevented him from 
investing sooner. Vanguard considers it isnt possible to determine any investment loss as 
theres insufficient evidence to support what Mr E wouldve done had the transfer completed 
in a reasonable timeframe. 
Vanguards position is based upon the fact that there was an opportunity for Mr E to indicate 
his investment intention for the cash at the point of requesting the transfer. Because he 
chose not to take that opportunity, it cant now be determined with any certainty what his 
intentions for the cash were. 
I accept that if Mr E had given an investment instruction with the transfer it would be a 
straightforward matter to conclude what his position would be but for the delay. But I dont 
think his decision not to give an instruction means its impossible to make a finding about 
what he was intending to do. 
An instruction given at the time of the transfer would clearly have been evidence of his 
intentions. But I note, at the point in the transfer application process where account holders 
are asked if theyd like to choose their new investments, its made clear that it is no problem 
if they dont want to and that they will be able to do so once the cash is transferred. Having 
reviewed the application in its entirety, theres no indication that it might be of benefit to give 
an instruction, for example  in the event of a delay. 
Mr Es actions following the delay in his transfer (especially in the context of already being 
invested in the LifeStrategy 80% fund) are also important evidence to be considered. And in 
the specific circumstances of the complaint I think those actions support, on the balance of 
probabilities, a finding that if thered been no delay Mr E wouldve invested in March 2021 in 
broadly the same way he did in May 2021. 
Vanguard has said that compensation Mr E for investment loss when he didnt give a pre-
transfer instruction would be unfair to customers in similar circumstances who had given an 
instruction in advance. But I dont agree. As Ive said, I think its entirely fair and reasonable 
to consider other evidence and the wider circumstances when deciding whether an 
investment loss should be compensated. 
Putting things right
Vanguard should put Mr E in the position hed be in if he invested his money into the 
Vanguard LifeStrategy 80% fund on 3 March 2021.
So, I direct Vanguard Asset Management, Ltd to: 
Calculate the number of units Mr E wouldve received if hed invested on 
3 March 2021 and compare this with the number of units he actually received when 
he invested in May 2021. If the number of units he wouldve received is greater, 
Vanguard should apply the additional units to his account.
If Mr E has used up his ISA allowance for the year, Vanguard should consult with 
HMRC to ensure Mr E doesnt lose out and explore applying the additional units by 
way of restitution.
 Vanguard should also pay Mr E £300 it offered for the trouble and upset caused 
which I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Vanguard 
Asset Management, Ltd to pay compensation to Mr E as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2022.
 
Rajvinder Pnaiser
Ombudsman