DRN-1847888
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with the increases in premium for a joint home insurance policy with Mrs M 
under Gresham Insurance Company Limited.
What happened
In 2006 Mr and Mrs M took out a home insurance policy through their bank and renewed it 
every year. In 2019 Mr M looked at alternative providers and in January 2020 he cancelled 
the policy with Gresham. Mr M said he was able to find alternative cover for a much lower 
price. 
Mr M felt Gresham had unfairly charged them a higher premium for years even though 
theyd been loyal customers. He wants Gresham to compensate them as he feels they 
overpaid for their insurance over the years.
Our investigator checked the premium Mr and Mrs M had paid since 2006 until he cancelled 
the policy. He explained that there were a number of things which affected the price  and 
he saw that there were two years when an otherwise gradual increase in premiums was 
higher compared to the other years. He found this was due to claims being made in the 
previous year. Taking all of the factors into account, the investigator thought Gresham had 
treated Mr and Mrs M fairly. 
Mr M didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to first explain that it isnt our role to tell a business how it should operate - and this 
includes telling a business what it should charge its customers for insurance products. But I 
can look at whether Gresham treated Mr and Mrs M fairly during the time they held their 
home insurance policy with it. 
Mr and Mrs Ms policy automatically renewed each year. With automatic renewals there is a 
chance that if customers dont engage with the renewal process or shop around for other 
suitable policies, they may find themselves in a position where they are paying much more 
for their cover than a new customer would pay for a similar policy. A business hasnt 
necessarily done anything wrong by changing the insurance premium at renewal. There are 
often risk-related reasons associated with the various insurers of the policy for doing so. 
Industry increases over time can also play a part. 
Claims on policies do affect the renewal price in subsequent years, so from the information 
provided by Gresham, this had an effect on what Mr and Mrs M paid for the policy. I think its 
also worth mentioning that there would have been many external factors involved in the price 
increases over the years - such as increases in insurance premium tax rates (increased from 
5% to 12%) and the impact of inflation. Mr and M held this policy with Gresham for 
approximately 14 years, which is a long time. So I dont think it was unreasonable that the 
cost of the premium would have risen over the years, to take these factors into account. 
Mr M says he was able to obtain an alternative policy with another insurer for a lot less than 
what they were paying for the policy with Gresham. So he doesnt believe Gresham has 
treated them fairly. 
I dont doubt what Mr M says. When new policies are taken out, they often come with a 
significant initial discount which insurers aim to recoup over the years through customer 
retention. This is often referred to as new customer discount and has the effect of reducing 
the initial cost of the insurance policy. And businesses can also offer their customers 
discounts with the aim of retaining their existing customers. This is something businesses 
may do at their own discretion and we wouldnt consider it unfair. 
More recently, online practices and price comparison websites have resulted in insurers 
offering slightly more competitive prices. Some customers can now manage their policies 
online. This can mean reduced administrative costs to insurers, which in turn means savings 
applied to the reduction offered to customers.
Insurance policies provided by different insurers may involve different benefits and/or levels 
of benefits. The level and type of service offered to customers may also be different, as 
described above. So, we do need to be careful when comparing the cost of insurance 
policies, as there may be some known and possibly some unknown factors that could impact 
on the overall cost of the policy. 
I think its also worth mentioning that insurers can have a different perception of the risk a 
customer presents  and so the cost between insurers can be different based on each 
insurers perceived risk of the thing its undertaking to insure.
All of these factors mean that the cost of the policy Mr and Mrs M held with Gresham and 
renewed in subsequent years, would be different to the cost of a policy taken out more 
recently. So, although Mr M could take out a policy at a much lower cost today, for the 
reasons explained, I dont think its fair to compare the cost of different policies taken out at 
different times as if they were like-for-like. 
I understand Mr M will be disappointed. But based on everything Ive seen I dont think 
Gresham treated Mr and Mrs M unfairly. So I dont think it needs to do any more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 February 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman