DRN-4076516
The complaint
The estate of Mr A, represented by Mrs A, has complained about the settlement of a claim 
by Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) under Mr As life assurance policy.
What happened
Very sadly this complaint concerns a claim as Mr A passed away in 2021. I extend my 
condolences to Mrs A.
The background is not in dispute. Mr A took out a life assurance policy through a broker in 
2017. He was asked several questions on the application form. L&G says that Mr A 
answered two questions incorrectly and had he answered correctly his premium would have 
been greater. It therefore paid a proportionate settlement to Mr As estate. Mrs A, on behalf 
of the estate disputed the questions were answered incorrectly and referred the complaint 
here. 
Our investigator didnt find that L&G had done anything wrong. Mrs A appealed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly though Im aware Ive summarised the background to this complaint and some 
sensitive medical details. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focused on what I 
find are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something I 
havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. Ive fully reviewed the complete file and 
considered the representations Mrs A has made Im satisfied I dont need to comment on 
every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. I recognise 
that Mr A will be very disappointed my decision and Im sorry this decision doesnt bring 
more welcome news. I agree with the conclusion reached by our investigator, and Ill explain 
the reasons why:
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as -  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
The application form asked the following questions:
During the last 5 years have you seen a doctor, nurse or other health professional for high 
blood pressure,  or condition affecting blood or blood vessels, for exampleexcess sugar 
in the blood?.
During the last 12 months have you smoked any cigarettes?
Having seen Mr As GPs records L&G say that both those questions should have been 
answered affirmatively. This was because according to those records, Mr A was diagnosed 
with pre-diabetes (excess sugar in blood but not quite to diabetes levels) in April 2014. He 
saw his GP about this at the time as well as 4 February 2015. He also had pre-diabetes test 
results in September 2015 and July 2016. In May 2017 C had further increased blood sugar 
levels with a repeat test in June 2017 confirming a diabetes diagnosis. I do understand that 
Mr A gave L&G details of his condition and medication to L&G in 2020  but this was some 
years after the application was submitted and the policy commenced.
With regard to the smoking question the records show Mr A as being a smoker in June 2017. 
Mrs A has said he smoked occasionally. The application form had the option to enter yes 
occasionally.
Mrs A has said that Mr A did give the correct details to the broker through whom he took out 
the policy. Ive seen a copy of the application form which states You, the Agent, are 
responsible for ensuring that your customers read the declaration. The declaration, which is 
marked read and agreed by Mr A, declared that the information in the declaration had been 
provided truthfully and accurately. However, this complaint is against L&G who underwrite 
the policy, not the broker. It follows that I am only considering the actions of L&G. I dont find 
that L&G erred in relying on the completed application form.
Ive seen too that L&G sent Check Your Details letters to Mr A. This gave the opportunity to 
check the answers given on the application form. Mrs A has said that L&G had the wrong 
email address for him, although L&G has said it didnt bounce back. In any event the second 
letter was sent by post. It may be that Mr A didnt receive the posted letter, but I cant hold 
L&G responsible for this. Likewise I note Mrs As wider comments about L&G  but here Im 
looking at the complaint brought to us. This service has no power to regulate financial 
businesses.
The medical records show that answers on the application form received by L&G were 
incorrect. Im satisfied from the underwriting evidence I have seen that had the answers 
been correct Mr A wouldnt have been offered cover on the same terms. This means that 
there was a qualifying misrepresentation. L&G have treated the misrepresentation as 
careless. I think that was fair. CIDRA provides that as Mr A should have paid a higher 
premium, L&G was entitled to reduce the claim payment proportionately. I can see that this 
is what it did.
 I am sorry that my decision doesnt bring more welcome news, but in all the circumstances I 
dont find that L&G treated the estate of Mr A unfairly in settling the estates claim in the way 
it did.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, and despite my natural sympathy, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr A 
to accept or reject my decision before 1 September 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman