DRN-3306887
The complaint
Mr F complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) didnt support him during his financial 
difficulties and has affected his credit file, in relation to a hire purchase agreement he 
entered into with them. 
What happened
In November 2018 Mr F acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement with BOS. 
The car was registered in September 2015, which means it was about three years old and 
had travelled around 39,000 miles at the time of supply. The purchase price of the car was 
£13,000. A deposit of £1,500 was made, which meant that the total amount financed on this 
agreement was £11,500 payable over 41 months at £233.98 each month followed by a final 
repayment of £4,510.42
Mr F said in September or October 2019 he became unemployed, so he arranged a 
repayment plan with BOS until February 2020. However due to the Covid-19 pandemic Mr F 
said a new contract hed trained for didnt work out, which meant he had no employment. 
BOS provided us with a statement of Mr Fs account which showed reduced payments of 
£25 each month for November and December 2019, £160 in January 2020 and £40 in 
February 2020. However, the statement also shows that Mr F made no repayments towards 
the agreement in September or October 2019, and between March 2020 and March 2021.
Mr F said he was in contact with BOS to discuss his financial situation. Mr F said he was 
advised by BOS not to make any payments towards the agreement as itd make no 
difference to the arrears which would still be accumulated. BOS confirmed that Mr F spoke 
to them in July 2020 regarding the arrears on his account. They also said that Mr F was told 
that the payments were still due each month but that when he found employment, hed be 
able to arrange a repayment plan to bring his account back up to date. 
Mr F says in November 2020 he received a letter regarding the repossession of his car and 
another in January 2021. Mr F said he contacted BOS in January 2021 as he started work 
again and was in need of the car. Mr F said BOS arranged a payment plan for him that 
wasnt viable as it was too much for him to commit to each month. 
Mr F complained to BOS about the impact this had on his credit file and that they didnt allow 
him a payment break due to the arrears on his account. Mr F believes the situation around 
Covid-19 should have been taken into consideration. In May 2021 BOS provided their final 
response to Mr F. 
BOS said, as Mr F was already more than two payments in arrears during 2020, they werent 
able to arrange a payment holiday, or add the arrears to the end of the agreement. They 
said at no point was he told by them not to make payments. In relation to his credit file they 
advised that it accurately reflected the payments made to the agreement which they said 
had been explained to Mr F, and confirmed that his account was being managed by their 
repossessions team.
As part of the investigation into his complaint BOS found that during a phone call with Mr F 
one of their advisers said they were from a different business, which they acknowledge may 
have caused some confusion or inconvenience. So, BOS agreed to pay Mr F £50 in 
compensation for this.
Unhappy with their response Mr F brought his complaint to our service in May 2021 for 
investigation. Our investigator gave their view that BOS acted fairly in the circumstances and 
so didnt think they needed to take any action. 
Unhappy with the investigators view, Mr F asked that his complaint be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
The agreement in this case is a regulated hire purchase agreement. As such, this service is 
able to consider complaints relating to it.
My starting point is that Mr F says he requested a payment break in September or October 
2019. BOS provided us with system notes which confirm that in September 2019 Mr F asked 
for a break in his monthly payments due to a change in his employment status. BOS agreed 
to suspend his monthly payments and arrange a repayment plan the following month, when 
he was more aware of his income. 
BOS system notes confirm that up to July 2020 Mr F maintained contact with BOS each 
month to advise that he was unable to secure a regular and consistent income, to arrange 
reduced payments and to advise of personal issues which meant he had to take time out of 
employment. Throughout this period, Mr F also advised BOS that his potential employment 
opportunity, early in 2020, had been impacted by the disruption to businesses caused by the 
Covid-19 pandemic. BOS notes also confirm that no contact had been made by Mr F 
between July 2020 and February 2021. 
Having considered this Im satisfied that Mr Fs financial difficulties were due to 
circumstances arising prior to the Covid-19 pandemic, and in March 2020, around start of 
the pandemic, Mr F was already more than four months in arrears on his agreement. I 
acknowledge however, that his attempt to find employment in 2020 had been impacted by 
the disruption to businesses caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. 
Part of Mr Fs complaint is the lack of support given to him by BOS, in consideration of his 
financial difficulties. 
In April 2020, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) published temporary guidance for 
businesses in relation to motor finance agreements. The guidance was applicable in the 
exceptional circumstances arising out of the Covid-19 pandemic. The guidance set out 
expectations that businesses, for a temporary period, should provide exceptional and immediate support to customers facing payment difficulties due to circumstances arising out 
of coronavirus.
However, the guidance also says: Where a customer was in pre-existing financial difficulty, 
our existing forbearance rules and guidance in CONC [Consumer Credit Sourcebook] 
would continue to apply. 
The Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), which can be found within the FCAs handbook, 
says that a business must treat customers in default or in arrears difficulties with forbearance 
and due consideration. CONC 7.3.5 provides some examples which include, suspending, 
reducing or waiving interest or charges, allowing payment deferrals or accepting token 
payments for a reasonable period of time.
As Ive already established that Mr Fs payment difficulties were as a result of circumstances 
prior to the Covid-19 Pandemic, Im satisfied that BOS werent obliged to follow the specific 
temporary guidance as described above, but should have followed the existing FCA 
guidance in place. 
Following Mr F advising BOS of his financial difficulties in September 2019, BOS agreed to 
suspend payments for Mr F and provide him with payment breaks, reviewed his income and 
expenditure to determine affordability, agreed reduced payments, discussed various 
settlement options with Mr F when he enquired about giving up his car, and arranged 
repayment plans to help bring his account back up to date. This is confirmed within BOS 
system notes, and the reduced payments made are detailed on the statement of account, 
provided by BOS. In consideration of this Im satisfied that BOS treated Mr F with 
forbearance and supported him in line with CONC guidance. 
Mr F said he was told in July 2020 that BOS advised he wasnt able to make repayments 
towards his agreement. BOS system notes advise that they phoned Mr F in July 2020 to get 
an update on his situation and advised that his agreement was over 8 months in arrears. 
The notes say that Mr F explained he was in the early stages of securing employment and 
that he wasnt able to make any payments but would call back once a start date for his 
employment was known. I havent seen anything which persuades me that BOS told Mr F he 
wasnt able to make any payments towards his agreement. I think its more likely that Mr F 
wasnt able to make payments because he wasnt in the financial position to do so. 
Mr F also complained about the impact this has had on his credit file. On the system notes 
provided by BOS its recorded on different occasions that theyd advised Mr F that his credit 
file was being affected whilst he was behind with his payments. In addition, its stated on Mr 
Fs agreement, that the details of the agreement and any default or failure to keep to its 
terms would be recorded with credit reference agencies. Mr F signed the agreement, so Im 
satisfied that he had the opportunity to review the terms. Ive also seen no evidence that 
suggests BOS are acting unfairly by recording the details of Mr Fs agreement with credit 
reference agencies. So overall Im satisfied that Mr Fs credit file should accurately reflect 
the position of his agreement with BOS. And so, I wont be instructing BOS to do anything in 
relation to this.
I recognise the personal and financial challenges that Mr F has experienced over the past 
few years, and the added stress this would have placed on him and his family. However, 
from the information provided Im satisfied that BOS acted fairly in the circumstances. My final decision
Having thought about everything above along with what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint about Bank of 
Scotland plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2022.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman