DRN-3552976
The complaint
Mr W complains about the advice given by D C Financial Limited (DCF) to transfer the 
benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a personal pension. 
He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a significant 
financial loss.
He also complains about the transfer of a personal pension that took place at the same time. 
What happened
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation 
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved pension benefits, 
one of which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory 
fund designed to provide compensation to members of defined benefit pension schemes 
when their employer becomes insolvent. The BSPS was closed to further benefit accrual 
from 31 March 2017.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms 
of a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement 
said that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, 
a new pension scheme sponsored by Mr Ws employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
Mr W approached DCF in 2017 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. He was also 
concerned about the situation with his employer, and the DB scheme, and he was unsure 
what to do for the best. He received a transfer value in August 2017. 
DCF completed a fact-find in September 2017 to gather information about Mr Ws 
circumstances and objectives. This showed that: 
He was aged 50, married and had two dependent children (aged 18 and 21).
He was employed at Tata Steel with an annual income of just over £40,000.
Mrs W was also employed on a full time basis with a similar income. She had her 
own DB pension provision. 
Mr and Mrs W owned their own home which was subject to a mortgage. This had 16 
years left to run. 
They had other debts of £20,000 and no significant savings or investments. 
Mr W had joined the new Tata Steel group personal pension scheme. Both him, and 
his employer, contributed a total of 16% of his salary into this each month. 
DCF also carried out an assessment of Mr Ws attitude to risk, which it said was cautious to 
moderate. 
While DCF and Mr W were going through the advice process, on 11 August 2017, Mr Ws 
employer confirmed the terms of an agreement with the pensions regulator about the next 
steps for separating the BSPS from the company  which had been broadly agreed in May 
2017 and included a lump sum payment into the pension fund  had been signed. This 
announcement included confirmation that agreement had also been reached about the 
sponsorship, by Mr Ws employer, of the BSPS2.
Then on 25 August 2017, an important update was issued in respect of BSPS transfer 
values. This explained that the expected lump sum payment into the BSPS by Mr Ws 
employer was likely to result in an improvement to transfer values. And for those with 
unexpired transfer values, as in Mr Ws case, updated valuations would be issued around 
October 2017, which would be guaranteed until at least December 2017.
And on 11 September 2017 there was a further announcement, confirming the agreed 
payment had been made into the BSPS by Mr Ws employers and the separation of the 
BSPS from the company had been completed. This set out that members would have to 
make a choice between staying in the BSPS or moving to the BSPS2 and explained that 
personalised information and illustrations would be provided in October 2017 to assist with 
that choice and that members would have until December 2017 to decide. 
On 14 September 2017, DCF advised Mr W to transfer his pension benefits into a personal 
pension and invested the proceeds in a range of funds that matched his recorded attitude to 
risk. 
The suitability report said the reasons for this recommendation were:
Mr W wanted to retire at age 60 and start taking benefits, especially tax free cash. 
He was uncertain of the future of the BSPS scheme, and about whether his benefits 
would be cut further. 
He wanted control of his pension to ensure it provided the flexibility and benefits that 
he needed. 
Mr W wanted to avoid the penalties associated with accessing the BSPS before the 
schemes normal retirement date (NRD).
He wanted to have more flexible death benefits. And he felt it was important to be 
able to pass on any pension fund that was unused to his children.
Mr W signed a document to confirm that he understood the risks of the transfer. And a 
summary document was provided to Mr W that outlined the pros and cons of the transfer 
and staying with the BSPS. The transfer completed in November 2017 and Mr W transferred 
£305,225.67 from the BSPS scheme.
DCF also advised Mr W to transfer a personal pension with a value of approximately 
£27,567.42. It said this would streamline his pension savings and give Mr W access to a 
wider range of funds with competitive charges. 
In October 2017, members of BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which gave them 
the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 or transfer 
their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices was 11 December (and 
was later extended to 22 December 2017).
Mr W complained in 2021 to DCF about the suitability of the transfer advice. The complaint 
was mainly that the transfer was unlikely to match the benefits of the BSPS2. DCF should 
have assumed that the transfer was not suitable, as the regulators rules say this is the 
correct starting point, and it should have advised him not to transfer. 
DCF didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. It said that it considered Mr W circumstances in full and 
it gave clear and suitable advice which included a transfer value analysis report (TVAS). It 
ensured that Mr W was aware of, and comfortable with, the risks of the DB transfer. Mr W referred his complaint to our service. An Investigator upheld the complaint and 
recommended that DCF pay compensation. Our Investigator said that, due to the critical 
yields, the transfer was likely to leave Mr W worse off in retirement. He said Mr Ws existing 
arrangements would have met his needs and he should have been advised that either the 
BSPS2 or the PPF werent as detrimental as he thought they may be. 
And in respect of the personal pension transfer, our Investigator thought that his original 
scheme was likely to have a lower cost than the new pension. And the investments in it were 
suitable. As the only reason given for this transfer was streamlining he wasnt persuaded 
this transfer was suitable for Mr W. 
Our Investigator thought that Mr W should have been advised to join the BSPS2 and not 
transfer his personal pension. 
DCF disagreed, saying:
It could not have advised Mr W to join the BSPS2. This was because it didnt exist at 
the time and it wasnt certain that it would in the future. It wasnt created until 
31 January 2018.
The most likely outcome at the time of advice was that Mr W would need to join the 
PPF. He didnt want this, he wanted to control his pension benefits. 
The industry regulator has reviewed some of its pension transfer advice cases and it 
didnt find any problems with them. It has kept pace with regulatory developments 
and ensured that the advice it gave was reasonable. 
The Financial Ombudsman Service shouldnt just rely on critical yields to determine if 
the advice was suitable. These should not be the focal point of the advice. Mr W was 
not looking to purchase an annuity.  He wanted to use his funds flexibly, for example, 
he wanted to spend less when his state pension became payable. 
Discount rates also shouldnt be the focal point of the advice. That said, overall, the 
performance needed may have been achievable. Mr Ws funds have performed well 
and should continue to do so. 
Mr W was informed that his pension was subject to investment growth and he agreed 
with this. 
Mr W was fully informed about all aspects of the advice at the time of sale. DCF 
advised Mr W that the critical yields were unlikely to be achieved.
He would have proceeded in any event due to his concerns with the BSPS scheme. 
In respect of the DC scheme Mr W had access to a wider range of funds with some 
lower cost options. So, this transfer was also suitable. 
And in respect of any loss suffered DCF feels that this should be considered against 
the PPF rather than BSPS2 as this scheme didnt exist at the time of advice. 
The Investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of DCF's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, DCF should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ws 
best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his 
best interests.
Financial viability 
DCF was gathering information and ultimately advised Mr W at a time when there was 
significant uncertainty and updates being issued about what was happening with the BSPS 
and the BSPS2. This included confirmation that sponsorship of the BSPS2 was planned, that 
details of the scheme would follow and that members would have until December 2017 to 
make a choice. It was also explained that the expected payment into the BSPS by Mr Ws 
employer was likely to result in an improvement to transfer values. And that members with 
unexpired transfer values would be sent updated valuations  again likely improved ones  
which would be guaranteed until at least December 2017. And the lump sum payment to the 
BSPS was confirmed just before DCF gave Mr W advice.
However, DCF proceeded with the advice without really accounting for any of this. It didnt 
delay providing the advice so there were no comparisons carried out of the benefits the 
BSPS2 would potentially provide. And the advice was based on the CETV Mr W had 
received in August 2017, which was due to expire in November 2017.
Given what information the announcements indicated would be forthcoming, in order to give 
Mr W enough information to make a fully informed decision about what was in his best 
interests, I think DCF should have told Mr W to defer making a decision on the transfer until 
further details of the BSPS2 were known and revised transfer values received. 
Transferring out of a DB scheme is a one-off event. Once transferred there's no going back, 
the benefits of the DB scheme are usually lost forever. The announcements indicated that Mr W would be afforded time to think about his options  so the deadline in the original 
transfer quotation became less relevant. And waiting wouldve allowed DCF to carry out an 
analysis of the BSPS2 benefits, and to properly compare these to the alternatives, and base 
its advice on this. Because I think without doing this, DCF was acting on information which it 
knew to be limited, so it is difficult to argue that it could properly assess whether a transfer 
was in Mr Ws best interests.
DCF has strongly argued that BSPS2 may not have gone ahead so the only comparison it 
could provide was with the benefits available to Mr W through the PPF. But I think DCF 
overestimated the chance of this not happening. And details of the scheme were going to be 
provided in the very near future; the BSPS2 wouldve offered the same income benefits but 
the annual increases wouldve been lower. Of course, its possible it may not have gone 
ahead, but I still think the benefits available to Mr W through the BSPS2 shouldve been 
factored in with this advice so that he was able to make an informed decision.
That said, I think its reasonable to say that the information provided shows that the transfer 
wasnt in Mr Ws best interests from a financial viability perspective anyway. Ill explain why.  
DCF carried out a transfer value analysis report (as required by the regulator) showing how 
much Mr Ws pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide the same 
benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield). Just to reiterate this was partly based on his 
existing scheme benefits and Mr W didnt have the option to remain in the BSPS  he either 
needed to opt into the BSPS2 or move with the scheme to the PPF. 
Mr W was 50 at the time of the advice and wanted to retire between ages 60 and 65. The 
critical yield required to match Mr Ws benefits at age 65 was 8.77% if he took a full pension.  
The same figure for age 60 was shown as 11.38%. 
Its not clear why critical yields werent calculated assuming Mr W took some tax free cash 
as this was one of his objectives. Clearly DCF should have done this. 
The critical yield to match the benefits available through the PPF at age 65 was quoted as 
5.97% per year if Mr W took a full pension and 5.44% per year if he took tax free cash and a 
reduced pension. But no figures were provided for age 60.
As Ive said above, Mr W remaining in his existing DB scheme wasnt an option. So, the 
critical yields applicable to the BSPS2 benefits should also have been provided by DCF in 
time. The lower annual increases under the BSPS2 wouldve likely decreased the critical 
yields somewhat but, I still think they wouldve likely been higher than those reflecting the 
PPF benefits, particularly at age 65.
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given. 
The discount rates in this case were 4.2% per year for 14 years to retirement, that is Mr Ws 
age 65. And it was 3.7% for 9 years to retirement, Mr Ws age 60. For further comparison, 
the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and 
the lower projection rate 2%. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Ws 
cautious to moderate attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. There would be little point in Mr W giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to 
achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, given the lowest 
critical yield was around 5.5%, which was above both the discount rate and the regulators 
middle projection rate, I think Mr W was likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower 
overall value than the DB scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in line with his lower 
attitude to risk. Thats particularly the case given I think he ought to have been advised to 
join the BSPS2, and the critical yields applicable to the BSPS2 were likely to be higher those 
applicable to the PPF.
DCF has provided cashflow models which it says shows Mr W wouldve been able to meet 
his needs despite the high critical yields. Ive considered these, but DCFs models show that, 
assuming a medium rate of return, and Mr W taking the same benefits from the BSPS 
scheme, that his fund would run out at his age 91. So if there was a period of poor returns or 
Mr W lived a long life, his fund was at risk of running out before he died.
And DCF also provided an estimate of the fund values he would need to replicate the 
benefits he was giving up in the DC scheme. At age 65 this was £813,024 and at age 60 it 
was £720,549. These were far more than the transfer value, and what the transfer could 
reasonably be assumed to grow to. These give a revealing insight into the value of the 
benefits Mr W gave up when he transferred out to a personal pension plan.
And it was recognised at the time of sale that Mr W would be very unlikely to equal, or better, 
the BSPS pension. The suitability letter said the critical yield required is high and it would be 
very unlikely that an investment could provide a return to match the benefits you are giving 
up.
DCF says that the critical yields are of limited relevance because they are based on the 
growth required to produce a fund large enough to purchase an annuity on the same basis 
as the benefits provided by the DB scheme. DCF says Mr W didnt want an annuity, it said 
he wanted to take his benefits flexibly. But the regulator required DCF to consider the rate of 
investment growth that would have to be achieved to replicate the benefits being given up. 
So, it needed to provide an analysis based on the critical yield and I do think it is a relevant 
consideration here, particularly as I dont think Mr W could realistically say with any certainty 
whether he would want to take a regular income at retirement or not. He wasnt expecting to 
retire for at least another ten years. Its entirely possible that Mr W would want at least some 
guaranteed income in retirement (which he could achieve by taking benefits from the DB 
scheme).
DCF also says that it is unreasonable to base any findings on the discount rate because 
taking this into account was not required by the regulator when giving advice. While I havent 
based my findings just on this, I think it a reasonable additional consideration when seeking 
to determine what level of growth was reasonably achievable at the time of the advice. 
Under COBS 19.1.2 the regulator required businesses to compare the benefits likely to be 
paid under a DB scheme with those payable under a personal pension by using reasonable 
assumptions. So, businesses were free to use the discount rate as this would be considered 
a reasonable assumption of the likely returns. And in any event, this has been considered in 
tandem with the regulators published projection rates, which providers were required to refer 
to. And it is this combination, along with Mr Ws attitude to risk, which leads me to believe 
hed likely be worse off in retirement if he transferred out of the DB scheme.
DCF has said that the fund has at times performed well, which I dont disagree with. But, as 
DCF will know, past performance is no guarantee for future performance and so I consider 
the discount rates and the regulators standard projections to be more realistic in this regard 
in the long term rather than projecting historic returns forward, particularly over a longer 
period of time. And even though the fund has performed well it hasnt really performed at the levels needed to replicate the benefits Mr W gave up, for example its not provided over 11% 
a year that it would need to replicate the DB pension at age 60. 
For this reason alone, a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mr Ws best interests. Of 
course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. There might 
be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall lower 
benefits. DCF has said that Mr W wanted to transfer to due to problems with the scheme and 
to improve his flexibility when he retired. So, Ive considered these points below.
Flexibility and income needs
DCF says that Mr W wanted to take his pension benefits flexibly at retirement. In considering 
this I think its reasonable to firstly say there was very little detail recorded about Mr Ws 
circumstances at the time of sale. And there was very little analysis, or information about, his 
retirement wants or needs. 
If DCF had taken a more detailed look at Mr Ws retirement circumstances it could have 
provided robust planning as to how they could meet his aims or challenged them if his aims 
werent realistic or achievable. For example, I dont think its reasonable to say that DCF 
seriously looked into, or challenged, Mr Ws objective of early retirement and questioned 
how realistic that was for him. So, I dont think it met its obligations to challenge his 
objectives in the light of what he would be giving up. Given the amount of information 
recorded its difficult to see how DCF could have properly advised Mr W here. 
That said it seems the main reason that DCF recommended this transfer was for the 
flexibility and control it offered Mr W. The point of sale documentation shows that Mr W 
wanted to retire at age 60 but anticipated his income needs falling from state pension age. 
So, varying his income could be useful. And he was open to working a few more years if he 
needed to. But, ideally, he wanted to take his tax free cash and pension from age 60, without 
penalty, to repay any debts he had and to start taking a flexible income
It's evident that Mr W could not take his DB scheme benefits flexibly in this way. Although he 
could choose to take tax free cash and a reduced annual pension, Mr W had to take those 
benefits at the same time. But Im not persuaded that Mr W had any concrete need to take 
tax free cash and defer taking his income, or to vary his income throughout retirement. To 
my mind this seems more of a nice to have rather than a genuine objective. And, as above, 
it seems Mr W was willing to retire when the time was right rather than having a set age. 
It was recorded that Mr W wanted his income in retirement is to be around £24,000 to 
£26,000 per year. But there isnt any information about how this figure was arrived at. It 
looks like it was based on his current expenditure, whereas their actual needs in retirement 
might have been very different. For example, their mortgage would be repaid in around 15 
years time, so their expenditure could be different if Mr W worked until age 65. 
It was noted that the DB scheme would provide just over £18,000 at Mr Ws age 65 (based 
on the BSPS). And Mr W would also receive his state pension of around £9,000 in due 
course. He would also have his DC scheme benefits which could be used either to provide 
an income or used more flexibly. So, its evident that Mr W would have enough to meet his 
income aims at 65. 
But Mr W had expressed a preference to retire earlier than this and take some tax free cash.  
So I need to look at whether the advice was suitable when these factors are considered.  
The TVAS showed that, at age 60, Mr W would receive a pension of just over £13,000. On 
the face of it this income was less than he said he needed. DFC has essentially said that the personal pension was a way for Mr W to retire early despite this. As he could use the fund 
flexibly and take, for example, a greater income at the start and then reduce this when his 
other provisions and state pension became payable. Although, as Ive said above, it didnt 
really provide enough detail to say this was a realistic option for Mr W. 
And this doesnt give the full picture here. Mr W was a member of his new employers DC 
scheme and he and his employer were contributing 16% of his salary into this. If he 
remained a member over the next ten years, and his salary remained the same, both him 
and his employer would contribute around £70,000. This would also be increased by some 
investment performance. And Mr W already had pension benefits with a value of £27,000. 
Overall, its likely he would have a significant fund he could use flexibly from age 60 to top up 
the income he could take from the DB scheme. 
Added to this Mrs W had some DB scheme entitlement herself. It was recorded that she had 
around 20 years service in a similar scheme to the BSPS which could be added to Mr Ws 
entitlement. Its not clear exactly what benefits this would provide  and I think this is a 
significant failing on DCFs part as it couldnt have advised Mr W on his income needs in 
retirement without knowing this. But given Mrs Ws income, and the length of time she had 
been in the DB scheme, I think it was likely to be significant. 
So I think its reasonable to say that Mr and Mrs W both had significant pension entitlements, 
both from their private provisions and the state pension. And whilst their income would be 
reduced if they took tax free cash or retired earlier than their scheme NRDs. I still think its 
likely they would have been able to retire early, or take some tax free cash, or a combination 
of both of these, if that is what they wanted. So, I dont think they needed to transfer for this 
reason.  
DCF persistently referred to the DB scheme providing a lower income at retirement if Mr W 
retired early. It described this as a penalty. But I dont think this is fair or balanced. Whilst 
the initial income from the DB scheme would be lower at early retirement this is to reflect the 
longer term that it will be in payment. It doesnt necessarily mean that Mr W will receive less 
overall, and it isnt a penalty. And I think describing it in this way meant it wasnt providing 
Mr W with information that was clear, fair and not misleading.
DCF has said that once Mr Ws state pension became payable he would want to reduce the 
amount of income he took. And he wouldnt have been able to do this if he took benefits in 
the DB scheme, so he would probably have too much income. 
Even if Mr W didnt need all of the income his DB scheme provided once his state, and other 
pensions, became payable this isnt a good reason to transfer in itself. This income could 
have been an important foundation for Mr and Mrs Ws retirement, providing a guaranteed 
amount that wouldve covered their main expenses, and income received above this 
couldve allowed them to enjoy their retirement fully. Furthermore, Mr W couldve reinvested 
any surplus income for the benefit of their children in a tax-efficient manner such as investing 
it within a trust.
Overall, Im satisfied Mr W could have met his income needs in retirement by maintaining 
the guaranteed income available to him through the BSPS2 or the PPF. So, I dont think it 
was in Mr Ws best interests for him to transfer his pension just to have flexibility that he 
didnt really need. And if Mr W found that his circumstances changed and he did in fact 
need flexibility, if hed opted into the BSPS2 he wouldve retained the ability to transfer out 
closer to his actual retirement age. So, ultimately I think any need for flexibility couldve 
been addressed nearer to his retirement.
Death benefitsOne of Mr Ws objectives was recorded as being improving the death benefits his pension 
planning had. 
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr W. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr W might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr W about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think DCF explored to what extent 
Mr W was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death 
benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr W 
was married so the spouses pension provided by the DB scheme wouldve been useful to 
his wife if Mr W predeceased her. I dont think DCF made the value of this benefit clear 
enough to Mr W. This was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not dependent on 
investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was. 
And as the cashflow analysis shows, there may not have been a large sum left, particularly if 
Mr W lived a long life.  In any event, DCF should not have encouraged Mr W to prioritise the 
potential for higher death benefits through a personal pension over his security in retirement.
And if Mr W genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his family, which didnt depend on 
investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, I think DCF 
shouldve instead explored life insurance. DCF says that Mr W couldnt have achieved his 
objective of leaving a lump sum to his wife and children without transferring his pension; Im 
unable to agree. Transferring his pension was clearly not the only way for Mr W to achieve 
this objective. Life assurance ought to have been explored in the first instance  Mr W was in 
good health so it was likely to be affordable.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr W. And I dont think that 
insurance was properly explored as an alternative.
Control and concerns over the financial stability of the DB scheme
Its clear that Mr W, like many employees of his company, was concerned about his 
pension. His employer had recently made the announcement about its plans for the scheme 
and he was worried his pension would end up in the PPF. Hed heard negative things about 
the PPF and he said he preferred to have control over his pension fund.
So its quite possible that Mr W was also leaning towards the decision to transfer because 
of the concerns he had about his employer and his negative perception of the PPF. 
However, it was DCFs obligation to give Mr W an objective picture and recommend what 
was in his best interests.
As Ive explained, by this point some information about the BSPS2 was known and it 
seemed likely it was going ahead. So, the advice DCF gave Mr W shouldve properly 
encompassed the benefits likely to be available to him through the BSPS2. And I think this 
shouldve alleviated Mr Ws concerns about the scheme moving to the PPF.
But even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that DCF shouldve 
reassured Mr W that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he thought. 
The income available to Mr W through the PPF wouldve still provided a significant portion of the income he thought he needed at retirement, and he was unlikely to be able to exceed 
this by transferring out. And although the increases in payment in the PPF were lower, the 
income was still guaranteed and was not subject to any investment risk. So, I dont think 
that these concerns shouldve led to DCF recommending Mr W transfer out of the DB 
scheme altogether.
I also think Mr Ws desire for control over his pension benefits was overstated. Mr W was 
not an experienced investor and I cannot see that he had an interest in or the knowledge 
to be able to manage his pension funds on his own. So, I dont think that this was a 
genuine objective for Mr W  it was simply a consequence of transferring away from his 
DB scheme.
It seems to me that Mr Ws stated desire for control related more to moving his pension 
away from an employer that he didnt trust, than to any resolution on his part to begin to 
manage his investment.
But it ought to have been explained that Mr Ws employer and the trustees of the BSPS2 
were not the same. And in any event, Mr W was not intending to leave his employment and 
his DC pension remained connected to his employer  so transferring out of the scheme 
didnt achieve a break from his employer. So had DCF explained that Mr Ws belief 
regarding the control Mr Ws employer had over his pension was misplaced, I think he 
would have been reassured by this.
Suitability of investments
DCF recommended that Mr W invest in a range of funds. As Im upholding the complaint on 
the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mr W, it follows that I 
dont need to consider the suitability of the investment recommendation. This is because 
Mr W should have been advised to remain in the DB scheme and so the investments in the 
fund provider wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been given.
The personal pension transfer 
There is no detail about why the personal pension was transferred in the suitability letter or 
much about it in the point of sale information at all. As our Investigator said, the reason it 
seems to have been recommended was mainly to streamline Mr Ws arrangements. But 
this isnt a good reason to transfer on its own, in this case. 
I understand in the personal pension Mr W had the charges were capped at 1% per year and 
so this was likely to be cheaper than the new arrangement overall. There would also be 
advice and administration costs associated with the transfer. And it was invested in a fund 
that matched Mr Ws attitude to risk. It also had a guaranteed bonus rate of 4% per year 
which would ensure positive returns. Given this, Im not persuaded that the advice to switch 
this pension was suitable for Mr W. In any event, it seems to me that the personal pension 
was only transferred because Mr W was advised to transfer his BSPS benefits. If Mr W had 
been advised to opt into the BSPS2, Im satisfied he wouldve kept his existing personal 
pension arrangements.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr W. But DCF 
wasnt there to just transact what Mr W might have thought he wanted. The advisers role 
was to really understand what Mr W needed and recommend what was in his best interests.Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr W was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr W was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and, in my view, there were no other particular reasons which 
would justify a transfer and outweigh this. Mr W shouldnt have been advised to transfer out 
of the scheme just to gain some flexibility, and the potential for higher death benefits wasnt 
worth giving up the guarantees associated with his DB scheme. And I think DCF shouldve 
first recommended that he defer making a decision until further details of the BSPS2 were 
available and ultimately advised him against transferring.
I appreciate that the BSPS2 hadnt been confirmed when the advice was given, but I think it 
was clear to all parties that it was likely to be going ahead. Mr W had at least ten years 
before he expected to retire, and he didnt really know what his needs in retirement would 
likely be. So, I don't think that it would've been in his interest to accept the reduction in 
benefits he would've faced by the scheme entering the PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the 
more favourable reduction for very early retirement. 
And by opting into the BSPS2, Mr W wouldve retained the ability to transfer out of the 
scheme nearer to his retirement age if he needed to. Also, Mr W was married, and his wifes 
pension would be set at 50% of his pension at the date of death, and this would be 
calculated as if no lump sum was taken at retirement (if Mr W chose to do so). The annual 
indexation of his pension when in payment was also more advantageous under the BSPS2. 
So, I think DCF shouldve advised Mr W to opt into the BSPS2.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr W would've gone ahead anyway, against DCF's 
advice. DCF argues that this is the case, saying that Mr W would still have gone ahead with 
the transfer as it met his needs and he was concerned about his benefits moving to the PPF. 
DCF says that regardless of the advice given, Mr W made an informed choice to proceed 
with the transfer. 
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr W wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against DCFs advice. I say this because Mr W was an 
inexperienced investor with a lower attitude to risk and this pension accounted for the 
majority of Mr Ws retirement provision. So, if DCF had provided him with clear advice 
against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I 
think he wouldve accepted that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr Ws concerns about his employer and the PPF were so great that 
he wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he 
had sought out, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. If DCF had 
explained that Mr W could meet all of his objectives without risking his guaranteed pension, 
I think that wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont think Mr W would have insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme.
I accept that DCF disclosed the risks of transferring to Mr W and provided him with a 
significant amount of information about the transfer. But ultimately it advised Mr W to transfer 
out, and I think Mr W relied on that advice.
In light of the above, I think DCF should compensate Mr W for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Our Investigator recommended that DCF also pay Mr W £500 for the distress caused by the 
unsuitable advice. I dont doubt that Mr W has been caused distress and concern in relation 
to his retirement planning. And Im conscious this wouldnt have happened but for the 
unsuitable advice. And so, in the circumstances, I think the award the Investigator 
recommended is fair.Putting things right
My aim in awarding redress is to put Mr W as far as possible in the position he would be in 
now if DCF had given him suitable advice. I think Mr W would have remained in the DB 
scheme. I also think he would have retained his existing personal pension arrangements. 
To compensate Mr W fairly, DCF must determine the combined fair value of his transferred 
pension benefits as outlined in Step One and Step Two below. If the actual value is greater 
than the combined fair value, no compensation is payable.
fair value  step one
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - 
https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/consultation/cp22-15.pdf
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers 
it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr W whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the new guidance/rules to come into effect. He would like 
his complaint to be settled in line with new guidance/rules. I consider its fair that DCF 
calculates Mr W redress in line with new guidance and rules when they come into effect. 
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr W, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider he would have 
joined the BSPS2. 
The basic objective of the amendments to the redress methodology still remains to put a 
consumer, as far as possible, into the position they would be in if the business had advised 
them to remain in the DB scheme. Having reviewed the FCAs consultation and policy 
statement, Im satisfied that the changes still reflect a fair way to compensate Mr W.
DCF must undertake a redress calculation in line with the updated methodology as soon as 
any new rules and/or guidance come into effect (rather than to calculate and pay any due 
compensation now in line with FG17/9) to determine the value of the benefits he gave up.
For clarity, Mr W has no concrete plans to retire before age 65. So, the calculation should be 
based on his him taking benefits at this age.In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to 
an appropriate provider promptly once any new guidance/rules come into effect.
fair value  step two
As I consider that there was no reason for Mr W to have moved his personal pension 
benefits. DCF must compare the value of Mr Ws old personal pension, that was transferred 
to his new personal pension, with that of the notional value from the previous provider shown 
below to determine the fair value of Mr Ws personal pension if suitable advice had been 
given. 
Investment 
nameStatus BenchmarkFrom (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Value of 
the 
personal 
pension 
fund 
transferredStill exists 
and liquidNotional 
value from 
previous 
providerDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 90 days 
of the business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Notional Value
This is the value of Mr W's investment had it remained with the previous provider until the 
end date. DCF should request that the previous provider calculate this value.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, DCF will need to determine 
a fair value for Mr W's investment instead, using this benchmark: For half the investment: 
FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index; for the other half: average rate from 
fixed rate bonds. The adjustments above also apply to the calculation of a fair value using 
the benchmark, which is then used instead of the notional value in the calculation of 
compensation.
Any additional sums paid into the personal pension should be added to the fair value 
calculation from the point in time when they were actually paid in. Any withdrawal, income or 
other payment out of the SIPP should be deducted from the fair value at the point it was 
actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there 
are a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, I will accept if DCF 
totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end instead of deducting periodically.
The combined value of the sums produced by the above two steps is the combined fair 
value.
actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the personal pension at the date of the 
calculation. 
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should, if possible, be paid 
into Mr Ws pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr W as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. The 
compensation amount must, where possible, be paid to Mr W within 90 days of the date 
DCF receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be 
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes DCF to 
pay Mr W.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If DCF deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr W how much has been taken off. DCF should give Mr W a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr W asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Why is this remedy suitable?
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, then then a use of an index is 
appropriate. This is because:
Mr W wanted Capital growth with a cautious to moderate risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr W's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr W into that position. It does not mean that 
Mr W would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some 
kind of index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise 
that broadly reflects the sort of return Mr W could have obtained from investments 
suited to his objective and risk attitude.
DCF should also pay Mr W £500 for the distress and inconvenience the unsuitable advice 
caused him. This can also be paid straight away. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
 My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require D C Financial Limited 
to pay Mr W the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of 
£160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
D C Financial Limited to pay Mr W any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require D C 
Financial Limited to pay Mr W any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
D C Financial Limited pays Mr W the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest 
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr W.
If Mr W accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on D C Financial Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr W can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr W may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman