DRN-3229809
The complaint
Mr S complains that MotoNovo Finance Limited hasnt refunded the monthly repayments he 
made on a car he acquired through a hire purchase agreement which he was later allowed 
to reject due to it being of unsatisfactory quality. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and have been set out by the 
investigator, so I wont repeat them here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving 
the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the investigators conclusions for the reasons outlined below. 
There is no dispute that the car was of unsatisfactory quality and MotoNovo has allowed Mr 
S to reject it. My role is to determine if MotoNovo has provided a fair and reasonable 
remedy. 
Deposit
 
Mr S has confirmed MotoNovo has returned his deposit. But as MotoNovo allowed the car to 
be rejected I would also expect it to pay 8% simple interest from the date of payment until 
the date of settlement. So I shall be instructing MotoNovo to do so.
Charges
  
I would expect MotoNovo to refund a reasonable contribution to any charges Mr S has 
incurred because of the cars faults or his inability to use the car, if appropriate. Mr S has 
said he used a hire car while his own was with the dealer. He would like to be reimbursed 
the hire charges. I can see from the invoice that Mr S hired a car from 27 November 2019 to 
4 December which corresponds to when his own car was being repaired by the dealer. 
MotoNovo told this service that if Mr S was able to provide receipts for public transport it 
would consider reimbursing them. It said it would not reimburse the customer retroactively 
for car hire. MotoNovo went on to say Mr S wasnt entitled to a courtesy car which is why it is 
referred to as a courtesy car. It said Mr S had received £250 to compensate him for the 
distress and inconvenience caused, including the inconvenience in having to obtain an 
independent engineers report.
While I accept it would have been better if Mr S had discussed his transportation needs with 
MotoNovo at the time, its clear to me from the mileage Mr S has covered in his own car that 
he relied on his car a great deal. And I think it fair that while his own car, which was 
subsequently deemed not of satisfactory quality, was being repaired he be provided with a 
car to use. Mr S said in his comments to MotoNovo that the dealer told him hed be able to 
claim back the car hire cost on the warranty which he subsequently found to be wrong 
information. Ive no reason to doubt Mr Ss testimony on this matter so Im satisfied it would 
be reasonable for MotoNovo to refund the cost. 
MotoNovo said Mr S chose his own company to perform the inspection while other 
companies it uses charge less and wouldnt have taken so long to inspect the vehicle. It said 
its not liable for Mr Ss choice of engineer and the effect that entails. Mr S hired the car 
when his own was being repaired by the dealer in November 2019. He arranged the 
inspection in January 2021 and told MotoNovo that he used an engineer from the list 
provided by it. So Im satisfied the hire car wasnt used while the vehicle was being 
inspected. 
Mr S incurred charges, £80, when the vehicle had a diagnostic check by the dealer in August 
2020. The invoice is for examining a fuel concern, exhaust leak and insurance administration 
charges associated with a courtesy car. I think it fair and reasonable that MotoNovo should 
refund these charges. 
Monthly repayments
Mr S feels its unfair of MotoNovo to keep the entire monthly repayments he has made. He 
confirmed he had use of the car throughout and stated he would be happy to pay for some 
reasonable usage of the car. However he doesnt think it fair he should pay all the monthly 
payments. 
MotoNovo said that the relevant law allows lenders to charge for fair usage of returned 
vehicles and it had a policy of retaining one monthly payment per 1000 miles covered. It said 
this is calculated based on the average mileage in the UK which is 12,000 miles. So as Mr S 
had covered 1,000 miles per month he had had fair usage of the vehicle equivalent to a 
months hire purchase.
At the time of the engineers report in January 2021, the car had been driven just over 
60,000 miles, compared to approximately 39,000 when Mr S acquired it in November 2019. 
Driving more than 20,000 miles over 14 months is more than the national average and its 
only fair that MotoNovo can retain finance instalments to compensate it for the fair use of the 
car. Therefore, Im not asking it to return any of the finance instalments to Mr S.
Mr S would like a portion of the repayments to be refunded to him to reflect the actual 
depreciation of the car. He said MotoNovo kept one month's payment for every 1,000 miles 
on the car which, he said, is not communicated anywhere in its paperwork and is not 
available as a written policy. He said this also meant the money kept is dependent upon the 
monthly finance amount which bears no relation at all to the depreciation of the car. Mr S 
said that in his case MotoNovo kept 14 months of payments totalling just over £2,560 
whereas the actual depreciation of the car over that time period, based on valuations of the 
vehicle and just changing the mileage, was somewhere between £800 & £1,500. He said 
this meant the finance company had taken more than a fair amount of compensation for 
wear & tear.
Its not clear to me why Mr S would be affected by the depreciation value of the car given he 
has returned it. Mr S is not the owner of the car. In a hire purchase agreement, the finance 
company remains the owner until the end of the agreement. Mr S signed the hire purchase 
agreement and agreed to make a set of payments to hire the car until the end of the 
agreement, when ownership would normally transfer to himself. The payments were 
calculated taking the price of the car at the time and the cost of finance into account. In Mr 
Ss case he used the car and drove an above average amount of miles during the whole 
time he had the vehicle. And I consider it reasonable that MotoNovo is allowed to retain those finance instalments. And I consider one monthly payment per 1000 miles covered fair 
and reasonable and what I would expect under the circumstances. 
MotoNovo refunded the payment for the engineers report and paid £250 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience. I can see that Mr S has been inconvenienced by having to 
take the car back to the dealer a few times. And  I consider £250 to compensate for this fair 
and reasonable. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right MotoNovo should: 
Pay 8% simple interest from the date of payment until the date of settlement on the 
deposit already refunded to Mr S
MotoNovo should also reimburse the costs Mr S paid for a hire car and a diagnostic test  
combined £290.10. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and MotoNovo Finance Limited must put 
things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 January 2022.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman