DRN-1959592
The complaint
Mrs B has complained about esure Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim on her motor 
insurance policy.
In bringing this complaint Mrs Bs been helped by her husband, who is a named driver on 
her policy. But for ease of reading Ill refer to Mr Bs comments as being Mrs Bs.
Reference to esure includes its agents.
What happened
Mrs Bs car was damaged in an accident. esure said the car was a total loss and valued it at 
£4,824. Mrs B didn't think that was enough and complained but esure didn't increase its 
valuation. Mrs B brought her complaint to us. Two of our investigators looked into it but 
neither felt that esure needed to take any further action. Mrs B didn't agree, so her 
complaint's been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs B thinks esure undervalued her car and says she hasn't been able to find a replacement 
for a similar sum. I should explain that it's not my role to value cars but Ill look to see that an 
insurers reached its valuation fairly. Our usual approach to complaints about valuations is to 
look at the relevant trade guides for valuing second-hand cars. We find these more reliable 
than figures cars are advertised for. That's because the trade guides use extensive research 
of likely selling prices for cars, whereas the price a car is advertised for isn't necessarily the 
price it sells for, if in fact it sells at all.
The trade guide valuations are based on the specific car being valued. That is they provide a 
value for the exact make, model, year, trim level and mileage. And as the guides rarely 
agree on an exact valuation we think a fair way to find a cars market value is to use an 
average of the various figures given by the trade guides. But, where one of those guides is 
out of line with the others, we feel it's fair for insurers to discount that guides figure when 
producing an average. 
In this case esure considered the trade guides when valuing Mrs Bs car. It took valuations 
from four guides which produced figures of £4,500, £4,812, £4,836 and £6,110.  But it 
considered that the highest and lowest of these where out of line with the other two. So it 
calculated the valuations of Mrs Bs car based on an average of the other two, which 
produced the figure of £4,824. And as that was based on Mrs Bs actual cars mileage and 
specifications at the time of the accident, I think that valuation is reasonable. 
Mrs Bs suggested that using the trade guides to value cars might be unlawful. Its not clear 
why Mrs B thinks that's the case and Im not sure which law shes referring to. I should add  
its been the consistent view of this service for many years that, generally, using the trade 
guides is a fair and reasonable way of valuing cars.
Mrs B has provided a number of adverts for cars on sale at figures significantly higher than 
esures valuation. But I don't think that means esures valuation is unfair. As Ive said above, 
I don't find adverts reliable. That's because the figures are often inflated to allow for 
negotiation. Also some of the cars are of a different age, or have a different level of trim and 
most of them have significantly lower mileage than Mrs Bs car at the time of the accident. 
And those are all factors that will affect a cars valuation. Similarly, I note Mrs B said she 
couldnt buy a car locally for the equivalent of esures valuation. But her policy says that if 
her car is a total loss esure will pay her the market value (less any excess). And it describes 
the market value as what Mrs B could have expected someone to pay for her car if shed 
sold it immediately before its loss. So I don't think the fact that Mrs B couldn't find another 
car locally means esures assessment of its market value was unfair. 
Mrs B also said esure didn't provide her with a report of the cars damage. But I understand 
that, initially at least, Mrs B wasn't keen for esures salvage agents to collect the car. And 
esure decided that it was a total loss based on the pictures of its damage. So it didn't 
produce a full report of the repairs it needed. And as such it didn't have the report Mrs B 
asked for. So I don't think it did anything wrong, because it couldnt send her a report it didnt 
have.  
For completeness I've noted that, when speaking to one of our investigators, Mrs B raised a 
number of other issues concerning esures service, which she wanted me to address. But, 
as far as Im aware, those aren't matters shes previously complained to esure about. And as 
esure hasn't had the chance to respond to those concerns it wouldn't be appropriate for me 
to comment on those points here. 
My final decision
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2020.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman