DRN-2369072
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) lent to him
irresponsibly.
What happened
Our adjudicator thought Mr Ws complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr W disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision explaining why Mr Ws complaint should be upheld. A copy 
of the background to the complaint and my provisional findings follow this and form part of 
this final decision:
What I said in my provisional decision:
Mr W took one instalment loan for £400 from Lending Stream in December 2017. This loan
was to be repaid in six monthly instalments, with the highest instalment being £179.20. The
most recent correspondence from Lending Stream showed there is an outstanding balance.
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Ws complaint. She thought the checks the lender
completed, along with what was apparent about Mr Ws circumstances meant Lending
Streams decision to lend wasnt unreasonable.
It appears that Lending Stream agreed with our adjudicators opinion. Mr W disagreed and
provided the following points to consider:
In December of 2017, he says he was already paying multiple high interest loans and
Mr W says Lending Stream should have carried out further checks to ensure that he
was able to afford this loan.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice
at the time the loan was provided.
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly.
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure
Mr W could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts, and
the consumers income and expenditure.
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks
might be reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that
Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending
was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to
establish whether Mr W could sustainably repay his loan  not just whether the loan
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre
unlikely to be able to do so without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Mr Ws complaint. And having done so Im intending
to uphold the complaint.
Lending Stream has told us it relied on the information Mr W told it about his income and
expenditure. At the time of the loan application, Mr W declared he had a monthly income of
£1,110 and monthly expenditure amounting to £430. So based solely on this information,
Lending Stream wouldve likely felt the loan was affordable.
Lending Stream also completed credit checks and the data it received was factored into its
consideration of Mr Ws monthly credit commitments. In addition to this, Lending Stream
considered the Office of National Statistics (ONS) using national averages for non-credit
commitment expenses such as; food, utilities and travels expenses. This meant Lending
Stream considered Mr Ws total monthly expenditure to be £642, leaving him with a
disposable income of £468.
But its important to note that ONS averages, while they may play a part, are not necessarily
reflective of an individual customers circumstances. I say this while mindful of the fact that
Lending Stream itself will accept that its customer base isnt made up of consumers with
average circumstances but those who typically  for whatever reasons  have had difficulty
managing previous credit.
Equally, while again credit checks can play a part in any affordability assessment, there are
some limitations such as at times there can be a delay of between 4-6 weeks for newinformation to be recorded. This can mean the results of any credit check may not be an up
to date reflection of a customers financial position at the time the check is carried out. But
that doesnt mean it was unreasonable of Lending Stream to have relied on the data that it
was provided.
But, in any event, I dont think Lending Streams checks went far enough when it provided
Mr Ws loan. Whilst Mr W appeared to have enough disposable income to meet the monthly
repayments, I think Lending Stream were on notice that Mr W was potentially experiencing
financial difficulties at the time.
I say this because Mr W had taken out an open-ended running credit facility with Lending
Streams sister company. And he had held this facility for more than a year before he had
applied for this loan with Lending Stream. So, I think its more likely than not that Lending
Stream would have been aware of any lending Mr W had taken with the sister company, and
that Mr Ws facility was in arrears as he had missed his previous months repayment.
So, I think Lending Streams checks should have gone further in order to understand if Mr W
would be able to not only afford the repayments but sustain them over the term of the loan.
This should have included asking Mr W to verify some of the income and expenditure
declarations he had made. But I cant see that Lending Stream did this.
Having reviewed the information we have on file about Mr Ws circumstances at the time the
Lending Stream loan was applied for, including his bank statements from the time the loan
was approved, I can see Mr W had three outstanding short term loans at the time. In addition
to this, Mr W had two running account credit facilities  one with the sister company and one
with another lender. And knowing this, I think Lending Stream ought to have concluded that
it was unlikely that Mr W would be able to repay this loan without having to borrow again.
Because of these factors, I dont think that Lending Stream shouldve provided Mr Ws loan
and I am planning to uphold his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Lending Stream and Mr W have agreed with the findings I reached in the provisional 
decision. And either party had any new information or evidence for me to consider.
I therefore see no reason to depart from the findings I made in the provisional decision and I 
still think Lending Stream was wrong to have provided Mr W with his loan. 
 
Putting things right
If the debt has been sold to a third party, Lending Stream should, if it wishes, buy the debt
back and then carry out the redress below. If it isnt able to, or doesnt wish to buy the debt
back, then it needs to work with the third party to achieve the same results as Ive outlined 
below;
Remove all unpaid interest, fees and charges from the outstanding loan balance.
Lending Stream should rework the loan so that Mr W only has to repay the principal
borrowed and it should treat any repayments made by Mr W (and to the third party if
applicable) as if it went towards the principal balance.If and when Mr W has repaid enough to repay the principal, then any overpayment
should be refunded to him. To this overpayment, 8% simple a year interest should
be added from the date of the overpayment came due to the date the refund is paid
to Mr W*;
However, if after doing the above, an outstanding principal balance remains, Lending
Stream should try and come to an affordable arrangement with Mr W to repay the
balance. But Id remind Lending Stream of its obligation to treat him fairly.
Lending Stream should remove any adverse payment information recorded on Mr
Ws credit file about the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires you to deduct tax from this interest. Lending Stream
should give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax is deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision I uphold Mr Ws 
complaint.
Gain Credit LLC should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 December 2020.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman