DRN-3504907
The complaint
Ms B complains about the advice Cathedral Financial Services LLP gave to her to transfer 
the benefits from her defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a personal 
pension. She says the advice was unsuitable for her and believes this has caused a financial 
loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Ms Bs employer announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from 
the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)1, or 
a new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could 
transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said that, if risk-related 
qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme 
sponsored by Ms Bs employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017 the DB scheme administrators sent its members time to choose packs. 
Those gave scheme members three options:
To stay in the BSPS and move with it to the PPF.
To opt to move their benefits to the BSPS2.
To transfer out of the scheme and into a private arrangement.
Ms B was concerned about what the scheme developments meant for the security of her 
pension. She contacted Cathedral for advice. She met with it and it did an initial triage of her 
circumstances. In November 2017 it advised her to opt into the BSPS2. It added that Ms B 
might wish to consider transferring out if she was minded to control her pension. Cathedral 
completed the necessary forms for Ms B to opt into the BSPS2. Having done so she asked it 
for further advice.
Cathedral gathered information about Ms Bs entitlement under the DB scheme and obtained 
a transfer value analysis report. It also completed a fact-find with her and an assessment of 
her risk appetite. Amongst other things, it recorded that:
Ms B was 42 years old, single and in good health.
She was employed earning around £38,000 a year gross.
1 The PPF acts as a lifeboat for insolvent DB pension schemes. It pays compensation to members of 
eligible schemes for their lifetime. The compensation levels are, generally, around 90% of the level of 
the original schemes benefits for deferred pensions. But the PPFs rules and benefits may differ from 
the original scheme.
She and her employer together were contributing 16% of her salary to her employers 
new defined contribution (DC) pension.
She owned her own home, worth around £120,000 subject to an outstanding 
mortgage of £27,280, which she intended to pay off in five years;. 
She wanted to move her pension funds to a plan under her control. 
She had concerns about her employers financial stability.
Her job was physically demanding and she felt she might need to change it once she 
reached her fifties. 
Her preferred retirement age was 57.
Her attitude to risk was lowest medium.
Her DB scheme had a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of £357,452.
The BSPS2 would pay Ms B a full pension at age 65 of £23,343 a year or a reduced 
pension of £16,192 and a tax free cash (TFC) lump sum of £107,946.
At age 57 Ms B would be entitled to a full pension of £14,893 or TFC of £72,843 and 
a reduced pension of £10,932 from the BSPS2.
The PPF would entitle Ms B to a full pension at age 65 of £18,772 or TFC of £97,337 
and a reduced pension of £14,604.
At age 57 the PPF would pay Ms B a full pension of £13,487 or TFC of £74,103 and 
a reduced one of £11,116.
In January 2018 Cathedral sent Ms B a suitability report setting to its analysis and 
recommendation. In brief it recommended she should transfer her DB funds to a named 
personal pension. Amongst other things it said this would allow her to access her pension 
funds flexibly. Ms B accepted Cathedrals recommendation and transferred her funds to the 
named personal pension.
In 2021 Ms B complained about Cathedrals transfer advice via this Service. In short she 
said she didnt think the advice was suitable for her. Cathedral didnt uphold her complaint 
and she referred it back to us. One of our Investigators looked into it. He didnt think 
Cathedrals advice was suitable for Ms B. Amongst other things he said that given her age 
and the many years to retirement, Ms B had no need to transfer out of the DB scheme when 
she did. She had no specific need for flexible access to her pension that would justify a 
transfer. He recommended that Cathedral should compensate Ms B for any losses she 
incurred by transferring. He added that Cathedral should pay Ms B £300 to address her 
distress and inconvenience arising from the unsuitable advice.
Cathedral didnt agree with our Investigators assessment of the complaint. In short it said 
that our Investigator hadn't put enough weight on its initial triage advice to join the BSPS2 or 
on Ms Bs pressure or agitation to transfer. It said she wanted to preserve death benefits, 
for penalty free early retirement and had a mistrust of the scheme. Cathedral added that its 
advice allowed Ms B to achieve her objectives.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In bringing this complaint and responding to it both Ms B and Cathedral have made a 
number of points. But, in this decision, I dont intend to address each and every matter 
raised. Instead I will focus on the issues I see as being at the heart of Ms Bs complaint and 
the reasons for my decision.Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Cathedrals actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for broadly similar reasons to those our Investigator gave.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Cathedral 
should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in 
Ms Bs best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was 
in her best interests.
Financial viability 
Cathedral carried out a transfer value analysis report (as required by the regulator) showing 
how much Ms Bs pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide the 
same benefits as her DB scheme (the critical yield).Cathedral gave its advice after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as 
to how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Ill explain that a discount rate is 
a measure of what an investment is likely to grow at in the future. We find it a useful tool to 
establish whether an investment is likely to match or exceed the required growth rates to 
make a DB transfer financially viable. Prior to October 2017 we published similar rates on 
our website. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on 
pension transfers, they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been 
considered reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
Ms B was age 42 at the time of the advice and said her preference was to retire at age 57. 
The critical yield required to match Ms Bs benefits from the BSPS2 at age 57 was 6.11% if 
she took a full pension and 4.78% if she took TFC and a reduced pension. At age 65 those 
figures were 4.66% and 3.73% respectively. The critical yields to match the benefits 
available through the PPF at age 57 were quoted as 3.55% a year if Ms B took a full pension 
and 3.28% a year if she took TFC and a reduced pension. At age 65 the critical yields were 
2.72% and 2.49% respectively. 
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by this Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and was 4.2% a year for 14 
full years to retirement at age 57 and 4.5% for 22 full years to retirement at age 65. Ive kept 
in mind that the regulator's projection rates had also remained unchanged since 2014: the 
regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the 
lower projection rate 2%. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Ms Bs 
lowest medium attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. In this instance as the 
discount rates were higher than the critical yield to match the BSPS2 benefits at age 57, it 
seems unlikely they would be matched. Although there was potential to match the benefits 
had Ms Bs pension gone into the PPF or if she took TFC and a reduced pension at age 65. 
But there would be little point in Ms B giving up the guarantees available to her through her 
DB scheme only to achieve a level of benefits outside the scheme that was broadly 
comparable to what she would receive from remaining in it. Thats because, in order for the 
potential to improve slightly on the DB scheme benefits, she would need to put those funds 
at risk. And, if there was an extended period of poor performance or her investments 
suffered losses that could result in her being worse off in retirement. 
Further, by transferring from the DB scheme Ms B would have to pay the fees and charges 
that are required in order to invest in a personal pension. And those would reduce any gains 
the funds made. In this case, apart from an initial fee to transfer of £4,000, Ms B would be 
paying Cathedral an ongoing fee for its advice of £600 a year (or 0.18% of the fund). Those 
are not charges she would have had to pay if she had remained in the DB scheme. 
Cathedral said its cashflow models showed that by taking an income by drawdown, at age 
57 Ms B could take a pension of £18,312 and TFC of almost £147,000. It said that was 
significantly more than her BSPS 2 entitlement and could last her until she was 84 when the 
fund would be depleted. But, it seems its models were based on a consistent growth rate of 
4% a year which would produce a fund value of around £440,725 at age 57. However. given 
the volatilities of the market and Ms Bs attitude to risk, which Cathedral described as being 
conservative, regular returns at the mid-level seem unlikely. And theres no evidence that 
Cathedral stress tested its models to show the effects of poor performance or market 
crashes. And, if those events occurred her fund could be depleted before her life 
expectancy. Its also notable that the named personal pension provider produced its own projections of 
what Ms Bs fund might be worth in retirement. The pension providers projections are far 
more conservative than Cathedrals; its mid-level growth rate is 3.3% against Cathedral's 
projection of 4%. The pension provider also adjusted its projections to allow for the effects of 
product and adviser charges. It also made a further adjustment to allow for inflation, which it 
assumed to be 2.5% a year. The pension provider gave figures for Ms B taking retirement in 
2042, when she would be 67, rather than 2032 (age 57) as used by Cathedral. So, given the 
pension providers projection allowed for ten years more growth than Cathedral, I would 
have expected its figures to be somewhat above the amounts Cathedral provided. But, the 
pension providers projections show that (after adjustments) at age 67 Ms Bs pot would be 
worth £342,000. So, in real terms that would be a loss based on an initial investment of over 
£357,000.
I accept that the pension providers models are an illustration only and use different 
assumptions to those Cathedral employed. But I think its a useful comparison point to 
demonstrate that Cathedrals models are unlikely to paint a full picture of what Ms B 
probable income would be in retirement by transferring or what she would be giving up by 
doing so.
It follows that while there was the possibility Ms B could be better off by transferring, that 
was anything but guaranteed and doing so meant putting her pension fund at risk. And, if her 
investments didn't meet Cathedrals projected growth rates, then she could find herself 
worse off in retirement. I dont think that clearly demonstrates as the regulator required that 
it was in her best interests to transfer. 
Of course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, as 
Cathedral has argued in this case. It said its recommendation allowed Ms B to achieve her 
other objectives. So I've gone on to consider whether Cathedral has clearly demonstrated 
that its advice was in Ms Bs best interests. When doing so I've been mindful that 
Cathedrals role was to find out what Ms Bs wants and needs were and why. Its role wasnt 
simply to do what she wanted without appropriate analysis and challenge of her motives for 
doing so. 
Flexibility and income needs
Cathedral said that transferring out of the scheme would allow Ms B to retire at age 57. But 
at the time of the advice Ms B was still around 15 years away from turning 57 and almost 23 
years away from her DB schemes normal retirement age of 65. She wouldnt receive her 
state pension until 67. A lot could happen in the intervening period. So Ms Bs plans to retire 
early, made when she was still only 42, could have changed significantly by the time she 
neared 57.
I can fully understand Ms Bs wish to retire early. I think most people would say they would 
like to retire early if given the chance. I also think most people would understand that having 
the opportunity to retire early isn't worth compromising their income security for the 
remainder of their life for. It seems to me that this is something Ms B was likely to reassess 
once she reached or neared age 57. And as such, I think early retirement was something 
that she aspired to, rather than a definite plan. 
In any event I dont think Ms B had a distinct need to take early retirement. As I've said 
above I can understand why she would want to retire at age 57. Ms B said her work was 
physically demanding and not something she might wish to do in later life. But she also 
appears to have recognised that she could explore a change of jobs, rather than retiring 
completely. Further, for most people, early retirement means a significant drop in income. 
That would dramatically reduce most individuals spending power and lifestyle choices. So, when faced with that prospect at an early retirement age, the majority choose not to retire. 
Instead they opt to continue working to support their current and future lifestyle options. And 
that seems to be a more likely prospect for Ms B. But theres no evidence Cathedral 
seriously challenged her objective of early retirement. It follows that I dont think it met its 
obligations to challenge her objectives in light of what she would be giving up.
I also think its worth noting that Cathedrals suitability report presented early retirement  
either from the DB scheme or the PPF  as being something to be avoided because of the 
penalties that came with doing so. Whereas it sold the possibility of early retirement as a 
benefit of transferring. But, the penalties Cathedral referred to were nothing more sinister 
than actuarial adjustments. Those adjustments reflect that, by taking a pension earlier, its 
likely that it will have to last longer and so cost the scheme more. As such the scheme 
actuaries calculate a reduction in the yearly pension to allow for the fact that the member will 
claim the pension  most likely  for a longer period. Thats not a penalty for taking the 
pension early, its simply a compromise for having the benefits of that pension over a longer 
period. 
So I think describing the early retirement factors which would reduce the DB scheme 
pension as a penalty wasnt providing Ms B with information that was clear, fair and not 
misleading. Similarly, while Ms B could access benefits from her personal pension without a 
penalty, any such deduction would reduce the remaining pension pot and also decrease the 
amount remaining in the pot as well as the amount it would grow by. So drawing down funds 
from an earlier date would in effect lessen one or all of the following:
The amounts Ms B could take as income.
The time frame she would have funds available for.
The remaining funds available as a death benefit. 
It follows that taking money from her personal pension early could also have a more 
significant effect on Ms Bs income in retirement than taking benefits from the DB scheme or 
the PPF early. Thats because the benefits from the DB environment would continue to grow 
in line with the relevant indexation regardless of how early Ms B took it. In contrast any 
returns from the personal pension would be dependent on investment performance.
Cathedral added that by transferring this allowed Ms B to access her funds flexibly in 
retirement. But I cant see evidence that Ms B had a strong need for flexible access to her 
income throughout retirement. Cathedral doesn't appear to have modelled what Ms Bs 
income need would once she retired. And given that was still between 15 and 23 years away 
I dont find that unusual. Instead, it seems Cathedral asked Ms B how much she thought she 
would need and she estimated it would be 50% of her current income. But given that there 
was no real certainty about what Ms Bs future income needs were likely to be it doesn't 
appear she had any concrete requirements to access her DB funds flexibly in order to meet 
those income demands. 
Also Ms B had recently started paying into her employers DC scheme at 16% of her salary, 
or roughly £6,080 a year. She could have anticipated continuing to contribute to that policy 
(or a similar one if she were to change jobs in the future) for the remainder of her working 
life. So I think its reasonable to assume that, by the time she reached 57, her personal 
pension should have amassed a sizeable pot. Indeed without allowing for Ms B increasing 
her contributions, her salary growing, or any return on the investment, by 57 she could have 
a pot in the DC pension of around £91,200. And that sum would increase to around 
£140,000 by the time she reached 65. So Ms B could have accessed those funds in a 
flexible manner if she felt the need to do so and used them to support early retirement had 
she wanted to. That would have allowed her to leave her safeguarded DB funds untouched until nearer to the DB schemes normal retirement age. So she didnt need to transfer out of 
the DB scheme in order to be able to retire early.
That said, its true to say that Ms B couldnt have had the same level of flexible access to her 
DB funds as she could from a personal pension. While she could have chosen to take those 
early, if shed wanted to take TFC, then she would have had to take that at the same time as 
drawing a regular income from her pension. Whereas the personal pension would allow her 
to draw down funds as she saw fit. Its also the case that Ms B could have taken 25% of her 
entire personal pension fund as TFC whereas the BSPSs has stricter rules about how much 
can be taken as a lump sum. But while I can see why a higher lump sum and more choice 
over how much to take and when might have been an attractive prospect to her, Im not 
persuaded that Ms B had any concrete need to take TFC at all or to vary her income 
throughout retirement. And if Ms B did need flexible access to funds, she could have 
arranged to take those from her DC pension.
 
It follows that Im satisfied Ms B could have met her flexible income needs in retirement while 
remaining in the BSPS2. So, I dont think it was in her best interests to transfer her pension 
just to have flexibility that she had no obvious need for.
I understand the option of drawing all of her pension income flexibly might seem like 
something that would be nice to have. But I can't see that Ms B had any genuine need for 
that flexibility that would be worth giving up guaranteed benefits for at the time that Cathedral 
gave its advice. So I dont think it was in her best interests to transfer.
Death benefits
Ms B told Cathedral that she wouldn't want her benefits to be lost completely in the event 
of her death. At that time Ms B was single without dependents. Her DB scheme would have 
paid a spouses pension after her death. But, as she didnt have a spouse at the time, then 
she may have thought her pension would die with her. However, that assumes her 
circumstances would remain unchanged until her death and so a spouses pension would 
never have been of any value to her. That said, Ms B Was still relatively young, so the 
opportunity for her to change her lifestyle before retirement meant that the potential benefits 
from a spouses pension shouldnt have been dismissed. However, a personal pension did 
have the advantage that whatever remained within it on her death could be left as a legacy 
for Ms Bs nominated beneficiary. And, if that happened before her retirement or soon after, 
then that would likely be a significant sum. 
But I dont think that was a sufficient reason to recommend a transfer. The priority here was 
for Cathedral to advise Ms B about what was best for her retirement provisions. A pension is 
primarily designed to provide income in retirement rather than for a legacy to beneficiaries 
after death. But in transferring out of her DB scheme Ms B was essentially giving up a 
guaranteed, index linked, increasing income in retirement, for the potential of a lump sum for 
her beneficiaries that they may not receive for many years to come. And by that time, the 
fund could have been depleted by Ms Bs withdrawals from it in the meantime. So, 
potentially, there may have been very little left by the time of her death.
Its also notable that Ms B could nominate any beneficiary of her choosing to receive the 
remaining funds she had accumulated in the DC pension on her death. So, she already had 
a means of ensuring part of her pension didnt die with her. But I don't think Cathedral did 
enough to bring this to her attention.
Overall I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Ms B. Mistrust or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
Cathedral said that Ms B had a mistrust of the scheme trustees. And despite Cathedrals 
initial triage advice that Ms B should opt for the BSPS2 she continued to push for a transfer 
and was adamant that she wanted to do so.
Im aware that many BSPS members like Ms B had serious concerns about the security of 
their pension pots. There were also worries about the future of their employer and the 
actions of the scheme trustees. The situation was evolving after the BSPS closed in 
March 2017. There was also some widespread trepidation about what moving pensions to 
the PPF meant for members. Its also well known that this was a period of uncertainty for 
people like Ms B. But this only serves to emphasise the need at that time for a balanced 
assessment of the options available and ultimately the need for suitable advice.
I understand that there will be instances where a client seeks financial advice with 
preconceived notions or concerns about the financial health of an employer or pension 
scheme. And Cathedrals indicated Ms B was leaning towards transferring when she sought 
advice. Its evident that, following its initial triage, Cathedral advised Ms B to opt into the 
BSPS2. But its also apparent that when it did so it said this would allow Ms B to keep the 
option of transferring in the future. So I don't think any recommendation it made at that point, 
before it had provided the detailed analysis in its suitability report would negate its final 
recommendation to transfer given a month later. 
Further, I accept that Cathedral believed Ms B had a mistrust of her employer or the scheme 
trustees ability to manage her pension going forwards. But Cathedral was tasked with 
rationally addressing Ms Bs concerns and providing an appropriately balanced view of the 
available options. And in order to recommend that Ms B should give up her safeguarded 
benefits Cathedral needed to be able to clearly demonstrate that doing so was in her best 
interests. So, even if Ms B had been adamant that she wanted to transfer this wouldn't justify 
a reason for Cathedral recommending she do so. It should only have made a 
recommendation it considered was in Ms Bs best interests. Accordingly, if it thought a 
recommendation to transfer was not in her best interests, thats the advice it should have 
given, regardless of her strength of feeling on the matter. 
I also think Cathedral has overstated Ms Bs desire for control over her pension. She was not 
an experienced investor and I cant see that she had an interest in or the knowledge to be 
able to manage her pension funds on her own. So, I dont think this was a genuine objective 
for Ms B  it was simply a consequence of transferring away from her DB scheme.
It follows that I'm not persuaded that any agitation or mistrust Ms B experienced when she 
entered into the advice process was sufficient reason for Cathedral to recommend she 
should transfer her safeguarded benefits to a personal pension.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Ms B. But 
Cathedral wasnt there to just transact what she might have thought she wanted. The 
advisers role was to really understand what Ms B needed and recommend what was in her 
best interests.
Cathedral was in a good position to have analysed, tested, challenged and advised Ms B 
about what was in her best interests for retirement planning. It knew valuable pension pots 
like Ms Bs DB scheme were paid into with the intention of providing for retirement. So, I dont think it was in her best interests to transfer her DB scheme funds to a personal 
pension. 
Ultimately, I dont think Cathedras advice was suitable for Ms B. She was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Ms B was likely to obtain lower 
retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this. Cathedral shouldn't have advised Ms B to transfer out of 
the DB environment simply because she was leaning that way when she entered the advice 
process or because of any strength of feeling that was what was right for her to do. Similarly, 
as I've said above, the opportunities for flexibility or different death benefits weren't worth 
giving up the guarantees associated with her DB scheme for.
So, I think Cathedral shouldve advised Ms B to remain in the BSPS2.
Of course, I have to consider whether Ms B would've gone ahead anyway, against 
Cathedral's advice. I accept that Ms B is an adult and plainly capable of making her own 
decisions. But, after thinking about this carefully, I'm not persuaded she would have 
transferred if it wasnt for Cathedrals recommendation she should do so. Thats because, at 
the time of its advice, Ms Bs BSPS pension accounted for a significant portion of her 
retirement provision. She was an inexperienced investor who had no need to put her 
pension funds at risk and she was paying Cathedral for its expertise. 
So, if Cathedral had given clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining 
why it wasnt in her best interests despite her concerns, I think she would have accepted the 
expert professional advice she was paying for. 
It follows that I don't think Cathedrals advice to Ms B to transfer out of her DB scheme was 
suitable for her. Instead I think it should have advised her to remain within the BSPS2. So, I 
think it's fair for Cathedral to compensate Ms B for the unsuitable advice, in line with the 
regulators rules for calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice. And, as 
this matter has been a source of distress and inconvenience for Ms B, as shes been 
concerned that her security in retirement might have been compromised as a result of 
Cathedrals unsuitable advice, I think it should pay her £300 to address that.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Ms B, as far as possible, 
into the position she would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Ms B would 
have most likely remained in the BSPS2 if Cathedral had given suitable advice. 
Cathedral must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
When making the calculation Cathedral (or providers acting for it) should use the FCAs 
BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A copy of the BSPS calculator 
output should be sent to Ms B and our Service upon completion of the calculation.
For clarity, Ms B has not yet retired, and she has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age of 65, as per the 
usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should 
be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of 
notification of Ms Bs acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Cathedral should:
calculate and offer Ms B redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Ms B before starting the redress calculation that:
- her redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest her redress prudently is to use it to augment 
her personal pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Ms B receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Ms B accepts Cathedrals offer to calculate how much of her redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Ms B for the 
calculation, even if she ultimately decides not to have any of her redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Ms Bs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Ms B as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, Cathedral 
may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that 
consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss 
could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to 
Ms Bs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional 
deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Cathedral should also pay Ms B £300 compensation to address her distress and 
inconvenience arising from its unsuitable advice. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Cathedral Financial 
Services LLP to pay Ms B the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Cathedral Financial Services LLP pays Ms B the balance.
If Ms B accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Cathedral Financial 
Services LLP.My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Ms B can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Ms B may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2023.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman