DRN-2988805
The complaint
Miss S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard should have refunded 
her interest and charges after they refunded them on another account she had with them.
What happened
Barclaycard wrote to Miss S about two of her credit cards she previously held with them 
which later were passed to a debt collection agency when Miss S suffered financial 
difficulties. In 2018, Barclaycard said based on a review of their operating procedures they 
may not have offered her the support most appropriate for her financial situation with one of 
her credit cards. They said to address this they would refund the interest and default fees 
which were applied to the account during the period in which they may not have provided the 
service they should have.
In 2020, Barclaycard wrote to Miss S regarding her other credit card and said that theyd 
recently reviewed the way they set her credit limits and the limit they gave her previously 
may have been higher than it should have been at that time. Barclaycard explained that Miss 
S hadnt suffered any financial detriment as a result of this issue. They said theyd taken into 
account any interest, default fees and charges that were applied to the account during the 
relevant period and they were less than the amount of debt that she was released from 
paying under the terms of the settlement.
Miss S complained to Barclaycard. She disputed that they said it was a recent review as she 
said she had received correspondence over two years earlier regarding the same issue. She 
asked Barclaycard to review the decision as she felt she should be paid compensation as a 
result of Barclaycards error and asked to be furnished with a breakdown of any evidence 
they had used in arriving at their determination under the Data Protection Act. 
Barclaycard did not uphold her complaint. They said that the two matters were separate 
between the two credit cards she had held with them. They explained that on the recent 
review, they discovered Miss Ss credit limit shouldnt have increased from £12,000 to 
£13,000. They said that as the value of any fees and charges applied to the portion of her 
balance over the £12,000 was considerably less than the concession they made when they 
agreed to accept her full and final settlement. 
Barclaycard said that with regards to Miss Ss request for disclosure of their detailed credit 
limit review, they are not obliged under the General Data Protection Rules (GDPR) to share 
company confidential documents. Miss S was unhappy with their response and brought her 
complaint to our service. 
Our investigator did not uphold Miss Ss complaint. She said that the two remediation 
exercises werent linked and were separate reviews which had been carried out. Our 
investigator explained that the refund she wouldve been due in the second remediation 
exercise would have been £153.28. As this was less than the amount Barclaycard agreed to 
forego when the debt was settled, then Barclaycard placed Miss S in a better position by 
writing off the debt rather than issuing the refund of £153.28. 
In relation to the Data Subject Access Request (DSAR), our investigator said she had looked 
at Barclaycards system notes and theres no suggestion they had declined this request. Our 
investigator said she believes its likely that Barclaycard thought they responded to this point 
in their final response letter. 
Our investigator contacted Barclaycard to get the details for Miss S to submit a DSAR and 
forwarded these details to Miss S.
Miss S asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint. She asked why Barclaycard had 
not acted upon their knowledge of this area for over two years and why their initial reason as 
to why Barclaycard didnt believe she was entitled to any compensation was different to their 
later explanation for this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start off by explaining that from time to time the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority 
will ask a business to review past business practises to ensure that customers were treated 
fairly at the time of certain events. I wont be able to go into a detailed explanation here of 
the criteria for what accounts are considered for review as this is business sensitive 
information. But I can look at if there were any errors with the outcome that Barclaycard have 
reached.
I must be clear to Miss S that there were two completely separate reviews which Barclaycard 
have carried out. The review which she was contacted in 2018 was specifically to do with 
how they treated her when she fell behind on her repayments on that credit card only. The 
review which Miss S was contacted about two years later was not related in any way to the 
previous exercise that they carried out.
So Im not persuaded that Barclaycard had this knowledge for over two years and did 
nothing about it as the 2020 exercise was purely regarding an error which resulted in Miss 
Ss credit limit being increased from £12,000 to £13,000 and was not linked to how they 
treated her when she fell behind on her payments, even though Miss S says this happened 
at the same time on both credit cards.
Ive looked at Barclaycards actions as a result of this review. Its important to consider that if 
Barclaycard have made an error, then they shouldve put Miss S in a position that she 
wouldve been in had they not made the error. As Barclaycard have said they shouldnt have 
increased Miss Ss credit limit here, then she has paid an extra £153.28 in interest and 
charges as a result of their error. This means that before Miss S settled her outstanding debt 
then the outstanding balance would have been £153.28 less if they didnt increase her credit 
limit. 
But Ive also taken into account what Barclaycard did do when they settled the outstanding 
balance. Barclaycard said the outstanding balance was £11,548.85. So if they had deducted 
the £153.28 in interest and charges which they shouldnt have charged her as a result of 
increasing her credit limit, then she would have owed them £11,395.57. But as Barclaycard 
accepted a final settlement figure of £10,000, then the £153.28 is lower than the figure they 
agreed to write off. 
This is why Barclaycard explained that she wouldnt receive a cash payment for this error as 
any interest, default fees and charges that were applied to the account during the relevant 
period were less than the amount of debt that she was released from paying under the terms of the settlement. So Im persuaded that Barclaycard were fair by not paying Miss S a cash 
payment for the error they made with the credit limit. I say this as Barclaycard had already 
wrote off a significantly higher amount of debt than the redress they would have paid her if 
no settlement had been made.
Ive considered what Miss S has said about why Barclaycards initial reason as to why they 
didnt believe she was entitled to any compensation for their error was completely different to 
their later explanation for this. But Im not persuaded that it was. I say this because the 
reason they gave in 2020 is similar to the reason detailed in the final response letter that 
Barclaycard issued Miss S in February 2021. Although the final response letter goes into 
greater detail, Im not persuaded that the reasons for Miss S not receiving compensation 
here are significantly different for the 2020 review only.
Finally, Ive considered what Miss S has said about Barclaycard refusing her request for a 
DSAR. Im persuaded that Barclaycard havent ignored her request to be furnished with 
detailed evidence. I say this as they acknowledge this point in their final response letter 
when they explain that under GDPR that they arent obliged to send company confidential 
documents. As Miss S has asked a specific request for detailed evidence as opposed to 
general data they hold on her, then Im persuaded Barclaycards response was reasonable. I 
am pleased to see that our investigator has assisted Miss S in requesting a DSAR though.
In summary, Im satisfied that Barclaycard have concluded two separate reviews on two 
separate credit cards Miss S held, one review concluded in 2018 and one concluded in 2020 
for the credit card she is complaining about here. For the reasons Ive already given, these 
reviews werent linked and Ive no evidence to suggest Barclaycard knew the outcome of a 
review they concluded in 2020 in 2018. So it follows I wont be asking Barclaycard to do 
anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman