DRN-3339840
The complaint
Mrs and Mr P have complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) continued 
charging them excessive amounts for their overdrafts when they were in financial difficulty.
What happened
Mrs and Mr P complained to NatWest after Mrs P became redundant in July 2017. She said 
that despite NatWest being informed of their related financial difficulties it continued to add 
fees and charges to the account. This meant they couldnt properly clear the overdraft and 
pay their other bills.
Mrs and Mr P received a first final response on 4 October 2018. Ive looked at the jurisdiction 
of this earlier complaint, which concerns the time period up to 4 October 2018, in a separate 
jurisdiction decision. 
Mrs and Mr P continued to correspond with NatWest and received another final response on 
24 January 2020. NatWest didnt uphold this complaint. And as Mrs and Mr P was 
dissatisfied they referred the complaint here. This was the first time they contacted the 
Financial Ombudsman. Im only considering Mrs and Mr Ps complaint from 4 October 2018 
onwards in this decision. 
Mrs and Mr Ps complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that 
NatWest ought to have realised that they were experiencing financial difficulty and so 
shouldnt have added any more interest, fees and charges from 4 October 2018, the earliest 
point she could consider, onwards. 
NatWest agreed and offered to refund the fees and charges applied from 4 October 2018 to 
the accounts closure in 2019. 
Mrs and Mr P didnt agree with this outcome. Mrs P said that she didnt think the offer was 
fair. This was because, as Mrs and Mr P didnt repay their overdrafts, the compensation 
would take the form of a reduction in their outstanding overdraft balances. They feel as the 
fees and charges widely affected their finances they should have this money directly to pay 
some of their other creditors as well as NatWest. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, 
to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NatWest will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im intending to find that NatWest acted 
unfairly when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees after 4 October 
2018. By this point, it ought to have been clear that Mrs and Mr P were in no position to 
sustainably repay what they owed within a reasonable period of time. 
This is because Mrs and Mr P had got in contact with NatWest to ask for they were having 
difficulty with their finances and that the charges being added were making this worse. And 
they had already made a complaint about this. So, NatWest ought to have offered 
assistance and treated Mrs and Mr P with forbearance rather than add even more interest, 
fees and charges to their overdraft. 
Mrs and Mr P ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on their overdraft and 
this ended up exacerbating the difficulties they already had in trying to clear it. So, I think 
that NatWest didnt treat Mrs and Mr P fairly and they lost out because of what NatWest did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right. I note NatWest doesnt now disagree 
with this, so I wont comment further.
Mrs P has said that reducing the balance of what they owe isnt a fair way to resolve this 
complaint. Whilst I understand where she is coming from here, as their accounts werent in 
credit over the period Im looking at, Mrs and Mr P didnt actually pay these charges. They 
just effectively increased their overdrawn amounts. So, it wouldnt be right to refund these 
charges directly to them. But it is right that their outstanding balances, on the two overdrafts 
they have complained about, are reduced by the interest fees and charges, and so I hope 
the lower amount they will now owe NatWest will be helpful going forward. 
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mrs and Mr Ps complaint for NatWest to put things right by:
Ensure all of the interest, fees and charges applied to Mrs and Mr Ps overdrafts 
after 4 October 2018 are removed from the outstanding balances of these 
accounts.
NatWest should contact Mrs and Mr P to arrange a suitable repayment plan, Mrs 
and Mr P are encouraged to get in contact with and cooperate with NatWest to 
reach a suitable agreement. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im partly upholding Mrs and Mr Ps complaint. National 
Westminster Bank Plc should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman