DRN-2809472
The complaint
Mr H complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc, trading as first direct, failed to process direct debit 
payments to a cryptocurrency firm, and refused to replace his debit card.
What happened
Mr H has an account with first direct. He used to use his debit card to make online payments 
to purchase cryptocurrency, but in late 2020 he found he was unable to do so. He 
complained to both businesses, and they said they were not at fault. Being sceptical about 
first directs answer, Mr H brought this complaint to our Service. He said that HSBC must be 
blocking the payments on purpose, because HSBC did not approve of cryptocurrency. Mr H 
also complained that when he had asked for first direct to send him a new card, it had 
refused to.
First direct said that it had not received any payment instructions for it to either authorise or 
decline, and it provided screenshots to prove this. It suggested that there must have been a 
technical error known as link loss, by which the payment instruction had been lost between 
first directs authorisation centre and the other firms own authorisation centre. First direct 
said it was not responsible for this. It also said that replacing the card would not have 
helped, and so it had not done so as there was no need.
Mr H referred his complaint to our Service, but our investigator did not uphold it, because 
first directs explanation was consistent with what the cryptocurrency firm had told Mr H  it 
too had listed a technical fault as one possible reason for Mr Hs payments not going 
through. The investigator also accepted that the screenshots were convincing evidence.
Mr H did not accept that decision. He referred to online news articles which reported that 
HSBC has started blocking payments for purchasing cryptocurrency. He asked for an 
ombudsman to review HSBCs policy. He also said he had removed his first direct card from 
the app he was using to make the purchases, and when he had tried to re-register the same 
card it had not been accepted. He argued that this would not have happened if first direct 
had sent him a new card.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have seen first directs screenshots, and I think they are convincing evidence that no 
payment instructions were received by first direct. There was one payment to another third 
party which was authorised during the relevant period, and any declined payments would 
also have shown up too, but there were no other transactions recorded. That strongly 
supports first directs explanation that a technical fault had occurred which prevented any 
payment instruction being received by first direct from the cryptocurrency firm. Since that 
explanation is consistent with what the cryptocurrency firm independently told Mr H, there is 
no evidence to contradict it. And since there was nothing wrong with Mr Hs card, I dont 
think I can fault first direct for not replacing it.
I can understand why Mr H is sceptical, because there are indeed some recent (January 
2021) news articles which report that HSBC no longer permits payments for purchasing 
cryptocurrencies.1 Nevertheless, I cannot infer that this is the reason why his payments did 
not go through in 2020, because there is clear evidence that his payments were not declined 
by HSBC or first direct. (It might explain why he couldnt re-register his card on the app 
recently, but that was not the reason Mr H couldnt make payments in 2020.) There is no 
evidence that this policy was already in effect in 2020, and first direct specifically denies it.
Mr H has asked me to comment on these reports about HSBCs new policy. I dont think this 
complaint would be the right place for me to do so, because that issue is moot, since I am 
not persuaded that it is the reason why Mr Hs payments failed. Its a matter I could only 
consider in the context of a complaint about payments which were declined in 2021 because 
it was HSBCs policy to decline them. That does not seem to have happened here.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2021.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman
1 See for example https://www.thetimes.co.uk/article/bitcoin-holders-barred-from-depositing-profits-in-
uk-banks-pgswbfrdz and https://currency.com/hsbc-blocks-cryptocurrency-transfers