DRN-2766030
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy Aviva Insurance Limited turned down a claim he made on his travel 
insurance policy. 
All references to Aviva include its agents and claims handlers.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C have travel insurance underwritten by Aviva through their bank account. In 
August 2019 while on holiday abroad. Mr C was admitted to hospital with breathing 
difficulties. Aviva were informed. He was discharged from hospital a few days later and 
returned home on his scheduled flight. Mr C made a claim for the hospital costs hed 
incurred. 
Aviva turned down the claim. It said under the terms of his policy Mr C should have declared 
a change in his medical conditions prior to booking his trip. It had carried out a retrospective 
screening and if that had been done at the time then it would have excluded a number of 
conditions including heart disease. As that was the underlying cause of Mr Cs hospital 
admission the claim he made wasnt covered under his policy. 
Our investigator was satisfied Mr C should have told Aviva about his medical conditions and 
hadnt done so prior to travelling. And if he had done that then Aviva would have applied an 
exclusion which would have applied to the claim he subsequently made. So he didnt think it 
had acted unfairly in turning this down. 
Mr C didnt agree. In summary he said:
Hed told Aviva about his travel plans in advance (in particular in a call on 13 August 
2019) and was told he didnt need to take any further action. Aviva was also aware of his 
medical history from previous claims hed made to it (for example chest pain reported in 
February 2018);
Hed had been treated for the same condition on previous trips and Aviva had paid for 
those treatment costs. So the position here should be the same;
After hed returned from holiday a medical screening had been carried out following 
which Aviva had accepted cover for various medical conditions including heart disease. 
So he disagreed that if this had been declared before travel it would have been 
excluded; 
The treating hospital told him that his insurer had agreed to cover the claim and Aviva 
hadnt provided information on what bills it had paid.
Mr C also suggested hed be providing further information from the NHS once this was 
supplied to him. However, the email hes provided says the requested records have already 
been provided. And having reviewed the available evidence (which includes relevant 
information from the NHS) Im satisfied I have enough to reach a decision on this complaint.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Aviva has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
Ive looked first at the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Cs policy as they relate to 
changes in health. I can see that this says:
You must contact the Medical Risk Assessment helpline number if at the date you 
added the Travel Pack to your Qualifying Account or when booking a trip (whichever is 
later), you:
a. have received advice, medication or treatment for any serious, chronic or recurring 
illness, injury or disease in the last 12 months
b. are under investigation or awaiting results for any diagnosed or undiagnosed 
medical condition
c. are on a waiting list for, or aware of the need for, in-patient treatment for any 
diagnosed or undiagnosed medical condition
It goes on to say:
 
If, between booking a trip and the departure date, you are referred to a 
Consultant/Specialist, or have been admitted to a hospital, your policy will cover you 
for cancellation of your trip.
Please note, however, that if you still wish to travel you must call the Medical Risk 
Assessment helpline immediately and they will advise you if you will be covered for 
Emergency Medical Treatment and Associated Expenses or abandonment claims 
relating to this condition.
I think those terms are clear. So Ive thought about how they apply in this case. Ive looked at 
the medical information and I can see in April 2018 Mr C was admitted to hospital on an 
urgent basis. The notes from the time record him as presenting with chest pain. His GP 
notes say following that he presented with a new episode of atrial flutter (an abnormal heart 
rhythm) in September 2018. I can see he was prescribed and has been taking heart related 
medication since then. The notes also say that Mr C was aware of this condition.  
Mr C says Aviva should have been aware of these conditions from past claims hed made to 
it. But an acceptance of a past claim isnt the same as an agreement to cover that condition 
in future. And in any case Mr Cs last claim was in February 2018. As Ive set out it appears 
there had been some significant changes in his health since then. I also note that the 
outcome letters that were sent in relation to claims he made in 2016 and 2018 both said: 
Because you have an annual policy, you must now let the medical assessment department 
know about your medical condition before you travel again, otherwise you may not be 
covered. Please contact the medical assessment line, as outlined in your policy terms and 
conditions, and they will be able to help you. Taking all of that into account I think it would have reasonable for Mr C to contact Aviva 
when booking his trip to let it know about the significant changes to his health. In fact Mr Cs 
argument is that he did do that and has referenced a call he made on 13 August 2019. Ive 
listened to that call which wasnt to the medical assessment line but to the emergency 
assistance line. Mr C said he was calling to inform them of his upcoming trip. The adviser 
said he didnt need to do that but would need to tell them if he had a medical issue. Mr C 
said he didnt. 
So for the reasons Ive explained I think Mr C had some significant changes to his health 
which it would have been reasonable for him to inform Aviva about and I dont think he took 
reasonable steps to do so. 
Ive gone on to consider what would have happened if Aviva had been told about this. Aviva 
has said it would have excluded a number of conditions including heart disease meaning 
that Mr Cs subsequent admission to hospital wouldnt have been covered. Mr C has drawn 
attention to a medical screening that was done by Aviva after he returned from his trip. He 
says that various conditions including his heart condition were accepted by Aviva following 
that. Ive seen evidence to show that is the case. 
But its not clear that screening was based on complete information about Mr Cs health. 
Aviva says he told it he hadnt suffered from chest pains or tightness since his last 
procedure. However, it says that wasnt correct because Mr C had been admitted to hospital 
on an emergency basis with acute chest pain. In any event having reviewed the evidence Im 
satisfied Aviva did use accurate information when carrying out the retrospective screening. 
Im also satisfied that, based on this information, it would have excluded heart disease. So I 
dont think it did anything wrong in not covering the claim Mr C subsequently made. 
But where an insurer can show (as it has here) that it would have withdrawn cover for a 
condition we might ask the insurer to pay the value of any cancellation claim at the point a 
consumer should have told them about their change in health. Ive thought about how that 
applies here and I dont think Aviva does need to make any payment. 
Mr C has told us that he booked his trip after hed been to see his GP (which was at the start 
of July 2019). But the policy doesnt cover cancellation claims if when the trip was booked 
you had received medication, advice or treatment for any serious, chronic or recurring 
illness, injury or disease in the last 12 months unless the condition was disclosed to and 
accepted by us
For the reasons Ive already explained I think Mr C had received advice and treatment for 
heart disease in the 12 months prior to seeing his GP and so prior to booking his trip (he 
presented with an atrial flutter in September 2018 and had been on medication for that 
condition since then). That condition hadnt been disclosed to or accepted by Aviva so I dont 
think any cancellation claim would have been payable. 
Mr C has also raised an issue about a cover extension applying to a February 2018 claim. I 
dont see that makes a difference to the outcome of this subsequent and separate claim. Nor 
do issues about what happened when Mr C first took out the policy appear relevant here. 
And while I appreciate the hospital Mr C attended while he was on holiday may have told 
him that his insurer would be covering these costs Aviva arent responsible for anything they 
got wrong. 
Nor have I seen anything to suggest Aviva told that hospital it would be paying these costs. 
All it appears to have agreed to cover was the cost the hospital charged for providing 
medical information about Mr C to it. I appreciate thats likely to leave costs that Mr C will be 
responsible for but I dont think theres more Aviva needs to do in relation to this. My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to accept or reject my decision before 29 
November 2021.
 
James Park
Ombudsman