DRN-1606369
The complaint
Mr H complains Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) didnt do enough to help him get 
his money back when an item he bought on his debit card wasnt fit for purpose and the 
retailer refused a refund.
What happened
Towards the end of August 2019 Mr H used his debit card to buy an electrical item from a 
high street retailer. He says he was assured it didnt need an internet connection to enable it 
to work. Despite what he says he was told, Mr H realised he would need an internet 
connection after all (which he doesnt have), so he says he repackaged the item and 
returned it to the store. The retailer wouldnt accept the item for a refund. And information 
Mr Hs given us suggests its now held in the stores lost property department.
Mr H contacted Halifax by phone and in person to try to stop the payment leaving his 
account  as he said it had been able to do in identical circumstances a few months earlier. 
Halifax said it couldnt help Mr H until the payment had left his account, as hed authorised it 
using the chip and pin facility on his debit card.  Mr H wasnt happy with Halifaxs response, 
not least because he said the issue wasnt covered by consumer law. Thats because Mr H 
thought the retailer was acting illegally by taking payment for an item that wasnt fit for 
purpose. And Mr H thought by not returning his money, Halifax was assisting the retailer to 
commit a criminal act. Halifax asked Mr H if he had evidence the goods had been returned. 
It told Mr H that in order to try to claim a chargeback hed need to provide evidence to show 
the item had been returned or a refund receipt from the retailer. 
Mr H initially complained to us before Halifax had given its complaint response, so we 
contacted Halifax on his behalf. 
In its response, Halifax told Mr H a visa debit card is a guaranteed form of payment and, 
once presented to a company, the card and transactions are governed by regulations set by 
VISA Europe. It said it does try to assist customers to recover money where theres a 
dispute  but it needs evidence to support any claims made. Halifax also told Mr H he could 
complain to Trading Standards about the retailers conduct and our service if he wasnt 
happy with its response. 
Mr H asked us to investigate the complaint. Our investigator felt it was fair for Halifax not to 
block the payment before it left Mr Hs account, even though it had been able to do so before 
in other circumstances. He also thought Halifaxs response was reasonable on the basis 
Mr H hadnt evidenced hed returned the item. Although the investigator told Mr H he was 
still within the timeframe for raising a chargeback claim if he wanted to. 
 
Mr H wasnt happy with the investigators assessment. Amongst his reasons for disagreeing, 
Mr H said the investigator hadnt qualified his findings with evidence. As Mr H wasnt happy, 
the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken account of everything Mr H said in his telephone calls to this service including 
the reasons why he wasnt happy with our investigators assessment.  I can fully appreciate 
Mr Hs frustration that having bought an item he thought would meet his needs, he had to 
return it because it couldnt do what he wanted it to do - not without an internet connection 
anyway. And that must have been all the more frustrating, because Mr H says hed first 
checked with the retailer that he didnt need to have an internet connection to enable the 
item to work. 
And Im sorry to hear about all of the distress and frustration Mr Hs suffered in contacting 
the retailer - and then Halifax  about this. Particularly because he says an existing health 
condition was made worse because of it.
 
My role in relation to this complaint isnt to consider whether the retailer acted fairly by 
refusing to give Mr H a refund. The retailer isnt covered by our service for matters such as 
this. So, I dont agree with Mr H that we should have contacted the retailer about the matter. 
Its for me to decide whether Halifax responded in a fair and reasonable way when Mr H 
asked for help to get his money back - either by stopping the payment before it left the 
account, or by raising a chargeback claim afterwards.
   
Having listened to several calls between Mr H and Halifax, its clear Mr H thought Halifax 
was at fault for not stopping the payment from leaving his account. Thats because as far as 
he was concerned, the circumstances were identical to a situation he was in a few months 
before when Halifax did stop a payment. Ive looked at Halifaxs file notes about the earlier 
matter and I dont agree with Mr H that the circumstances were the same. 
I say that because the earlier issue related to a duplicate transaction, which if taken by 
mistake, would have reduced Mr Hs remaining account balance and available funds. 
On that occasion, Halifax was able to stop the duplicate payment leaving the account to 
avoid causing Mr H financial difficulty. Thats not the same as Mr H asking Halifax to stop a 
payment, which hed authorised using his debit card, because the goods hed bought werent 
fit for purpose. 
When Mr H paid for the item by debit card, he was authorising the retailer to take the amount 
that it cost (after deducting some loyalty points that Mr H used towards the cost of the item) 
from his account. Thats called a guaranteed payment, so Im satisfied Halifax had little 
choice, but to honour the payment when the retailer asked for it. So, it follows I dont think 
Halifax did anything wrong when it told Mr H it couldnt try to help him until the payment had 
left his account. 
I then thought about whether Halifax did enough to help once the payment had left Mr Hs 
account. Chargeback is a process, which allows customers to ask for a payment to be 
reversed  for instance, if theres a problem with the goods or services they paid for. 
Theres no automatic right to a chargeback, so theres no guarantee that a payment will be 
reversed, as certain criteria needs to be met and evidence provided.
 
Im satisfied from the call recordings Ive listened to that Halifax told Mr H it needed proof of 
return. And it listed other evidence that might help support a claim - such as a timeline of his 
contact with the retailer. I think Halifax acted reasonably in doing so because banks 
generally expect the customer to first raise concerns with the retailer. And its also not 
unusual for a bank to want to see evidence of any communication thats been exchanged, so it can understand the retailers position. Thats important, amongst other reasons, because a 
bank is likely to want to know the chances of a claim being successful. So, despite what 
Mr H thinks, I do think Halifax tried to be helpful. I also think Halifax tried to be supportive in 
other ways too, such as referring Mr H to its money management team when he indicated 
the payment leaving his account would cause him financial difficulty.
Whilst its clear from the phone calls Mr H told Halifax hed asked the retailer for a refund, 
Ive seen nothing to suggest he gave it other evidence to support a chargeback claim. 
Hes sent our service a copy of a receipt as proof of purchase. Hes also sent us a 
handwritten note from the retailer thats undated, suggesting an item appearing to match the 
description of the one he says he bought, is held in the retailers lost property section. 
The circumstances leading to how it got there arent entirely clear. But its not apparent from 
the evidence Ive seen that Mr H gave Halifax this information too. And I think its likely that 
had Halifax seen it, it would have referenced it during its calls and written correspondence 
with Mr H. 
Having said that, Im not persuaded the information would have made a difference in terms 
of what Halifax could do next.  I say that because Halifax said it needed to see proof of 
return. But the retailers note doesnt mention Mr H; the condition of the item when it was 
returned or the reason why the retailer wouldnt give Mr H a refund. Nor does it say the 
retailer had accepted the item for return. And I think thats the kind of information Halifax is 
likely to have needed to progress a chargeback claim. 
Having thought about Mr Hs complaint very carefully, I think Halifaxs response was 
reasonable given the information it appears to have had. So, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
I appreciate Mr H will likely be disappointed to hear this, but I hope he appreciates the 
reasons for my decision. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2020.
 
Amanda Scott
Ombudsman