DRN-3140842
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain about investment advice and poor service they received from St. 
James's Place Wealth Management Plc (SJP).
 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties so I wont go over it in great 
detail, but the key facts are as follows:
Mr and Mrs J received investment advice from a SJP adviser over several years 
starting in 2014.
In March 2020 they had concerns about the volatility in the markets and contacted 
the adviser.
They made a decision to move their holdings into a Money Market fund and then look 
to switch funds when market conditions were more favourable.
They subsequently complained to SJP and said that theyd suffered losses of around 
20% of their portfolio which was more than what other people theyd spoken to had 
lost. In summary, they felt that their adviser hadnt give them appropriate advice and 
hadnt acted proactively which had caused them excessive losses.
SJP didnt uphold their complaint but did offer to waive any early withdrawal charges 
if Mr and Mrs J wanted to move their investments to another provider.
Mr and Mrs J then came to us and asked us to investigate the concerns theyd 
raised.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. 
He was of the opinion that the advice that Mr and Mrs J had received was suitable for 
their circumstances at the time. He also thought that the advice SJP had given in 
March 2020 wasnt unreasonable given the unprecedented market conditions at the 
time.
Mr and Mrs J didnt agree with his findings. They said the adviser had shown a lack 
of initiative, professionalism and expertise. His inertia meant that the timing of the re-
entry to the markets was completely wrong.  They questioned the investigators 
opinion that the funds theyd been recommended were suitable as theyd been 
changed when theyd moved to a new adviser. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion so the complaint has been passed 
to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ive firstly thought about Mr 
and Mrs Js circumstances when the initial recommendation was made. At the time they 
were aged 58 and 59 respectively, Mr J was a solicitor earning £426,000 p/a and Mrs J was 
a teacher earning £36,000 p/a. They had previous investment experience and had total joint 
assets of c.£2,000,000. They were unhappy with their existing adviser and were looking to 
consolidate their existing holdings, they wanted to invest for capital growth and to 
supplement their income during their retirement. 
The adviser assessed them as having a medium attitude to risk (ATR) which was defined as 
You want your capital to keep pace with inflation and are investing for at least five years. 
You are comfortable with most of your capital being invested in equities and property, some 
of it overseas. You realise that there may be significant falls in the value of your investments, 
and that accepting this risk gives you the potential to achieve better long-term returns.
The adviser recommended that Mr and Mrs J invest in a Retirement Plan, several 
Investment Bonds, two ISAs and three junior ISAs for their grandchildren. I can see that 
when he assessed Mr and Mrs Js ATR, he took a number of factors into consideration - 
their capacity for loss, investment objectives and the nature of their investment experience. 
Having considered everything, Im satisfied that their ATR was correctly assessed. 
Ive reviewed the investments that were recommended, and having done so, Im satisfied 
that they were suitable for Mr and Mrs J. The investments provided the opportunity for the 
growth that Mr and Mrs J wanted, were in line with their stated ATR and were suitably 
diversified between different asset classes. They were also left with a reasonable portion of 
their capital in cash-based investments. 
I appreciate the comments that Mr and Mrs J have made regarding the changes that their 
new adviser has made to their portfolio, but I havent seen anything to suggest that the 
original recommendations were unsuitable. Both advisers assessed Mr and Mrs J as having 
a medium ATR but had differing views on the makeup of their portfolios. I dont think this is 
uncommon  especially considering the impact of the pandemic on global markets which 
meant that funds that were previously considered suitable may have lost some of their 
appeal. 
Ive then gone on to consider the decision to move Mr and Mrs Js holdings into the money 
market fund in 2020. From what Ive seen they began to have concerns about the market 
volatility in March 2020 and had a number of conversations with the adviser. Mr J sent the 
adviser an email on 23 March where he said Doesnt look like the markets have bottomed 
out yet. SJP share price has taken a real hammering hasnt it? Worrying times. 
He then spoke to the adviser and a decision was then made move his and Mrs Js holdings 
into the Money Market fund to guard against further losses. Then on 30 April, the decision 
was made to move 50% of their holdings back into the markets as the volatility was 
subsiding and gradually move the rest back in over the next six months.
I note the points that Mr and Mrs J have made regarding the timing of both moves and the 
conduct of the adviser. But Im not persuaded that the decision to move to the Money Market 
fund was unsuitable. At the time, no-one knew how long the volatility would continue. I dont 
think it was unreasonable to try and mitigate against a further decline in the value of their 
holdings, especially as the notes show that Mr and Mrs J were concerned by the losses 
theyd already suffered. 
Once the market volatility started to reduce, the adviser took steps to begin a phased return 
into the market. I dont think this was an unreasonable approach, even though the timings of 
the moves may not have been perfectly timed with the peaks and troughs of the market. Its 
only with the benefit of hindsight that we now know when the optimum times to sell and 
repurchase the investments would have been. And based on what Ive seen, especially 
given Mr and Mrs Js concerns about the volatility at the time, I dont think the advisers 
conduct was negligent and I wont be asking SJP to do anything else regarding this 
complaint. My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 September 2022.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman