DRN-1579356
 
The complaint
Mr K says AXA France IARD mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  
What happened
This complaint is about a store card PPI policy taken out in 2003. The policy was added to 
Mr K's account when he applied for the card in store.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. AXA disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the 
complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ks case.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ks complaint because I think if better information about the 
policys costs and benefits had been provided by AXA, its unlikely he would have taken it 
out. 
The information AXA gave Mr K about the cost and benefit wasnt as clear as it should have 
been. I say this because although Mr K may have been told the cost was 89p per £100 of 
the outstanding balance, I think its unlikely he wouldve been told that the premium would be 
added to his store card balance and could attract interest. I also think its unlikely that 
AXA pointed out that the benefit was actually less than 10% in real terms, as Mr K would 
have to continue paying the premium while receiving the policy benefit.
I think this would have mattered to Mr K because he's told us at the point of sale he was 
entitled to full pay from his employer if he was off sick for six months, followed by half pay for 
the next six months. He's also mentioned that he had some savings. So Mr K doesnt appear 
to have had a strong need for the policy, given he had other ways to meet the credit card 
repayments for a while without it.
AXA considers Mr K may not have been entitled to the sick pay he's mentioned, because he 
hadn't been in his job for very long when he took out the policy. I've noted everything 
AXA has said.
But I'm mindful that what Mr K has told us about his sick pay has been consistent throughout 
his complaint. And as these events happened many years ago, I don't think it would be fair 
or reasonable to expect Mr K to provide proof of the sick pay he says he had.
I've also kept in mind Mr K's occupation. Overall, when I take everything into account, I don't 
think it's unreasonable to accept what Mr K has told me about his employer sick pay. As such, I dont think Mr K would have bought the policy if he'd had enough information 
about it. So, I think Mr K has lost out because of what the business did wrong. 
Putting things right
AXA should put Mr K in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI.
A.  AXA should find out how much Mr K would have owed when he closed his store card 
account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  
as well as any interest added to those charges. 
AXA should then refund the difference between what Mr K owed when he closed his account 
and what he would have owed if he hadnt had PPI.
If Mr K made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what he got for the 
claim from the amount it owes him.
B.  AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Mr K would have owed 
when he closed his account - from when he closed it until he gets the refund. The interest 
rate should be 8% a year.
C.  If  when AXA works out what Mr K would have owed each month without PPI  Mr K
paid more than enough to clear his balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mr K paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mr K wouldve 
owed AXA something on his store card. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
D.  AXA should tell Mr K what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give Mr 
K a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct AXA France IARD to pay compensation to 
Mr K in line with the instructions above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman