DRN-3339532
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Lloyds Bank PLC, trading as Lloyds Bank Private Banking, gave 
them unsuitable investment advice. 
Mrs M has power of attorney for Mr M and their complaint is brought on behalf of both of 
them by a claims management company.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M sought investment advice from Lloyds in July 1999. Theyd been referred to 
Lloyds Private Banking by Lloyds business team as they were in the process of selling their 
business.
Lloyds recommended they invest in a discretionary managed portfolio. It recommended Mr 
and Mrs M invest £150,000 cash and transfer their existing investments into the portfolio 
(valued at around £41,000). It was agreed Mr and Mrs M had a medium attitude to risk and 
that their investment objective was capital growth.
Mr and Mrs Ms representative says Lloyds recommended they invest too much money and 
that they were exposed to too much risk when they didnt have any income. Within a short 
time, Mr and Mrs Ms cash reserves had been depleted and they needed to withdraw money 
from the portfolio. Within the first two years, they withdrew just over £49,000.
Mr and Mrs M werent happy with the performance of the portfolio and in March 2004 they 
decided to closed the portfolio to invest in foreign property.
Our investigator initially recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought the 
advisor hadnt fully considered that Mr and Mrs M didnt have any income and that their 
planned property renovation wasnt guaranteed to provide them with the money they 
needed. He thought it was clear that, because of the amount they needed to withdraw in the 
first two years, Mr and Mrs M had probably been advised to invest too much of their money.
Lloyds didnt agree with our investigators conclusion and provided additional evidence. It 
said that, within a few months of investing, Mr and Mrs M invested an additional £10,000 and 
that a couple of months later they were thinking about investing £20,000 more, which doesnt 
suggest they thought theyd over-committed to the portfolio. Lloyds said Mr and Mrs M had 
to withdraw money from the portfolio because theyd lent £120,000 to their daughter, which 
wasnt anticipated when they first sought advice from Lloyds.
In the light of the new evidence our investigator reconsidered the complaint and changed his 
conclusion. He said Lloyds wasnt aware when it recommended the portfolio that Mr and 
Mrs M would require £120,000 for a loan. And that, if it hadnt been for this loan, Mr and 
Mrs M would have had enough cash reserve.
Mr and Mrs M didnt agree. Their representative said, on their behalf and in summary, that:
They didnt lend their daughter £120,000. They lent her £50,000 on a short-term basis 
and it was paid back within six months. They withdrew around £25,600 from the portfolio 
around this time.
They still had to withdraw an additional £23,000 and this was to replace some of the 
cash theyd had to use to pay a known capital gains tax liability.
They werent receiving any income and they had a tax liability to pay. But theyd been 
advised to invest 70% of their total capital (after the tax liability). They were always going 
to need to take capital from the portfolio whether they lent money to their daughter or 
not.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The matters complained about took place more than 20 years ago. Both parties, not 
surprisingly, have limited records available from that long ago. And Im mindful that 
recollections may not be as accurate as they once were. In addition, sadly, Mr M is no longer 
in a position to tell us what happened from his point of view, and Im aware from what Mrs M 
has told us that he probably took the lead in the discussions at the time.
I therefore reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what 
I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
Firstly, Ive thought about whether Mr and Mrs M were advised to invest too much of their 
available capital. 
When they sought advice from Lloyds they had around £272,000 available in bank and 
building society accounts. This included a part payment from the sale of their business. They 
were expecting a further payment of £150,000, but they mentioned they might need to take 
legal action to secure that sum, so I dont think it was guaranteed. I think it's right that Lloyds 
disregarded this additional sum for the purposes of giving investment advice in July 1999. 
But Im mindful Mr and Mrs M anticipated receiving this amount in the near future which 
would have had a bearing on how much they thought would need to remain uninvested.
Mr and Mrs M made Lloyds aware that they had a possible capital gains tax liability from the 
sale of the business which was payable in January 2001. They were hopeful that they would 
receive 100% relief on this liability. But I can see Lloyds noted this liability and, as thered 
been no communication with the Inland Revenue about possible relief, I find it was right to 
treat this as a liability. 
This left £232,150 available, and Lloyds recommended an investment of £150,000. 
Mr and Mrs M had previously earned an income of around £26,000 a year from their 
business. Following the sale of the business, Mr and Mrs M would not be receiving an 
income. The money remaining uninvested in Mr and Mrs Ms bank account was the 
equivalent of a little more than three years of the income theyd been used to. Mrs M now 
recollects that they would have needed more than that  she says around £30,000 a year - 
to cover their living costs. Had they required this much, they would have had enough 
uninvested cash to last them for two years and to cover any unforeseen emergencies. 
I agree with Mr and Mrs Ms representative that this wouldnt have been enough if this was 
their only source of money to meet their day to day expenditure. But Mr M made it clear in his discussions with Lloyds that he planned to develop the land and buildings hed recently 
bought and sell them at a profit. And that this would yield enough to meet their living costs. 
I cant see that this was discussed in any great detail. Its not clear to me how much money 
Mr M anticipated needing to develop any of the properties and in July 1999 he hadnt 
received planning permission for the development, so its not clear what timetable he was 
working to and when he expected to start earning from the development. But, if he thought 
he was going to require money to develop the properties, I would have expected him to have 
ear-marked this, particularly taking into account that he already had experience of running 
his own business. And I think the money remaining in their bank accounts  the equivalent of 
at least two to three years income, gave them a big enough cushion if the redevelopment of 
the property and land took longer than anticipated. 
I think its more likely than not that Lloyds expressed its concerns to Mr and Mrs M but that it 
was satisfied about Mr Ms plans. I say this because Lloyds letter sent after the meeting 
says:
My original concern here was the drop in income that you will experience from the sale of 
your business.. You estimated that your joint gross earnings in the last financial year 
were approximately £154,000 and after speaking in more depth you made it clear that you 
are comfortable with the removal of this income source. You anticipate receiving regular 
large sums of cash from the sale proceeds of properties built on the land that [you are] 
currently developing and therefore in the foreseeable future, you will be supporting 
yourselves by spending capital rather than looking for specific income generation from your 
investments.
I find Mr and Mrs M were comfortable with the amount they were advised to invest. And they 
chose  unprompted by Lloyds - to invest a further £10,000 a few months later; and, a few 
months after that, they were thinking of investing a further £20,000. Its not clear why this 
investment didnt go ahead, although it seems Mr M wanted it invested in a particular sector 
which Lloyds didnt think was suitable for the balanced portfolio, rather than the money not 
being available.
But Mr and Mrs M did withdraw more than £48,000 within two years of the investment taking 
place. Which might suggest theyd invested more than they should have done, or that their 
circumstances unexpectedly changed. Ive considered this carefully.
Lloyds records show that, during their meeting in February 2000, Mr and Mrs M told Lloyds 
they had lent their daughter £120,000 to fund a business venture. Mrs M recalls they only 
lent her £50,000 for six months. Lloyds note of the meeting which took place in February 
2000 mentions the figure of £120,000 twice and it does seem to me most likely that this was 
the amount Mr and Mrs M lent. The note also refers to the fact that once the sale of various 
properties was completed, there should be approximately £120,000 coming into the bank 
account. This short-term loan would have had a large, and unplanned, impact on Mr and 
Mrs Ms available funds. Even if Lloyds note is wrong and Mrs Ms recollection is correct, 
£50,000 still represents considerable expenditure that wasnt anticipated when Lloyds 
recommended the investment. Mr and Mrs M withdrew around £25,600 at this time to help 
tide them over. I dont think this withdrawal makes Lloyds earlier investment advice 
unsuitable.
In December 2000, Mr M phoned to tell Lloyds he might have to pay the £40,000 CGT 
liability  although he was still hoping to qualify for relief. He said he would also need money 
to renovate the property on the land hed bought because he didnt have any other liquid 
assets. As noted earlier, this didnt seem to have been discussed in any detail at the initial 
meeting. But Mr M hadnt indicated that he needed any funds set aside (although Lloyds recommended setting aside for the CGT liability anyway). And he said he anticipated the first 
property to be sold in January 2000. I think Lloyds had raised concerns about Mr and Mrs M 
losing their income stream in July 1999, but that Mr and Mrs M were satisfied their plans 
would allow them to meet their living expenses. They were aware of the CGT liability and 
knew theyd have to spend money to renovate the properties, yet they were comfortable to 
invest the amount recommended by Lloyds and invested additional funds shortly afterwards. 
Clearly their plans didnt pan out as they intended. And it seems other things changed after 
Lloyds gave its advice. Not only did they lend money to their daughter for a business 
venture, but as early as February 2000 they were considering buying another business for 
themselves. Im satisfied Lloyds advice to invest £150,000 in July 1999 wasnt unsuitable, 
based on the information available to it at the time.
Having decided that the amount they were recommended to invest wasnt unsuitable, Ive 
gone onto think about whether the balanced portfolio was suitable for Mr and Mrs Ms needs.
They wanted to earn a greater return than that received on a bank deposit account. And they 
didnt require any income from their investment. They were prepared to invest for the 
medium term and for at least five years. Whilst Lloyds doesnt have a record of any detailed 
discussion about the risk Mr and Mrs M were prepared to take with their investment, Im 
satisfied this would have been discussed and I find Mr and Mrs M were prepared to take a 
medium risk. I find the balanced portfolio reasonably reflected their agreed objectives and 
risk attitude.
Overall, and based on Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances as recorded at the time, Im not 
persuaded Lloyds investment advice was unsuitable.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 June 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman