DRN-2727041
The complaint
Ms K is unhappy with the way that Ageas Insurance Limited dealt with her landlord
insurance claims for water damage.  
What happened
In August 2018 Ms K suffered damage to her let flat from a water leak from an upstairs flat.
She didnt report the claim until late November, as she was expecting the owner of the
upstairs flat to deal with it. Ageas appointed loss adjusters who visited the property in
December 2018 and who then appointed contractors to provide an estimate for the repairs.
This was approved in mid-January. Ageas said that Ms K then indicated that she wanted the 
contractors to carry out private works as well as the insured repairs. She also didnt want to 
choose the materials herself and couldnt see why the contractors couldnt arrange this. 
Ageas decided to offer Ms K a cash settlement for all the repairs so she could use her own 
contractors. But the settlement offered was considerably less than an estimate she had 
obtained. She asked for another contractor to be appointed but the loss adjusters wouldnt 
do this.
There then followed discussions over the proposed settlement. Ms K agreed to use Ageas
contractors, but still wanted them to assist her with choosing materials. Agreement was
reached over this, but in March 2019, there was another leak, and the works were put on
hold. There then followed another period of time during which temporary repairs were carried
out so that the property could be let out over the summer months.
The works were started again in September but were then put on hold again, as following
lifting the floor, further damp was discovered which had to be dealt with. The works
recommenced and the repairs were essentially completed by 25 November 2019. In
December 2019 there was an issue with the hot and cold running water to the shower
because of the dials being set up wrongly.
Ms K raised her complaints with Ageas. It responded to those complaints in two final
response letters dated October 2019 and February 2020. In particular it said that it agreed
that there had been delays and miscommunications. It proposed paying Ms K further loss of
rent, though as Ms K only had cover for £12,000 loss of rent it believed she was
underinsured and proposed paying a proportionate amount of the loss.
On referral to this service our investigator said that Ageas has acted reasonably, save that
she didnt believe it should reduce the loss of rent payment as it hadnt set out clearly why it
believed she was underinsured.
Aviva accepted our investigators view. It said it had paid the full loss of rent insured for the
first loss - £12,000 and it had paid the loss of rent claimed, of £1,500, for the second claim,
although it fell within the same loss period.
Ms K believes she was entitled to be paid loss of rent over and above the policy limit
because the delays by Ageas and its contractors meant that she lost more rent than the
policy limit.
Ms K had further issues regarding a further water leak in January 2020 following alleged
faulty workmanship. She also raised the question of payment for a washing machine and the
rise in her policy premiums. Those issues have been investigated separately by Ageas and
do not form part of this decision.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that I thought Ageas should also be paying 
compensation for distress and inconvenience, and proposed that it pay £500.
Ageas hasnt commented further.
Ms K disagreed  Ill set out her main points and my comments below.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional findings I said:
delay
Ms K complains of long periods of delay when the works should have got under way,
causing her to lose more rent monies.
Ms K didnt make a claim to Ageas for a period of over three months. I understand the
reason for this (she was hoping that the upstairs flat owner would pay for the repairs), but it
nevertheless meant that the repairs couldnt get under way in the summer/early autumn
when I understand that the builders were less busy. When the loss adjusters inspected in
December 2018, they instructed the contractors to provide an estimate. This estimate was
available at the end of December but wasnt approved by Ageas until some three weeks
later, and Ageas has admitted some fault in that respect.
The contractors were then supposed to be setting a start date, but Ms K had indicated that
she wanted some private works carried out at the same time. Shed also said that she didnt
think it appropriate for her to be choosing materials and wanted this to be done by an interior
designer. This resulted in the loss adjusters advising that the whole matter would be settled
as a cash settlement. They offered Ms K £5,300, but she had an estimate for more than five
times that amount. The loss adjusters reviewed that estimate but couldnt approve it. Ms K
asked for different contractors to be appointed but this was refused as the contractors had
already spent a lot on preparation and the matter would be delayed by the contractors
changing.
This took the matter up until late March. Ms K reluctantly agreed for Ageas contractors to
commence work, but at this stage there was a further leak, which delayed the date for
restarting work. This was proposed to be mid-April. Im not clear why the works couldnt get
under way, as the leak didnt appear to be a major one. But it appears that there was a
meeting on site on 21 May, and shortly after that Ageas agreed to carry out temporary
repairs. This was so that Ms K could let the property out over the holiday season. I know
Ms K disputes this and says it was because the contractors werent able to access the
property, being in the middle of a tourist area, in the summer months. But whatever the
reason the contractors werent at fault in not doing the work during the summer holiday
season.Works were discussed during August  Ms K wanted a replacement wood floor for the
laminate floor and was told she would have to fund the difference. And Ms K wanted some
private work done, including the fitting of an electric shower. Works were finally started in
September, but almost immediately had to be put on hold because further damp was
discovered under the floorboards. The loss adjusters had previously declined to take up the
floorboards as it was anticipated that this would be done once the works were under way.
Ageas agreed this was an error. This caused the works to be delayed for a further four
weeks. Work was finally finished by early December. There was problem with the water in
the shower as the dials were put on the wrong way around but as I understand it, it didnt
stop the shower from being usable.
Overall I think that although some of the delays were on Ms Ks part, a lot of the delays were
caused by failures in communication. For instance the contractors were negotiating with
Ms K over the private works and it took several weeks for the loss adjusters/Ageas to be
aware of the situation. I also think the delays caused by the second leak and by the further
damp found under the floor could have been shortened. Overall I think Ms K was caused
distress and inconvenience and although Ageas has paid loss of rent, it hasnt paid any
compensation. I think it should do so.
Ms K denies that she asked for any private works to be carried out. Instead she says that the 
works she wanted done were in her view what any professional contractor would consider 
part of the job: (i) correctly assessing and determining the necessary repairs needed to 
make the property safe again, (ii) the procurement and choice of materials suitable for the 
works. She says none of the private contractors she approached expected her to do i or ii.
She believes this was the absolute lowest season for the contractor. She deliberately kept 
the property empty over Christmas expecting that the works would be done then, but had no 
communication from them. She further believes that, if the works couldnt be done then, 
there was no reason for the works not to start in February, and again she lost rent by 
keeping the property empty.
She believes because the contractors werent local they didnt know about the restricted 
access to the property during the tourist season. She only had temporary repairs to stop the 
celling falling down but couldnt rent out the property.
With regard to the shower, it was an electric one but Ms K was advised to get a common 
shower as a replacement which was cheaper. Nevertheless Ageas refused to pay for this. It 
has also refused to pay for the new bathroom suite.
Ageas contractors together with the loss adjuster believe they did correctly determine what 
works were needed to determine that Ms K was asking for private works (outside those 
works covered by the claim) to be carried out. I know Mrs K believer otherwise but I think it 
was for Ageas to assess this. In particular it determined that Ms K didnt need a new 
bathroom suite. She may have got other contractors to estimate for the work but they 
wouldnt have been deciding what works were insured or not. I believe this did hold up work 
starting.
So far as deciding on materials so far as Im aware Ms K wasnt asked to decide technical 
issues but on the choice of colour, materials etc. That would be a normal part of an 
insurance claim, though no doubt other contractors may offer this service at a price.
As to whether contractors couldve started work earlier, Ive set out what the delays were in 
my view. Given the timeline and when the claim was reported I cant see that there was any 
possibility that the repairs wouldve been done by the end of December 2018. The contractors were responsible for some delays, but it appears that no contractor would have 
had access to the property in the tourist season. According to the claim notes and the loss 
adjusters report, Ms K was going to rent the property out in those months so emergency 
repairs were done.  
I accept Ms K had an electric shower which was changed to a thermostatic shower. This did 
require extra pipework to be installed.
In my provisional findings I said:
cash settlement
Ms K believes the cash settlement offered to her was grossly underestimated and didnt
reflect the costs to Ageas, especially as it later paid a much larger amount for the repairs.
I cant say whether the cash settlement offered was underestimated or not. Im aware that
Ms Ks estimate included private work. And Ageas final costs for the matter include a
number of items it had agreed to pay for as gesture of goodwill and not within the insured
work Also the second leak and the damp found under the floorboards added to the cost of
the claim. An insurers contractors rates are often much lower than a private contractor
would charge and Ageas is entitled to pay by way of cash settlement the amount it would
cost it. With those factors in mind, and bearing in mind that I have no independent like for
like comparison, I cant say that the cash settlement offered was unfair.
Ms K says the difference in costs was alarming leading her to believe that (i) the original 
damage assessment was not carried out diligently and professionally; (ii) the original cash 
settlement offered was unfair and misleadingly offered to her as it did not reflect the reality.
She feels the insurer/loss adjusters acted maliciously and unprofessionally. She further 
denies that any items were paid for as a gesture of goodwill. On the contrary she had to 
purchase several items herself to avoid delays, notably the shower head.
In respect of any goodwill gestures, I believe this refers to the flooring (as set out below). 
Ageas wasnt obliged to replace the flooring with a better quality flooring but agreed to do so.
The original cash settlement may have been an underestimate, but I dont know and cant 
surmise that that was the case. Its just as likely that Ms Ks costs were overestimated and/or 
included uninsured work. Insurers contractors will often charge much less than a private 
contractor would. And Ageas was entitled under the terms of the policy to offer only what it 
would have paid its contractors in terms of a cash settlement. But Ms K had an estimate for 
more than five times the amount estimated by Ageass contractors which made the chance 
of negotiating a settlement impossible. And its often the case that more work would need 
doing as the claim progressed. That clearly happened here. But theres simply no evidence 
to suggest that there was malice or deliberate misleading involved here.
In my provisional findings I said:
cost of flooring
Ms K wanted the laminate flooring replaced with a herringbone wood floor. Ageas advised
this would cost a further £1,409 plus VAT which she would have to pay. She protested as
this represented a major part of the cost of the flooring. Ageas agreed to absorb this cost.
Whilst Ageas isnt required to provide better quality flooring than that in place it nevertheless
has in my view satisfactorily resolved this issue.
In my provisional findings I said:loss of rent
Ms K was insured for £12,000 loss of rent, representing a years loss of rent. This is how it
would have been calculated when the policy was set up  i.e. an estimate of the rent she
would receive in a year. Ageas was going to apply averaging to this loss (i.e. reducing the
loss by the proportion to which Ms K was underinsured) it estimated her annual rent to be
£40,000. This would have substantially reduced the claim for loss of rent. But I note that
Ageas has agreed not to apply averaging. It has paid £12,000 for the first claim and £1,500
for the second claim. It has taken into account some of the delays in the repairs getting
under way and stopping and restarting.
Ms K doesnt accept this and asserts that she is entitled to loss of rent over and above the
policy terms because of Ageas delays. She points out that for each claim she has a £12,000 
limit.
Whilst I agree that averaging shouldnt have been applied as Ageas couldnt show that its
estimate of her annual rent was accurate, Ive noted that Ageas hasnt applied averaging.
And I agree that each claim has a separate limit for loss of rent. But I bear in mind that the
second claim occurred during the same policy year as the first so there was some overlap.
And I think Ageas has taken into account its delays. Overall taking into account that Im not
looking at any alleged loss in respect of the January 2020 issues, I think the loss of rent
payment was fair.
Im aware that Ms K continues to assert that she is entitled to loss of rent for the whole 
period her property was without a tenant, over and above any policy limit. I cant award that, 
as the evidence doesnt support it. I have to take into account that Ageas has paid out the 
policy limit for the first claim and that the second claim considerably overlapped the first one. 
I also wouldnt expect Ageas to pay beyond the policy limit for the delays it wasnt 
responsible for. I believe the loss of rent payments were reasonable.
In my provisional findings I said:
faulty bathroom installation
I understand that Ms K reported that there was no hot water to the shower. Whilst she
reported this by text the project manager wasnt working at the time. It was established that
the dials on the system were the wrong way around so the cold water control was producing
hot water and vice versa. Whist I understand this was an irritation for Ms K, this didnt mean
the property couldnt have been rented out as it could have been drawn to the guests
attention. I dont propose taking any further action.
Ms K has referred to the further problems she had with the bathroom, but this is a later issue 
which Im not considering in this decision.
 
In my provisional findings I said:
changing contractors
Ms K asked on number of occasions for new contractors to be appointed as she wasnt
happy with them coming from so far away, they appeared to have difficulty booking the work
in and with the fact that they were charging such a low amount. The loss adjusters initially
refused this as they felt a lot of preparatory work had been done and it would delay things
further.I dont think Ageas should have changed contractors just because Ms K was unhappy for the
reason stated. There was no indication for instance that their standard of work was being
questioned. I do think though that after the number of delays that occurred and the further
damp being discovered in September, Ageas should have considered with Ms K whether
she wanted to change contractors at that stage. I say this because it was clearly considered
by Ageas complaints handling teams as the right way forward. Instead it proceeded to issue
a final response letter.
Ms K believes the contractors shouldnt have been appointed in the first place. They werent 
local and she was given no choice. She asked for references but these werent given. There 
are, she says, over 600 contractors in the local area, and she believes she should have 
been given a choice from a minimum of two or three quotes.
I think Ageas shouldve considered changing contractors in September 2019. But as to the 
selection of contractors, if the insurer is going to carry out the work, those would usually be 
from their approved panel of contractors. I understand the contractors werent changed when 
Ms K initially asked as they had already done a lot of preparatory work. And her main 
objection to them was that they werent local, which isnt necessarily a problem. And it 
wouldnt be usual, unless it was a very large job, for a number of contractors to be asked to 
quote. 
In my provisional findings I said:
compensation
I think that because of the admitted faults in communication, the delays caused particularly
by the further discovery of damp, and the issue over changing contractors, that Ms K should
be paid compensation. Its clear that this caused her a fair amount of upset and
inconvenience. I propose to award her £500.
Overall Ms K believes the insurer could have acted quicker, with more diligence and more
fairly in dealing with our claim. For that reason she believes that the suggested 
compensation of £500 is neither appropriate or sufficient to cover her losses.
I agree with Ms K that Ageas couldve acted quicker. But for the reasons Ive set out in my 
provisional findings, I believe £500 is a an appropriate payment of compensation to be 
awarded for upset and inconvenience. This doesnt make up Ms Ks financial losses but isnt 
meant to.
I should again emphasise that Im not taking into account the problems Ms K has had since 
January 2020 with the bathroom, as that matter is a separate issue, which arose after the 
issues in this complaint. For similar reasons I cant consider any rise in premiums incurred 
after this claim.
Except where stated above, I remain persuaded by my provisional findings which are now 
final and form part of this final decision.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Ageas to pay to Ms K £500 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 Ray Lawley
Ombudsman