DRN-1860291
 
The complaint
Mr R complained that he received insufficient notice from Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance 
plc (RSA) of the cancellation of his personal possessions insurance policy.
What happened
Mr R had an insurance policy with RSA that covered personal possessions, in this case 
items of jewellery. RSA wrote to Mr R in mid-July 2019  the exact date of the letter is 
disputed  to let him know it would not be able to renew his policy. So all cover would cease 
from the date of renewal, which was 1 August 2019. RSA said it now only offers this cover if 
it is also providing home insurance. It told Mr R he would need to make alternative 
arrangements and suggested he could contact his current contents insurer, as it might be 
possible for this cover to be added as an optional extension. 
Mr R complained to RSA. He said he didnt get the letter until 27 July 2019 and so didnt 
have enough time to arrange alternative insurance. He thought he might need to have his 
possessions valued and was concerned he might be uninsured for a week or two. 
RSA didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint. It said it sent the letter giving him notice on 15 July 
2019. RSA said insurance providers are not under any legal obligation to continue cover 
when it comes to renewal. And it can change its mind about what type of risk it wants to 
insure. On this occasion, Mr Rs policy was one of three types of insurance it decided it no 
longer wished to provide. 
RSA said it is required to provide customers with a period of notice, which in this case was 
14 days. It said, given the value of the items Mr R wanted to insure, its likely his home 
insurer would not require valuations and would be able to add the items to his policy for an 
additional premium.  RSA said it cant allow for how long it can take for mail to be delivered. 
And it couldnt offer an extension of the cover because it no longer offers this cover. 
Mr R complained to this service. He said he was left with only three days to arrange other 
cover for his valuables. He said he is a loyal customer of RSA, but it refused to extend his 
cover for a month, so that he had time to make alternative arrangements. Mr R also said the 
14 days notice cant start from the date of the letter, which he said was 18 July 2019, and 
notice letters should be sent out a week before the notice period begins. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint. She acknowledged the differently dated 
notice letters and said it is not our role to explain such anomalies. Its our role to see whether 
a business acted fairly and reasonably. Although our investigator could see that the letter 
provided by Mr R is dated 18 July 2019, she is satisfied that RSA provided enough evidence 
to show the letter it sent was dated 15 July 2019 and was posted on the same day. And it 
provided evidence to show Mr R had referred to the review of his policy being carried out on 
15 July during the complaint phone call he made to RSA. And because of this, she was 
satisfied RSA had provided adequate notice for the cancellation of Mr Rs policy. 
Mr R did not agree with our investigators assessment and so this has come to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why. 
Ill start by acknowledging that the notice letter provided to us by RSA is dated 15 July 2019, 
while the notice letter provided to us by Mr R is dated 18 July 2019. I would have expected 
these to be identical letters, in all respects, but they arent. The date the notice letter was 
sent is relevant to the outcome of this complaint and so I will need to decide, on the balance 
of probabilities, which is most likely to be the correctly dated letter. But I will not be looking 
into why they are dated differently  this is outside of my remit. My role is to decide whether 
RSA acted fairly when it didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
Having reviewed all of the information on file, Im satisfied I can rely on the letter dated 15 
July 2019 as the correctly dated letter. I say that because RSA has provided information 
from a member of staff confirming she sent the letter manually on 15 July 2019. Ive also 
listened to a call recording of a phone conversation between Mr R and a different member of 
staff  when Mr R made his complaint  and in this call Mr R refers to 15 July as the date the 
review of his policy was carried out. So I think both parties have acknowledged 15 July as a 
relevant date and so Im satisfied its more likely than not to be the date the letter was drawn 
up and sent out. I mean no disrespect to Mr R in deciding to rely on the letter provided by 
RSA.  
What this means is that Im satisfied RSA gave Mr R at least 14 days notice of its intention 
not to renew his insurance policy. Even allowing for the fact that the letter was most likely 
sent by second class post, it was sent out early enough that Mr R should have received it on 
or around 18 July 2019, which is the date the 14 day notice period began. I understand that 
Mr R didnt receive it until much later, which I appreciate must have been frustrating, but 
RSA isnt responsible for what happens to mail once it is sent out. 
RSA, as well as other insurers, is allowed to withdraw products from the market, as it did on 
this occasion. So it was under no obligation to renew Mr Rs personal possessions policy. I 
appreciate that the prospect of having to find another insurer caused Mr R some stress and 
that is understandable given his personal circumstances at the time. But I understand he 
was not left without cover and was able to arrange cover with his current home insurer. 
Im also satisfied RSA did not act unfairly when it told Mr R it would not extend his cover for 
a further month, to enable him to find alternative cover. I appreciate why Mr R wanted more 
time, as he said his home insurer had not provided this particular type of policy in the past. 
But RSA does not have to extend cover in relation to a product that it no longer provides, in 
particular when it has provided the correct notice period to Mr R. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2020.
 
Martina RyanOmbudsman