DRN-4512072
The complaint
Mr T complains about how U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line (UKI) decided 
liability for a claim on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr T had a motor insurance policy with UKI covering his car. 
In November 2022 he was involved in a collision with a third-party vehicle. Mr T made a 
claim and he said the other driver was at fault for the collision.
Mr T has said he was happy with the way his claim was initially dealt with.
UKI told Mr T that in its experience it was likely hed be held responsible for the collision. 
Mr T wasnt happy about this decision. He complained to UKI. UKI didnt uphold his 
complaint because Mr T couldnt provide it with any further evidence about why the third 
party might be responsible. 
He remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into 
Mr Ts complaint and thought it wouldnt be upheld. She said she thought UKI had acted 
fairly in deciding liability for the collision.
Mr T didnt agree with the view and asked that his complaint was reviewed by an 
ombudsman. So it has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate this will be a disappointment to Mr T, but Im not upholding his complaint. Ill 
explain why.
Its this services role to see if UKI acted fairly and reasonably in how it assessed liability for 
the collision. Its not our role to assess the collision itself and establish liability.
Its my understanding that the damage to Mr Ts vehicle supports his version of events, in 
which he says the third party undertook him, then moved across his path, resulting in a 
collision meaning his car was damaged to the front nearside corner.
But its also my understanding from UKIs evidence that the damage also supports the third 
partys version of events in which Mr T turned right out of a side road without verifying the 
carriageway he was turning onto was clear and leading to the collision.
UKI asked for further evidence about the collision, such as a dashcam or CCTV, but none 
was available.
Mr T has said he has extensive driving experience and has never made a claim. And I think 
hes to be commended about this.
But UKI has extensive experience in dealing with collisions. Its said its likely that if this 
reached court, then Mr T would likely be found at fault. Mr T has said hed expect UKI to 
investigate the collision more effectively than it has. But UKI has a responsibility to mitigate 
its costs by not allowing claims like these to escalate to court. So, paying fees or charges to 
obtain further external evidence is only likely to happen if UKI thinks it will result in a more 
favourable outcome in terms of liability.
I know Mr T feels particularly strongly about this. But UKIs policy wording enables it to:
Take over and carry out the negotiation, defence or settlement of any claim in your 
name, or in the name of any other person covered by this policy.
This type of wording is common in the industry and I think its use is fair.
This type of wording is common in motor insurance and I dont think its unreasonable of UKI 
to use it here. What this wording means is that it can proceed to handle Mr Ts  claim as it 
wishes. I understand Mr T feels particularly aggrieved about this, but Id emphasise that 
UKIs actions are in line with the policy wording.
I understand Mr Ts frustrations with this, and I have read about his distress. But I dont think 
UKI has acted unfairly in how it has approached and decided liability for the collision. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2024.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman