DRN-3224731
The complaint
Mrs C complains Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited (Omni) wont honour a section 75 
claim shes made.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on Mrs Cs case on 3 December 2021, which described the 
background to this complaint, and the findings I was minded to make, in detail. The 
complaint was about some furniture Mrs C had bought using a point of sale loan agreement 
from Omni. Ive included the relevant part of my provisional decision describing the 
background below:
Mrs C bought a dining table, six chairs, a bed and a mattress from a shop Ill call H, 
costing £1,350. She paid a deposit of £150 and H arranged a loan for her with Omni to 
pay for the rest, under which she was expected to make 12 payments of £100.
There were some problems with the items. Mrs C says the bed was broken on delivery 
and the mattress was also defective. H promised to sort things out, but it didnt and 
then it ceased trading, leaving Mrs C with the broken items and an outstanding loan 
with Omni.
Mrs C contacted Omni as she believed it was jointly liable with H for the quality of the 
bed and mattress, under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). Omni 
didnt agree that it was liable. It explained that the loan agreement wasnt for a 
purchase from H, it was for a purchase from another company (R). This meant the 
necessary debtor-creditor- supplier (DCS) agreement wasnt in place for Mrs C to be 
able to make a claim against Omni under section 75.
Unhappy with this response, Mrs C complained and referred her complaint to this 
service for an independent assessment. There was initially a question over whether 
the Financial Ombudsman Service had the jurisdiction to look into a complaint about 
this particular loan. This issue was resolved when Omni accepted the loan was of a 
type this service could consider complaints about.
Our investigator had upheld the complaint, having concluded the necessary DCS agreement 
was likely in place. I hadnt agreed, and carried out an analysis of section 75 of the CCA and 
the technical requirements for it to apply in a given scenario. 
I concluded that for a valid DCS agreement to be in place in a situation where a consumer 
had purchased goods from a company which was not the company whose name appeared 
on the credit agreement as the supplier, the two companies would need to be associates, 
or the contractual arrangements between them would need to be such that pre-existing 
arrangements should be said to be in place between the creditor and the true supplier of the 
goods:
When someone buys goods or services using a point of sale loan such as the one 
provided by Omni here, section 75 of the CCA gives a legal right for that person to 
claim against the lender in respect of breaches of contract or misrepresentations by 
the supplier of the goods or services, so long as certain technical conditions have been 
met.
One of the technical conditions is the need for there to be a valid DCS agreement in 
place. While it is a technical term, what it means in practice is that in order to be able 
to make a successful section 75 claim, the borrower needs to have used the loan to 
pay the same company which it says has misrepresented something to them, or 
breached its contract with them.
It isnt quite as simple as that however, as section 75 is connected to several other 
provisions of the CCA which help to bring about an understanding of just what is 
meant by the DCS link and certain scenarios where it might not matter that the 
company paid by the loan is not the same as the company which the complainant has 
a contract with. These include sections 11(1)(b), 12(b), 184, and 187. Rather than 
quote all these sections in this decision, I will summarise the effect they have:
In order for a person to be able to bring a claim against their lender under section 75, 
the loan needs to have financed a transaction between them and a supplier. There 
also need to have been pre-existing arrangements between the lender and the 
supplier. Finally, the person needs to have a claim against the supplier in respect of a 
misrepresentation or a breach of contract.
The problem with having the loan arranged by and paid to someone other than the 
supplier, is that the lender may not have pre-existing arrangements with the supplier. It 
will certainly have pre-existing arrangements with the company which arranged the 
loan and was paid the funds. But the lack of any pre-existing arrangements with the 
supplier means a valid DCS agreement wont be in place and a successful section 75 
claim therefore cant be made.
There are, however, some exceptions. If the supplier and the company which was paid 
the loan funds are associates as defined in section 184 of the CCA, then it doesnt 
matter which one of them was paid the loan funds. They are treated as being 
interchangeable. The definition of associates is complicated, but in most cases two 
companies will be associates if they are controlled by the same people, or by people 
who are themselves associates of one another. People are associates of one anther if 
they are relatives or if they are in partnership. A person controls a company if they 
are a person whose instructions will normally be followed by the officers of the 
company, or if they are entitled to exercise a third or more of voting power at any 
general meeting of the company. Typically this would include company directors and 
major shareholders.
Another exception was identified in the case of Bank of Scotland v. Alfred Truman 
[2005] EWHC 583 QB. Although this case involved credit card transactions rather than 
loans, it set out some important and relevant principles.
The case concerned a firm of solicitors who had a motor trader as a client. The 
solicitors took credit card payments from customers of the motor trader, which had no 
facility to take such payments itself, as deposits for cars which they had ordered. The 
court found that the contractual arrangements between the motor trader and the 
solicitors were adequate to link the motor trader to the card scheme through the 
transactions processed via the solicitors credit card facilities, and therefore mean 
there were pre-existing arrangements between them and the creditor and therefore a 
valid DCS agreement.The judge observed in the Alfred Truman case that there were problems with 
applying this conclusion as a general principle, and there were difficulties in 
establishing where the line should be drawn between scenarios where pre-existing 
arrangements should be considered to exist, and where things were too tenuous to 
be able to draw such a conclusion. The judge went on to say that the problem would 
need to be resolved on a case by case basis, and the precise contractual 
arrangements between the parties would determine whether the creditor had any 
liability under section 75.
In a later County Court case, Marshall v. Retail Installation Services Ltd [2016], the 
judge considered Alfred Truman in a slightly different context. In this case company A 
had contracted with a consumer to supply and install solar panels, but an unrelated 
company B had taken the credit card payments. The precise nature of the 
arrangements between the companies was not known, but company A had invoiced 
company B after the latter had taken payment. It was also established that company B 
was the supplier of the solar panels themselves. The judge found that company B had 
an interest in the supply and installation of the solar panels and this was sufficient for 
pre-existing arrangements to be in place between company A and the creditor.
The conclusion I draw from this is that, in the absence of precise knowledge of the 
contractual arrangements between the supplier and the payee, the involvement of the 
payee in the provision of the services under the contract between the debtor and the 
supplier, should be sufficient for me to be able to conclude there were pre-existing 
arrangements between the supplier and the creditor.
I then analysed Mrs Cs particular scenario with the above findings in mind. I couldnt find 
evidence of the company she had bought the furniture from (H) and the company whose 
name had appeared on the credit agreement (R) being associates as defined in the CCA. 
I found the reason why R had allowed H to use its finance facility with Omni was because H 
had owed R money and R had found this to be a convenient way for it to be repaid. I 
concluded Omni was unaware of this arrangement and that the agreement it had signed with 
R for the finance facility didnt permit arrangements of this type.
I didnt think the arrangements were analogous, or similar to, the arrangements in the case 
law Id considered. So I didnt think an exception applied which would mean a valid DCS 
agreement would be in place which would allow Mrs C to hold Omni liable for the problems 
with the goods under section 75 of the CCA:
In Mrs Cs case, the transaction financed by the loan was her purchase of goods from 
H. This means H was the supplier for the purposes of the CCA. The loan, however, 
named R as the credit broker and the loan funds would have been paid out to R, not H. 
Ive thought carefully therefore about whether any of the exceptions I mentioned above 
apply in Mrs Cs case.
Ive examined Companies House records and have been unable to find evidence that 
R and H were associates according to section 184 of the CCA, meaning I dont think 
this exception applies.
Ive also considered whether the precise arrangements between H and R would be 
enough for me to say there were pre-existing arrangements between H and Omni.
 
Our investigator thought it was likely H and R had an arrangement to sell goods, with 
H supplying the goods and R arranging the finance for them, acting like an agent. He concluded this would be enough to say that pre-existing arrangements existed 
between H and Omni.
I didnt think we had enough information about what exactly the arrangements were 
between the parties for us to reach that conclusion. I asked for more information from 
Omni, and also from R (now in liquidation) to find out more about their relationship with 
H.
R explained that H had been a customer of theirs, and owed money to R for stock. R 
had allowed H to use its finance facility with Omni as a way of paying back the money 
it owed, so long as it could prove it had delivered the goods it had sold to consumers. 
In other words, Hs customers were buying goods from H on finance, but the loan 
money for the purchases went to R to pay off the debts H owed.
Omni says it was unaware of any relationship R had with other companies. It says its 
agreement with R didnt permit R to operate as an agent for other suppliers. Ive seen 
a copy of the agreement and it says:
[Omni] hereby appoints [R], acting by its Authorised Salespersons, solely and 
exclusively for the purpose of introducing Customers to [Omni] in order to finance a 
Customers purchase of Goods from [R].
Ive not seen any wording elsewhere in the agreement which suggests R was 
permitted to introduce customers to Omni for the purpose of financing purchases of 
goods from other retailers.
Based on the above, I feel I can draw the following conclusions:
Firstly, the arrangement between H and R appears to have been an informal one with 
the main purpose of discharging a debt owed by H to R, rather than enabling Hs 
customers to pay for goods. This would appear to put some distance between it and 
the scenario in Alfred Truman where the solicitors made a formal agreement to 
process payments on behalf of the motor trader, as part of a package of professional 
services it was providing to its client.
Secondly, unlike the case of Marshall, R appears to have had no involvement at all in 
the supply of the goods to Mrs C. R was a supplier of floor coverings, not furniture. 
And its interest in the supply of the goods extended only to seeking proof of delivery (a 
requirement for Omni to release the loan funds).
Thirdly, the kind of arrangement R had with H went against the terms of Rs agreement 
with Omni, which was intended for the financing of purchases of goods from R, not 
anyone else.
Armed with these conclusions, Im able to answer the question of whether pre-existing 
arrangements should be said to exist between H and Omni, which would mean a valid 
DCS agreement would exist for Mrs C to be able to make a successful section 75 
claim against Omni.
I appreciate my answer will disappoint Mrs C, but I cant conclude pre-existing 
arrangements existed between H and Omni. The arrangements between H and R 
were quite unlike those which the courts have decided meant pre-existing 
arrangements existed between a creditor and supplier. And Omni had signed an 
agreement with R which didnt allow it to make these kinds of agreements with other 
companies. It doesnt appear fair and reasonable to say pre-existing arrangements were in place between Omni and H via R, when it had made R aware it didnt agree to 
provide finance for purchases from other suppliers.
 
Mrs C has ended up in this position through no fault of her own, and I dont lack 
sympathy for her. She understandably didnt appreciate the potential problems which 
could be caused by the way the goods were financed. But ultimately I dont think she 
would have a valid claim against Omni under section 75 of the CCA. So I dont think 
Omni was wrong to turn down her claim.
Concluding, I said I was minded not to uphold Mrs Cs complaint and invited both parties 
to provide me with any further submissions they wanted me to consider, by 20 December 
2021. That date has now passed and no submissions have been received by either 
party, so the case has been returned to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because neither party to the complaint has provided any new evidence, arguments or 
comments for me to consider, I see no reason to change my provisional findings which Ive 
set out and explained above.
It follows that I do not think Omni was wrong to decline Mrs Cs section 75 claim.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2022.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman