DRN-1699076
 
The complaint
Ms M says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her a credit card payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
What happened
Ms M took out a PPI policy in 1998 to protect her credit card payments in the event of 
disability or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the PPI had been mis-sold. Ms M didnt agree with the 
adjudicator, so the case was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms Ms case. 
Having done so, I dont uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Barclays needed to make it clear to Ms M that she had a choice about taking out PPI and get 
her agreement before adding it. She says it didnt do those things. But Ive seen a copy of 
Ms Ms signed postal credit card application form and theres a tick to indicate she wanted 
PPI. The box to tick to decline PPI was left blank.
Overall, I think Barclays made it clear to Ms M that she had a choice about taking out PPI 
and that she chose to take it. I can understand if she doesnt recall that now after so many 
years.
Ive gone on to consider if there are any other reasons why I might uphold Ms Ms complaint, 
but I dont think there are. The parties agree Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Ms M. 
Barclays still ought to have provided Ms M with clear, fair and not misleading information 
about the PPI so that she could decide for herself if it was suitable. 
I cant say for sure whether Barclays did that but, from what I know of Ms Ms circumstances, 
I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her off taking it. I say that 
because:
It seems Ms M would have been eligible for the cover. And I dont believe shed have 
decided against the PPI because of its exclusions and restrictions. 
Ms M says she was entitled to good sick pay and redundancy pay from her public 
sector employer and that she could have relied on her husband, and their savings, if 
she wasnt working. But the PPI would have paid out on top of all that, and for up to 
12 months per claim, leaving her free to use those other means to cover her other living costs if she was off work. Alternatively, the PPI could have helped her retain 
her savings, which she says she was building up to buy a new home.
Theres nothing to suggest Ms M couldnt afford the PPI. I think Ms M would have 
considered it provided her with useful extra security for the cost. And it was flexible in 
that Ms M could have cancelled it at any time, and at no extra cost, if she decided it 
was no longer suitable for her.
 
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all the cost of the PPI to Ms M. But 
Barclays will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms M. Thats because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Ms M about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Ms 
M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays has offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think thats fair in this 
case.
 
What the business needs to do
Barclays has to pay back to Ms M any commission and profit share it got that was more than 
50% of the relevant PPI premium, if it hasnt already done so. Barclays should also pay back 
to Ms M any extra interest she paid because of that.
Barclays should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Ms M the difference 
between what Ms M owes and what she would have owed if the commission and profit share 
it got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Barclays should also pay Ms M 8%* 
simple interest if she paid off her credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Ms M can claim back the tax if she 
doesnt pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC doesnt have to pay back all the cost of 
the PPI to Ms M.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Ms M any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 May 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman