DRN-1515363
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M say Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold them two mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policies.
What happened
This complaints about two PPI policies  included as a part of Halifaxs Total Mortgage 
Protection Plans (TMPP)  the first having been sold in 2003. The second was sold in 2007. 
The first PPI policy was intended to protect Mr and Mrs Ms joint mortgage repayments if 
either of them suffered disability or became unemployed. The second policy covered Mrs M 
only.
TMPP can be split into sections  Mortgage Repayments Cover (which is a form of PPI), life 
cover, and critical illness cover (CIC).
Mr and Mrs M complained about PPI, so Ive only looked at the sale of that element of the 
TMPP packages in this decision. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr and Mrs M disagreed with 
the adjudicator, so the complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ms case. 
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
I cant say for sure what Mr and Mrs M were or werent told by Halifaxs advisers in 2003 or 
2007. They say they were coerced into buying the PPI. Thats a serious allegation and I 
havent seen any evidence to support what theyve said or that they were unduly pressured 
in any way. 
Halifax no longer holds all the paperwork from the time of each application. But I can see 
references in the documentation to Mr and Mrs M needing to apply for PPI separately to the 
mortgages if they wanted it. And the acceptance letter Halifax sent them in 2007 thanks 
them for choosing TMPP and sets out the details of cover. None of this suggests it was 
presented to them as compulsory.
From the available evidence, and from experience of how Halifax sold PPI as part of its 
TMPP packages more widely, I think Mr and Mrs M were made aware they had a choice 
about taking out both PPI policies and decided to go ahead with them on that basis.I think Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs M, so it had to check that it was right for 
them. I dont know if it did that but, based on what Ive seen of their circumstances in 2003 
and 2007, I think it was. For example, Mr and Mrs M were eligible for the cover and werent 
significantly affected by any of the main things it excluded or limited cover for.
Mr and Mrs M say Mrs M was entitled to enhanced sick pay from her employer for a time 
and would have received redundancy pay. But the PPI would have paid out on top of that 
pay and for up to 12 months for each successful claim (and for up to 24 months for claims 
made on the policy sold in 2003). It would have allowed them to retain any savings theyd 
built up or to use them to cover their daily costs of living if one of those insured wasnt 
working. 
Overall, I believe the PPI provided Mr and Mrs M with useful extra protection given the 
mortgage was a significant and long-term financial commitment secured against their home. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs M about the PPI  including its costs  
wasnt as good as it should have been. But I think it likely Mr and Mrs M chose to take out 
the PPI  so it looks like they wanted this type of cover. And it seems it would have been 
useful for them if something went wrong. I havent seen anything to suggest it was 
unaffordable for them either. So, I dont think better information about the PPI would have 
put them off taking out the cover. 
Taking everything into account, I dont believe Mr and Mrs M have lost out because of how 
Halifax sold them either of the PPI policies. 
My final decision 
For the reasons given, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 May 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman