DRN-1657052
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W say Bank of Scotland plc (BoS), trading as Halifax, mis-sold them a 
mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy alongside a mortgage in or around 
December 1994.
They say the PPI was mis-sold as they didnt agree to it being added to their mortgage 
and didnt need it.
What happened
Only Mr W was covered by the policy. It would have covered mortgage repayments for 
up to 24 months if he was unable to work due to accident or sickness for up to 12 months 
for involuntary unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt think the policy was mis-sold. Mr and Mrs W didnt agree, so the 
complaint has been passed on to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ws case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
From what Ive seen it looks as if the policy was sold during a meeting at a BoS branch. 
And BoS has told us it recommended Mr and Mrs W take out the cover. That means it 
had to make sure the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs W and the information provided 
was clear, fair and not misleading. I havent seen anything to suggest BoS didnt do this.
But Mr and Mrs W say that at the time they told the BoS representative they didnt want 
or need PPI. 
Unfortunately, BoS havent been able to provide us with any of the sale paperwork, 
although Ive seen some computerised records showing mortgage and PPI. Although 
being without the actual paperwork from the sale isnt ideal, businesses cant be 
expected to hold on to sale information indefinitely. We do know, however, from looking 
at similar sales from around the same time what the paperwork used in the sale 
wouldve probably looked like. From that, I think its likely that Mr and Mrs W wouldve 
had to sign a box on the mortgage application form to show they wanted to have the 
cover. And it would likely have been just as open to them to sign a different box to show 
they didnt want to buy it. 
Ive also looked carefully at the documents from the time of sale that Mr and Mrs W 
have sent us. Ive seen a letter from BoS from August 2004, but that doesnt refer to PPI 
being included in their mortgage application. Ive also seen that they were quoted for 
PPI along with home insurance in October 1994. Thats not inconsistent, as Mr and Mrs 
W would have had time to change their minds about having PPI. Ive also seen a partial 
copy of the their mortgage offer, dated November 1994. This doesnt mention PPI but 
nor would I necessarily expect it to. 
All of this means I think Mr and Mrs W were aware they had a choice about taking out 
the policy. And whilst Ive thought carefully about their comments about what happened 
at the meeting, I have to balance that with all the other evidence and information I have 
to hand about the sale. And based on what Ive seen and the length of time since the 
sale, there simply isnt enough evidence or information to suggest to me that the PPI 
was sold to them when they didnt want it. 
Ive also kept in mind that its likely Mr and Mrs W would have received confirmation of 
having taken out PPI after the sale together with policy documentation. Also they would 
have received review documentation each year setting out details of their cover, 
including PPI. 
Mr W was eligible for the PPI so he wasnt affected by any of the main things the policy 
didnt cover. So I dont think he would have found it difficult if he needed to make a claim. 
Mr W said he was entitled to good work benefits from his employer, of at least 6 months at 
full pay followed by 6 months at half pay. He also told us that hed be able to rely on a 
voluntary redundancy package. Mr and Mrs W also told us about some savings they  could 
have used to help make repayments.
 
Ive taken all this into careful consideration but I still think the policy was suitable. This is 
because as Ive said Mr W would have been able to benefit from up to 24 months of cover 
if Mr W couldnt work due to accident or sickness and for 12 months if he were to lose his 
job. This would also have been paid out in addition to any work or redundancy benefits. It 
would also have avoided the need for Mr and Mrs W to dig into any savings or other 
financial resources. Given the serious consequences of defaulting on mortgage 
repayments, I think they wouldve found the policy useful.
The policy cost £13.80 per month and would have provided a monthly benefit of around 
£200. So if Mr W made a successful claim, I think the policy would have been of real 
benefit to him. And Ive not seen anything to make me thing that the cost of the policy was 
something that would unnecessarily stretch them financially each month.
Its possible BoS couldve provided more information about the policy and the things the 
policy didnt cover. But I havent seen anything to show Mr W would have been affected by 
any of these, so I dont think this information would have made Mr and Mrs W change their 
minds about talking out the policy.
Id like to reassure Mr and Mrs W that Ive also taken into account everything theyve told 
us, but unfortunately it doesnt change my decision. I realise that the time it has taken for 
their complaint to reach this stage has been a concern for Mr and Mrs W and Im sorry 
ultimately to have to disappoint them with my finding. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 2 October 2020. 
Michael GoldbergOmbudsman