DRN-1550987
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy alongside their mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs T took out a mortgage with Nationwide in 1983. They did not buy PPI at that 
time. But in August 1992 they took a further advance, and at the same time Nationwide sold 
them a PPI policy.
The policy cost £20.66, and in the event of a successful claim would help pay 
Mr and Mrs T's half of the mortgage repayment if either of them were off work sick or lost 
their jobs.
Mr and Mrs T think the PPI was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint and didn't think it should be upheld. Mr and Mrs T 
didn't agree. The complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs T's case.
I've decided the policy wasn't mis-sold. I'll explain why.
I've first considered whether Mr and Mrs T knew they had a choice to buy PPI. Mr and Mrs T 
say they don't believe a choice was offered. They don't think there's any evidence showing 
they agreed to take out the PPI. They say that if PPI had been discussed, they would have 
turned it down. And they feel that if they had agreed to the PPI, they'd have records showing 
this. I've thought about what Mr and Mrs T said alongside the other information I've seen.
Because of the time that's passed, Nationwide doesn't have any documentation from when it 
sold the policy. I don't find that surprising. The PPI started in 1992, and ended in 2000, when 
Mr and Mrs T moved their mortgage to another lender. Nationwide were not required to keep 
these documents longer than it needed them.
In the absence of documents from the time of sale, I've decided what's most likely based on 
the information that is available. I note that Mr and Mrs T already had a mortgage with 
Nationwide when they applied for the PPI. So I don't think it's likely they'd have thought the 
PPI was something they now had to have. I see that the PPI is listed on the mortgage 
statement for 1992, and given what they've said about always turning down this type of 
cover, it seems likely they'd have questioned this if it was something they hadn't wanted. I'm 
also mindful that this sale took place around 28 years ago, and memories can and do fade with time. And so while I appreciate that Mr and Mrs T feel strongly they wouldn't have 
wanted this product, I think it's more likely that they wanted it, and agreed to buy it.
Nationwide didn't advise Mr and Mrs T to buy this policy. This means it didn't have to check if 
it was right for Mr and Mrs T - but it did have to give them the information they'd need to 
decide for themselves if they wanted the policy.
It's possible the information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs T wasn't clear enough. But based 
on what Mr and Mrs T have told me about their circumstances, it doesn't look as though they 
were affected by any of the main things the policy didn't cover. They've said they were in full 
time permanent employment. So I think they were eligible for benefits the policy provided. I 
acknowledge that Mr and Mrs T would have received some sick pay from their employer if 
they couldn't work. But this policy would have paid out for up to 24 months if they were off 
work sick, in addition to any pay they received from their employer. It also covered them if 
they were made redundant. So it looks like this policy would be useful if something had gone 
wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I'm not persuaded better information 
would have put them off buying it.
I've considered the further points Mr and Mrs T have raised. They feel that in the absence of 
signed documents showing they agreed to the policy, their complaint should be upheld. But 
I've already explained why, after all this time, it's not unreasonable that Nationwide can't now 
produce such a document. So this doesn't change my conclusion.
For these reasons, I don't think the policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
I don't uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 May 2020.
Edward Hardman
Ombudsman