DRN-2946808
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M have complained about the advice given by St. James's Place Wealth 
Management Plc (SJP) to invest in loan trusts, which they say were not suitable for them.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M met with their SJP adviser over the course of several months in late 2019 and 
early 2020 to discuss their retirement needs. The documentation completed at the time 
notes Mr and Mrs Ms intention to reduce their inheritance tax (IHT) liability, which was 
estimated to be around £850,000.
In February and March 2020 the adviser recommended Mr and Mrs M make the following 
investments, which were accepted on 11 March 2020:
Customer Product Amount Start date
Mr M SJP Loan Plan £125,000 16 March 2020
Mr M SJP Loan Plan £78,500 30 March 2020
Mr M SJP Loan Plan £87,500 31 March 2020
Mr M SJP Loan Plan £87,500 31 March 2020
Mrs M SJP Loan Plan £125,000 16 March 2020
Mrs M SJP Loan Plan £78,500 30 March 2020
Mrs M SJP Discounted Gift Plan £87,500 3 April 2020
Mrs M SJP Discounted Gift Plan £87,500 3 April 2020
In September 2020 Mr M complained, saying that he was unhappy with some of the 
arrangements made for him and Mrs M. He said theyd wanted to reduce their IHT liability by 
way of using discounted gift plans (DGPs). Mr M said he was happy with the DGPs 
arranged for Mrs M, but the adviser had also recommended a series of loan plans (LPs) for 
each of them. Mr M said this didnt have the effect of reducing their IHT liability, particularly 
given Mr Ms poor health. Mr M said hed since been advised that investing in assets that 
qualified for Business Property Relief (BPR) and/or using a Flexible Reversionary Trust 
(FRT) wouldve been more suitable for their needs.
SJP ultimately didnt uphold the complaint. It said the advice was suitable based on Mr and 
Mrs Ms needs and objectives. It said SJP couldnt offer Mr M a discount on his application 
for a DGP, meaning that he wouldve needed to survive for seven years for all of the funds to 
fall outside of his estate for IHT purposes. In light of this, and given Mr and Mrs M wanted to 
retain access to their capital and take regular income, SJP said the LPs were suitable. This 
was because any growth achieved would fall outside of their estates and the loan 
repayments (taken as income) would reduce their IHT liability as long as it was spent.
Mr and Mrs M referred their complaint to our service but the investigator didnt uphold it. He 
thought the recommendations were suitable. He didnt think SJP couldve recommended any 
other arrangements that wouldve met Mr and Mrs Ms needs and mitigated their IHT liability 
instantly. He said that even an FRT would not have provided instant mitigation. The 
investigator also thought investing in assets that qualified for BPR were not suitable for 
Mr and Mrs M, who had a medium attitude to risk.
Mr and Mrs M disagreed, saying that the adviser didnt provide clear information about the 
charges until after all the paperwork was signed. They maintained the LPs were not suitable 
for Mr M given his health problems, which have since worsened. They also say the target 
income wasnt achieved for Mr M.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for largely the same reasons given by the 
investigator. I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs M. And Im very sorry to 
hear of Mr Ms worsening health.
At the time the advice was given to Mr and Mrs M, SJP was required to carry out its 
business in line with the Conduct of Business Rules (COBS). COBS 9.2 required SJP to 
take reasonable steps to make sure its recommendations were suitable for Mr and Mrs M. 
To achieve this, COBS 9.2.2R said SJP had to obtain enough information from Mr and 
Mrs M to ensure its recommendation met their objectives, that they could bear the related 
investment risks consistent with these objectives and that they had the necessary 
experience and knowledge to understand the risks involved in the transaction.
 
I also think its important to say that when considering this complaint, it isnt my role to 
determine what would have been the best or most suitable advice for Mr and Mrs M. Its 
clear that there will be many different ways of achieving a customers objectives and with 
hindsight, some strategies will appear more or less beneficial. However, the rules Ive set out 
above simply say that the advice must be suitable for Mr and Mrs M. So, that is my starting 
point here.
In order to determine whether the recommendations were suitable, Ive considered the 
information SJP gathered about Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances and their objectives.
SJP met with Mr and Mrs M on 17 October 2019 and produced a financial summary report 
dated 29 November 2019. The report notes Mr and Mrs M wanted to take advice on income 
and tax planning over the medium term (six years plus). In particular they wanted to maintain 
sufficient income channels and minimise IHT. The adviser noted the following:
Mr M was 73 years old and was in poor health;
Mr and Mrs M had a medium attitude to risk and had joint assets worth over 
£3,300,000, with a further £338,000 of gifts to family members still within their estate.
Around £1,000,000 worth of investments was already held in trust.
They had a nil rate IHT allowance of £325,000 each.
The report contains the advisers preliminary recommendation to encash Mr and Mrs Ms 
existing investments with H, which were not held in trust and so would be subject to IHT. 
SJP recommended Mr and Mrs M explore the use of LPs and DGPs to achieve their 
objectives. The adviser issued further letters on 26 February and 6 March 2020. The 
recommendation letter of 26 February 2020 confirmed Mr and Mrs Ms requirements as 
follows:To minimise the impact of IHT on M and Mrs Ms estate but not at the cost of 
reducing their standard of living.
The intention to invest around £500,000 into LPs and £350,000 into DGPs  which 
would strike a good balance between making gifts and retaining access to capital.
The adviser recommended Mr and Mrs M invest £125,000 each in an LP, saying:
The objective is to grow the fund invested over the longer term with the idea of placing any 
such growth outside of your Estate. You want to retain access to the principal sum invested 
because you may need it later in life.
There are no planned withdrawals for the next 5 years but you may wish to switch on an 
income once [Mr M] has sold a commercial property (funds your SIPP income) and the lost 
income will need to be replaced.
I have recommended the amount invested because this was the amount currently invested 
in your St. Jamess Place Investment Bond. You were comfortable you could afford to gift 
the value of any growth as long as you retained (for the time being) access to the principle.
You have confirmed you can afford to forego any future growth on these monies.
You will retain the right to recall the value of your outstanding loan at any point should you 
so require.
The recommendation letter of 6 March 2020 noted the following:
[Mrs M], we had discussed an investment of £175,000 with immediate monthly withdrawals 
equal to 4% per annum. The discount has been estimated at £66,800. This means an 
investment into a Discounted Gift Plan would immediately place £66,800 outside of your 
Estate, saving £26,720 in Inheritance Tax immediately.
[Mr M], we also discussed an investment of £175,000 with immediate monthly withdrawals 
equal to 4% per annum. The discount has been estimated at £0. This means an investment 
into a Discounted Gift Plan would achieve no upfront savings. Moreover, an investment in a 
Discounted Gift Plan would likely make your Inheritance Tax position worse were you to die 
within the next 7 years. We agreed that we would switch the proposal from a Discounted Gift 
Plan to a Loan Plan. We talked about making a straight gift i.e. with no income but agreed 
this would not be appropriate. You require income from your investments and may need to 
maximise all income channels if your SIPP income is reduced following any future 
commercial property disposal.
We agreed that you wish to minimise the impact of Inheritance Tax on your Estate.
We also agreed that you wanted to each generate additional income of £7,000 per annum 
net. You enjoy a high quality of life and wish to extend this further.
The adviser also noted the following objectives, which he considered the LPs met:
The ability to retain access to funds;
The ability to take income from the funds;
The ability for the investment to provide a future income stream.
Ultimately, the adviser recommended the DGPs and LPs set out above in the background.Mr M is happy with the DGPs put in place for Mrs M, but doesnt think the six LPs 
recommended were suitable for their needs because the sums loaned to the LPs did not 
leave their estate for IHT purposes.
As explained by the investigator, an LP is an arrangement where the settlor lends money to 
the trustees interest-free. The trustees then repay the loan to the settlor each month as 
income. Up to a maximum of 5% of the total sum invested can be taken as income each 
month, before income tax would be incurred. As the income is paid out, this reduces the total 
capital invested, which in turn reduces the residual IHT liability. Furthermore, any growth 
achieved on the capital invested would be free of any IHT.
Mr M is unhappy because the capital invested only gradually leaves the estate as income is 
taken. He says that this wasnt suitable for him as he was in poor health and so it would take 
20 years for the loan to be fully repaid. I can understand Mr Ms position here, as he clearly 
wanted as much of their remaining capital to be free of IHT as possible. However, I think the 
recommendations were suitable for Mr and Mrs M and Ill explain why.
It is clear that the adviser explored DGPs for Mr M first  I think this was appropriate in the 
circumstances because if a discount could be provided, this sum wouldve immediately left 
Mr Ms estate for IHT purposes. However, it is evident that no discount could be provided for 
Mr M because of his health problems. So, if the adviser had recommended DGPs, Mr M 
wouldve been able to take some income, but this would be fixed and could not be amended, 
and he wouldve given up his right to access the capital in future. The total sum invested 
wouldnt completely leave his estate for IHT purposes unless he survived another seven 
years. And based on what Ive seen, Mr M didnt consider this to be likely.
For this reason, I dont think arranging any DGPs for Mr M wouldve been suitable for his 
needs as he required the ability to take an income from his investments, which would need 
to be amended over time. The evidence shows Mr M was reliant on income from a 
commercial property held within a SIPP, which was due to be sold in the coming years. So, 
following this his income needs would change and so any arrangement put in place would 
need to be flexible. In addition, it was noted Mr M wished to retain access to the capital in 
case of future needs, which a DGP would not provide.
I think the LPs recommended met Mr and Mrs Ms needs because they allowed them to take 
a flexible income, up to 5% per year, which had the effect of instantly removing capital from 
their estate (as long as it was spent as intended). It also provided investment growth that 
would be free of IHT. The LPs also allowed them to retain access to their capital, which 
could be recalled at any time  which is what the documentation from the time says they 
wanted. So, I think the LPs were a suitable means of achieving Mr and Mrs Ms objectives.
I note Mr and Mrs M have said that Mr Ms income requirements were not met by the 
recommendations. But I think the adviser made it clear that Mr M hadnt elected to take any 
income from the first LP recommended to him (£125,000) as it wasnt needed at the time. 
However, Mr M had the ability to start taking an income from this plan whenever he needed 
to. So, if Mr Ms income needs arent being met, he may wish to start taking an income from 
the first LP put in place.
Mr M has suggested an FRT wouldve been more suitable for him. The use of an FRT can 
be one way of reducing IHT, whilst giving access to funds in the future, if they are needed. 
When using an FRT, the settlor gifts money into the trust, starting a seven-year clock on the 
gift, but retains access to flexible periodic payments by way of investing in a series of 
investment bonds within the trust. Each of these bonds has a maturity date and, if they 
mature, the benefits are paid back to the settlor to use as required. So, this arrangement 
couldve been used to meet Mr and Mrs Ms objectives, although the amount gifted to the trust wouldve still taken seven years to fall outside of the estate and it didnt provide any 
instant IHT relief. However, as Ive said above, it isnt my role to determine whether other 
arrangements wouldve been more suitable for Mr and Mrs Ms needs  I simply need to 
determine whether the recommendations made were suitable. And as Ive explained above, 
I think they were.
Mr M has also said that he ought to have instead been advised to invest in assets that 
qualified for BPR. The recommendation letters show this was considered by the adviser but 
discounted because they were too volatile and there would likely be liquidity issues. The 
evidence shows that Mr and Mrs M had a medium attitude to risk. Investments that qualify 
for BPR, such as shares in unlisted companies, carried a significantly higher risk than the 
recorded level of risk Mr and Mrs M were prepared to take with these funds. So, even though 
investing in such assets couldve reduced their IHT liability, they carried the risk of 
substantial losses. So, I agree with the advisers view that such investments wouldnt have 
been suitable for Mr and Mrs M in any proportion.
Mr and Mrs M have also said that they were under pressure to accept the advisers 
recommendations. They also say the features of the LPs and the charges werent sufficiently 
explained.
I wasnt party to the discussions between Mr and Mrs M and the adviser, but Ive taken their 
comments into account, alongside the documentation. First I think it is important to say that 
the discussions with the adviser were held over a number of months, with the first meeting in 
October 2019 and the final recommendations being made on 6 March 2020. So, it seems to 
me that Mr and Mrs M had lots of time to consider the proposals made by the adviser. The 
LPs were first suggested as a suitable product for Mr and Mrs M in November 2019, so 
I think they had time to ask questions if they didnt understand how this arrangement worked.
I can see that following receipt of the advisers recommendation letter of 6 March 2020 Mr M 
emailed to say he would like to put things on hold until a meeting on 11 March 2020 as the 
new trusts seemed very different to his existing arrangements. He was also concerned that 
the number of different trusts recommended would cost them more and had questions about 
the income and funds suggested.
The adviser has sent back a detailed response in which he explained the reasons for the 
recommendations with clear examples specific to Mr M, along with assurances that the 
upfront costs wouldnt increase as a result of the arrangements suggested. He also offered 
to explain things again if Mr and Mrs M were still unsure. 
I think this email exchange demonstrates that Mr and Mrs M felt comfortable raising their 
questions and concerns with the adviser. And I dont think the advisers response sought to 
exert pressure on them to proceed. I wasnt present at the meeting on 11 March 2020, so 
I cant say how Mr and Mrs M felt on the day. But it is evident that following the meeting on 
11 March 2020, Mr and Mrs M confirmed they were happy to proceed, signing a declaration 
confirming they understood what had been recommended. If they hadnt been comfortable 
doing this, I think they wouldve said so at the time, rather than agreeing to proceed.
In terms of the information provided, I think that each of the recommendation letters gave 
detailed information about how the LPs worked in practice and the impact on Mr and Mrs Ms 
IHT liability. I also think the charging structure was expressed clearly, with comparisons 
made between the existing products and new plans, showing the new arrangements would 
cost them less going forwards. I can also see that Mr and Mrs M were provided with a 
Services and Costs Disclosure Document, which set out the cost of the advice and early 
withdrawal charges. I think the information provided was sufficient and wouldve allowed Mr and Mrs M to make an informed decision about whether or not to proceed with the 
recommendations.
I appreciate that with hindsight, Mr and Mrs M do not consider the LPs to be the best means 
of achieving their objectives. However, overall, I think the recommendations were suitable 
and they were provided with sufficient information about how the LPs worked.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 September 2021.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman