DRN-2580250
The complaint
Mr A complains that One Insurance Limited unfairly rejected a claim under his motor 
insurance when his car was stolen.
What happened
Mr A had a car insurance policy with One Insurance. His car was stolen from his driveway 
one evening in December 2019. Police discovered the car crashed and abandoned before 
Mr A had realised it was missing. The car was written off as a total loss and Mr A claimed on 
his insurance.
One Insurance rejected Mr As claim. During its investigation, Mr A told One Insurance that 
workmen had been in his home installing a new kitchen for three to four weeks a few weeks 
before his car was stolen. During this time, many belongings that would normally be stored 
in kitchen drawers and cupboards  including his spare car key  were left on a sideboard. 
He also told One Insurance that about a week before the theft he noticed the spare key to 
the back door was missing, and that he had found the back door left open the morning 
before the theft. 
One Insurance concluded that the thief had entered Mr As house using the missing back 
door key, stolen his spare car key, and taken his car. It said Mr A should have changed the 
back door locks to protect his property and, in turn, protect his car. Although it rejected his 
claim, One Insurance offered him £150 to apologise for unnecessary delays in assessing his 
claim. Mr A didnt accept this and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr As complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied 
that One Insurance had assessed Mr As claim fairly. He thought it was likely the car was 
stolen using the spare key, that One Insurances concerns about whether the keys were kept 
securely were valid, and that it wasnt unreasonable for One Insurance to reject his claim.
Mr A disagreed with our investigators recommendation. He explained that he was unwell 
when he spoke to One Insurance so may not have remembered the sequence of events 
correctly. He also said that it was possible someone in his family had simply left the back 
door open. Finally, he pointed out that it wasnt clear that his spare car key had even been 
used to steal his car.
As Mr A disagreed with our investigator, the case was passed to me to consider.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this on 30 December 2020. I said:
One Insurance spoke to Mr A by phone following the theft of his car. It appears to have 
rejected his claim based on what Mr A said during that phone call. In summary, Mr A said:
work was being done on his kitchen for about three to four weeks a few weeks before 
his car was stolen;
workmen and others had access to the house during this time;
many belongings that would normally be stored in drawers and cupboards were left 
visible on sideboards and elsewhere;
he noticed his back door key was missing perhaps a week before the car was stolen;
he last saw the spare car key on a sideboard a few days before his car was stolen.
As a result, One Insurance believes someone took Mr As back door key, got access to the 
house, stole the spare car key, and stole Mr As car. It pointed to Section 12 of his policy 
booklet (General Conditions) that says, You or any person in charge of your car must take 
reasonable precautions to protect your car from damage or loss. 
One Insurance told us: Noticing the key was missing the consumer should have replaced 
the locks to the back door not just carried on as normal, it is for this sole reason we have 
utilised the term within the policy. It is the same as if the consumer lost the keys to his car, 
we would expect the locks on the vehicle to be altered, not just use the spare car key.
Im not sure thats entirely reasonable. Ive listened to the call. Mr A told us he was ill at the 
time of this conversation but Ive no reason to think he wasnt being as truthful as possible. 
He explained that his house was in a great deal of upheaval while work was going on. I can 
understand that. I think Mr A simply believed the back door key had got lost amidst this 
upheaval. I dont think this was an unreasonable assumption and Im not sure many of us 
would rush to replace the back door lock in similar circumstances. 
Ive also got some difficulty accepting One Insurances sequence of events. Its saying: 
1. Someone stole Mr As back door key by entering the house while he was having 
work done on his kitchen.
2. That person returned to the house one night about two weeks later, came through 
the back door using the stolen key, and stole the spare key to Mr As car.
3. The following evening, the same person used the spare car key to steal Mr As car.
That seems a bit of a stretch to me. A reasonable person might wonder why the thief didnt 
simply take the spare car key at step one, why they didnt steal anything else apart from the 
car key at step two, or why they didnt take Mr As car as soon as they had the spare key 
instead of waiting until the following evening. 
In any event, One Insurance hasnt shown that the car was stolen using Mr As spare key. It 
told us that it didnt get the police report. I dont understand why it didnt ask for this, 
particularly given Mr A offered to provide the crime reference number during the phone call. 
One Insurance also told us that a key wasnt found in the crashed car. So its entirely 
possible that Mr As car was stolen without using a key. From the evidence provided, I cant 
see that One Insurance ever considered that possibility.
Overall, Im not satisfied that One Insurances findings are reasonable. I dont think its 
version of events is any more likely than someone simply stealing the car from the drive. And 
I dont think One Insurance investigated Mr As claim thoroughly enough to come to this 
conclusion. 
For these reasons, Im minded to uphold Mr As complaint. I dont think One Insurance has 
shown that it acted fairly or reasonably by rejecting his claim.
Responses to my provisional decisionOne Insurance didnt reply to my provisional decision.
Mr A thanked me for my review and accepted my provisional decision. He also said he was 
being threatened with legal action by two third party companies as a result of the accident, 
as well as by One Insurance for an outstanding premium payment. 
One Insurance says Mr As February 2020 premium remains outstanding. It says its 
unaware of the other claims.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given neither party has provided any new information about the theft of Mr As car on 15 
December 2019, I see no reason to change my provisional decision.
Ive reviewed the additional information provided by Mr A. This shows:
One Insurance says Mr A failed to pay his February 2020 direct debit. It wrote to him 
most recently on 2 January 2021 asking him to pay £131.24.
A communications firm (X) wrote to Mr A in October 2020 asking him to pay 
£2,470.95 for damage to a telegraph pole and overhead cables on 15 December 
2019.
A third party insurance company (Y) wrote to Mr A to say that their policyholders car 
was in an accident with Mr As car on 15 December 2019.
The February 2020 premium
The balance claimed by One Insurance is £27.24 for Mr As February 2020 premium, plus 
£104 in charges. Mr A has provided the following evidence to show he paid this premium:
A screenshot showing an online payment to One Call Insurance on 1 March 2020.
A statement from his bank confirming a payment for £27.24 was made under 
reference One Call Insurance on 1 March 2020.
So it looks like Mr A has paid his February 2020 premium. I note that Mr A has submitted 
this evidence to One Insurance several times. One Insurance should review this evidence 
and decide whether it wants to continue to pursue Mr A for this amount. If Mr A remains 
unhappy with its response, he can complain to this service.
The damages claims
The communications from X and Y relate to damage caused to a telegraph pole, cables, and 
another car by Mr As car on 15 December 2019. One Insurance says its unaware of either 
claim. 
It appears both claims are related to damage following the theft of Mr As car. Mr As policy 
covers any third party damages. One Insurance should ask Mr A for the details of these third 
party companies and investigate these claims in line with his policy terms.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I uphold the complaint for the reasons set out in my provisional 
decision. I require One Insurance Limited to settle Mr As claim in line with the remaining 
policy terms and conditions.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2021.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman