DRN-2964193
The complaint
Mr S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) is unfairly refusing to refund fees he paid
for a mortgage after he settled it early.
What happened
Mr S took out a mortgage with HSBC in 2017. As part of the application and setting up
process he paid a fee to reserve a fixed rate of interest, a valuation fee and some bank
costs.
In 2020 Mr S was moving his borrowing to a new mortgage product, still with HSBC. He paid
some up-front costs, but then asked to be moved on to yet another product. HSBC said the
fees hed paid were non-refundable. Eventually Mr S 2017 mortgage was closed and his
remaining debt transferred to the new mortgage.
Mr S says HSBC is now obliged to refund some of the fees associated with his 2017
mortgage. He says thats in line with several pieces of financial legislation and court cases.
Mr S complained to HSBC but it wont refund any fees  either from 2017 or 2020. He asked
us to review his complaint.
In summary our investigator thought that, as Mr S was told in 2017 that his initial fees were
non-refundable, that his complaint shouldnt succeed.
Mr S doesnt think thats fair and has emphasised that his complaint reflects his
interpretation of several legal frameworks.
I issued my provisional thoughts on this complaint in July. I that I said in summary that I 
thought HSBC had fairly relied upon the terms and conditions of the first mortgage Mr S 
accepted in 2020 to say it need not return fees listed as non-refundable, even if Mr S di 
subsequently take a different mortgage product at the time.
I also considered the point Mr S had made about being entitled to a refund of the fees hed 
paid on his 2017 mortgage. Mr S based his argument on two things  a court case he 
thought set a precedent that supports his argument, and statutory guidance.
I wasnt persuaded by either argument. I said we didnt know the full detail of the legal case 
so didnt know if they matched Mr S circumstances. And I could only reach a decision based 
on his particular circumstances.
I went on to consider the statutory guidance Mr S referred to. This is taken from the 
Mortgage Code of Business (MCOB) and says If the consumer exercises the right [to end 
early] the MCD mortgage lender must reduce the total cost of the credit to the consumer by 
an amount equal to the interest and costs for the remaining duration of the MCD regulated 
mortgage contract
I thought this referred to future interest and costs  that is those that apply to the remaining 
duration of the loan or mortgage. I also said that if, for example, all the interest due on a 
loan had been applied at the start of the loan period then some of this would need to be 
returned if the loan was repaid early. That didnt apply to Mr S as interest was added to his 
mortgage as it progressed. I didnt think the phrase was meant to apply to past fees and 
charges  so I didnt think HSBC need do more than it already had.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have responded, but neither has added any new information. So I see no 
reason to change my provisional decision. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint,
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman