DRN-3670017
The complaint
Mr H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, did not remove adverse 
information on his credit file in a timely manner. 
What happened
Mr H did not make his minimum monthly payments on his Barclaycard credit card account in 
late 2019. Barclaycard made an agreement that if Mr H paid £250 in February 2020 and 
£250 in March 2020, he could avoid a default marker being placed on his credit file. Mr H did 
this but, unfortunately, did not correctly enter his 16-digit card number as the reference, 
meaning the payments did not credit his account. As a result, a default marker was placed 
on his credit file in February 2020. 
Mr H was able to evidence that he had attempted to make the payments on time. As a 
gesture of goodwill, Barclaycard agreed to remove the default marker once it received the 
£500 payment, which it did in March 2020. It also agreed to remove the late payment 
markers from August 2019 to January 2020 as a further gesture of goodwill, but did not 
agree to remove the late payment markers from February and March 2020. It said this was 
because even if it had received the two payments of £250, the account would still have been 
in arrears and this would still have been marked on Mr Hs credit file. 
Mr H then took a payment holiday as he wasnt working due to Covid  this was from April to 
July 2020. During this time his minimum payments were set to £0. It was later brought to 
Barclaycards attention that there were late payment markers on Mr Hs credit file for April 
and May 2020 when there shouldnt have been. Barclaycard said their records show they did 
not report late payments during this time, but arranged for these to be removed. 
Mr H applied for a car loan in October 2020 and was informed there was a default on his 
credit file. When he contacted Barclaycard about this, they confirmed there was no default 
recorded. Mr H says that this was incorrect and led to the loan interest rate being higher than 
expected.
Mr H applied for a mortgage with a third-party provider in January 2021. The default applied 
in February 2020, which Barclaycard said they would remove in March 2020, was still 
showing on his credit file. He raised this with Barclaycard who apologised and arranged for 
this to be removed. They advised it would take 6-8 weeks for the amendment to show on his 
credit file. Barclaycard paid Mr H £150 to apologise for the delay in this being removed. Mr H 
says this caused issues for him while applying for mortgages and led to a number being 
declined. This in turn led to him missing out on a particular property he wanted and caused 
significant stress and inconvenience to him and his partner.  He did not think the £150 
offered and paid was enough.
Mr H has since highlighted a late payment marker on his credit file for August 2020 which he 
thinks should be removed. Barclaycard has agreed this should not be there as the payment 
due for that month is set to £0 on his credit file. It has said this will be removed, but this has 
not yet been completed. He also raised that the November 2020 late payment marker 
showing on his credit file was incorrect, which Barclaycard agreed with and removed. In 
addition, Mr H says that he contacted Barclaycard in September 2020 and asked for another 
payment holiday to be applied to the account for three months. Because of this, he doesnt 
think late payment markers on his credit file for September and October 2020 are correct. 
The complaint was referred to our service and an investigator assessed the information. 
They agreed that the default was not removed when Barclaycard said it would be, and this 
was distressing for Mr H. But they didnt think there was enough evidence to say the default 
was the only reason why Mr H received the interest rate he did on the loan account or why 
he was declined mortgages at the time. So, they didnt think Barclaycard should cover any 
losses relating to the loan or mortgages. 
The investigator agreed that there had been errors with late payment markers showing on 
Mr Hs credit file when they shouldnt be. But they felt the late payment markers for 
February, March, September and October 2020 were correct and should remain. When 
Barclaycard sent their case file to us, they increased the compensation offer by £300, 
bringing it to a total of £450 for all the errors made. The investigator agreed this amount was 
fair in the circumstances.
Mr H disagreed with this. He did not agree the February and March 2020 late payment 
markers should remain and was unhappy that that August 2020 late payment marker had 
still not been removed from his credit file. He felt the offer of £450 compensation did not 
reflect the distress and inconvenience the errors had caused him. 
As an impartial agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with recommendation put forward by Barclaycard of £450 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience the errors have caused, and it needs to 
remove the August 2020 late payment marker from Mr Hs credit file. Ill explain my thinking 
in more detail. 
There are a number of aspects to this complaint and a lot has happened. Ill try to keep 
things simple and will work through the key issues in turn. 
Default marker
Ive firstly considered the default marker that was placed on the credit file and the issues 
caused by the delay in it being removed. It appears that, technically speaking, the default 
marker was correctly applied to Mr Hs account. I say this because although Mr H did 
attempt to make the February and March payments on time, due to an error they were not 
received by Barclaycard. As per the agreement Barclaycard put forward to Mr H, they did not 
receive the payments by the date they had requested, so it applied the default in line with 
their agreement. However, as a gesture of goodwill, they did agree to remove the default as 
Mr H demonstrated he had attempted to make the payments in time. 
That being said, Barclaycard did agree to remove the default marker in February 2020, but 
this was not fully actioned until February 2021, with the default finally disappearing from     
Mr Hs credit file at the end of March 2021. This is clearly an error made by Barclaycard and 
is made all the more frustrating for Mr H considering he did ask them about it in October 
2020 but was told it had already been removed.  I do agree that compensation is warranted for this error and have taken this into consideration when reaching an amount that I feel is 
fair in the circumstances.  
Mr H has also raised the issue of the interest rate on the loan he applied for in October 2020 
being higher due to the default. And having multiple mortgage applications declined in early 
2021 because of it. Barclaycard has said it cant be held responsible for the mortgage being 
declined or the higher rate on the mortgage as theres nothing to show these were solely due 
to the default remaining on the credit file. 
On balance, I agree with what Barclaycard has said. Ive considered the evidence that Mr H 
has provided in relation to the loan he took out. But this only shows the loan application with 
the agreed rate and theres nothing Ive seen that indicates the default on Mr Hs credit file 
has led to that particular interest rate. So I cant agree, based on what Ive seen, that its 
more likely the default meant Mr H had a higher interest rate than he otherwise would have 
done. 
Ive also considered the information Mr H has provided in relation to his mortgage 
applications. And I want to thank Mr H for the efforts he has gone to in order to provide this. I 
can see his mortgage consultant has said he feels the default is all that was causing the 
declined mortgages to occur. While I can consider this, I again dont have any evidence from 
the lenders that the default alone is what caused the applications to be declined as per their 
internal lending criteria. I note from Mr Hs credit file that he had a number of late payments 
on a separate credit card from a third-party provider, as well as the four late payments on his 
Barclaycard credit card which I will discuss below. Ultimately, I havent seen enough that 
makes me think the default alone is what had caused Mr H to have difficulty obtaining a 
mortgage, so I cannot consider the losses related to that further. 
However, I have taken into consideration the stress that Mr H would have been under while 
applying for mortgages and waiting for the default marker to be removed. And this has 
formed part of my thinking when reaching a compensation amount I feel is fair.
Late payment markers from February, March and August 2020
A number of Mr Hs monthly payments on the credit card account had been missed in late 
2019. It was agreed that Mr H would pay £250 in February and again in March 2020 to avoid 
a default being applied to his account. Mr H has said he did make the payments on time, but 
because the 16-digit card number was not correctly entered in the reference, they were not 
applied to his account. 
I appreciate that Mr H has said he did attempt to make the payments on time, but they were 
not actually received by Barclaycard due to an error in the keying of the payments. Because 
they were not received, it is fair and reasonable that Barclaycard should report this 
accurately on Mr Hs credit file. In addition to this, even if they had been received on time, 
they would not have cleared the arrears that were on the account. And this would have been 
reported by Barclaycard in the form of a late payment marker on his credit file. So regardless 
of the error in the reference number, the late payment markers would have been applied to     
Mr Hs credit file and should remain. 
It has been agreed by both parties that the August 2020 late payment marker should be 
removed from Mr Hs credit file and last time Mr H made us aware, this had not been 
completed. This should be removed from Mr Hs credit file if it hasnt been already.
Late payment markers in September and October 2020
Mr H has said the late payment markers on his credit file for September and October 2020 had been added incorrectly as he was on a payment holiday during that time. Barclaycard 
has said that a 30-day hold had been agreed on the account, but not a payment holiday 
extension. 
Ive listened to the telephone call in which this was discussed between Mr H and 
Barclaycard. The telephone call occurred two days after Mr H was due to pay his September 
minimum-monthly payment, which he had missed. In this, Mr H explains hed had a three-
month payment holiday and had recently started a new job, so could begin paying again. 
The advisor offered a 30-day breathing space hold on the account and clearly set out the 
next minimum payment was £351.85 that was due on the 2nd of October. The next payment 
that Mr H made was on the 22nd of October for £351.88. 
Looking at the evidence available, I can see that Mr H missed both the September and 
October minimum payments. Because of this, Barclaycard has correctly applied the late 
payment markers on his credit file for these months. 
Ive also considered whether Barclaycard should have offered another three-month payment 
holiday extension when Mr H called in September 2020. During the call, Mr H explained he 
had started a new job and would be in a position to re-start payments at the end of 
September. Because of this, I think the advisor was correct to offer a 30-day hold on the 
account, which would pause any charges, fees and interest on the next statement. 
Compensation 
Barclaycard has offered a total of £450 compensation for the errors made. Mr H thinks this 
should be increased and has looked on our website at our compensation section. He feels 
the errors have been caused over a long time, so the amount should be higher than what 
has been offered.
Ive carefully considered this. Ive taken into account the fact that Mr H seems to have 
become aware that the default was still on his credit file in October 2020. Which is around 
eight months after it should have been removed. He was assured it had been removed and it 
was in January 2021, while he was applying for a mortgage, that he raised the issue again. It 
then took a month for it to be removed by Barclaycard and another six weeks for it to 
disappear from his credit file. So, I think Mr H was aware it may still be on his account in 
October and actively trying to get it removed in January 2021. I think the biggest impact here 
was from January 2021 the end of March 2021 when he was fully aware it was still on his 
credit file and was trying to get it removed alongside applying for mortgages. 
There were also additional issues with late payment markers needing to be removed, most 
of which were done so relatively quicky. Except for the August payment which has taken 
quite some time. When I consider all of this as a whole, I think the £450 already offered is in 
line with what I would have recommended if this complaint had come to me with no offer on 
it. So, I think it is fair in the circumstances.     
 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and instruct Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mr H and additional £300 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience the delays have caused him, which will 
bring the total paid to £450. It should also remove the August 2020 late payment marker 
from his credit file if it has not done so already.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2022. 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman