DRN-3293662
The complaint
Mr R complained about advice he received in 2000 to take out a free-standing additional 
voluntary contribution (FSAVC) plan. 
Mr R says he wanted to increase his pension provision and the recommendations he 
received werent suitable. He implies if hed been given the right information about his 
options, he would have acted differently, including using additional voluntary contributions 
(AVCs) linked to his employers in-house occupational pension scheme (OPS). Mr R 
therefore says he has lost out financially because of this.
Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited has accepted responsibility for 
answering this complaint. Mr R is being represented in this complaint by a claims 
management company. So, to keep things simple, Ill refer mainly to Sun Life and Mr R.
What happened
Mr R was employed in the public sector and a member of his employers OPS - a large 
public sector scheme - since starting a couple of years before. It seems Mr R wanted to 
enhance his pension provision. So, in early 2000, he met with an adviser who recommended 
that he start contributing to an FSAVC plan in addition to the OPS he was already a member 
of. Mr R was around 27 years old at the time.
As the name suggests, FSAVCs are free standing, which means they are not tied to the 
employer, but typically run independently alongside the OPS. The FSAVC plan commenced 
with Mr R initially making a monthly contribution of £38.96 (gross). I note he changed this 
amount shortly after to around £68 and changed it again in 2001 to £30. I come back to this 
point later.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and didnt think we should uphold it but Mr 
R didnt agree. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, its been passed to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr R, but Im afraid Im not upholding his complaint.
Ive considered what was expected of the adviser as they were a tied appointed 
representative of the company at the time. Before 1996, the regulator required company 
representatives to exercise due skill, care and diligence in dealing fairly with investors. 
However, in 1996 it issued an update called RU20 which set out the procedures it expected 
product providers to follow, although this wasnt new guidance but clarifying what was 
already in place. The update said that a tied adviser shouldnt recommend their own 
companys FSAVC until they had: 
Drawn the clients attention to the in-scheme alternative 
Discussed the differences between the two routes in generic terms 
Directed the client to their employer, or to the scheme trustees, for more 
information on the in-scheme option. 
As Ive said, Mr R was a member of a public sector OPS which had in-house AVCs 
available for those who, like him, wanted to top up their pension provision. These AVCs were 
most likely to have been offered by a different provider, so Sun Life would not have been 
required to provide a detailed comparison of the products to Mr R during that process. 
Instead, Mr R should have been told that in-house options were available and also about 
the generic benefits of those options including that fees and charges in the AVC scheme 
would likely be lower than an FSAVC one. 
I have looked at the documentation we still have from the sale. Considering all the 
documents as a whole, I think it is fair to say there was clearly a substantial discussion 
between Mr R and Sun Life about his financial situation. What flowed from this was a written 
summary for him - a Reasons Why letter  which set down what had taken place. 
In referring to that document, I think its reasonable for me to conclude that Mr R and the 
adviser discussed quite a few options. For example, the existence of in-house AVCs, and 
the generic differences between AVCs and FSAVCs, were explained. Mr R was told of the 
likelihood of low charges within the in-house AVC scheme and of the effect of higher 
charges for the FSAVC option. A basic illustration was provided to help him understand this. 
I think this would have helped him to make a decision about what he wanted to do. I think 
the discussion captured how his OPS worked, how it was structured and benefits he could 
accrue. There were also calculations used to help demonstrate what was being talked about. 
I therefore think that as well as the generic differences in the options available, its likely Mr 
Rs OPS was discussed in some detail. He was directed to its main provisions and that more 
information could be obtained. In short, I think the bullet points Ive mentioned above were 
covered when he met the adviser.
was Mr R given the right advice?
Specifically in relation to the FSAVC versus AVC option, I note there were comments 
consistent with this recorded on the notes about Mr R wanting a degree of flexibility. This 
included the potential to be self-employed at some point in the future or potentially as a 
contractor; career pathways not uncommon in Mr Rs skill set. I note it was recorded that he 
already had an interview for another job. So, I can say with some confidence that Mr R 
confirmed he wanted a degree of flexibility when choosing any additional pension provision, 
as he foresaw that changes to his career might well occur in the future.
The added years option was quite a different one to the other two (FSAVCs and AVCs) in 
that it provided certain guaranteed benefits in the long term. Typically, with this option, the 
employee commits to pay either a lump sum or a percentage of their future salary into the 
OPS to buy more years. If it is a percentage, the amount paid will increase as the salary 
increases  the percentage remains the same. 
While at the time its also possible Mr R envisaged he could remain in his occupation for the 
near future and would have no-doubt enjoyed some salary increases, this doesnt 
necessarily mean he would have purchased added years. Even if that were to happen, as a 
starting point it should be remembered that he initially only wanted to contribute relatively 
small amounts. And in 2000, when projected AVC investment returns were somewhat 
higher, added years would have seemed expensive in terms of returns and benefits. And as 
Ive noted above, Mr R changed the amount he wanted to pay-in very soon after he started 
paying these additional contributions. So, I think there is reliable evidence here that the flexibility, or lack thereof, of an added 
years option would have also been an important consideration for Mr R. I think it would have 
seemed less attractive given his particular situation of that time. In coming to that judgement, 
Ive taken account of his age, length of service, financial and career circumstances.
In summary then, the notes from the sale meeting in 2000 are not brief, but they most likely 
dont record everything that was discussed. Nevertheless, Im satisfied that Mr R was given 
the information he needed to make an informed decision. I think he made it clear he wanted 
a degree of flexibility in the additional contributions he was considering at the time. I think his 
OPS and the options within it were comprehensively discussed. I dont think Sun Life did 
anything wrong. 
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Rs complaint.
I do not require Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman