DRN-1915387
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that a joint Silver Vantage Added Value Account (SAVA) they took 
out with Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) in 2011 was mis-sold.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S say they were told in July 2011 by Lloyds that in order to have a joint account, 
they had to take out a SAVA packaged bank account and pay a monthly fee. And they say 
the SAVA wasnt suitable for them.
Lloyds says that Mr and Mrs S chose a SAVA for their joint bank account as they were 
attracted to the benefits. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. Mr and Mrs S disagree so the 
complaint has come to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs S complain that they were told they had to take out a SAVA in order to get a joint 
account with Lloyds.
I dont doubt their honest recollections, but I think their memory of events is mistaken and Ill 
explain why.
Lloyds has provided evidence that Mr and Mrs S opened a joint fee free Classic account in 
June 2010 and upgraded it to a joint SAVA in July 2011.
As theyd had a fee free joint account before opening the joint SAVA, I can only conclude 
they were aware that fee free joint accounts were available, and I cant uphold their 
complaint on this point. 
So, I think Mr and Mrs S were aware they had a choice and chose to take out the SAVA.
Lloyds says it recommended the SAVA to Mr and Mrs S, so it needed to ensure the SAVA 
was suitable for them and provide enough information for them to make an informed choice.
The SAVA was sold in a meeting with Mr and Mrs S. And Lloyds has records of the 
discussions that took place.
The SAVA main benefits included European travel insurance, mobile phone insurance, and 
car breakdown cover.
Lloyds was trying to sell the SAVA to Mr and Mrs S, so I think its more likely than not that it 
explained the benefits in detail during their meeting. 
And I think the SAVA was suitable for Mr and Mrs S. I say this because they had a car and a 
mobile phone. And Lloyds record of the discussion with Mr S shows that he told Lloyds he 
was interested in the travel insurance as well. He also told Lloyds that he did not have 
alternative provision for any of the benefits.
I note that Mr and Mrs S say they did have some alternative provision, but even if they did, 
that didnt make the SAVA unsuitable. It only meant that Mr and Mrs S would need to cancel 
the alternative cover to get the best from their SAVA benefits. Lloyds records show that Mr 
and Mrs S registered a mobile phone for cover immediately after the sale. And in my view, it 
was for them to arrange to use the other benefits as well if they wished.
Mr and Mrs S couldve cancelled the joint SAVA at any time. But they didnt and kept it for 
many years.
So, I think its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs S chose to take out the SAVA, it was 
suitable for them and there wasnt any information that Lloyds didnt give them which might 
have put them off taking it out.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 March 2021.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman