DRN-1845211
Complaint
Miss T is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc wont refund a series of transactions she says 
she didnt make or otherwise authorise.
Background
Miss T has a credit card account with Bank of Scotland. One afternoon in September 2019, 
a series of payments were made using that card at a large department store in central 
London. Miss T says that shed last seen her card that morning when making an online 
purchase. She says that the payments in the department store couldnt have been made by 
her because she was working at an event run by her employer. Shes provided evidence to 
show that she attended the event in question.
She complained to Bank of Scotland. Bank of Scotland said it wouldnt refund the 
transactions. It said that the correct PIN had been entered for each payment and there 
wasnt any explanation as to how the security of the PIN had been compromised. Miss T 
was unhappy with this and so referred a complaint to this service. It was looked at by an 
investigator who didnt uphold it. Similarly, the investigation didnt think there was a plausible 
explanation as to a fraudster couldve known her PIN. She didnt have it written down with 
the card and the last time shed entered it in a shop was two days earlier. The investigator 
didnt think it was likely that a fraudster wouldve observed her entering her PIN and then 
waited days for the opportunity to use that information.
Miss T didnt agree with the investigators opinion. She said that its possible for fraudsters to 
work out the correct PIN on a card and that this has happened to her before. Because she 
didnt agree with the investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me to consider 
and issue a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point is that Bank of Scotland can hold Miss T liable for the transactions if the 
evidence suggests its more likely than not that she authorised them. I should say at the 
outset that I cant know with certainty what happened here or how these transactions were 
made. I dont doubt or disbelieve Miss T when she says that she didnt carry them out. But 
my conclusions must be informed by the available evidence  and where that evidence is 
unclear or contradictory, I must reach a decision on the balance of probabilities. In this case, 
Im satisfied that its more likely than not that these transactions were authorised.
Bank of Scotland has provided evidence showing that the correct PIN was entered for each 
of the payments. Miss T told the investigator that the PIN was the same one assigned by the 
bank when the card was issued and that she had it committed to memory. The last payment 
Miss T authorised using the PIN was two days earlier. I think its unlikely that someone 
wouldve observed her using her PIN and then taken possession of the card two days later. 
Miss T also told us that she didnt share the PIN with anyone. The fact that theres no clear 
explanation as to how the security of Miss Ts PIN was compromised does support the case 
that the payments were authorised. 
Miss T has pointed out that Bank of Scotland didnt obtain CCTV footage from the 
department store. But although this might show that it wasnt Miss T that made the 
purchases, it wouldnt rule out the possibility that shed given permission to another person 
to use her card. 
Miss T has said that its possible for fraudsters to work out the PIN from the card. This would 
be significant because it would mean it wouldnt be necessary to identify how a fraudster 
managed to find out Miss Ts PIN  theyd would simply need to be in possession of her 
card. Ive not seen any evidence to suggest its possible for someone to find out the PIN in 
the way that shes suggested. But in any event, Im not persuaded its likely that happened in 
this case. Miss T told us that she was at a work event all day. The payments were made at a 
department store a short walk away. If the card had fallen into the hands of an opportunistic 
fraudster, its not clear why they wouldve used the card to buy goods in a department store. 
If they had access to the PIN, it would seem more likely theyd have used the card to 
withdraw cash.
Whilst I concede that I dont know with certainty how these payments were made, the weight 
of the evidence supports the argument that Miss T authorised these payments, even if she 
didnt personally carry them out. For that reason, I think its reasonable for Bank of Scotland 
to hold her liable for them.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2021.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman