DRN-4351977
The complaint
This complaint is brought by Mr P in respect of a travel insurance policy taken out in both his 
and Mrs Ps name with AWP P&C SA (AWP).
Mr P is unhappy that AWP didnt make any payment to him in respect of his claim resulting 
from a cancelled flight.
What happened
Mr P arranged a trip by booking flights and accommodation separately. Before travelling, his 
flight was cancelled. Mr P says he called AWP to find out whether they would cover the cost 
of his booking a replacement flight, which cost considerably more than the original one. He 
says AWP told him he was covered for this and so he went ahead and made his booking.
When Mr P submitted his claim, AWP said that the policy didnt provide cover for cancelled 
flights at all. It did however provide for delays if Mr P was physically checked in to travel at 
the airport he was flying from, but as this wasnt the case, there was no cover available at all.
Unhappy, Mr P referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our investigator 
considered his complaint and determined it shouldnt be upheld. She said that the policy 
terms didnt provide cover for the claim he was making and there wasnt enough evidence 
for her to determine that AWP advised Mr P his claim was covered. 
Mr P doesnt agree so the matter has been passed to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point is the policy terms. The cancellation or curtailment section of the policy 
says:
"We will pay you up to £5,000 (inclusive of any valid claim payable under Section 3- Travel 
disruption cover and Section 11 - Winter sports (Ski pack)) for any irrecoverable unused 
travel and accommodation costs (including excursions and other pre-paid charges) which 
you have paid or are contracted to pay together with any reasonable additional travel 
expenses, due to any of the following necessary and unavoidable events:
 Cancellation of the trip; or
 You fully curtail (cut short) your trip before completion
or partially curtail (interrupt) your trip for more than
48 hours; or
 You have to make an early return home as a result of any
of the following events occurring;
1. The death, bodily injury or illness of;
a. You;
b. Any person with whom you are travelling or have arranged to travel with;
c. A relative of you or any person with whom you are travelling or have arranged to travel 
with;
d. Any person with whom you have arranged to reside temporarily; or
e. Your business colleague.
In this case the airline cancelled the flight rather than Mr P, so this part of the policy doesnt 
apply. To be clear, even if Mr P had cancelled his flight he would have only been covered if it 
was in the circumstances Ive quoted above. 
AWP went on to consider Mr Ps claim under the travel disruption section of the policy. This 
part of the policy says:
What is covered
Travel delay
The benefit provided below is intended to provide compensation if you are delayed at your 
point of departure and is only applicable if you have travelled there and checked-in. If you 
have not travelled to your departure point you will not be covered, even if you have checked 
in online.
In the absence of anything to support that Mr P had travelled to the airport and physically 
checked in at the time his flight was cancelled, I cant say this section of the policy applies 
either.
Ive gone on to consider Mr Ps main submission, which is that he relied on information given 
to him by AWP by telephone when he called up to discuss whether he would be covered for 
booking a new flight. In particular, Mr P says he was told he would be and that he booked a 
more expensive flight in reliance of this representation. He also says that if he knew he 
wouldnt have been covered, he wouldnt have booked a new flight, but instead cancelled his 
trip altogether because the cost was prohibitive.
Ive thought carefully about Mr Ps submissions and the evidence hes supplied to support 
the call was made. AWP say theres no record of them receiving a call from him on the time 
and date noted at all so theres no call recording available for me to listen to. 
Looking at the number Mr P called, I can see this applied to his packaged bank account, 
under which travel insurance was a benefit. AWP have said that a call concerning a claim for 
cover should have been passed through to it by the bank, but it doesnt have any evidence 
of this happening. 
I dont doubt that Mr P made a call about his cancelled flight. I think thats most likely given 
the time and date that call was made and the fact that it was to his packaged bank account 
provider. But given what AWP have said, I also think its likely that Mr P didnt discuss his 
claim with it. And as underwriters of the travel insurance policy, AWP was the only 
organisation able to make a decision on his claim. I think that whats more likely is that MP 
spoke about the cancelled flight with his packaged bank account provider directly without 
AWP being involved. 
In the absence of a call recording, I cant comment on what was said. It would however be 
unusual for any policyholder to be told in advance of submitting a claim that they would 
definitely be covered for the situation they found themselves in. That said, Mr P might have 
been given some general guidance about the extent of cover, which he later relied on to 
book an alternative flight. But that isnt something AWP is responsible for. 
If Mr P remains unhappy, he can pursue a complaint against his packaged bank account provider accordingly.
My final decision
Overall, and for the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint against AWP 
P&C SA.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 October 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman