DRN-3154255
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy with the settlement provided to them by their travel insurance 
provider, UK Insurance Limited (UKI), after they need to make a claim. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs P booked a holiday abroad, in November 2019, for the following year. The trip 
was due to take place from 18 August 2020, with a return date of 25 August 2020.  As well 
as Mr and Mrs P going on the trip, seven other family members were also invited on the 
holiday. Mr and Mrs P have explained they paid for the whole holiday. And based on a bank 
statement provided, the cost of the flights was £2,182.82 and the accommodation was 
£3,128.96. So, £5,311.78 was the total cost.
Unfortunately, because of the global coronavirus pandemic, and restrictions on travel, Mr 
and Mrs P, along with their family members, were no longer able to travel. So, Mr and Mrs P 
attempted to get a refund for the holiday from the flight and accommodation providers. 
Theyve explained this wasnt successful. So, they made a claim under their travel insurance 
policy, to recover some of their loss.
On claiming, Mr and Mrs P confirmed their understanding that they could only claim for their 
portion of the holiday costs, as the parties insured under the policy. And because the seven 
other family members werent insured under the policy, they wouldnt be able to recover their 
portion of the costs from UKI. 
UKI made a settlement offer to Mr and Mrs P. It said that it could pay two ninths of the flight 
and accommodation costs, under the cancellation section of Mr and Mrs Ps policy. So, 
£485.07 for flights, and £698.32 for the accommodation, minus the £100 excess on the 
policy. Meaning a total settlement amount of £1,080.39.
Mr and Mrs P didnt feel this settlement offer was fair. They said dividing the costs by nine 
and providing them with a settlement worth two ninths of the cost wasnt correct, or reflective 
of their loss. Mr and Mrs P said they had been overpaid £35.61 for the flights, as UKI hadnt 
taken into account that some of the flights paid for where for children, and cost less than the 
adult flights.
In terms of the accommodation costs, they said dividing the cost by nine wasnt right either. 
Mr and Mrs P said if they had travelled alone, a studio apartment would have cost them 
around £1,350. A 1-bedroom apartment was around £1,474, and a 2-bedroom apartment 
around £1,564. So, by inviting others to join their holiday, they were only incurring an 
additional £214 for the 2-bedroom apartment. This being the difference between the cost of 
a studio apartment and a 2 bedroom one. So, they considered they should be paid £1350 
(minus the relevant excess) for this part of their claim.
UKI didnt agree. It said it had calculated Mr and Mrs Ps settlement for the accommodation 
correctly  dividing the cost by nine. It recognised it had overpaid Mr and Mrs P for the flights 
but said it wouldnt be taking any action in respect of that.
 
Mr and Mrs P remained dissatisfied, and so referred their complaint to this service for an 
independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She said that 
UKI were correct to settle the claim under the cancellation section of the policy. And that it 
was correct to only pay Mr and Mrs Ps portion of the costs, based on the terms and 
conditions of the policy.
Our investigator understood Mr and Mrs Ps point around the accommodation costs but 
didnt think UKI had acted unreasonably by dividing the cost of the accommodation by nine, 
and paying two ninths of this. She considered it fair that UKI noted this to be Mr and Mrs Ps 
portion of the costs.
Mr and Mrs P didnt agree. In summary, they felt their kindness at inviting other family 
members along on holiday had meant UKI could use a settlement calculation that put them 
at a loss. They said the cost of the holiday was based on the property size (amount of 
rooms), rather than a cost per person. So, they considered that the calculation should have 
been completed based on the cost of a room that Mr and Mrs P would incur, if they had been 
holidaying alone.
Because Mr and Mrs P didnt agree, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. And so, I dont require UKI to do 
anything more. I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs P  its clear 
they feel strongly about the matter. But Ive explained my reasoning below.
When considering a complaint such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and 
industry guidelines. In this case, the relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct 
Authority, say that an insurer must deal with a claim promptly and fairly. So, Ive thought 
about whether UKI, in providing Mr and Mrs P with a settlement of £1,080.39, did so fairly. 
And Im satisfied it did. 
It isnt disputed that Mr and Mrs P had cover under the cancellation section of their policy. 
And neither is it disputed that under the cancellation section, under the title what is not 
covered, it is explained:
()
10. The unused costs of any person who is not insured by this policy. If you are travelling 
with someone who is not insured under this policy, we will only pay your portion of any costs 
even if you have paid their costs as a gift.
Mr and Mrs P accept they were they only people insured under the policy. So, I havent 
needed to consider this in any further detail. Instead, just whether the settlement provided to 
them, for their portion of any costs is fair.
Ive considered this carefully, and I think UKIs settlement, and the way of calculating it was 
fair and reasonable. I appreciate Mr and Mrs P dont agree. And have said they would have 
had to pay at least £1,350 for a studio apartment if they were going on holiday alone. So, 
their portion of the costs was at least £1,350 for accommodation.But when looking at a claim, an insurer needs to look at what actually happened. 
Mr and Mrs P didnt go on holiday alone, and they didnt book a studio apartment. They 
booked accommodation for nine people  with them being two of those nine. At a cost of 
£3,128.96. 
It seems reasonable to me that UKI would consider Mr and Mrs Ps portion of that 
accommodation to be two ninths of the total amount paid. All nine family members were 
going on holiday to use the accommodation, for the same time and duration. The cost wasnt 
per person but based on capacity of the apartments. Meaning to cater for the nine people 
going on holiday, Mr and Mrs P purchased the apartments necessary to fit these people, and 
paid the cost associated with it. So, I consider it fair that UKI split the cost by the nine people 
using said accommodation.
UKI has provided a settlement of £698.32 (minus the policy excess) to Mr and Mrs P for 
accommodation. And given this is two ninths of the accommodation cost, Im satisfied thats 
reasonable. The remaining portion of the cost would be considered a gift under the policy, 
which isnt covered. So, Im satisfied UKI doesnt need to pay anything more in this regard.
In terms of the flights, UKI has accepted it has provided Mr and Mrs P with slightly more than 
the settlement figure should have been for their two flights, taking into account the cost of 
seats depending on age. But UKI arent seeking a return of this amount. And because it has 
paid more than Mr and Mrs P were entitled to here, and the overpayment was a mistake on 
its part, I think UKIs position here is fair. So, I dont require it do anything differently in this 
respect.
Overall, whilst I sympathise with Mr and Mrs Ps position, with them having been left out of 
pocket, Im satisfied UKI acted fairly in the way it settled the claim. So, Im not directing it to 
pay anything more.
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require UK 
Insurance Limited to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 May 2022.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman