DRN-4383418
The complaint
Mr M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc defaulted his personal loan account.
What happened
Mr M took out a personal loan with HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) in 2017. In 2020, Mr M 
agreed a payment break with HSBC as he had fallen into financial difficulties. He then 
entered into several payment arrangements to pay reduced amounts each month with the 
latest one being set up in June 2022. This arrangement was for Mr M to pay £449.96 for 
three months with the final agreed payment being made in August 2022.
Mr M says he was told by HSBC that hed be contacted once the payment plan ended to 
discuss next steps for September onwards, but this didnt happen. He then spoke to HSBC 
by phone on 31 August 2022 asking whether the plan was still in place. HSBC told him at 
this point that his account had been closed on 24 August because the plan had ended, and a 
final demand letter had previously been sent to him in February 2022.
Mr M complained to HSBC, but they didnt uphold this. They said theyd sent an arrears 
letter to him on 3 August 2022, but Mr M didnt call until later in the month, by which time 
theyd closed the account.
Mr M referred his complaint to us. Our investigator upheld it. He said he hadnt seen 
sufficient evidence that HSBC had sent Mr M the final demand letter in February 2022 as the 
copy letter theyd sent to us showed an obscured, incorrect post code. So, our investigator 
felt HSBC hadnt given Mr M proper notice of their intention to default his account. He 
recommended that HSBC remove the default and pay Mr M £500 for the distress and 
inconvenience this matter had caused him.
HSBC didnt agree and said the copy of the final demand letter theyd sent to us showed the 
obscured, incorrect post code because of formatting issues they had when they tried to send 
this to us. They sent screen shots of the letter showing Mr Ms correct post code and said 
they had sent all requisite letters to him about what would happen to his account if payments 
werent made.
Our investigator didnt feel the further evidence HSBC had sent changed his mind, so HSBC 
asked for an ombudsmans decision.
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 22 September 2023, in which I said the 
following and which forms part of my final decision:
Ive summarised whats happened between Mr M and HSBC rather than going into detail on 
the full events that have occurred. For example, I note that Mr M has said that HSBC made a 
number of errors in taking payments from him for the various payment plans that had been in 
place. Ive concentrated on what I think are the key considerations of this case but can 
assure Mr M and HSBC that Ive considered all the evidence theyve provided so far.
Im not currently inclined to say, as our investigator did, that Mr Ms complaint should be 
upheld because the final demand letter of February 2022 likely wasnt sent to him. Its 
possible HSBC did send this to Mr M using his correct address details, including his post 
code. Their explanation as to why we had been sent a copy of this with an obscured post 
code seems plausible and I note that Mr M said in his complaint form that hed received a 
default notice at the start of 2022.
However, Im not currently satisfied with how HSBC dealt with the end of Mr Ms payment 
plan in August 2022. This plan was agreed by both parties, and it was clearly understood 
that the final payment under this would be paid in August 2022. I think, having considered  
Mr Ms testimony, he always intended to engage with HSBC after that point to see what 
further options and support HSBC could offer him. I dont believe his intention was to simply 
stop paying or engaging.
Ive seen the arrears letter HSBC sent Mr M on 3 August 2022, which was the day after the 
last payment under the plan was made. That letter asked Mr M to contact them to discuss 
what they could do to help him get back on track. There was no mention that HSBC would 
close the account and default this if Mr M didnt contact them. While HSBC may say that 
they didnt have to set this out, because the final demand letter of February 2022 had done 
so, on a purely fair and reasonable basis I find that simply closing the account without further 
warning or a further, final effort to engage with Mr M wasnt reasonable.
I note also that the letter HSBC sent to Mr M in May 2022 agreeing to the payment plan said 
that Mr M should contact HSBC once the final payment had been made. It didnt set out 
when that should have been and, in fact, Mr M did contact HSBC about this on 31 August. I 
appreciate HSBC may feel that that Mr M didnt act quickly enough following the letter of      
3 August. But, as Ive said, I think Mr M always showed an intention to engage with HSBC 
about how to pay down his loan account and simply defaulting this following one arrears 
letter with no warning on what would happen if he didnt contact them, isnt fair and 
reasonable in my view.
I dont know what likely would have happened had Mr M and HSBC engaged before the loan 
account was closed. But I havent been persuaded that HSBC would have simply defaulted 
and closed this without considering a further payment plan. Nor have I been persuaded that 
Mr M wouldnt have been able to agree something with HSBC that he would have adhered 
to.
So, I currently find that HSBCs actions in closing the account and defaulting it wasnt a fair 
or reasonable thing to do. I intend therefore to direct HSBC to remove the default and pay 
£500 to Mr M for the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused him. If they have not 
already done so, HSBC should engage with Mr M to ascertain the most appropriate and fair 
way to continue to repay this debt.
My provisional decision
I uphold this complaint and currently intend to direct HSBC Bank UK Plc to take the actions 
Ive set out above.
I asked Mr M and HSBC to send any more comments and evidence for me to consider. 
Mr M replied saying my provisional decision was balanced and reasonable but wanted to 
add that hed been promised a call back from HSBC in August 2022, but this didnt happen. 
Mr M also said HSBC had told him his account wouldnt be sent to their collections team or placed in default. He asked whether I could instruct HSBC to fix their internal systems so no-
one else could end up in the same position as he did. 
HSBC replied saying that the most likely outcome had Mr M and HSBC engaged before the 
loan account was closed was that it would have been defaulted even if a new repayment 
plan had been agreed. They also said it was unreasonable to expect HSBC to continue 
giving Mr M additional time to get his payments back on track indefinitely and that they 
offered a lot of support to him with this. HSBC said the account was defaulted correctly and it 
was unethical to ask them to remove this entry from the credit reference agencies. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for their replies to my provisional decision. 
In respect of Mr Ms comments, I confirm that I did take this into account when I reached my 
provisional decision but overall, what I will ask HSBC to do to put things right is fair in my 
view. I am unable to ask HSBC to fix their internal systems as he has requested as my 
decision focuses solely on his complaint and the circumstances surrounding that. 
I note that HSBC still feels they acted reasonably. I am still however not persuaded that they 
definitely would have defaulted Mr Ms account upon further discussion around August 2022. 
I accept this was a possibility but to my mind its still only that. I do agree that HSBC offered 
Mr M support on several occasions. However, my concern is still around how they then 
defaulted Mr Ms account with no warning. I dont accept that a default notice from some 
months prior was sufficient warning that Mr M had to do something to prevent the default 
from happening. And while HSBC is correct to say that the information recorded with credit 
reference agencies should be accurate, it should also be fair. And on this occasion, and for 
the reasons I set out in my provisional decision, I dont find that this was done fairly. 
Ive not been persuaded to change the findings I reached in my provisional decision. For that 
reason, and for the reasons given in that decision and in my final decision, I still find that 
Mr Ms complaint should be upheld.
Putting things right
HSBC should instruct the credit reference agencies to remove the default they have 
recorded for this account and pay Mr M compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
this matter has caused him. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct HSBC UK Bank PLC to:
Instruct the relevant credit reference agencies to remove the default for Mr Ms loan 
account; and
Pay Mr M £500 for the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused him.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2023.
 
Daniel Picken
Ombudsman