DRN-3801769
The complaint
Mr M complains, via a professional third-party representative, about the advice given by 
True Potential Wealth Management LLP (TPWM) to transfer the benefits from his defined-
benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP). He 
says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ms employer announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from 
the company. The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their 
preserved benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund 
(PPF), or a new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed 
they could transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement included that, if risk-related 
qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme 
sponsored by Mr Ms employer would be set up  the BSPS2. The RAA was signed and 
confirmed in August 2017 and agreed steps carried out shortly after.
On 18 September 2017, the BSPS provided Mr M with an updated summary of the transfer 
value of his scheme benefits, following the RAA taking effect. These benefits had a cash 
equivalent transfer value (CETV) of £290,181.38.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a time to choose letter which gave them 
the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the BSPS2 or 
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. 
Mr M spoke to another business, which Ill call Firm S. TPWM says Mr M was subsequently 
referred to it by Firm S, for advice about his pension, as Firm S didnt have the relevant 
permissions to give advice.
A fact-find was completed to gather information about Mr Ms circumstances and objectives. 
It recorded that Mr M was 42, in good health, married with two dependent children. He and 
Mrs M were both employed full time. They owned their home, with an outstanding mortgage 
due to run for a further ten years but had no other debts or liabilities. They didnt have any 
savings or other assets, but their income was recorded as exceeding their outgoings each 
month. 
In addition to the benefits held in the BSPS, Mr M was also a member of his employers new 
defined contribution (DC) pension scheme, with the fact find recording he was making 
contributions equivalent to 6% of his salary, with his employer paying 10% of his salary. It 
was also noted that Mr M had very limited investing experience.
The fact find said that Mr M hoped to retire at age 57, depending on his circumstances at the 
time. It said he was interested in transferring because he wanted the flexibility to be able to 
access his pension from age 55 without incurring penalties, to ensure his family benefitted 
from the pension in the event of his death and to be in control of his pension and have the 
ability to manage his own fund.
On 30 November 2017, TPWM advised Mr M to transfer his pension benefits into a True 
Potential SIPP and invest in the providers growth portfolio. The covering correspondence 
accompanying this report indicated it was the first direct correspondence TPWM had with 
Mr M. And that the recommendation was based on information gathered and provided by 
Firm S.
The suitability report said TPWM recommended the transfer because it thought this was the 
best way to meet Mr Ms stated objectives of having the flexibility to take benefits when he 
wanted and to ensure his family would benefit in the event of his death. The report said it 
was satisfied that the recommendation was in line with Mr Ms attitude to risk, which it had 
assessed as being that of a Capital Growth Investor. The report explained The capital 
growth investor may be willing to accept high risk and chance of loss in order to achieve 
higher returns on his or her investments. Significant losses over an extended period may 
prompt the capital growth investor to shift to a less risky investment.
I understand the transfer went ahead in line with TPWMs recommendation.
Mr M complained, via his representative, to TPWM in 2021 about the suitability of the 
transfer advice. His representative said the transfer should not have been recommended as 
it was highly unlikely that Mr M's existing pension benefits would be matched by transferring.
TPWM didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. It said it thought the advice was suitable based on his 
circumstances and objectives of having control and flexibility in when he could take his 
pension benefits and being able to leave as much of the fund as possible to his family in the 
event of his death.
Mr M referred his complaint to our service. One of our Investigators considered the 
complaint. He thought it should be upheld and that TPWM should compensate Mr M for any 
loss the DB transfer had led to and pay him £300 for the distress hed been caused. He 
noted the pension made up the majority of Mr Ms retirement provisions and he had no 
previous investment experience, so the Investigator didnt think Mr Ms attitude to risk was as 
high as TPWM had suggested. And overall, he didnt think Mr M had a genuine need to 
transfer, there were other ways to meet his goals and there was no guarantee hed improve 
on his pension benefits by transferring. So, the Investigator thought suitable advice wouldve 
been not to transfer and that Mr M would likely have joined the BSPS2 had this been given.
Mr Ms representatives largely accepted the Investigators findings. But they said they didnt 
think making an overall 15% notional deduction from the compensation amount to account 
for income tax was fair as this didnt account for ongoing charges that Mr M may incur. And 
they provided commentary about Mr Ms current financial position and revised retirement 
objectives when explaining this.
TPWM didnt agree with our Investigators assessment of the complaint. It said it was 
required to take reasonable steps to ensure the advice was suitable for Mr M, which it 
thought it had done, not guarantee that it would be. It said the Investigator had used a 
significant degree of hindsight, which it thought was unreasonable. TPWM still considered 
the transfer was suitable, based on what Mr M had said about his objectives. It also argued 
that Mr M had made a fully informed decision to proceed with the transfer, and that he would 
have still sought to proceed if it had recommended against doing so, such was his strength 
of feeling. And it said that the BSPS2 was not a confirmed option at the time of the advice. The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion. They also made TPWM aware of 
the representatives comments.
TPWM said that it believed the information about Mr Ms circumstances now supported that 
a transfer was suitable and that hed have always gone ahead as he wasnt going to rely on 
the BSPS pension.
The Investigator didnt agree, noting that they still believed the advice given in 2017 to be 
unsuitable based on the circumstances as they were at the time. As agreement could not be 
reached, the complaint was referred for a decision by an ombudsman.
In August 2022 the regulator, the FCA, launched a consultation on changes to its DB 
transfer redress guidance. So, our Investigator wrote to Mr M to advise him of the FCAs 
proposed changes which were due to come into effect in April 2023 and to ask if his 
preference was to have any redress due to him calculated under the then current guidance 
or to wait for the new rules to come into effect. The Investigator explained though that if the 
complaint hadnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time the new rules came into 
effect, wed expect TPWM to carry out a calculation in line with the updated rules and 
guidance  if we still concluded that the complaint should be upheld.
Mr Ms representatives initially said it didnt think it was necessary or appropriate for Mr M to 
make a decision. They later said Mr M would prefer to have redress calculated under the 
existing rules, before any new rules came into effect. 
In early 2023, before the new rules on redress came into effect, TPWM told our service that, 
although it didnt agree with the Investigators opinion, it would potentially look to make an 
offer to resolve matters. I understand it approached Mr M and his representatives for 
information to calculate an offer. There seems to have been a dispute over which information 
was necessary and whether this was provided. The result of which was that a calculation 
doesnt appear to have been carried out before the new redress rules came into effect.
The FCA has also recently developed a BSPS-specific redress calculator and is encouraging 
business to make use of this. Our Investigator made both parties aware of this and that we 
may require this to be used for any calculation of redress.
TPWM did not object and said itd be willing to complete a calculation using the redress 
calculator without the need for a decision, to resolve matters informally. Mr Ms 
representatives however said they believed it was unfair to use this calculator as Mr M had 
indicated a preference for redress to be calculated under the old rules. So, they believed it 
should be calculated on that basis.
As agreement could not be reached, Im now providing a final decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of TPWM's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, TPWM 
should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in 
Mr Ms best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was 
in his best interests.
Financial viability 
TPWM carried out a transfer value analysis (TVAS) report, as required by the regulator. 
This was produced on 28 November 2017. The report explained it gave an indication of the 
likelihood of being able to match or exceed the benefits provided by the DB scheme, 
specifically the BSPS2, by transferring. 
This set out that at age 65, the normal scheme retirement age, Mr M was estimated to be 
entitled to a full pension starting at £18,071 per year or a tax-free cash (TFC) sum of 
£83,652 and a reduced annual pension starting at £12,547 under the BSPS2. The report 
included a calculation of various critical yields - the annual growth rate required of a new 
pension to allow Mr M to purchase equivalent benefits that would match the guaranteed 
benefits of his DB scheme at retirement. It said, for retiring at age 65, the critical yield was 
5.48% to match the full pension the BSPS2 wouldve provided or 4.81% if he were to take 
TFC and a reduced pension.
The same exercise was repeated in respect of the benefits available from age 57 under the 
BSPS2. The report said Mr M could receive a full starting pension of £14,107 per year. And 
the critical yield to match that level of benefit was 7.96%. Or he could receive TFC of 
£69,244 and a reduced starting pension of £10,386. With the critical yield to match that level 
of benefit said to be 6.96%.
The TVAS also looked at the benefits that the PPF would provide, and the critical yields 
required to match those. It said, under the PPF at age 65, Mr M would be entitled to an 
annual pension starting at £16,262.62 per year, or TFC of £86,386.59 and a pension starting 
at £12,968.26. The critical yield to match the full pension was calculated as being 4.77% and to match the TFC and reduced pension 4.46%.
At age 57, the report said the PPF would pay a pension starting at £11,714.71 per year, or 
TFC of £65,545.38 and a reduced pension starting at £9,840.21. The critical yield to match 
these benefits from age 57 were 6.23% and 5.88% respectively.
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
Mr M was 42 at the time of the advice. The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice 
was given which I can refer to was published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the 
period before 1 October 2017, and was 4.5% per year for 22 years to retirement at age 65. 
And for 14 years to retirement if he retired at age 57, the discount rate was 4.2%. Ive kept in 
mind that the regulator's projection rates had also remained unchanged since 2014: the 
regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the 
lower projection rate 2%. 
TPWM recorded that Mr Ms attitude to risk was that of a Capital Growth Investor and that 
he may be willing to accept high risk and the chance of loss in order to achieve higher 
growth. But based on the available information Mr M appears to have been an inexperienced 
investor. His BSPS pension made up the majority of his retirement provisions and he had no 
other savings or investments at the time. So, while he did have over ten years to build up 
other retirement provisions, I dont think he had the capacity to accept any significant losses 
to his pension. And indeed, in the attitude to risk questionnaire that Mr M completed, several 
of the questions were regarding hypothetical scenarios. And to the ones that asked Mr M 
directly about his attitude, he said he was only somewhat comfortable with investments that 
may experience large losses and he was only willing to accept moderate risk. So, like our 
Investigator, I think Mr Ms true attitude to risk was likely lower than TPWM said.
TPWM has said it was entitled to rely on the information Mr M gave. But I also note that 
TPWM doesnt appear to have gathered any of this information. Rather it seems this 
information was gathered by Firm S, and not corroborated by TPWM, with its first contact 
with Mr M appearing to be the point at which it issued its recommendation. 
Ive taken into account the discount rates, critical yields, what Ive said about Mr Ms attitude 
to risk, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate and also the term to 
retirement. There would be little point in Mr M giving up the guarantees available to him 
through his DB scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the 
scheme. But here I think Mr M was unlikely to receive benefits of a substantially higher 
overall value than the DB scheme at retirement, as a result of transferring, particularly in the 
event of retiring early, which TPWM said was his objective. This would be the case even if 
the scheme moved to the PPF. And indeed, I note the suitability report suggested that the 
critical yield to match the full pension the BSPS2 was expected to provide at age 57 was not 
likely to be achievable.
TPWM has said that, if growth of 5% per annum was achieved it estimated that Mr M could 
take the same benefits as the BSPS2 on a drawdown basis from either age 57 or age 65 
and the fund would last significantly beyond his life expectancy. But achieving a return of 5% 
consistently was not guaranteed. And this estimate was based on a number of other market 
conditions remaining static. Whereas, under the DB scheme, the benefits were guaranteed.  Taking all of this into account, from a financial viability point of view, I dont think I can 
reasonably conclude that a transfer was in Mr Ms best interests. Of course, financial viability 
isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. There might be other considerations 
which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered 
this below.
Flexibility and income needs
TPWM says Mr M was interested in retiring from age 57, circumstances dependent, and 
wanted the flexibility to be able to draw his benefits early, without incurring penalties.
The BSPS2 and PPF wouldve both allowed benefits to be taken from age 57. So, Mr M 
didnt need to transfer to access his benefits early.
Once Mr M began taking benefits under either the BSPS2 or the PPF it is true that they 
couldnt be varied  hed receive an escalating annual pension without the facility to alter 
this. And it is true that if Mr M drew his benefits at age 57 under either the PPF or the BSPS2 
the amount he could take would be subject to actuarial reduction. But an actuarial reduction 
is intended to reflect the pension benefits being paid for longer. The starting monetary 
amount when compared with the full pension payable from age 65  the normal scheme 
retirement age  wouldve been less. But by retiring early Mr M wouldve been receiving his 
pension for several years longer. It was a trade-off, rather than a penalty. And I dont think 
TPWM did enough to objectively explain this.
I also dont think Mr M needed to transfer to meet his income objectives. The fact find noted 
that Mr M expected to need an income of £15,000 per year in retirement. The suitability 
report though said he needed £18,000. The full pension available under the BSPS2 from age 
65 wouldve met Mr Ms stated income needs. And wouldve been guaranteed, for the rest of 
his life.
The pension available under the BSPS2 from age 57, wouldnt on its own have met Mr Ms 
expected income needs. But Mr M was a member of the new defined contribution pension 
scheme his employer had put in place after the BSPS had closed. And, I havent seen any 
suggestion he intended to change employer prior to retirement. Again, it was over 14 years 
until he was apparently considering retirement. He and his employers contributions to this 
new scheme were recording as combining to be equivalent to 16% of his salary. So, before 
even accounting for increases in salary, investment growth or Mr M increasing his 
contributions, by age 57 this fund was likely to be worth in excess of £75,000. 
This couldve been used to supplement Mr Ms income from his DB scheme to provide the 
income he expected to need. I think the same outcome couldve been achieved using the 
benefits the PPF was expected to provide. And that was before allowing for any savings or 
other assets Mr M may build up in the meantime  which given his and Mrs Ms combined 
household income exceeded their outgoings by a significant amount could have been quite 
substantial. Or accounting for any income Mrs M would still receive for the first few years of 
Mr Ms retirement  she was younger than Mr M by six years, was recorded as expecting to 
work longer (to age 60) and earned a higher salary. Or any pension benefits she my build up 
in the meantime. 
Taking all of this into account, I dont think Mr M needed flexibility with his pension as I think 
he couldve achieved his income objectives without giving up the guarantees the DB scheme 
afforded him. And while he mayve been drawn to this, TPWM wasnt there just to put in 
place what Mr M mightve thought he wanted.
Im also conscious though that Mr M was only 42 at the time of the advice - still a significant amount of time away from retirement. I dont think its likely his plans were finalised or set in 
stone and wouldve likely been subject to change, just as his circumstances and needs may 
have altered. And indeed, the suitability report made this observation. With that in mind, I 
think it was too soon to make any kind of decision about transferring out of the DB scheme. 
TPWM has argued that the CETV was likely to be lower if Mr M deferred a decision about 
transferring and joined the BSPS2. But what CETV the BSPS2 may offer in the future is 
ultimately unknown. I dont doubt that the CETV figure was appealing. But Mr M was an 
inexperienced investor who came to TPWM for advice. I think the guarantees the DB 
scheme provided were more appropriate for Mr M based on his circumstances at the time. 
Which I think TPWM shouldve explained.
So, I dont think it was a suitable recommendation or in Mr Ms best interests to make an 
irreversible decision and give up his guaranteed benefits when he did just to have flexibility 
that he didnt need. 
Death benefits
TPWM says Mr M wanted his family to benefit from his pension in the event of his death and 
was drawn to the alternative death benefits a personal pension provided. 
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr M. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr M might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr M about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement. 
The BSPS2 and the PPF provided existing death benefits, by way of a spouses and 
dependents pension (although given the age of Mr Ms children and the qualifying criteria, 
the likelihood of the dependents pension being utilised was fairly small). Nevertheless, these 
benefits, particularly the spouses pension, were likely to be useful. They were guaranteed 
and they escalated  and were not dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum 
remaining on death in a personal pension was. 
TPWM said that the spouses pension would not have been sufficient alone to meet Mrs Ms 
expected income needs in retirement, in the event of Mr Ms death. But shed have also 
benefitted from the death benefits of the new workplace defined contribution pension Mr M 
was contributing to. And she was expecting to work longer than Mr M, so had time to build 
up pension provisions of her own. And wouldve been entitled to state pension. So, I still 
think the spouses pension couldve been useful to her.
The CETV figure would no doubt have appeared attractive as a potential lump sum. But the 
sum remaining on death following a transfer, as well as being dependent on investment 
performance, wouldve also been reduced by any income Mr M drew in his lifetime. Mr M 
was recorded as being in good health, so there was nothing to suggest he was less likely to 
live until at least his average life expectancy  a significant period of time over which benefits 
could be drawn. So, the value of the DB scheme couldve been significantly depleted by the 
time it came to be passed on, particularly if he did draw funds earlier, and may not have 
provided the legacy that Mr M may have thought it would. In any event, TPWM should not 
have encouraged Mr M to prioritise the potential for alternative death benefits through a 
personal pension over his security in retirement.
Furthermore, if Mr M genuinely wanted to leave a further legacy for his family, beyond the new defined contribution pension, which didnt depend on investment returns or how much of 
his pension fund remained on his death, I think TPWM shouldve instead explored life 
insurance. Mr M was recorded as being in good health. So based on this, and his age at the 
time, its likely this wouldve been available at a reasonable cost, and it couldve been 
considered on a term assurance basis if cost was an issue, which was likely to be a lot 
cheaper to provide. The fact find indicated Mr M has a surplus income at the time, so had 
money that couldve been used to pay the premiums each month. But I cant see that TPWM 
considered this.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension meant that a transfer was in Mr Ms best interests.
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
I think Mr Ms desire for direct control over his pension benefits was overstated. Mr M was 
not an experienced investor. So, I cannot see that he had an interest in or the knowledge to 
be able to manage his pension funds on his own. And indeed, it appears the intention was 
that Firm S would manage Mr Ms pension for him moving forward, based on what happened 
here. So overall, I dont think that this was a genuine objective for Mr M  it was simply a 
consequence of transferring away from the BSPS.
I think this objective was more linked to the uncertainty about the BSPS. I dont doubt Mr M, 
like many employees of his company, was concerned about his pension. His employer had 
been consulting on its plans for the scheme for some time. And there appears to have been 
a general mistrust and lack of optimism. 
Mr M had been told, in recent correspondence from the scheme, he was going to need to 
make a choice about his pension  which I doubt is something hed done or contemplated 
before. And he mightve felt unequipped to do so. I also dont doubt Mr M had likely heard 
negative things about what could happen, including entry into the PPF. And its quite 
possible he was leaning towards the decision to transfer because of his concerns. But that is 
why it was even more important for TPWM to give Mr M an objective picture and recommend 
what was in his best interests.
TPWM has said that the BSPS2 was not a confirmed option. But I think TPWM is overstating 
the chance of the BSPS2 not happening. Again, the restructuring of BSPS had been ongoing 
for a significant amount of time by the point TPWM advised Mr M. Mr Ms employer had 
agreed actions with The Pensions Regulator, and these had been carried out as scheduled  
not least a lump sum payment into the BSPS which enabled the provision of improved 
transfer value quotations, like the one Mr M received in September 2017. The time to 
choose paperwork was clear that opting into the BSPS2 was an option. So, based on what 
had happened to that point, I think the relevant parties, not least the trustees, were confident 
that the BSPS2 would go ahead. And the TVAS TPWM carried out used the revaluation 
rates and anticipated scheme details of the BSPS2 when providing a comparison. So, it 
appears, contrary to what TPWM now argues, that it too seems to have considered at the 
time that the BSPS2 was likely to come about. And I think the BSPS2 shouldve alleviated 
some of Mr Ms concerns about the scheme moving to the PPF. 
While Mr M mightve had a significant distrust towards his employer, the BSPS2 and its 
trustees and Mr Ms employer were separate. They werent one and the same, something 
which I think couldve been discussed in more detail. Ive also seen no indication Mr M was 
planning to find work elsewhere. He was also again part of the new defined contribution 
pension scheme the employer had set up and was contributing willingly to that plan. So, I 
think the issue of distrust couldve been addressed with objective advice about the BSPS2. 
And the BSPS2 wouldve still enabled Mr M to transfer at a later date.In addition, even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that TPWM 
shouldve reassured Mr M that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he 
thought. Although the increases in payment in the PPF were lower, it would still have 
provided a guaranteed income for the rest of his life that was not subject to any investment 
risk. He couldve drawn this from age 57, as TPWM indicated he intended to. And he wasnt 
likely to improve on this income from that point by transferring. 
So, I dont think that Mr Ms concerns about the BSPS shouldve led to TPWM 
recommending he transfer out of the DB scheme altogether. 
Suitability of investments
TPWM recommended an investment strategy for Mr Ms SIPP. As Im upholding the 
complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mr M, it 
follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment recommendation. This is 
because Mr M should have been advised to remain in the DB scheme and so the 
investments wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been given.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and alternative death benefits on offer through a 
personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr M. But again, TPWM 
wasnt there to just transact what Mr M might have thought he wanted. The advisers role 
was to understand Mr Ms circumstances, separate his concerns stemming from the 
consultation and his unconfirmed plans for retirement from his genuine needs and 
recommend what was in his best interests. 
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr M was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr M was unlikely, in my view, 
to improve his retirement benefits and had no other particular reason to transfer which would 
justify giving up these guarantees. So, I dont think it was in Mr Ms best interests for him to 
transfer his DB scheme to a SIPP. And I think TPWM shouldve recommended that he not 
transfer and instead move to the BSPS2.
I appreciate that the BSPS2 hadnt been confirmed when the advice was given. But, as Ive 
already explained, I think it was clear to all parties that it was likely to be going ahead  
particularly as it was referred to in the time to choose documentation and TPWM carried 
out its transfer analysis in comparison to the benefits it provided. So, contrary to what TPWM 
has said, I do think this was an option that it couldve recommended at the time. 
Mr M had over 14 years before he reached the age at which hed indicated he might like to 
retire, and at least 12 years until he could begin to access his pension benefits. In the 
circumstances, I don't think that it would've been in his interest to accept the reduction in 
benefits he would've faced by the scheme entering the PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the 
more favourable reduction for very early retirement, in the event his plans, which were 
unconfirmed, changed. And by opting into the BSPS2, Mr M wouldve retained the ability to 
transfer out of the scheme nearer to his retirement age if he needed to. The annual 
indexation of his pension when in payment was also more advantageous under the BSPS2. 
So, I think TPWM shouldve advised Mr M to opt into the BSPS2. 
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr M would've gone ahead anyway, against TPWM's 
advice. TPWM argues that Mr M made an informed decision and so, wouldve looked to 
transfer.
I dont doubt that Mr M likely had a negative opinion relating to the BSPS and mayve been leaning towards transferring. But ultimately TPWM advised Mr M, an inexperienced investor, 
to transfer his benefits, and I think Mr M relied on that advice. And if TPWM had provided 
him with clear advice against transferring, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I 
think he wouldve accepted that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr Ms concerns about the consultation or the potential appeal of 
alternative death benefits, control or flexibility were so great that he wouldve insisted on the 
transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he had been recommended, 
didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. So, I dont think Mr M would have 
insisted on transferring.
In light of the above, I think TPWM should compensate Mr M for the unsuitable advice.
Mr Ms representatives have said that he asked for redress to be calculated under the 
previous redress rules set by the regulator. And as a result, they feel redress should be 
calculated under those previous rules and that not doing so is unfair. But I disagree. Our 
Investigator was clear, when asking about Mr Ms preference for redress, that if full and final 
settlement had not taken place by the time the new rules came into effect, wed expect 
TPWM to use those new rules to calculate any redress. And while I note there were 
discussions about TPWM potentially looking to settle the matter informally before the rules 
changed, and these went as far as TPWM asking for information in order to carry out a 
calculation, I understand no such calculation was completed and no offer made.
Therefore, when putting things right I see no reason to require TPWM to depart from using 
the regulator's current defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
I've thought about Mr M's representatives point regarding the 15% deduction from any 
redress payable, to take into account the tax Mr M would've paid had this been taken as 
income. It believes this is unfair as it doesn't account for the charges that would've been 
deducted from the fund value over that time. While I appreciate the representatives feels this 
may unfairly reduce the redress payable, I'm mindful that it is not possible to provide exact 
compensation in these circumstances, as the only way to achieve this would be to put Mr M 
back into the scheme as if the transfer out hadn't happened. So, overall, I remain of the view 
that the redress proposed fairly compensates Mr M for the impact of the unsuitable advice.
Our Investigator recommended that TPWM also pay Mr M £300 for the distress caused by 
the unsuitable advice. I dont doubt that Mr M has been caused distress and concern by 
finding out the advice may not have been suitable  particularly given the circumstances and 
uncertainty under which he first asked for this advice. And Im conscious this upset wouldnt 
have happened but for the unsuitable advice. So, in the circumstances, I think the award the 
Investigator recommended is fair.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr M, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr M would 
have most likely elected to join the BSPS2 if suitable advice had been given. 
TPWM must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
TPWM should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A 
copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr M and our Service upon completion of the calculation. 
For clarity, Mr M has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age of 65, as per the 
usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ms 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, TPWM should:
calculate and offer Mr M redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr M before starting the redress calculation that:
- his redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest his redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr M receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr M accepts TPWMs offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr M for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ms end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr M as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, TPWM may 
make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that 
consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Ms likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
In addition, TPWM should pay Mr M £300 for the distress caused by the disruption to his 
retirement planning.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require True Potential Wealth 
Management LLP to pay Mr M the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
True Potential Wealth Management LLP pays Mr M the balance.If Mr M accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on True Potential Wealth 
Management LLP.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr M can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr M may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2023.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman