DRN-1341112
The complaint
Mr M complains that Close Brothers Limited trading as Close Brothers Retail Finance (CB) 
incorrectly registered a default on his credit file.
What happened
In March 2017 Mr M was supplied with a mobile phone and entered into a fixed sum loan 
agreement with CB. The agreement was for a term of 24 months.
Within the agreement, Mr M had the option to upgrade the phone after 12 months, which he 
decided to take advantage of. The upgrade process involves the mobile phone provider 
sending a link to the customer, the customer clicking on the link and selecting a new device 
and entering into a new finance agreement with CB. The new device and a returns pack is 
sent to the customer. When the customer receives the returns pack, they use this to send 
the old device back to the mobile phone provided. When the mobile phone provider receives 
the device, it settles the old finance agreement and the customer pays the new agreement 
only.
Mr M exercised his option to upgrade in March 2018. A new device was sent to him and his 
new agreement with CB was activated with the first instalment due in April 2018. 
In April 2018, CB took a 13th instalment under the old agreement because the mobile phone 
provider hadnt instructed CB that the old device had been returned and that the old 
agreement could be settled. 
Later in April 2018 Mr M emailed CB asking it to terminate his old agreement. CB didnt reply 
to the email. In May 2018 Mr M emailed CB again with the same request. CB didnt reply, so 
Mr M cancelled his direct debit.
CB says it tried to contact Mr M to explain that it couldnt terminate the old agreement 
because the mobile phone prodder hadnt instructed settlement. The mobile phone provider 
instructed CB to settle the agreement on 30 May 2018. In the meantime, Mr M had missed 
the may payment under the old agreement. CB sent arrears letters.
Mr M contacted CB to complain about the arrears letters. He asked for a refund of the 
instalment taken in April 2018 and said hed been unable to return his old phone sooner 
because the returns pack hadnt been sent to him in time.
By this time, CB had issued a notice of default in respect of the outstanding May instalment. 
It passed the account to a debt collection agency.
In January 2019 Mr C complained to CB. He was unhappy that hed been contacted by the 
debt collection agency and said the outstanding balance was incorrect. In response, CB 
acknowledged that the outstanding balance communicated to the debt collection agency was 
incorrect. It said Mr M was still liable to pay the instalment due in May 2018.
Mr M wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service. He said that because 
CB had recorded a default on his credit file and because this took a long time to correct, this 
had negatively impacted him, and hed had to take out a bad credit mortgage. He wants 
compensation.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said the missed instalment had been 
outstanding for several months and he didnt think CB had made an error in recording the 
default. The investigator thought CB had acted fairly by removing the default from Mr Ms 
credit file and said he didnt think CB needed to compensate Mr M.
Mr M didnt agree. He said that an incorrect outstanding balance was recorded as a default 
on his credit file for a long time which meant he had to take a bad credit mortgage. He said 
hed responded to CB each time it contacted him about the outstanding balance and that CB 
had failed to respond to his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and in my own words. Im not 
responding to every single point made by the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by 
this. Instead Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do 
this. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. Im satisfied that 
I dont need to comment on every individual argument to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
I understand why Mr M is concerned that a default was registered on his credit file for an 
incorrect balance. I also understand why Mr M decided to cancel his direct debit in May 
2018. From his perspective, hed received his new phone and had entered into a new 
finance agreement with CB. Hed also sent two emails to CB asking to terminate the old 
agreement which had gone unanswered. If CB had responded to Mr Ms emails and 
explained that it couldnt settle the agreement until it heard from the mobile phone provider 
that the old device had been returned, I dont think Mr M wouldve cancelled his direct debit.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the upgraded offer. These say that payments must 
be maintained under the existing agreement until receiving confirmation that the handset has 
been inspected and the old agreement settled. Im satisfied Mr M was aware  or ought to 
have been aware  of these terms and conditions so I think he must bear some responsibility 
for cancelling his direct debit early.
On balance, and despite the lack of communication from CB, I think Mr M was liable to pay 
the outstanding instalment because he cancelled his direct debit before the old agreement 
had been settled.
I appreciate that Mr M disputes what CB has said about its attempts to contact him. I can 
see that CB sent a default notice on 9 July 2018 and that Mr M contacted CB on 12 July 
2018. It was at this point that Mr M advised that the returns pack hadnt been sent to him in 
time. I havent seen any evidence to enable me to say whether the return pack was sent late 
or not. But even if it was sent late, I still think Mr M must accept responsibility for the 
outstanding instalment because he cancelled his direct debit before the old agreement had 
been settled.
I can see that CB sent arrears letters to Mr M asking him to pay the May 2018 instalment. 
Theres a dispute as to whether Mr M responded to these letters or not but irrespective of that, Mr M didnt pay the outstanding balance and the agreement was ultimately terminated. 
On balance, I dont think CB did anything wrong by terminating the agreement and passing 
the account to debt recovery because the balance had been outstanding for several months.
CB has acknowledged that the balance reported to the debt recovery agency was incorrect. 
Based on what Ive seen. This incorrect balance wasnt corrected by CB for several weeks. 
Mr M raised this with CB on 20 January 2019, but it wasnt adjusted until 14 March 2019.
Ive thought about the point made by Mr M that the incorrectly reported default amount on his 
credit file had a greater negative impact than if the correct amount had been reported. Whilst 
I agree that the recency, severity and frequency of late payments affect how much of an 
impact the information will have, I havent seen anything to persuade me that the incorrect 
amount negatively impacted Mr M any more than the correct amount would have done. In 
other words, I think its likely that the default itself caused a negative impact, but I dont think 
the reported balance made any difference.
Taking everything into consideration, and whilst I understand that Mr M will be disappointed 
by my decision, I dont think CB acted unfairly by terminating the agreement and registering 
the default because the balance had remained outstanding for several months. Im not 
persuaded that the incorrectly reported default amount made a difference to the impact on 
MR s credit file. CB has removed the default from the credit file now which I think is a 
reasonable resolution to the complaint.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2020.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman