DRN-3290850
The complaint
Mr R complained that he was mis-sold two credit card payment protection (PPI) policies by 
Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard (Barclays).
What happened
Mr R took out a credit card with Barclays in April 2000, and the first PPI policy was added at 
the same time. This policy was cancelled in 2001. The second policy  on the same credit 
card - was sold in September 2007, and cancelled in 2009. 
In summary, Mr R said that he wasnt given a choice about either policy, and that neither 
was suitable for him. The first policy cost 70p for each £100.00 owed on the credit card, and 
the second policy 79p for each £100 owed. In each case, if Mr R had successfully claimed 
on the policy for sickness or unemployment, each month it wouldve paid out 10% of the 
balance owing when he stopped work. This wouldve carried on for up to 12 months per 
claim.
Our adjudicator looked at this complaint, and initially thought that it should not be upheld. 
However, Mr R then sent in some new information, which our adjudicator put to Barclays. 
Taking this new information into account, Barclays then said it would uphold Mr Rs 
complaint about the first policy. But it didnt agree that the complaint about the second policy 
should be upheld. This was because it said that Mr R had successfully claimed on the 
second policy, and the amount it had paid out under the claim was much more than the 
compensation that would have been due to Mr R  so he had suffered no financial loss. 
Mr R didnt agree that he shouldnt be paid compensation for the second policy, and asked 
for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays has agreed that Mr R should be paid compensation for the first PPI policy, and I 
understand that it has sent him a cheque for the amount involved. So I dont need to look at 
that part of the complaint any further. 
With regard to the second PPI policy, Barclays sent in evidence to confirm that it had paid 
out the maximum possible amount for a single claim on the policy  that is, £18,000.00. 
It also sent in evidence to say that, if this part of the complaint was upheld, the 
compensation due to Mr R in respect of the premiums paid and interest would be just under 
£3,000.00  much less than he has already received because of the claim. Mr R has had a 
copy of this calculation.
This means that Mr R has not suffered a financial loss on the second PPI policy. So I dont 
need to decide whether it was mis-sold. I say this because compensation for a mis-sold 
policy would be calculated so as to put the consumer in the position they would have been in 
had they not had the policy at all. But in this case, Mr R has made a successful claim on the 
policy, and he has already received much more than would be paid in compensation if I 
upheld his complaint. And it would not be fair to award a further amount that would put him in 
a better position that he would otherwise have been in. 
Mr R has mentioned concerns about other issues relating to his credit card, such as the 
charges imposed, and the credit limit granted to him. However, this decision is only about 
the sale of the two PPI policies. If Mr R is still unhappy about the other matters he should 
firstly put those concerns to Barclays so that it has a chance to answer them. 
I appreciate that Mr R feels strongly about this. But for the reasons I have explained above I 
will not be asking Barclays to do anything more than it has already done. 
My final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC has upheld Mr Rs complaint about the first PPI policy, sold in 
2000, and has issued the compensation. So I will not be asking it to do anything more. 
Im satisfied that Mr R has suffered no financial loss as a result of the sale of the second PPI 
policy in 2007. So it would not be appropriate to take this part of the complaint further, as, if I 
found that the PPI was mis-sold, no compensation would be due to Mr R. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman