DRN-4237324
The complaint
Mr I complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money froze his account and 
provided him with poor customer service.
What happened
Mr I says that on 17 March 2023, his bank account and savings account with Virgin Money 
were frozen, leaving him without access to much needed funds while he was struggling with 
health issues after losing his job. He said that despite making repeated attempts to contact 
Virgin Money, he was not provided with any assistance for four days, and he was repeatedly 
ignored by them. Mr I has said that he felt he was not treated equally due to his nationality. 
Mr I made a complaint to Virgin Money. 
Virgin Money partially upheld Mr Is complaint. They said they had the right to terminate the 
relationship with any customer and they provided a website link to their terms and conditions 
confirming this. They said he was advised the freeze was due to post application checks that 
they completed. They apologised for the service he received from one of their call handlers 
and said this was not the level of service they would wish to provide to any of their 
customers. Virgin Money said Mr I was allowed to transfer money out of his account, and he 
had been served with a 60 days notice of account closure. They offered him £25 
compensation. Virgin Money issued a further response where they offered him an extra £150 
due to health information Mr I provided them. Mr I brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Is complaint. He said the account was closed by Virgin 
Money and 60 days notice was given by them, which they were allowed to do under the 
terms and conditions of the account. He said having listened to the calls Mr I had with Virgin 
Money, he found the call handlers to have acted as we would have expected them to. 
Mr I asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. He made a number of points. In 
summary, Mr I said he felt discriminated by Virgin Money and mentioned the Equality Act 
2010 as they questioned the legitimacy of his income and closed his account shortly after he 
attempted to open a business account with them. He said he was unable to return to the 
bank which he switched from. Mr I said while perception of his calls could vary, he believes 
the customer service he received from several staff was a form of indirect rudeness and 
neglect. Mr I wanted £385,000 compensation for the impact of Virgin Moneys actions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware that Ive only summarised Mr Is complaint points. And Im not going to 
respond to every single point made by him. No discourtesy is intended by this. Our rules 
allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive 
ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point to be able 
to reach what I think is a fair outcome.
Id like to explain to Mr I that it is not within this services remit to tell a business how to run 
their processes or procedures such as how they run their security or vulnerable customer 
procedures, including when they should remove blocks from an account. It would be the role 
of the regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority, who have the power to instruct Virgin 
Money to make changes to their policies and procedures, if necessary. 
Mr I has said that he suspects Virgin Money are not complying with their obligations under 
the Equality Act based on how they treated him. Ive taken the Equality Act 2010 into 
account when deciding this complaint  given that its relevant law  but Ive ultimately 
decided this complaint based on whats fair and reasonable. If Mr I wants a decision that 
Virgin Money has breached the Equality Act 2010, then hed need to go to Court. However, 
based on what Mr I has said in relation to Virgin Money discriminating against him, I am not 
persuaded that they treated Mr I any differently to other customers in similar situations, and I 
will explain why.
Virgin Money explained in their response to Mr Is complaint on 17 April 2023 that actions 
were taken due to post application checks being completed. Virgin Money have told us what 
these checks were, and while I cant disclose to Mr I what these checks were in order to 
ensure Virgin Money meets their legal and regulatory requirements, I can assure Mr I that 
they werent in relation to his nationality. Ive considered what Mr I has said Virgin Money 
questioning the legitimacy of his income, but Virgin Money have regulatory requirements to 
know their customers. And I would expect them to complete income checks with Mr I in the 
same way they would with any other customer  regardless of their nationality.
Unfortunately, Mr Is account was frozen while Virgin Money were completing their checks. 
Section 11 of Virgin Moneys terms and conditions  which Mr I wouldve needed to agree 
with when opening his account shows they can say no to stopping payments out of the 
account. And based on the information Ive seen, but I am unable to disclose, Im satisfied 
that this was a proportionate course of action here. But I do think there could have been 
more that Virgin Money could have done here. I say this because on the complaint call, Mr 
Is friend asks the call handler about what can be done and explains the vulnerability of Mr I. 
The call handler says there are things they could do like allowing him to take cash from an 
ATM or the branch and indicates the block could be temporarily removed. It appears she 
lifted a block and Mr I withdrew £79. 
So, if the block could have been removed temporarily to provide a small amount of money to 
be withdrawn/transferred from the account, then Im persuaded that this could have been 
offered on a previous call to allow Mr I to have a small amount of money to pay for items 
such as food. 
The freeze was on the account for less than four days. I appreciate that this will be of little 
consolation to Mr I given his financial situation at the time and the impact this had on his 
health, but Im persuaded that Virgin Money did try to help Mr I here. I know he will strongly 
disagree with this, but Im satisfied they made reasonable adjustments for Mr I which differed 
from their normal process to eventually remove the block. I say this because he would 
normally be required to go to a branch with his identification. But based on what Mr I told 
them about his health, they allowed him to upload these documents to them, which I think 
was the right thing to do in Mr Is circumstances. 
Ive considered what Mr I has said about the calls he had with Virgin Money and I 
acknowledge what hes said about how perspective of calls can vary. As Mr I was directly a 
part of these calls then his perception would likely be different to someone who wasnt on the 
calls. But I have listened to a number of calls he had with Virgin Money. There were calls 
where staff werent able to help Mr I such as two calls I listened to when he had rung a department unrelated to the issue, but they advised him of the opening hours of the relevant 
department. 
Another call I listened to Mr I explains to the call handler that he is unable to visit a branch 
and he has uploaded documents as requested, but the call handler confirms that department 
isnt open until Monday, and she is unable to access the account for him. So although these 
people were unable to help Mr I, they gave him information to help assist him such as a 
telephone number direct to the relevant department and their opening hours. 
There was one call I listened to which I thought the call handler could have made things 
clearer to Mr I. An example of this is when Mr I talks to the call handler about the block and 
the call handler tells him they are waiting for a check back to do with his driving licence. Mr I 
asks if she could speak to his friend who asks the call handler if he could speak to someone 
senior. The call handler tells Mr I she would see if someone was available, and the line went 
quiet and it appeared that the call handler was still at her phone and there was typing, which 
after a while caused Mr Is friend to ask if she was getting a supervisor. It was only at this 
time that the call handler explained she was working from home and needed to use a 
messaging service to see if a supervisor was available. 
Mr Is friend had made it clear about Mr Is vulnerability on this call. Thankfully while he was 
on this call the information about Mr Is driving licence had been returned and the call 
handler was able to lift the blocks on Mr Is account on that call. 
Virgin Money acted in line with their terms and conditions when they gave Mr I notice of the 
account closure. I know he has said that this was shortly after he applied for a business 
account with them, but Im satisfied these events are not linked. Im persuaded that Virgin 
Money would have taken the decision to provide Mr I notice of closure and close his 
personal account regardless of him applying for a business account, based on the notes Ive 
seen about the closure of his personal account.
Ive considered what Mr I has said about being unable to return to the bank which he 
switched from. But the actions of another banking provider would be out of Virgin Moneys 
control, so I cant hold them responsible if a third party bank wouldnt allow him to return.
Ive considered what would be a fair outcome for this complaint. Virgin Money have already 
paid Mr I £175 compensation. Im aware that Mr I wants £385,000 compensation for the 
impact of Virgin Moneys actions. But this would not be in line with our awards for 
compensation for what happened. And I know this will bitterly disappoint Mr I here, but Im 
persuaded that £175 is proportionate for what happened here. 
I say this because I do think there was more Virgin Money couldve done such as allowing 
him a small amount of money for food during the time his account was blocked (although I 
accept Virgin Money need to balance this out with their legal and regulatory requirements). 
Based on the health information that Mr I provided Virgin Money and ourselves, this would 
have had a bigger impact on him than if he didnt have these health conditions. There were 
times as Ive mentioned where a call could have been handled better and they could have 
taken Mr Is vulnerabilities into account more in their process in this instance. £175 is in line 
with our awards for the events that happened here. So if Virgin Money have not paid the full 
£175 to Mr I then they should pay him this money, but I dont require them to do anything 
further.
My final decision
Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money has already made an offer to pay £175 to 
settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.So my decision is that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money should pay Mr I £175 for 
distress and inconvenience (less anything they have already paid him). But I wont be 
requiring them to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman