DRN-2892208
The complaint
Mr H and Mr Rs complaint is about a buy-to-let mortgage they hold with Bank of Ireland 
(UK) Plc (BoI). They are unhappy with the value BoI attached to their property when it 
decided what interest rate products it was willing to offer them in 2020. 
What happened
Mr H and Mr R took out the mortgage with BoI in 2014. In 2020 Mr H and Mr R wanted to 
take out a new fixed interest rate product. They were told that in order to be allowed to take 
out the product they wanted, they loan-to-value (LTV) on their property had to be a 
maximum of 60%. However, based on BoIs desktop assessment of the property value, the 
LTV was higher than this. The desktop assessment was based on the previous physical 
valuation figure being updated by the use of statistical data.
Mr H and Mr R werent happy with this and gave BoI details of properties they considered 
were comparable with theirs and indicated their property had a higher value than BoI had 
calculated it did. BoI said it wouldnt accept these comparables, but Mr H and Mr R could 
pay for a new physical valuation to be done. They took this option and although they believe 
the valuation is still lower than it should be, allowed them to have the interest rate product 
they wanted. 
Mr H and Mr R complained to BoI about its desktop calculation, as it had created a value 
that was over 20% lower than the physical valuation, and they requested that it refund the 
valuation fee. 
BoI responded to the complaint, but it didnt uphold it. It said that its lending policy allowed it, 
where product switches were concerned, to calculate a value for properties as it does. It 
does this on all mortgages it holds, and it considers this type of valuations are sufficiently 
robust for making lending decisions of this type. If a customer disagrees with a valuation, 
then they have the option to pay for a physical valuation. That valuation can then be 
challenged if the customer remains unhappy. BoI said it was satisfied it had followed its 
policies and wouldnt refund the valuation fee.
Mr H and Mr R asked this service to consider their complaint. They told us that they had two 
other rental properties mortgaged with BoI and the desktop valuation for them was 26% and 
38% respectively, below the amount they believe comparators indicate the properties were 
worth. They think the revaluation tool BoI uses is so inaccurate that it isnt reasonable for it 
to be used. In addition, they said they believe the valuation fee provides an additional 
income stream for BoI.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but he didnt recommend it be upheld. He 
didnt think the way BoI revalued the property was unreasonable as it used an industry 
index. In addition, it offered an alternative option if its customers werent happy with the 
desktop valuation. He didnt think BoI had acted unreasonably or treated Mr H and Mr R 
unfairly.
Mr H and Mr R didnt accept the investigators conclusions. They said they think they should 
have been able to challenge the desktop valuation in a way that didnt involve them incurring 
any cost. 
As the further comments didnt alter our investigators conclusions, the complaint was 
passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Most lenders offer different interest rate products depending on what the LTV of a property 
is. It is standard practice for the LTV to be reassessed before a new rate is agreed. Due to 
the cost of a physical valuation, lenders will use statistical data to update the value of a 
property to calculate the LTV. This means that the valuations may not be entirely accurate, 
but in general they will be a reasonable estimate. It isnt unreasonable for a lender to do this 
and it saves the majority of their customers the cost of a valuation.
BoI allows a customer to appeal the desktop valuation, but the appeal must be in the form of 
a physical valuation. This is again quite normal. Lenders are not property experts, which is 
why they require a valuation to be produced before deciding whether to accept a mortgage 
application. Lenders will rely on external, appropriately qualified experts  usually surveyors 
registered with the Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors (RICS)  to assess a property and 
provide its value. The membership of this professional body provides the lender and its 
customer with reassurance that the expert can do the job they are being required to. 
I know that this will disappoint Mr H and Mr R, but I dont consider BoI acted unfairly or 
unreasonably when it relied on the desktop calculation of the property value or that it 
required the appeal to that figure to be in the form of a physical valuation. As such, it 
wouldnt be reasonable to require BoI to refund the valuation fee Mr H and Mr R paid.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr H and Mr R to accept or reject my decision 
before 20 August 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman