DRN-4376063
The complaint
Mr C complains that Spreadex Limited allowed him to run up significant unaffordable sports 
spread betting losses. He feels it shouldve have carried out more stringent checks and 
restricted access to his account sooner.
What happened
Mr C opened an account with Spreadex in July 2019 through which he was able to place 
fixed-odds sports bets and also carry out sports spread betting.
In March 2022, he requested to be self-excluded from fixed-odds betting. Spreadex actioned 
his request and at the same confirmed it was also excluding him from spread betting as a 
precaution. 
Mr C then raised his complaint that Spreadex had failed to carry out sufficient affordability 
checks and shouldve been aware from the activity on his account that he wasnt in control of 
his gambling. 
Spreadex considered the complaint but didnt feel it should be upheld. It said, in brief -  
At the point of account opening Mr C had provided information about his financial 
circumstances, confirming his salary at £70,000 and his savings at £100,000. 
Spreadex had carried out electronic ID and credit checks that had not shown any 
issues.
It had issued a number of risk warnings in line with its normal procedures and had 
also provided ongoing risk messages to which Mr C had provided active agreement. 
It noted that Mr C had used its time out feature on two occasions. The feature 
applied to fixed-odds betting but information about timing out from spread betting had 
also been provided.
Although Mr C had said that Spreadex knew he had a problem, it only became 
apparent when he contacted Spreadex following his decision to self-exclude from 
fixed-odds betting.
Once Spreadex was aware of Mr Cs situation, it had taken the precaution of also 
excluding him from spread betting and provided information on obtaining support for 
gambling issues. 
It also confirmed it would write off the balance of his account  just under £2,000.  
The complaint was referred to this service. I issued a provisional decision in which I 
explained my reasoning for concluding that the complaint shouldnt be upheld. I said, in part:
Mr Cs complaint focusses primarily on his account activity in the six weeks leading up to 
him making the decision to self-exclude in early March 2022. It was during this period that 
his activity increased considerably in frequency, and he was depositing funds at a greater 
rate  the actions that he feels shouldve alerted Spreadex to a problem. But before looking 
in detail at what happened then, I think its worth considering events prior to this as I think it 
provides important background. And further, theres been some confusion in what the 
investigator said previously.
When Mr C opened his account in 2021 it gave him access to both fix-odds sports betting 
and sports spread betting. His account activity started with fixed-odds betting for the first 
month or so, but he then started to do some spread betting alongside the fixed-odds betting.  
Mr C then stopped fixed-odds betting in late November 2021 when he reached a pre-set 
deposit limit that Spreadex had in place specifically for that type of betting. This was a result 
of it falling under a different regulator  the Gambling Commission  and therefore different 
rules and guidance. Sports spread betting is regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA).
Mr C continued to use the account solely for spread betting, with his activity picking up 
considerably from January 2022 onwards. This activity involved an increase in deposits into 
the account, which were flagged by Spreadex and prompted an enhanced due diligence 
check, with an email sent to Mr C on 21 February 2022 requesting financial information to 
support his account funding levels. This information wasnt provided and around two weeks 
later Mr C self-excluded and the account was closed. 
I think its important to stress that the email to Mr C in February 2022 wasnt prompted by the 
frequency of betting or Spreadex having concerns about Mr Cs betting patterns. Rather, it 
was the deposit levels in the context of Spreadexs anti-money laundering (AML) 
responsibilities that prompted the check. 
While the activity on Mr Cs account had increased, it wasnt outside the parameters of the 
financial information hed supplied to Spreadex, information on which it was entitled to rely, 
and without any requirement for verification (although, as noted, a credit check had been 
performed at the outset). The information supplied by Mr C indicated a salary of £70,000 
(which increased slightly to £80,000 when the information was sought at a second check in 
October 2022) and savings of £100,000. 
Mr C also activated on line two time outs of a couple of days each at the end of 
January/beginning of February 2022. These time-outs were actually for fixed-odd betting 
only (The message confirming the time-outs explained that if the user also wanted them to 
apply to spread betting, they could call Spreadex). 
As Mr C had, as noted, reached the fixed-odds deposit limit in November 2021, he wouldve 
been unable to place fixed-odds bets in any event in January/February 2022, so there was 
actually no need for him to activate the time-outs. But looking at his spread betting activity it 
seems he didnt place any spread bets during the time-out windows. So, I think it likely he 
simply assumed the on-line time-outs also applied to spread betting. Either way, the use of 
the time-out function suggest that he understood how his account could be managed and 
controlled where he felt it was necessary. 
What Im trying to illustrate in describing this background and events is the type of activity 
that was occurring with Mr Cs account and how, while there were actions that stemmed from 
increased usage, there was nothing in my view that wouldve clearly alerted Spreadex to a 
problem prior to Mr Cs self-exclusion.
I accept that he was gambling a significant amount and there was a substantial increase 
from January 2022 onwards. But I dont think that increase in isolation would, or should, 
have been enough to prompt Spreadex to take earlier action to restrict the account. It 
provides an execution-only service, so responsibility for the frequency and size of bets 
remains solely with the account holder. 
Spreadex has over-arching regulatory responsibilities (set by the FCA in respect of sports 
spread betting) to act fairly and in the interests of its customers. But restricting an account based solely on an increase in the frequency of betting would in itself potentially be acting 
unfairly. Of course, Spreadex could have sought more information or verification from Mr C 
at any point, but I dont think it necessarily should have done. There was no regulatory 
requirement for it to do so. As soon as there was reason to suspect a problem  the point at 
which Mr C self-excluded  Spreadex acted, as I would have expected it to do.      
Ive thought about whether Mr C hitting the fixed-odds deposit limit in November 2021 ought 
to have acted as an alert to Spreadex. But Im conscious that, while this clearly was part of 
the wider circumstances of the complaint and something that Spreadex would of course 
have been aware of, the deposit limit existed to address a separate issue under a separate 
set of Gambling Commission rules. To my mind, its another example of something that 
Spreadex could perhaps have used as a red flag, but there was no requirement that it had 
to. 
As Ive said, I recognise my provisional findings will be very disappointing for Mr C. I 
understand how strongly he feels that Spreadex shouldve acted sooner. But given what it 
understood about his financial circumstances and the fact that he appeared to be actively 
managing his account, I dont think it was wrong to continue allowing him to use the facility. 
As such, I dont think it needs to take any action or pay any compensation to Mr C.
Mr C didnt accept my provisional decision. He made several points, which Ive summarised 
below:
Id incorrectly said the account was opened in in August 2021. It was actually July 
2019 (This has been corrected in the background section of this final decision). 
The financial information hed provided at the account opening was inaccurate and 
over-stated. Spreadex shouldve done further checks after July 2019, which would 
have likely shown that the figures hed provided were incorrect. 
The savings figure hed later provided in October 2021 was £50,000, not £100,000 as 
Id stated. The £100,000 figure had been given at the outset, so was no longer 
relevant.  
As such, the amount relevant to any ongoing assessment of affordability and AML 
checks should be the £50,000 (although this was never verified). Against this figure, 
his losses across all activities on the account shouldve alerted Spreadex to a 
problem. 
Spreadexs case appeared to be premised on the fact that time-outs were taken for 
fixed-odds betting only and because none was taken for spread-betting this absolved 
it of responsibility. But he was of the view that the time-outs had worked for spread-
betting and, further, hed made attempts to log-on and deposit during the time-outs 
and these shouldve acted as red flags.
When fixed-odds betting was suspended, all account activity shouldve been 
suspended pending proof of financing. The amount being spent on the account 
shouldve alerted Spreadex to a problem given the income and savings figures that 
had been provided.
More information on attempted logins, declined transactions and changes to deposit 
limits should be obtained. This would show that the time-outs also worked for spread 
betting. There should also be clarity on what the binaries referred to in relation to 
time-outs are, because this also implies that spread betting was timed-out. 
In summary, there was a lack of due diligence by Spreadex, and the level of losses 
compared with the declared, but unverified, assets cant be tick-boxed away.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I remain of the view that the complaint should not be upheld. Ive 
considered Mr Cs additional comments carefully and as I noted previously, do very much 
recognise and understand his strength of feeling. This has clearly been a very difficult 
experience for him. 
But I must be impartial and independently reach what I consider to be a fair and reasonable 
conclusion based on the evidence and wider circumstances. And this includes taking into 
consideration the regulations that applied to Spreadexs provision of its spread betting 
service. 
If Ive not commented further on any particular point, its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it. Rather, its because I dont feel I need to comment on in it in 
reaching what I consider to be a fair and reasonable outcome.  
Its clear Mr C feels that Spreadex shouldve done more to check the information it was 
provided with and to act sooner on potential red flags. But as I said before, there was no 
requirement for it to do so. It was entitled to rely upon the information provided to it. As soon 
as it became clearly aware of a possible problem  with Mr Cs decision to self-exclude (as 
opposed to time-out)  it acted. Prior to this it did have checks in place, but these were more 
focussed on its AML responsibilities. 
I note Mr Cs comments concerning the time-outs and whether (or not) they applied to the 
spread betting element of the account. Spreadex has clarified that the on-line time-outs 
applied to sports fixed-odds betting and sports binaries, which are a type of spread betting. I 
appreciate this differentiation has caused some confusion and that Mr C feels Spreadex has 
provided misleading information in this respect. But I dont think there has been an intention 
to mislead by Spreadex and, importantly, I dont think the previous lack of clarity about which 
services the on-line time-outs applied to impacted my overall conclusion that Spreadex had 
acted reasonably in the circumstances. 
As I said in my provisional decision, the use of the time-outs demonstrated that Spreadex 
had account management tools in place, which Mr C knew how to use and did use. 
Spreadexs records show that Mr C didnt continue to try and bet during the time-outs (save 
for a single attempted binary bet during the first one). So, it does seem that he pro-actively 
used the tool, it worked as it was supposed to and there was no activity during the time-outs, 
such as repeated attempts to over-ride them in some way, that might have given an 
indication that something was wrong.    
Clearly Mr C was betting in high volumes and his losses increased considerably in the first 
few months of 2022. But, as I said before, I dont think that the increases in isolation would, 
or should, have been enough to prompt Spreadex to take earlier action to restrict the 
account. I note his comment about the amount of savings he declared in October 2021 being 
lower than the £100,000 when he opened the account. But, again, thats not something that 
changes my view. He still declared figures for income and savings reasonably consistent 
with his account activity.   
I recognise that Mr C strongly believes such factors should act as red flags and I do have 
some sympathy with that view. As my provisional decision noted, there were things 
Spreadex could have done, but not that it had to do. I can see why Mr C would view this as 
an unsatisfactory situation, but I must consider the matter in light of the rules and regulations 
that applied at the time. My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2023.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman