DRN-3821744
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) has failed to refund 
£200,000 they say they lost to an investment scam.
They are also unhappy with the way that NatWest investigated their complaint.
What happened
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. But in summary, Mr 
and Mrs G sent £200,000 to Volksbank Liechtenstein. The funds were intended to be used 
for forex trading with Swisspro Asset Management AG (Swisspro). Mr and Mrs G was 
promised payments from Swisspro, but after what appears to be two payments, they did not 
receive anything further. Swisspro entered liquidation in 2019. Mr and Mrs G did not receive 
their £200,000 back.
Mr and Mrs G raised a complaint with NatWest in 2022 as they believe that it should have 
stopped the payment. They therefore requested that NatWest refund them. NatWest 
declined to do this.
One of our investigators looked into this matter and they did not think that NatWest had done 
anything wrong. The investigator also explained that she could not comment on NatWests 
complaint handling. Mr and Mrs G disagreed and therefore their complaint has been passed 
to me to issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons.
The relevant regulations and industry guidance makes it clear that banks have a duty to 
protect consumers from the risk of financial harm, including fraud and scams. But the 
obligation to warn customers of the risk of such financial harm will only reasonably have 
been engaged if there were sufficient grounds for suspecting the payee was a fraudster; 
meaning that NatWest could have delayed the payment(s) while concerns about the payee 
were discussed with Mr and Mrs G.
So, I would need to be satisfied that there were concerns that Swisspro Asset Management 
AG (Swisspro) was operating a scam when Mr and Mrs G made the payment of £200,000 
in their NatWest branch in February 2017 in order to expect NatWest to have done anything 
further here. Ive consulted the official organisations that publish warnings about merchants 
that operate in the UK and abroad, including the Investor Alerts Portal of the International 
Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO), as well as the FCAs own warning list. 
These watchlists, along with other reputable sources, lead me to believe that there were no 
warnings about Swisspro at the time Mr and Mrs G made their payment in February 2017.
At the time Mr and Mrs G made their payment, Swisspro was a legitimate company that was 
authorised by the Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority (FINMA) or at least it 
appeared that way at the time. I appreciate it later filed for bankruptcy in 2019 and that 
comments made during this process suggest that it may have been operating as a Ponzi 
scheme, but that does not mean that NatWest should have been aware that it was operating 
fraudulently when the payment was made. Rather, NatWest at the time would only have 
known that Mr and Mrs Gs money went to a business that appeared to be operating 
legitimately in another jurisdiction at the time. 
Overall Im not persuaded that there was any reason for NatWest to have been aware that 
Swisspro was fraudulent or operating a scam at the time of the payment. As a result, 
NatWests duty to intervene wasnt triggered. Therefore, I dont consider the bank acted 
unfairly by preventing or failing to intervene in the payment being made. 
Mr and Mrs G has further raised concerns that NatWest ought to have done more in terms of 
anti-money laundering checks. Id like to assure Mr and Mrs G that I have considered all the 
relevant laws, regulations and good industry practice when considering their complaint. This 
includes anti-money laundering regulations, because although non-compliance with these 
regulations is a wider matter for the regulator rather than our service, it is still something we 
consider when looking at whether a business could have prevented a fraud or scam. 
Ultimately, Im not persuaded there was anything suspicious at the time that ought 
reasonably to have concerned NatWest, or that it had any reason to suspect that Mr and Mrs 
G were attempting to launder money themselves. Ultimately Mr and Mrs G were trying to 
invest in a company that appeared legitimate at the time through a third-party bank that still 
operates and that is regulated. So, I dont consider there to be any basis in which the bank 
can fairly on reasonably be held liable for their loss on this basis either. 
Ive also thought about whether NatWest ought to have done anything to recover the funds 
after Mr and Mrs G reported their loss. Mr and Mrs G didnt dispute the payment with 
NatWest until 2022. Given the investment company has since become insolvent, it would be 
highly unlikely that the bank could have recovered any funds, particularly given it was around 
four years after the payment had been made. NatWest also wouldnt have been under any 
obligation to consider refunding the payment under the Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM) Code either, given the payment was made before the Code came into force (and the 
code doesnt apply to payments made to overseas banks either).
I note Mr and Mrs Gs concerns about the thoroughness of NatWests investigation during its 
complaint handling process and their frustration that NatWest refused to accept that 
Swisspro was operating as a scam. I should explain though DISP 2.3.1 explains that our 
service can consider a complaint if the business, in this case NatWest, is carrying out a 
regulated activity. And there are several activities that are deemed to be regulated. But 
crucially, complaints handling isnt one of those. So, as per the rules set by the regulator, I 
cant consider how NatWest investigated Mr and Mrs Gs complaint.Finally, Mr and Mrs G have explained that they were vulnerable consumers at the time of the 
transfer. And that this combined with the transaction being unusual for their account should 
have meant that NatWest denied the transfer or at the very least provided a warning. But I 
dont think that this was the case, ultimately Mr and Mrs G were transferring funds for a 
regulated investment with no warnings at the time via a bank that at the time appeared to be 
legitimate. I accept with the benefit of hindsight Swisspro may not have been operating 
correctly. But NatWest was not to know this at the time, so I dont think it did anything wrong 
in allowing the transfer.
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs G, and Im sorry to hear 
they have lost a significant amount of money. However, in the circumstances, I do not 
consider it would be fair and reasonable to hold NatWest liable for their loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman