DRN-2222043
The complaint
Mrs H has complained about Fairmead Insurance Limited trading as Legal and Generals 
decision to decline a claim. Mrs H made a claim under the buildings section of her home 
insurance policy for damaged cladding which she says was caused during a storm.
All reference to Fairmead in my decision includes its agents.
What happened
Mrs H contacted her insurer, Fairmead in May 2020 to report damage to her home. She said 
that high winds had caused cladding to break and fall, leaving a hole. 
Fairmead said there were no storm conditions in Mrs Hs area when the damage occurred. 
But Mrs H wanted Fairmead to consider her claim. So Fairmead instructed a surveyor to 
inspect the damage. 
A surveyor visited Mrs Hs property a week later. He reported on the same day that the claim 
wasnt covered under Mrs Hs policy. He said the cladding had deteriorated over time. He 
also advised that the material used for the cladding wasnt the correct material to use. So the 
material had perished over a prolonged period of time and weakened the structural integrity 
of the cladding boards. 
As Mrs Hs policy excludes cover for gradual damage, Fairmead declined her claim. 
Mrs H asked us to look at her complaint. Our investigator checked the local weather 
conditions on the day of the event. She found the wind speeds were higher than Fairmead 
had said. And she considered the location of Mrs Hs property, being higher up and therefore 
more exposed. So she thought on balance it was possible that storm conditions occurred on 
the day the cladding was damaged. 
However, she explained that this isnt the only measure we consider when looking at storm 
damage claims. As the surveyor said the main cause of the damage was due to the gradual 
deterioration of the cladding over time, storm conditions werent the main cause of the 
damage. She thought the main cause of damage was due to wear and tear.
So the investigator thought Fairmead had reached its decision in a reasonable way. 
Mrs H didnt agree. She said she should have been told before she bought the house that 
the wrong material had been used for the cladding. She says she and Fairmead dont know 
what time the damage occurred, and so dont know what the wind speed was exactly when it 
happened. 
So Mrs H disagrees with the outcome and wants an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Damage caused by extreme weather conditions such as a storm is classed as an insured 
peril. However, a storm can highlight damage that has been happening gradually over time. 
So we dont think its enough to say that because storm conditions occurred at the time of 
the event, the claim is covered. 
We ask three questions when considering claims for storm damage. These are:
 Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened?
 If so, is the damage being claimed for consistent with damage that a storm typically 
causes? and;
 Were storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
If the answer to all these questions is 'yes' then we think the claim is likely to succeed. But, if 
the answer to any of the above questions is 'no' - the claim for storm damage is unlikely to 
be covered.
Fairmeads policy says the following:
Storm - We consider storm to be strong winds of 48 knots/55mph or more, 
sometimes accompanied by rain, hail or snow.
Our investigator found local wind speeds recorded as peaking at 44mph on the day Mrs H 
says the damage occurred. Even allowing for the location of Mrs Hs property, I dont think 
theres enough to say that storm conditions occurred. Ms H says it isnt possible to know for 
sure what the wind speed was when the damage occurred. But even if I agreed that storm 
conditions may have occurred, I dont think storm conditions were the main cause of 
damage. So this means not all of the answers to the three questions are yes. 
Its possible the damage being claimed for might be consistent with damage that a storm 
typically causes. However, the surveyor took photos of the damage to Mrs Hs property 
which Ive seen. In his professional opinion, the cladding materials had perished over a 
prolonged period of time. 
Insurance policies are intended to provide cover for specified perils, rather than for anything 
that might happen to a property. These include perils such as fire, theft, subsidence, flood, 
and storm. Anything outside of the listed perils is an uninsured loss and so wouldnt be 
covered by the policy.
Mrs Hs policy with Fairmead has a very common term which is in most  if not all insurance 
policies. It doesnt provide cover for damage caused gradually over time. 
It isnt for me to form any conclusions as to what should have been disclosed to Mrs H when 
she bought the property a number of years ago. My role is to look at whether Fairmead has 
acted reasonably in declining Mrs Hs claim for storm damage. Based on what Ive seen, I 
think it has. 
I understand Mrs H will be disappointed with my decision. But this means Im not upholding 
her complaint.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 November 2020.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman