DRN-2977907
The complaint
Mr S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc declined his application to upgrade a basic bank 
account. 
What happened
In September 2019 Mr S opened up a basic bank account with HSBC. Mr S has explained 
he was told by a member of staff that after six months hed be able to apply to have his 
account upgraded. Mr S has told us HSBC advised it would look at his credit file to decide 
whether to proceed. 
In November 2020 Mr S asked HSBC to upgrade his account but it declined. Mr S 
complained but HSBC didnt agree it had made a mistake by taking the decision not to 
proceed. HSBC paid Mr S £200 to apologise for Mr S wasting time in branch and arranged 
for the credit search it completed to be removed from his credit file. 
Mr S referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. Mr S has 
explained HSBCs staff have told him its decision was made on the basis of an old account 
that had an associated debt which was written off. Mr S complains that if there was a policy 
decision in place that he was unable to change he shouldnt have been told to apply for an 
upgrade after his credit score improved. To resolve the complaint, Mr S asked for the policy 
decision to be overridden. 
Our investigator thought HSBC had dealt with Mr S complaint fairly so didnt ask it to do 
anything else. Mr S asked to appeal, so his complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate why Mr S is disappointed. He was told that after a six month period HSBC 
would consider upgrading his account if his credit file remained clear. Ive seen the credit 
report information Mr S has provided and can see he did what HSBC asked. HSBC 
ultimately told Mr S its decision was taken on the basis that he had previously held an 
account that had been closed and the debt written off by HSBC. As a result, HSBC told Mr S 
he wasnt eligible for the upgrade. I agree with Mr S that he was misled and that HSBC didnt 
give him the right information. 
Mr S has told us that he was due to meet the branch manager to carry out his application 
but, when he arrived, he wasnt available. I appreciate Mr S was disappointed, but HSBC 
has told us the manager was unavoidably detained and Im satisfied thats the case. Another 
member of staff was available to complete the application. 
Mr S says the replacement advisor didnt handle his application very well and couldnt give 
clear answers when it was declined. I take Mr S point and understand he wanted to get a 
clear explanation for HSBCs decision. I have taken the way the application was completed 
into account when deciding how to resolve Mr S complaint. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr S but I cant tell HSBC to open an account he isnt eligible for. I 
havent seen anything that leads me to conclude HSBC made a mistake when it declined Mr 
S application. Each business can review applications in line with its own criteria. And HSBC 
has explained this application didnt meet its criteria, advising Mr S it was due to an old 
account and debt. I cant force a business to approve an application outside of its normal 
criteria and Im satisfied HSBCs decision was correct. 
The error in this case was that Mr S was led to believe he may qualify for an account based 
on his credit file when there were other factors that impacted HSBCs decision. Ive focused 
on the level of disappointment and upset caused to Mr S by the incorrect information he was 
given. 
Mr S wasted time in branch completing his application and HSBC subsequently had to 
amend his credit file to remove any trace of its application. Mr S had also waited for over a 
year to carry out the upgrade application and I can see how frustrated he was that it wasnt 
approved. In my view, the £200 settlement HSBC has paid is a fair reflection of the trouble 
and upset caused to Mr S.  
Im satisfied that level of compensation takes into account the impact of the issues raised on 
Mr S and the disappointment he experienced. The settlement is very much in line with what I 
wouldve told HSBC to pay, had no offer been made. As Im satisfied HSBC has dealt with 
this complaint fairly, Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint because HSBC UK Bank Plc has already 
paid a settlement that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman