DRN-3742075
The complaint
Ms O complains that eBay Commerce UK Ltd wont release funds from her account. 
What happened
In early 2022, eBay told Ms O that she would need to verify her identity before it would 
release funds from her account. 
Ms O was concerned about providing photo identification to eBay. She spoke to a member 
of staff who told her that she could upload non-photo ID. Ms O says she did this, but eBay 
still wouldnt release the funds. 
Ms O raised a complaint with eBay, but the matter wasnt resolved. So, she asked our 
service to look into her concerns. 
Our investigator didnt think Ms Os complaint should be upheld. She thought it was fair for 
eBay to withhold the funds because Ms O didnt appear to have uploaded sufficient 
documentation to validate her identity.
Ms O disagreed with our investigators outcome. She said shed provided her name, address 
and bank details to eBay and these had been verified. She didnt think eBay was entitled to 
ask her for anything further than what shed already provided. She commented that shed 
previously been paid by eBay before the verification process was finished, which she 
believed to contradict its terms and conditions. She believed eBay was acting unlawfully. So, 
the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Os complaint. Ill explain why.
eBays Payments Terms of Use says it may place a hold on a sellers funds if we have 
reason to believe there is an increased risk associated with the provision of our Payment 
Services or with a certain Managed Payment transaction, for example if we cannot verify 
your identityWe may also cancel or freeze the settlement of your proceeds as necessary 
to comply with our legal obligations in connection with fraud prevention, risk management, or 
regulatory compliance. Any hold placed on your funds will be lifted when the issue is 
resolved.
Ms O says she provided the information eBay required to verify her identity as stated on its 
website (full name, nationality, phone number, address and date of birth). Her bank account 
was also verified using micro-deposits. 
I appreciate Ms O feels that this was enough for eBay to release the funds. However, eBays 
website goes on to say: If we cant verify your identity using the information above, we may 
need you to send us a photo of a valid form of identification
We accept the following forms of valid identification:
Drivers license
Passport
Ms O says that after she told one of eBays managers that she was concerned about 
uploading photo ID, the manager advised her to upload non-photo ID. Ms O says she 
uploaded various non photo documents on numerous occasions but eBay wouldnt accept 
these. 
I can see that eBay emailed Ms O in February 2022 and gave her a list of non-photo ID 
documents eBay would accept:
An Old style Drivers License (Paper License), a birth certificate, a marriage certificate, a 
letter from the Home office.
Ms O was told the non-photo ID documents needed to have her full name and date of birth. 
eBay said she would also need to provide an accompanying document and listed what it 
would accept.
eBay says it wasnt able to validate Ms Os identity from the documents she provided. It says 
the counterpart driving licence and home office letter she provided didnt contain her date of 
birth. There were also issues with some of the other documents not matching the address on 
her eBay account. 
Ms O has provided a copy of an email eBay sent her in April 2022, where it told her that ID 
verification ha(d) not yet been successfully completed as the documents you have uploaded 
are not sufficient. It told her once again what was required, including documents it would 
accept if a non-photo ID was uploaded. 
Ms O says she uploaded non-photo ID and her bank details have been confirmed on 
numerous occasions. However, I havent seen any evidence that she provided eBay with the 
ID documents it required (including her date of birth). I appreciate that Ms O verified her 
bank account using micro-deposits. But Im satisfied that eBay made it clear that this wasnt 
enough to meet its identity verification requirements.
Ms O has commented that eBay isnt required to ask for further forms of identification by law 
as it isnt a financial authority. This isnt correct. eBays managed payment service is 
regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority as a payment service provider. This means it 
has an obligation to comply with money laundering regulations and legislation, which include 
verifying a customers identity. 
Ms O has commented that eBay previously released payments to her without the need for 
ID. However, businesses are required to take a risk-based approach to money laundering 
and have suitable systems and processes in place. The regulations arent prescriptive and 
so its up to a business to put in place the appropriate measures. So, it would be up to eBay 
to decide the circumstances in which to require documentation to verify a customers 
identity.
From what Ive seen, I dont believe Ms O has provided eBay with the information it required 
to verify her identity. Given what it says in eBays terms of use, I cant say its unreasonable 
for eBay to withhold Ms Os funds. eBay says it is willing to give Ms O access to her funds once she provides the requested 
documentation. So, if she wants to provide this now, she can. But, as she doesnt appear to 
have provided the ID as yet, I cant ask eBay to do anything more. 
I know my answer will be disappointing for Ms O, but Im satisfied that eBay has acted fairly 
and reasonably, in line with its terms of use. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Ms Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman