DRN-2051475
The complaint
Mr W complains about Aspen Insurance UK Limiteds handling of a claim for an escape of 
water made through a property owners buildings insurance policy.
All references to Aspen include its appointed agents.
What happened
In February 2019, Mr W contacted Aspen to register a claim for an escape of water in his 
property. Aspen accepted the claim and appointed a surveyor to scope the damage and 
repair costs.
Aspen said it would pay for the damaged items in the report, which included the flooring in 
the kitchen area. The flooring extended throughout Mr Ws flat, which meant it would all need 
to be replaced. Aspen offered to pay 50% of the flooring costs for the remainder of the 
undamaged flooring.
Mr W disputed Aspens summary of the damage and said it missed items such as a leaking 
sink, a broken tap and flushing of the pipes. Aspen asked Mr W to submit all the necessary 
repairs costs for consideration.
It then emerged the leak was from a communal pipe which fell under the responsibility of the 
council. Aspen said it would be unable to release the funds for repair until it had received 
confirmation the communal pipe was fixed from the council.
In June 2019 Mr W complained to Aspen. He said he was unhappy with Aspens offer of 
50% costs for replacing the undamaged flooring. And he was unhappy the repairs were yet 
to be completed. Aspen responded and said it felt the percentage offered was reasonable 
and in line with Mr Ws policy terms. It said it wasnt responsible for any delays in the claim 
as it needed the council to fix the damage to the communal pipe and prevent any further 
damage to the property.
The council confirmed the pipe was repaired in September 2019 and Mr W submitted an 
invoice for repairs. Aspen queried the costs for the sink, tap, and to replace the kitchen 
laminate floor with tiling. It said these werent included in its original report, so it needed to 
see evidence the damage was linked to the original claim. It also said that if Mr W wished to 
tile the kitchen floor, it wouldnt pay to replace the undamaged laminate, as there would no 
longer be a mis-match.
Mr W agreed the floor would be laminate, so Aspen reviewed the costs and made an offer to 
settle the claim. Aspen highlighted some discrepancies in the invoices Mr W provided so it 
made an interim payment towards the costs of the replacement flooring. Aspen said it would 
release the final payment upon evidence of the completed work. Aspen offered to send its 
surveyor to the property again to scope the additional damage Mr W was claiming for. 
Unhappy with Aspens response, Mr W referred his complaint to our service. Mr W provided 
a detailed submission of the events but in summary his complaint points were:
There was a significant delay to repair works between January and October 2019;
Aspen wouldnt grant cover until the communal pipe was repaired by the council;
Aspen hasnt settled the claim in full and its offer is less than it promised;
Aspen hasnt released the report from its own surveyor confirming the damage;
The policy terms arent clear;
Hes provided the evidence Aspen requested but it still wont settle the claim in full;
He shouldnt have had to chase the council for updates or repairs;
His tenants moved out due to the delay in repairs;
He wants his service charge refunded from the council for the time the repairs 
werent done. 
Our investigator looked at everything and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She 
found Aspens offer to pay 50% of the costs towards the undamaged areas was reasonable 
in the circumstances. She also found it reasonable for Aspen to request evidence of the 
further damage outside of its original report. 
Our investigator explained the matters relating to the council couldnt be considered by our 
service  including the reimbursement of Mr Ws service charge, or the fact his tenants have 
moved out due to the delays. So as she was satisfied Aspen had acted fairly, she wasnt 
going to ask it to do anything more.
Mr W disagreed with our investigators findings. He said he felt the investigator had 
overlooked some of the key parts of his complaint.
Mr W asked for an ombudsmans decision, so the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at everything, I agree with the conclusions our investigator reached. And Ill 
explain why below.
Mr W has mentioned a number of issues surrounding the actions of the council in this claim. 
And our investigator has already explained we cant consider the councils actions, or any 
delays attributed to them here. So I wont go into this point any further. 
What I will consider is if Aspen have assessed Mr Ws claim in line with the policy terms, and 
if its offer to settle the claim is fair and reasonable in this case. Ill also consider if Aspen was 
responsible for any of the delays to this claim and if so, what it needs to do to put things 
right.
The relevant term of the policy Mr W is a beneficiary of says it will cover a reasonable 
percentage of the cost of replacing or repairing any undamaged part(s) of the Buildings 
which forms part of a pair set suite or part of a common design or function when the 
Damage is restricted to a clearly identifiable area or to a specific part.I think this term is clear in Mr Ws case as the damage was limited to the kitchen area in the 
surveyors report. So Aspen is required to pay a reasonable percentage of the cost of 
replacing any undamaged items of a common design, such as the laminate floor.
Mr W says a 50% contribution for the undamaged floor isnt reasonable because the 
damage has been caused by communal blocked pipes and isnt his responsibility. But as his 
policy covers for damaged items only, it would be unfair for me to require Aspen to meet the 
full costs of replacing the undamaged floor. I think Aspens approach to contribute a 
percentage of costs to the undamaged flooring is fair when set against the policy terms, as 
the surveyors report clearly shows the flooring extends throughout the property without a 
natural break point.
Ive next considered whether Aspens offer of a 50% contribution is a reasonable 
percentage as set out in the policy. Mr W says the damaged flooring has extended into 
other areas of the property including the hallway. But hes not provided any further evidence 
to support this. From the evidence I have, I can see the water damage affects the kitchen 
flooring only. I can also see Aspen has offered to send out a surveyor again to check if 
further sections of the property are damaged, but Mr W hasnt accepted this. So on balance, 
in the absence of any further evidence of damage, I find Aspens offer a reasonable 
compromise here.
Mr W has raised concerns about the amount Aspen is now offering to settle the claim. He 
says its less than it originally promised and doesnt cover 100% of the damaged flooring. 
Aspen says the costs provided by Mr W from his most recent invoices have increased since 
they were first submitted  for example the kitchen flooring costs increased from £460.00 to 
£679.43, and the skirting materials have increased also. It also noted the tiling costs 
previously invoiced seem to have been reabsorbed into the new invoice as the total cost 
remains the same. Mr W says his contractor advised the total cost would be the same with 
either tiling or laminate flooring.
Based on the discrepancy in the invoices, I dont think it was unreasonable for Aspen to 
query these or request further evidence of the damage before settling the claim. I can see 
that Mr W has been given an opportunity to evidence the further damage, but I dont think an 
amended invoice shows how the damage is linked to the event he is claiming for.
Having reviewed everything, Im satisfied Aspens current offer includes the cost of the 
damaged flooring and 50% of the undamaged flooring, based on the original invoice Mr W 
submitted for the repairs. 
Ive considered if Aspen was responsible for any avoidable delays to the claim. Having 
looked at everything, I dont think it was. I say this because the main delay concerns the 
repair of the communal pipe, for which Aspen was not responsible. I do understand that this 
delay caused Mr W some distress and inconvenience. But I think it was reasonable for 
Aspen to wait until the damaged pipe had been fixed in order to mitigate its losses against 
further damage. 
I can see Aspen signposted Mr W when he asked about the repairs and was clear on what 
information it needed to decide the claim. And I understand it has now released the report 
that Mr W requested. So taking everything into account, I wont be asking it to pay Mr W any 
compensation.My final decision
My final decision is that Aspen Insurance UK Limiteds offer to settle the claim is reasonable, 
so I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2021.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman