DRN-4231779
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the service he received from HSBC UK Bank Plc.
What happened
Mr B had accounts with HSBC but closed them in March 2022. On Thursday 18 May 2023, 
Mr B received an email from HSBC thanking him for talking with them recently. Mr B hadnt 
spoken with HSBC and was concerned about the email hed received, so he sent an email to 
HSBC asking what had happened and why hed received the email from them that he had.
HSBC responded to Mr B the next day, on Friday 19 May 2023, to confirm that they were 
investigating the issue. And on the next working day, Monday 22 May, HSBC explained to 
Mr B that the email had genuinely been sent by them but had been sent in error, for which 
HSBC apologised. Mr B wasnt satisfied with HSBCs response, so he raised a complaint.
HSBC responded to Mr Bs complaint on Thursday 25 May and confirmed that an update to 
their email system had caused some emails that had been sent to account holders 
previously to be resent, which had resulted in Mr B unfortunately receiving the email he had. 
HSBC again apologised to Mr B for what had happened and confirmed to him that his data 
with them remained secure. Mr B remained unhappy and felt that HSBC should compensate 
him financially for what happened, so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt the explanation and apology 
HSBC had provided Mr B already represented a fair outcome to what had happened. Mr B 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. Instead, this service is an informal, impartial 
dispute resolution service. And while we do take relevant law and regulation into account 
when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed on determining whether we feel a fair or 
unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial perspective, after taking all the factors and 
circumstances of a complaint into consideration.
It's not in dispute that HSBC sent an email to Mr B by mistake. Mr B has explained that 
because he received the email from HSBC, he was concerned that some form of fraud might 
be in the process of being attempted against him. And Mr B has further explained that 
because of these concerns, he took time off work and called all the banks he had accounts 
with to ensure that those accounts were secure. 
Mr B would like HSBC to compensate him financial for the time and effort he had to expend 
in contacting his banks. But Im not convinced that its reasonable to expect HSBC to pay 
compensation to Mr B for what happened here as he would like. 
One reason I say this is because there appears to have been very little risk to Mr B 
surrounding the email he received. This is because Mr B didnt hold an account with HSBC 
at the time he received the email, and so there was no account that he held with HSBC 
which could have been under threat.
Additionally, when Mr B brought his concerns to HSBC, they responded quickly and provided 
an explanation of what had happened to Mr B within a few working days. And this 
explanation confirmed that the email had been sent by HSBC  and so was a genuine email 
and not a part of any potential fraud attempt from an unknown third party  and that the 
email had been sent by mistake.
HSBC also explained exactly what had happened which had caused the email to be sent by 
mistake to Mr B. And they further confirmed to him that his data with them remained secure.
So, while I can appreciate Mr Bs concerns at receiving the email from HSBC, I dont feel 
that his receiving this email should reasonably be considered as necessitating the action that 
Mr B took when taking time off work to call the banks that he did hold accounts with. 
This isnt to say that it wasnt Mr Bs prerogative to take the action that he did following the 
receipt of the email from HSBC. But it is to say that I dont feel that HSBC should fairly or 
reasonably be expected to compensate Mr B for the time and effort he chose to expend in 
this regard. Rather, I feel that the actions that Mr B took were his choice, and I feel that the 
apology and explanation that HSBC provided to Mr B in a timely manner already provides a 
fair outcome to what took place.
All of which means that I feel that HSBC have already fairly resolved this complaint by the 
actions theyve already taken. And it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint 
or instructing HSBC to do anything more. 
I realise this might not be the outcome Mr B was wanting. But I hope that hell understand, 
given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman