DRN-3051523
The complaint
Mr E complains about charges Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) 
have asked him to pay at the end of his car lease.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr E acquired his car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The terms of the finance agreement held him responsible for keeping the car in good 
condition. He would be responsible for any damage if the car wasnt returned in the correct 
condition.
The industry guidelines for what is considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are returned 
at the end of their lease, is provided by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association 
(BVRLA).
Its for MBFS to decide their processes and its for them to decide how they identify any 
excess wear and tear that could be chargeable under the agreement.
MBFS arent members of the BVRLA but I think it is reasonable to expect MBFS to be 
mindful of that industry guidance.
The BVRLA guidance explains that whilst some companies may provide a condition report 
on collection of the car, others may complete the final inspection off site.
So, I dont think it was unreasonable for MBFS to complete a further and final inspection 
after the car was collected.
The final inspection identified damage to the left-hand rear alloy that hadnt been identified in 
the collection report. The BVRLA guidance says that scratches around the circumference 
are acceptable as long as they dont exceed 50mm in total. The photographs show the 
extent of the damage. Theres scratching to that alloy that extends well beyond 100mm. The 
damage to the front alloys is also shown in the inspectors report and in both cases the 
scratching is also in excess of the BVRLA guidelines. So, I think the damage is in excess of 
what would be considered fair wear and tear. 
Im persuaded its likely that the damage was present when the car was collected because:
I think the final inspection was more detailed than the collection report. There were 
photographs attached to the final report and rulers were included so that the extent of 
the damage could be identified. 
The collection driver wasnt trained to inspect the car to the correct standard, but the 
final inspector was.
Mr E had been in possession of the car for about two years when the inspection took 
place. I think its more likely that the damage to the third alloy happened at some 
point during his tenure than in the two days between collection and inspection as 
there was more time available during which the damage could occur.
I dont think the car was driven far between collection and inspection. I accept 
MBFSs explanation that the collection agent had recorded the trip and not the 
odometer reading. I say that because the collection agent recorded the mileage as 
8,098 and the final inspector has taken a photograph of the mileometer that shows 
the trip mileage as 8,132 and the odometer as 12,431. It therefore seems likely that 
the car was driven 34 miles between collection and inspection. I think there was 
therefore limited opportunity for any further damage to occur and Im persuaded the 
damage was present on collection but not noted until the final inspection.
Im not persuaded that MBFS have done anything wrong here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman