DRN-3432331
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Leeds Building Society unfairly refused to let them port their
buy to let mortgage to another holiday let property.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W had an existing mortgage and a mortgage product with a fixed interest rate for
a fixed term with Leeds on a property used as a holiday let and wanted to sell it and buy
another one. The product had an early repayment charge (ERC) that was payable if the
mortgage redeemed early.
Mr and Mrs W contacted a Leeds adviser and were told that they could sell their existing
property, port the mortgage to a new holiday let and would have six months to get a new
mortgage/property when their ERC would be refunded. Mr and Mrs W sold their existing
holiday let on 18 September 2020 and had an offer accepted on another one. On redeeming
the mortgage, they paid an ERC of £3,965.37 which they hoped to get back when they
ported their mortgage product to the new property. Their broker set the wheels in motion. Mr
and Mrs W say that their new property which cost £205,000 had a similar holiday let income
to their existing one and would be cheaper to manage as they lived locally to the new one.
On 28 September Mr and Mrs W got an Agreement in Principle for 70% of the house price or
£143,500.00. So, they paid £665 for a survey and a funds transfer fee of £35. Their broker
submitted an application to Leeds with income details of the existing holiday letting of the
property that they intended buying.
There was a delay in doing the survey as Leedss chosen surveyor couldnt survey the
property on a Saturday which was the changeover day in the holiday let and suited the
existing owners. The valuer valued the property in his report of 9 November at £205,000 but
assessed the rental income on the assured shorthold tenancy (AST) basis as £575 per
month. Mr and Mrs W say that this holiday let was heavily booked under the previous owner
and lets at £445 per week low season, £639 per week mid-season and £875 per week high
season. So, valuing on an AST basis undervalued the rental income.
The mortgage offer based on the assumed rent on the AST basis issued for £86,520 on 16
November 2020 rather than the £143,500 that Mr and Mrs W expected from the Agreement
in Principle.
Mr and Mrs W through their broker asked for an urgent review but only heard on 11
December that Leeds could do nothing to assist. In the meantime, Mr and Mrs W told their
seller of their difficulties with the mortgage. Their seller put the property back on the market
where Mr and Mrs W say it sold immediately.
Leeds responded to Mr and Mrs Ws complaint on 7 January 2021. It acknowledged that
when Mr and Mrs Ws broker challenged its decision on 23 November that it should have
responded and told the broker that in order to review increasing the loan available that
Leeds would require evidence of rental income for the subject property for the last 12
months. It acknowledges that Holiday lets are valued on a single AST basis and if the rental
income does not meet then proof can be provided
Leeds offered a distress and inconvenience payment of £50. It said that as the application
hadnt proceeded that it wouldnt refund the ERC but was willing to keep the window open
for six months from 7 January if Mr and Mrs W found another property.
Our investigators view
Our investigator felt that Leeds had done nothing wrong by relying on the valuation report
and issuing a mortgage offer based on that. Although Leeds accepted that it should have
told the broker on 23 November to get evidence of rental income for the subject property for
the last 12 months, our investigator said there was no way to know what effect this would
have had on the mortgage offer. But as Mr and Mrs W were denied the opportunity to
present this information, he felt that Leeds should increase its offer of compensation to £250
and recommended that this complaint should be upheld on that basis.
Our investigator asked Leeds whether it would extend the six-month window further, but
Leeds wanted further information about whether Mr and Mrs W were looking for a new
property. Mr and Mrs W are unhappy with our investigators view. They lost the ERC, lost the
monthly income from the holiday letting and lost £630 on a survey and £1,291 on solicitors
fees. In relation to their plans, they say they havent been looking for an alternative as the
inflation in prices for holiday lets meant that what they would like or could afford to buy isnt 
on the market.
My provisional findings
I considered the complaint and as my view differed from that of our investigator, I issued a 
provisional decision as follows. I said:
Mr and Mrs W submitted an application through their broker on 29 September 2020. I note
that its described as a porting application for a holiday let with an anticipated monthly rental
income of £1,780.00. It seems that along with the application the broker submitted
information from the letting agents including a spreadsheet with figures showing the income
from the property for three years until April 2020.
Leeds used a valuer who assessed that the propertys monthly rental yield on the AST basis
would not support the mortgage that Mr and Mrs W were looking for. Leeds is entitled to
assess an application using its own lending criteria and Ive been supplied with a copy of the
document relevant to this type of lending. That document recognises that a valuation based
on a single AST may be inadequate but that the rental can be verified by a letter from an
acceptable Holiday Letting Agent. The document sets out a list of those agents which does
not include the letting agents that were letting out the property that Mr and Mrs W wanted to
buy. My understanding of this document is that the information that Mr and Mrs W submitted
about the rental income for the property which they believed would support their application,
because it did not come from an agent on that list, would have been unacceptable to Leeds
had Leeds considered it.
But its not clear to me that Leeds did in fact consider the contents of the application. Leeds
responded to our enquiry about this in an email of 10 June 2021:
I have checked our records and there is nothing on file to say that we received the 
documentation you provided with your previous email (i.e. the figures from the letting agent 
submitted by the broker).However, this wouldnt be sufficient proof that the property had 
achieved the stated rental income for at least twelve months. It is also worth bearing in mind 
that the applicants were porting this mortgage to a property they wished to purchase so it 
would be very difficult for them to prove the rental income on a property they didnt own.Ive seen a screenshot of the brokers application and attached is the spreadsheet of rental
income that I refer to above, so I believe its likely that Leeds got that but appear not to have
considered it. I say this because in its final response letter of 7 January to Mr and Mrs W,
Leeds says that it should have responded to their brokers request on 23 November and
advised that in order to review increasing the loan available it would require evidence of
rental income for the subject property for the past 12 months. Clearly Leeds shouldnt have
needed to ask for that as they already had it. But as I say above, my reading of Leedss
lending guidance is that as the evidence of Mr and Mrs Ws income was not coming from
one of the letting agents on its list that Mr and Mrs Ws evidence of rental income would be
unacceptable in any case.
Mr and Mrs W were applying to port their mortgage product and that required them buying a
property that met Leedss lending criteria at the time of application. My view having
considered Leedss criteria is that Mr and Mrs W would not meet that criteria because as
they didnt have the figures from an agent on Leedss list, they werent in a position to satisfy
Leeds that their rental income would pay the mortgage. But it seems to me that this should
have been obvious to Leeds early in the application process and Mr and Ms W should have
been made aware of the problem. In fact, this issue - that the information they supplied for
rental income was unacceptable to Leeds because it wasnt from an agent on their list -
never seems to have been identified to Mr and Mrs W.
As Leeds didnt make Mr and Mrs W aware of the issue early in the process and that their
application wouldnt be successful, I intend to uphold this complaint. In order to decide what
compensation is appropriate I have to consider if Mr and Mrs W had been made aware of
the issue at an earlier stage how that would have affected them. I also bear in mind that this
mortgage wasnt recommended to Mr and Mrs W by Leeds but by a broker.
This application was always subject to Mr and Mrs W meeting Leedss lending criteria so
when Mr and Mrs W sold their property on 18 September 2020, their ability to port and get a
refund of the ERC depended on them being able to satisfy Leedss lending criteria. Im
satisfied for the reasons set out above that this application wouldnt meet that lending criteria
and so, wouldnt lead to a refund of the ERC. I do agree that because Leeds didnt identify
the reason that this particular application was refused that it would be reasonable for Leeds
to extend the period within which the mortgage product could be ported. Leeds did offer that,
and I believe thats a reasonable response to that issue. I understand that Mr and Mrs W
couldnt avail of it because of the inflation in the price of holiday lets but that is an issue
outside Leedss control.
My view is that the problem of the figures being unacceptable to Leeds should have been
identified earlier in the process. These were the figures that Mr and Mrs W were relying on to
substantiate the affordability of the mortgage. I would have thought that after a period of two
weeks of triaging the application that Leeds should have been able to identify that these
figures werent produced by an agent that met their lending criteria and informed Mr and Mrs
W accordingly. This would have been in time to cancel the valuation. So, I would require
Leeds to refund the valuation fee that Mr and Mrs W paid.
Mr and Mrs W had some legal costs. Ive been supplied with a bill but not a breakdown of
when the costs were incurred. If I can have a breakdown of when the costs were incurred, I
would require Leeds to refund any costs incurred on behalf of Mr and Mrs W on this
purchase from 12 October 2020 when I believe that it would have been reasonable for Leeds
to have identified to Mr and Mrs W that their purchase couldnt continue.
Finally, I have to consider Mr and Mrs Ws distress and inconvenience. Mr and Mrs W
submitted an application for a mortgage and that application wasnt properly considered by
Leeds. Leeds prolonged the process for a period of three months when on a properassessment it should only have taken a couple of weeks to tell Mr and Mrs W that the
application wouldnt be successful. In the end Mr and Mrs W werent ever told the proper
reason that their application wasnt successful. I imagine that this was deeply frustrating for
Mr and Mrs W over a prolonged period of time. I believe that this would have caused them
considerable distress and, so, I believe that a figure of £600 is appropriate compensation for 
that.
I issued my decision and invited further submissions from Mr and Mrs W and from Leeds. Mr 
and Mrs W responded to say that, as the company they used is an associate company of 
one that is on Leeds list, the lender should accept projections from that company as well. Mr 
and Mrs W also queried as to why Leeds wouldnt use the projected income from the letting 
company when they were going to use the projected income from the valuers anyway. Leeds 
did not respond to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at Mr and Mrs Ws further comments. My view was that Mr and Mrs Ws 
application simply didnt meet Leeds lending criteria and that Leeds should have identified 
that at an earlier stage than it did. That remains my view. Mr and Mrs W asked me to 
consider the fact that the company they used is an associate company of one that Leeds 
found acceptable. But the company they used to verify actual income - the then letting agent 
for the property - is not on Leeds list and its not my role to tell Leeds what companies should 
be acceptable letting agents for their list. I can only go by the list they produced and as the  
company Mr and Mrs W used to provide historical information isnt on it, I can understand 
why Leeds would have found the information supplied by that company unacceptable. 
I note that Mr and Mrs W used a different company to provide the projected holiday let  
income and wonder why Leeds dont use this projected income for the holiday let as they 
would accept the projected rental income produced by the valuer on an AST basis. I 
understand that there are different criteria used between valuing on an AST basis and a 
holiday let basis and the latter requires proof of actual rental income from an acceptable 
letting agent, not just a projection of future income. 
So, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision I am upholding this complaint and 
believe that the compensation set out in that provisional decision is fair. The compensation 
includes £600 for Mr and Mrs Ws distress and the refund of the valuation fee. I also believe, 
as I set out in my provisional decision, that Leeds should pay Mr and Mrs Ws legal fees for 
the period from 12 October 2020 in relation to this aborted purchase. I asked Mr and Mrs W 
for further documentation from their solicitor to help me assess what these fees are.  I have 
been able to ascertain the following.
1. Mr and Mrs W paid search fees of £211. The invoice for those fees from the searcher 
was dated 16 October 2020 for searches carried out on 15 October 2020. As this 
was after the 12 October 2020, Leeds should refund those fees to Mr and Mrs W.
2. Mr and Mrs W paid an interim bill to the solicitor of £64 including VAT.
3. The solicitors costs (excluding disbursements) is £1080 including VAT so Mr and 
Mrs W owe the solicitors £1080 less £64 already paid.
4. I asked the solicitors to assess how much of the work they did on this aborted 
purchase was pre and post 12 October 2020 and they say that 60% was prior and 40% was after that date. That apportionment seems fair.
5. So, my assessment is that Mr and Mrs W be paid for the solicitors legal fees - £211 
that they paid for disbursements incurred after 12 October 2020 and solicitors costs 
of £432 (40% of £1080) for work that the solicitor did after 12 October 2020. That in 
total is £643. Mr and Mrs Ws solicitors confirm that they have no objection to Mr and 
Mrs W being paid this money directly.
Putting things right
Leeds Building Society should refund Mr and Mrs W the valuers fee, pay them £600 
compensation for their distress and inconvenience and pay hem £643 to cover part of their 
solicitors bill. 
Leeds should also pay simple interest on the valuers fee at 8% pa from the date it was paid 
by Mr and Mrs W to the date it was refunded. In respect of the solicitors costs so far Mr and 
Mrs W have paid £211 on 15 October 2020 and £64 on 4 June 2021. So, Leeds should pay 
simple interest at 8% pa on those sums from date they were paid until the date they were 
refunded to Mr and Mrs W. If Leeds considers that its required by HMRC to deduct income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs W how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr and Mrs W a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from 
HMRC if appropriate. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Leeds Building Society to pay the 
money to Mr and Mrs W as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 20 July 2022.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman