DRN-2772280
The complaint
Mr S says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS), trading as Halifax, mis-sold him a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy alongside a mortgage in July 1992.
He says the PPI was mis-sold as he was told it was part of the mortgage and had to be 
taken. He also says he didnt need it. 
What happened
The policy would have covered Mr S mortgage repayments for up to 24 months if he was 
unable to work due to accident or sickness for up to 12 months if he lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt think the policy was mis-sold. Mr S didnt agree, so the complaint 
has been passed on to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr S case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
From what Ive seen it looks as if the policy was sold during a meeting at a BoS branch. 
And BoS has told us it recommended Mr S take out the cover. That means it had to make 
sure the policy was suitable for Mr S and the information provided was clear, fair and not 
misleading. I havent seen anything to suggest BoS didnt do this.
Unfortunately, BoS havent been able to provide us with any of the sale paperwork, but 
I have seen some computerised records showing details of the mortgage and PPI. 
Although being without the actual paperwork from the sale isnt ideal, businesses cant 
be expected to hold on to sale information indefinitely. And in this case, the sale 
happened almost thirty years ago.
We do know, however, from looking at similar sales from around the same time what 
the paperwork used in the sale wouldve probably looked like. From that, I think its 
likely that Mr S would have had to sign a box, or else tick a box, on the mortgage 
application form to show he wanted to have the cover. And he would have been able to 
indicate if he didnt want to take out PPI cover. 
All of this means I think its likely that Mr S was aware he had a choice about taking out 
the policy. And whilst Ive thought carefully about his comments about what happened 
at the time of the sale, I have to balance that with all the other evidence and information 
I have about how these sales happened. Therefore, based on what Ive seen and the 
length of time since the sale, there simply isnt enough evidence or information to 
suggest to me that the PPI was sold to Mr S when he didnt want. 
Ive also kept in mind that its likely Mr S would have received confirmation of having 
taken out PPI after the sale together with policy documentation. And he would have 
received review documentation each year setting out details of his cover, including PPI. 
Mr S was eligible for the PPI so he wasnt affected by any of the main things the policy 
didnt cover. So I dont think he would have found it difficult if he needed to make a claim. 
Mr S didnt tell us about any employer benefits he was entitled to at the time. But he told us 
about some financial resources and also that he could have relied on his family to help 
him. He also estimated that any state benefits hed receive would cover his mortgage 
payments. 
Ive taken all this into careful consideration but I still think the policy was suitable. This is 
because as Ive said Mr S would have been able to benefit from up to 24 months of cover if 
Mr S couldnt work due to accident or sickness and for 12 months if he were to lose his job. 
This would also have been paid out in addition to any other work or redundancy benefits 
he may have been entitled to. It would also have avoided the need for Mr S to dig into any 
savings or other financial resources. Finally, whilst the availability of family help is always 
re-assuring, it isnt something that can always be assumed given how financial 
circumstances can so easily change. Given the serious consequences of defaulting on 
mortgage repayments, it follows that I think he wouldve found the policy useful.
Ive seen from BoS records show that initially the cost of his PPI was £15 per month, 
providing around £240 of cover. It is certainly likely, as Mr S has pointed out, that the PPI 
cost would have increased over time, but the policy terms allowed him to cancel the cover 
at any time.
So if Mr S made a successful claim, I think the policy would have been of real benefit to 
him. And Ive not seen anything to make me thing that the cost of the policy was something 
that would unnecessarily stretch him financially each month.
Its possible BoS couldve provided more information about the policy and the things the 
policy didnt cover. But I havent seen anything to show Mr S would have been affected by 
any of these, so I dont think this information would have made Mr S change his mind 
about talking out the policy.
Ive seen that Mr S says he tried to cancel the PPI in 1997 when he became self-employed 
 but was told this wasnt possible. Our adjudicator checked with BoS to see if it had any 
record of this but nothing could be traced. But in any event, in this decision Im looking at 
what happened at the time of the sale. 
Id like to reassure Mr S that Ive also taken into account everything hes told us, including 
his responses to our adjudicators finding, but unfortunately it doesnt change my 
decision. Im sorry to have to disappoint him on this occasion but I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2021. Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman