DRN-4041239
The complaint
Miss D has complained about the commission earned by Atlanta Insurance Intermediaries 
Limited (formerly Swinton Group Limited) on two policies sold to her in 2004 and 2006, 
which were regularly renewed and still in place at the point she complained. 
She also complained about the length of time it took Atlanta to provide details of the 
commission they received for the policies. 
For the sake of ease, Ive referred to Atlanta throughout this decision, even though the 
majority of their actions were when they were known as Swinton.
What happened
Atlanta recommended a Personal Accident (PA) policy to Miss D, which she agreed to 
purchase. This started in December 2006. The monthly premium at this time was £3.98. The 
monthly premium was £10.20 at the time Miss D submitted her complaint to us. Atlanta also 
recommended an Accidental Death Benefit (ADB) policy, which Miss D agreed to purchase. 
This started in June 2004. It looks like the original premium for this was £4.36 per month. 
The monthly premium at the point Miss D complained to us was £11.44.
Miss D wrote to Atlanta in July 2019 asking about the level of commission they had received 
for the policies. And she eventually submitted a complaint about this. Atlanta eventually 
issued a final response on Miss Ds complaint in January 2021 and provided the information 
they had on the commission theyd received for both policies at this point. They also 
acknowledged they had not dealt with correspondence from Miss D in a timely manner and 
they paid her £75 in compensation for any distress and inconvenience this had caused her.  
Miss D wasnt happy with Atlantas response and asked us to consider her complaint. What 
she said in her complaint form suggested she wanted us to consider her complaint about the 
delay in Atlanta providing the details of the commission theyd received and their refusal to 
provide a refund of a percentage of the commission theyd received to reflect the fact that  
in her opinion  shed been misled. 
Miss D did mention an issue with the premium for her PA policy increasing beyond the 
amount shed agreed with Atlanta. But  as I understand it  this was not something that she 
wanted us to investigate or consider. 
One of our investigators considered Miss Ds complaint. She issued her view on it in 
February 2023. In this she said Miss Ds complaint should be upheld in part. The part she 
upheld was with regards to the poor service by Atlanta in not providing details of the 
commission theyd received for the policies until January 2021, having been asked to 
provide it by Miss D in July 2019. The investigator said Atlanta should pay a further £75 in 
compensation for distress and inconvenience.
The investigator didnt think Miss Ds complaint about the level of commission received by 
Atlanta should be upheld. She pointed out Atlanta werent obliged to disclose how much 
commission they were receiving for Miss Ds policies originally or when they were renewed. 
And she concluded that  even if the policies were mis-sold  this wouldnt have prejudiced 
Miss Ds position. 
Atlanta didnt respond to the investigators view. Miss D responded to say she didnt agree 
with it. She still doesnt think the policies were sold properly by Atlanta. She feels she has 
paid a lot of money for them over the years and got nothing in return. And she still feels the 
commission Atlanta received was too high.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Atlanta sold the policies to Miss D they recommended them. This means they needed 
to take reasonable steps to ensure the suitability of their advice. And they also needed to 
provide Miss D with enough information to make a fully informed decision on whether they 
were right for her.
I dont have access to much documentation relating to the sale. But, as Ive already 
mentioned, I can see the policies were recommended to Miss D. Its difficult with only limited 
documentation and information to know whether Atlantas recommendations were suitable. 
However, even if the policies were mis-sold I do not think that this prejudiced Miss Ds 
position. This is because she had several interactions with Atlanta over the years and 
maintained the policies throughout this. Miss D could have cancelled the policies if shed 
wanted to and I think  in this particular instance  the fact she hasnt shows that whether 
Atlanta fulfilled their obligations when selling them or not, Miss D would still have agreed to 
buy them. Therefore, even if Atlanta didnt fulfil their obligations Miss D has not lost out. 
Atlanta were not obliged to disclose they were receiving commission for the policies until 
October 2018 (the relevant rule is ICOBS 4.3R). And it seems from the documentation 
provided they disclosed this from 2015 onwards. So, I think Atlanta fulfilled their obligations 
with regards to commission. Atlanta have never been obliged to disclose the actual amount 
or percentage of commission they received, although I am pleased to see they did when 
Miss D asked them to; albeit after what was an unnecessary delay. So I am satisfied Atlanta 
have fulfilled their obligations with regards to commission. 
I appreciate Miss Ds concerns about the level of commission, but as our investigator 
explained, its usually the insurer who sets the level of commission. And Atlanta are entitled 
to receive commission for introducing and maintaining policies with insurers both to cover 
their costs and for some element of profit. They are of course in business to make a profit. 
The monthly premiums for the policies Miss D has are relatively low and the commission 
Atlanta receive has to cover both the administration and the profit element Ive mentioned.   
I do not agree Miss D has got nothing for the premium she has paid. She has received the 
benefit of substantial personal accident cover and an accidental death benefit. This means if 
shed been seriously injured or died she or her estate would have received these benefits. 
I agree with our investigator that Atlanta provided a poor level of service because of the 
unnecessary delay on their part in providing a response to Miss Ds request for details of the 
commission theyd received for the policies. And this did clearly cause Miss D distress and 
inconvenience. In view of this, I also agree with the investigators view that Atlanta should 
pay a further £75 in compensation to reflect this, as I do not think the £75 they have paid is 
enough to reflect the level of distress and inconvenience Miss D experienced. Putting things right
For the reasons set out above, I consider the fair and reasonable outcome to Miss Ds 
complaint is for Atlanta to pay her a further £75 in compensation for distress and 
inconvenience. 
My final decision
I uphold Miss Ds complaint about Atlanta Insurance Intermediaries Limited and order them 
to pay her a further £75 in compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman