DRN-1432261
 
The complaint
Mr L complains that a car he obtained through a hire purchase agreement with 
First Response Finance Ltd is not of satisfactory quality. He wants First Response to accept 
his rejection of the car.
What happened
Mr L obtained a car using a hire purchase agreement with First Response on 18 July 2019. 
He returned the car to the supplying garage around three weeks later and it agreed to carry 
out repairs to the main beam and the steering wheel buttons.
A few weeks later, Mr L reported problems with the clutch. He said the main beam had been 
fixed, but not the steering wheel buttons.
First Response Finance said the steering wheel buttons hadnt been repaired due to a 
breakdown in communication  but that the garage would still complete this. Mr L said he 
wanted to make his own arrangements for the clutch repair and First Response agreed to 
pay for the repair as a gesture of goodwill.
After the clutch had been repaired, Mr L still reported problems. First Response agreed to 
pay for an inspection by one of the manufacturers garages. It found the driveshaft had 
previously been snapped and repaired. As it was clear the repair had taken place some time 
ago, First Response offered to pay for a new driveshaft. During the inspection, the mechanic 
observed that the repairs to the clutch had been carried out to a poor standard. First 
Response said it would not pay for further repairs to the clutch or the gearbox.
Our investigator concluded that it was fair and reasonable for First Response to pay for 
repairs to the driveshaft, as its likely this fault would have been developing when the car 
was supplied. But that there was no obligation on First Response to pay for the work needed 
to put the gearbox faults right because this seemed to be due to the repairs carried out by 
Mr Ls friend. The investigator also thought First Response should pay £150 compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr L agreed with our investigators view.
First Response said it didnt agree to pay compensation. It said, in summary, that:
It had paid £286.95 for repairs to the clutch which was not its liability.
Mr L was not without a vehicle.
It agreed to a main dealer repairing the driveshaft which will cost more than if it had 
been repaired by the supplying garage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering whats fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
The hire purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement. As such, this 
service can consider complaints relating to it. First Response is the supplier of goods under 
this agreement and is responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, theres an implied term that the 
quality of goods is satisfactory. As such, in order to uphold this complaint I would have to be 
persuaded that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality and so a breach of contract has taken 
place.
In deciding whether a car is of satisfactory quality, some of the factors to consider are its age 
and mileage when it was supplied, and how long after supply the fault/s materialised. The 
car in this case was around seven years old and had a mileage of around 78,000. 
Mr L reported problems with the main beam and the steering wheel buttons within a few 
weeks of the car being supplied. I think, because these problems were reported so soon 
after supply its more likely than not that they were present when the car was supplied. So 
Im pleased to see that the supplying garage repaired the main beam. If Mr L hasnt returned 
the car yet for the steering wheel buttons to be repaired, I understand the garage is still 
willing to carry out the work required. I consider this to be fair and reasonable.
Mr L reported problems with the clutch around six weeks after the car was supplied. Its not 
clear whether there was a problem when the car was supplied or whether the problems were 
due to normal wear and tear for a car of this age and mileage. But I dont need to make a 
finding on this because First Response agreed to pay for the repair as a gesture of goodwill. 
It wasnt long after the clutch had been repaired that Mr L reported further problems, this 
time with the gearbox and the driveshaft. First Response paid for one of the manufacturers 
garages to inspect the car.
Driveshaft
The mechanic found that the driveshaft had been broken in the past and welded together. 
He concluded the repair must have taken place some time ago  and most likely before the 
car was supplied  because of the corrosion. 
I think that First Responses offer to pay for the cost of a new driveshaft is fair because, in all 
likelihood, the problem was present when the car was supplied.
Gearbox
The mechanic commented that the repairs to the clutch had not been carried out to a good 
standard and that these sub-standard repairs were likely the cause of the problems with the 
gearbox. Mr L had chosen to have the clutch repaired by someone he knew. I dont find 
First Response has any obligation to pay to put right these repairs or to pay for any problems 
the clutch repairs have caused.
Compensation
First Response did not agree to pay any compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused because it felt it had already paid for a repair that it didnt have to (the clutch) and for offering to pay for a more expensive repair than it needed to (by having the driveshaft 
repaired at one of the manufacturers garages).
But compensation for distress and inconvenience is separate from the cost of repairs. Mr L 
was not given a courtesy car when his car was being repaired. And hes explained to us why 
 in his particular personal circumstances  it was important to have a car that he knew was 
reliable and safe. I agree with our investigator that  in Mr Ls particular circumstances  
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by having to return the car to the 
garage on more than one occasion, being without his car while it was being repaired, and 
worrying about the safety of the car (because of the poor state of the driveshaft) is 
appropriate. I consider £150 to be fair and reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that First Response Finance Ltd should:
1. Pay for the cost of supplying and fitting a new driveshaft.
2. Pay Mr L £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2020.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman