DRN-3593562
The complaint
Mr M complains that Westfield Contributory Health Scheme, trading as Westfield Health 
(Westfield) has unfairly refused to pay a claim he made for treatment.
What happened
The facts of this complaint arent disputed, so I wont go into detail here. In summary, Mr M 
is a member of a group medical insurance policy provided by his employer. It is designed to 
refund the cost of certain medical treatments. When Mr M made two claims for treatment 
Westfield wouldnt pay them because they didnt comply with the terms and conditions set 
out in the policy. Mr M says the information he received about the policy didnt make this 
clear, and that Westfield should both pay the claims and some compensation.
When our investigator reviewed the complaint, he thought Westfield had fairly refused the 
claims. And he pointed out that, as this was a group policy, Westfields customer was Mr Ms 
employer, not Mr M. So Westfield need only provide relevant information to the employer  
not Mr M directly. He didnt think Westfield was responsible for Mr M not receiving all the 
information he says he needed.
Mr M says the summary document he received  which Westfield produced  didnt make it 
clear that hed only be paid in certain circumstances, so it bears some responsibility for his 
costs.
Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When an insurance policy is sold, insurance regulations require that clear and 
comprehensive information is provided to the customer buying the policy. In this complaint, 
the customer is Mr Ms employer, which bought a policy for the benefit of its employees.
As Mr M isnt a customer of Westfield, it isnt required to provide him with information. Thats 
the responsibility of Mr Ms employer. I cant say why Mr M didnt receive more detailed 
information than he says he got  but hed have to take that up with his employer, not 
Westfield.
Westfield is required to fairly assess whether a claim has been made in line with the terms 
and conditions of the policy. Having looked at these Im satisfied Westfield reached a fair 
conclusion when it refused Mr Ms claim. The treatments he had were either not covered by 
the policy (the reflexology) or not provided by a practitioner who was a member of a listed 
governing body (the acupuncture).
Taking everything into account I dont think Westfield acted unfairly, so I wont be asking it to 
do more than it already has.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2022.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman