DRN-3354079
The complaint
Mr L complains that Freetrade Limited wrongly failed to reject two loss making sales 
orders that he felt it should have declined to carry out under best execution requirements 
(as had happened previously). He wants compensation for the loss he made when the 
sales were executed.
What happened
Mr L had an execution only dealing account with Freetrade which enabled him to buy and 
sell shares and a holding of ordinary shares in a company which I will refer to as A. 
He placed orders to sell his shares in A on two separate dates, a week apart, in May 2021. 
When Freetrade executed the sales it achieved an overall execution price significantly lower 
than the indicative prices Mr L saw. 
Mr L complained to Freetrade about what happened and asked it to compensate him 
£1,704 for his loss.
Freetrade didnt agree it had done anything wrong and so Mr L brought his complaint to 
us. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr L didnt agree. 
He mainly felt that the investigation so far had been incomplete and it wasnt clear why 
Freetrade had rejected two of his other orders  but not the two orders it had executed. He 
thought there might have been a system fault which needed looking into further. 
He asked for an ombudsman review and so his complaint comes to me for a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry Mr L feels our investigator didnt investigate his complaint as thoroughly as he feels 
was required. Id like to reassure Mr L that Ive looked at the complaint afresh  and Ive 
independently reached the same conclusions as our investigator, and for broadly the same 
reasons, as follows:
Ive kept in mind that guidelines issued by the Financial Conduct Authority require 
Freetrade to carry out best execution  briefly, this means it has an obligation to 
take steps to obtain the best possible result for clients when executing sales orders. 
When Mr L opened his account with Freetrade he agreed to the terms of the account 
he signed up to. Its not in dispute that those terms required Freetrade to carry out 
sales instructions as soon as reasonably practicable or that the sale price might be 
higher or lower than the price shown when the instruction to sell was placed with 
Freetrade 
Mr L placed two Instant Orders to sell his A shares. When he did this on 20 May 
2021, the share price just before selling was quoted at 5.975 and on execution, Mr L 
received 5.0001. The second order was placed on 27 May 2021, where the quoted 
share price prior to selling was 5.960 and Mr L again received 5.0001 on execution.
It appears that A shares were illiquid in May 2021  in other words, they couldnt 
readily be sold or exchanged for cash. On the days Mr Ls shares were traded there 
were only eight trades and twelve trades respectively. This meant that any trade in 
those shares around that time was likely to disproportionately impact on values  and 
this helps explain the large difference in the prices Mr L achieved on sale compared 
to the values he saw quoted. 
I appreciate that Mr L understands market volatility and his main complaint is that his 
losses could have been avoided if Freetrade had followed best execution  and had it 
done so, it would not have actioned these trades at these prices. But from the 
information available to me, I am satisfied that Freetrades online systems did 
reference pricing and share value to help it achieve best execution. I understand that 
Freetrade sets its tolerance levels to calculate the price per share (rather than the 
total value being traded) which seems fair and reasonable to me.
Freetrade has explained both orders were executed for 0.0020% better than the 
market price  and that seems to be borne out by information it has shared with the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. And it seems to have executed the trades with 
reasonable speed.
So, whilst I dont have any details about other trades Mr L instructed Freetrade to 
execute that werent carried out, I cant fairly say that it did anything wrong when it 
executed trades in line with his instructions to sell his A stock on these two occasions 
in May 2021.
Our investigator mentioned to Mr L that if he would like to be more involved in setting 
specific price limits for selling, Freetrade does offer customers the option to make a 
Limit Order which (unlike the Instant Orders Mr L placed) is an instruction to sell 
only at an agreed price or better. Mr L would need to upgrade his account if he 
wishes to take advantage of this account feature.  
Im aware that Mr L felt that Freetrade hadnt responded properly to his complaint or 
provided data to back up its decision not to uphold his complaint. But Ive not seen 
anything to suggest that Freetrade didnt investigate Mr Ls complaint thoroughly. 
And its final response to his complaint may have been less detailed than Mr L was 
hoping for, but it explains why it didnt uphold his complaint. 
Mr L has raised a number of different complaint points over the course of this matter and 
I acknowledge that what happened has been a frustrating experience for him. If I have not 
referred to each point hes raised its because I have nothing further I can usefully add to 
what our investigator has said already in his detailed view letter and the correspondence that 
followed. I have concentrated on what I consider to be the main points that affect the 
outcome of his complaint. 
Looked at overall, I dont find Freetrade did anything wrong  so theres nothing it needs to 
do to put things right. It follows that I cant award compensation for the loss Mr L experienced 
following the sales Freetrade executed on his behalf. And I dont find that Freetrade has acted unfairly or unreasonably in any other way, so I havent identified any other reason to require 
Freetrade to pay him any redress.  
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mr L but I hope he will at least feel that 
his complaint has been fully considered and that the way I've set things out helps to explain 
how I've reached my conclusions. 
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 September 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman