DRN-3326387
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain Scottish Building Society (SBS) took the incorrect repayments on 
their mortgage account so theyve underpaid the interest. This stopped them from switching 
to a better deal as theres a dispute over the redemption figure.
What happened
Around March 2016, Mr and Mrs L applied for a mortgage of £250,000 with SBS on a self- 
build variable rate over ten years. The mortgage was arranged on the basis the funds would 
be advanced in stages as Mr and Mrs Ls property was being built.
The mortgage completed in June 2016 and the first payment of £31,000 was advanced. 
Shortly afterwards, around October 2016, after Mr and Mrs L noticed the repayment method 
wasnt what theyd applied for, SBS agreed to switch the mortgage to part interest only, part 
capital repayment. This was on a variable rate of 5.74% until October 2019.
In March 2017, a further £120,000 was advanced to Mr and Mrs L. Around a year later, after 
they queried why their interest only repayments didnt match what was shown on their 
statement, SBS found it hadnt updated their payments correctly when the further funds were 
taken. So, Mr and Mrs L were paying too little towards the mortgage interest each month. 
This continued until July 2018 when SBS amended the payments going forward. 
Mr and Mrs L have explained they didnt notice this had happened any sooner as Mr L had 
been very unwell and undergoing intensive treatment. So they didnt check their payments.
Around September 2018, Mr and Mrs L applied to make a capital repayment of £100,000. 
They thought this would bring the amount outstanding to £50,000. But the redemption 
statement showed theyd still owe around £62,000. The extra amount was the unpaid 
interest. Mr and Mrs L disagreed they should have to pay it when it was due to SBSs error.
As things werent resolved, Mr and Mrs L made a complaint to SBS. To put things right, it 
offered to restructure their account so they wouldnt be charged interest on the unpaid 
interest that had been added to the mortgage. It also offered them £1,185.87 to recognise 
the inconvenience caused to them. And it said it would waive any early repayment charge 
(ERC) if Mr and Mrs L redeemed the mortgage early. It had already waived the ERC of 
around £3,000 which shouldve applied to the capital repayment theyd already made.
 Unhappy with SBSs response, Mr and Mrs L asked our service to look into things. They 
thought it should remove the interest that was owed from the mortgage balance. Our 
investigator initially didnt uphold the complaint. But later recommended SBS remove half of 
the interest applied to the account balance. SBS accepted our investigators opinion.
Mr and Mrs L said theyd had to remain on the self-build mortgage at a higher rate whilst this 
dispute was being settled. So they thought SBS should cover the cost of that too. As the 
complaint wasnt resolved, it was passed to me to reach a decision on.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in January 2022. I thought the outstanding 
matters to decide were whether SBS should write off the full amount of unpaid interest and 
whether it should cover the higher rate of interest Mr and Mrs L had remained on while the 
complaint was ongoing. And overall, I didnt think so. In summary I said:
It was understandable in Mr and Mrs Ls circumstances that they didnt realise they were 
underpaying straight away. But I thought they shouldve been alerted that something had 
gone wrong when their payments didnt increase at all, considering the amount 
advanced. So they ought reasonably to have noticed quicker they were underpaying. 
 In the circumstances, I thought restructuring the account as though 50% of the unpaid 
interest had never been added was fair. 
Mr and Mrs L had a duty to mitigate their losses and I didnt think they had by remaining 
on a higher rate for longer than they needed to rather than switching to a better deal.
I didnt think Mr and Mrs L were led to believe they couldnt switch to a different product 
to save money while their complaint was ongoing.
It was down to Mr and Mrs L to apply to switch to a different product  I hadnt seen 
anything to suggest that would happen automatically.
I was under the impression the mortgage had already been paid off so I didnt think it was 
possible for SBS to restructure the account. Instead, to put things right, in summary, I 
thought SBS should refund half of the interest amount that went incorrectly unpaid together 
with any additional interest on that amount if Mr and Mrs L had already repaid it when they 
redeemed their mortgage. I also said SBS should add 8% simple interest to that amount and 
pay the compensation it had already offered Mr and Mrs L if it hadnt done so already. 
I asked both parties for comments before I reached a final decision. SBS said it accepted my 
decision. It said it had already adjusted Mr and Mrs Ls account to remove half of the unpaid 
interest and any interest charged on that amount. And it had credited the compensation 
previously offered to the account. So it thought the only remaining payment to make was the 
8% interest Id set out in my provisional decision. 
SBS also pointed out that:
An interest only mortgage wasnt available to Mr and Mrs L and theyd accepted a 
repayment mortgage. SBS said it amended it after completion to assist Mr and Mrs L. 
As far as it was aware, Mr Ls health had improved by April 2016 and Mr and Mrs L had 
said he would assist with building the property. So it assumes his health issues returned. 
SBS hasnt been given the necessary documentation to show the property build is now 
finished. And thats why, it says, Mr and Mrs L have remained on the higher rate. 
The mortgage has not been redeemed. 
Mr and Mrs L said there were elements of my provisional decision which werent factually 
correct. They said in summary:
They dont agree they were responsible for notifying SBS of the error in the payments. 
The mortgage was set up incorrectly and it took months for it to be resolved. They imply 
this shows they wouldve flagged the problem with underpayments had they noticed it. Mr Ls treatment for his health was gruelling as he was very seriously ill. And it took over 
a year for him to recover. So checking the payments were being taken correctly wasnt a 
priority  particularly as they were being charged correctly by other providers. 
Once they did highlight the issue to SBS, it took a very long time for it to be rectified. 
They were aware theyd have to apply to switch their mortgage when the build was 
complete. They had an offer from another lender but didnt proceed as they didnt want to 
over-pay SBS to redeem the mortgage. They took advice on this. 
They didnt realise how long it would take to resolve this matter  so theyve had to pay a 
very high interest rate for several years longer than they expected. 
They would like SBS to provide a full statement of the mortgage account showing the 
capital outstanding, the interest charged, interest paid, the adjustment based on my final 
decision and how much needs to be paid to clear the mortgage along with the 
compensation to be paid. 
Following the responses I received, I got in touch with both parties again. I explained in more 
detail in light of the comments received, why I thought Mr and Mrs L ought reasonably to 
have been aware they were making underpayments sooner and why I didnt think it was 
SBS responsibility to cover the higher rate of interest theyve remained on. 
I also highlighted SBS offer of compensation was for it to be paid to Mr and Mrs Ls account. 
And I explained although Id previously directed SBS to pay 8% simple interest on the 
refunded unpaid interest, this was to compensate Mr and Mrs L for being deprived of the 
money I thought theyd had to overpay to redeem their mortgage. But both parties had 
confirmed the mortgage is ongoing and hasnt been redeemed. So its possible for SBS to 
restructure the account (and indeed, its said its already done this). And I didnt think it was 
fair to ask it to pay 8% interest on any sums as Mr and Mrs L havent been deprived of them.
Mr and Mrs L had asked for a clear statement of their mortgage account and I thought thats 
reasonable.
Again, I asked both parties for comments before I reached a final decision. SBS didnt reply 
by the deadline set. Mr and Mrs L reiterated that their mortgage had been poorly managed  
and they had applied for an interest only mortgage in the first place. Theyve been trying to 
resolve this situation for a very long time and have been spending more than needed on 
interest in the meantime. They provided copies of emails to our service which showed how 
long theyve been trying to reach a resolution for  and that Mrs Ls employment ended while 
this was ongoing. And theyve said if theyd known how long things would take, they 
wouldve acted differently. 
Mr and Mrs L also provided a copy of their building completion certificate and questioned 
why SBS didnt offer a reduced interest rate until the complaint was resolved. If it had done 
so, they say they wouldve provided the completion certificate immediately.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Both parties have raised what they think happened when the mortgage was first taken out. 
But that isnt in question here  I previously referred to it to provide some background to the 
complaint only. As I explained in my provisional decision, what is in question, is whether 
SBS should write off the full amount of unpaid interest on the account and, whether it should 
cover the higher rate of interest Mr and Mrs L have remained on. 
Ive thought very carefully about the details Mr and Mrs L have given about Mr Ls health and 
treatment at the time further sums were advanced and their payments shouldve increased. I 
know it must be difficult to give such personal details so I thank them for giving me the 
information they have. 
Mr and Mrs L had asked for a considerable sum to be released to them in March 2017. So I 
think its very likely they wouldve expected their repayments to increase significantly. I fully 
appreciate their focus and attention wasnt on their finances at the time and instead, was 
understandably on Mr Ls treatment. But I must consider that at the time, their build seemed 
to be ongoing  and theyd continued to apply for further funds from SBS to go towards it. So 
I think some attention was also being paid to their finances and to the management of their 
build. And overall, I do think they ought reasonably to have noticed their repayments hadnt 
increased at all at a time they wouldve expected it to do so significantly. And that shouldve 
alerted them that something had gone wrong. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs L dont think it was their responsibility to notify SBS that it was 
taking too little in payments from them  and I accept theyve underpaid on their mortgage 
due to SBSs error. But thats not enough for me to say in this case that they dont need to 
repay the contractual amount they agreed to if I think they shouldve been aware earlier  
and couldve taken steps to sort out the problem sooner. 
So overall, the comments made havent changed my mind that Mr and Mrs L ought 
reasonably to have been aware they were underpaying on their mortgage sooner than they 
did. And I think SBSs agreement to put things right by removing half of the underpaid 
interest from their account  together with any associated interest  is fair. 
I thank both parties for clarifying that Mr and Mrs L have not redeemed their mortgage with 
SBS. It seems SBS thinks Mr and Mrs L have remained on their more expensive product 
because theyve not shown their property has been completed yet. But Mr and Mrs L have 
explained theyve done so because they dont want to overpay to redeem the mortgage and 
then be in a position where they have to reclaim the money back. 
In this case, it doesnt make a difference why Mr and Mrs L have remained on the self-build 
rate. I say this because it seems from everything Ive seen, they couldve switched to a 
different rate. And it seems they were accepted by another provider to do so. I understand 
why they wanted this outstanding issue with SBS to be resolved before switching but I think 
it was their decision to stay on the more expensive rate while this was ongoing. So I dont 
think it would be fair to direct SBS to cover the higher rate of interest they were charged 
while they chose to remain on the self-build product. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs L have said they didnt think this dispute wouldve gone on for so 
long and I apologise for the length of time its taken our service to look into things  I know 
theyve tried to push things along in the meantime. But I havent seen anything to suggest 
they couldnt have switched to a different product at any point between the time their build 
was completed and now. Mr and Mrs L think SBS shouldve told them to provide their 
completion certificate and offered them a new rate while the complaint was ongoing. But I 
can see in September 2018, it did say they could switch rates on receipt of the certificate 
and I think it was for Mr and Mrs L to apply for this. So Im not persuaded them paying more 
in interest than theyd have to elsewhere is SBSs responsibility.   Putting things right
To put things right in this case, SBS should send Mr and Mrs L a statement outlining the 
details theyve requested above within two weeks of the date that my decision is accepted. 
And it should do what its already offered if it hasnt done so already:
Restructure Mr and Mrs Ls account as if half of the interest which went incorrectly unpaid 
between March 2017 and July 2018 wasnt added. This means also removing any further 
interest that was charged on that amount. 
Pay the compensation previously offered of £1,185.87 to Mr and Mrs Ls account if it hasnt 
done so already. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ls 
complaint and direct Scottish Building Society to put things right by doing what Ive said.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Nadya Neve
Ombudsman