DRN-4080851
The complaint
Ms C and Mr P have complained that National Westminster Bank Plc has declined to make a 
claim under an insurance indemnity policy for repairs to be carried out to their property.
To settle the complaint, Ms C and Mr P would like NatWest to progress the claim through the 
insurers.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont 
include any information that might lead to Ms C and Mr P being identified. So for these 
reasons, I will keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
In 2019 Ms C and Mr P purchased the property with the aid of a mortgage granted by a 
lender I will call H. The property was constructed in about 2017. Generally new-build 
properties should have either a NHBC guarantee (if the builder is a registered with the 
NHBC) or Architects Certificate to cover the first ten years of the propertys existence. 
Because there was neither of these, H required the indemnity policy.
The policy schedule gave the Policy Date as 18 April 2019 and said that the insured under 
the policy was any bank, building society or other similar lending institute holding a 
mortgage or charge on the Property at the Policy Date. There is no provision in the policy 
for the benefit of the cover to be transferred, assigned or subrogated to another mortgage 
lender. 
In 2021 Ms C and Mr P had asked H to make a claim under the policy for work to be carried 
out on the stairs in the property, to which H agreed. 
In May 2022 Ms C and Mr P re-mortgaged the property to NatWest, repaying the mortgage 
to H. They borrowed an additional £30,000 for home improvements. A standard mortgage 
valuation was carried out. It does not appear that the existence of the indemnity policy, nor 
the previous claim by H, were disclosed to NatWest.
In September 2022 Ms C and Mr P contacted NatWest as they had discovered defects in the 
property and wanted the bank to make a claim under the indemnity policy. However, the 
bank said it wasnt able to do so, because the policy only covered the original lender.
Ms C and Mr P complained to our service. An investigator looked at what had happened but 
didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied that NatWest wasnt obliged to 
claim on the policy, because the policy wording was clear that it was only H that had been 
covered under it.
Ms C and Mr P disagreed with the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im afraid I have disappointing news for Ms C and Mr P; Im not upholding 
the complaint. These are my reasons.
This complaint is about a fairly narrow issue; whether NatWest is covered under the policy 
taken out in 2018 when Ms C and Mr P purchased the property.
It is clear from the policy wording that the insured under the policy was the lender at the time 
the policy is taken out. That lender was H, not NatWest. When the mortgage to H was 
repaid, cover under the policy ceased. So although I have considerable sympathy for 
Ms C and Mr P, there is simply no basis on which I can order NatWest to make a claim 
under this policy, because it is not the insured party.
Therefore, in the context of this specific complaint, Im unable to uphold it.
However, there are other significant matters that I think NatWest needs to take into 
consideration in relation to Ms C and Mr Ps situation. 
The valuation report prepared for NatWest says: Our valuation assumes that construction 
was completed in accordance with approved Planning, Building Regulation and NHBC or 
similar approved requirements. 
I understand NatWests lending criteria requires new-build properties to have a ten-year 
guarantee or indemnity in place. I would therefore have expected NatWests underwriters to 
include instructions to its solicitors to ensure that the solicitors checked this; if this had been 
done, then it would have come to light before the mortgage completed that there was no 
NHBC guarantee or Architects Certificate, and that steps would need to be taken to put in 
place indemnity cover. 
I dont know if NatWest included such an instruction to the solicitors who acted for it on the 
re-mortgage; if it did, then the bank will need to raise this with its solicitors if they allowed the 
mortgage to complete without checking this. In this context, on a re-mortgage, the solicitors 
are acting for the bank as its agent, and so NatWest as principal is liable for any acts or 
omissions of its agent. If there was no such instruction, then I think the bank also needs to 
give careful consideration to its position. 
As I said above, the narrow issue I am looking at here is whether NatWest was obliged to 
claim on the existing indemnity policy, which it was not. But at the root of this issue is that 
the bank or its solicitors apparently failed to ensure that there was a guarantee in place or a 
suitable indemnity policy for the property. Given that at the time of the remortgage the 
property was about five years old, this is something that NatWest should not have 
overlooked.
Of course, the defects in the property affect the banks security, and it is in the best interests 
of everyone concerned that they are repaired. Given what I have said above, I hope 
Ms C and Mr P and NatWest are able to resolve this issue without the need to involve our 
service further.My final decision
Although I have great sympathy for the position Ms C and Mr P are in, I am unable to uphold 
this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 May 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman