DRN-3648185
The complaint
Mr Bs complaint is about QBE UK Limiteds refusal of his claim for business interruption 
losses under his Property Owners Insurance Policy. 
What happened
Mr B owns a commercial property consisting of multiple units, which he lets out to various 
small businesses under individual licence agreements. In May 2020, Mr B made a claim 
under the business interruption section of his policy with QBE for his loss of rent, as he 
says he did not receive rent from his tenants during the period they were required to close 
due to the Covid-19 pandemic.
QBE says the policy covers loss of rent as a result of certain events which cause damage to 
the insured premises, and closure of the premises due to an occurrence of a notifiable 
disease. QBE says there was no damage to the premises and no occurrence of a notifiable 
disease. In addition, QBE says that even if there had been an occurrence of a notifiable 
disease, the tenants were contractually obliged to pay the rent regardless of any incident of 
Covid-19 and the restrictions. Mr B was not required to restrict or prevent their access to the 
premises and the rent was still payable to him. QBE therefore rejected the claim. 
Mr B says his tenants were small businesses, unable to trade and pursuing the rent from 
them during the pandemic would have been uneconomical, unreasonable and unethical 
under the circumstances.
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. She did not recommend the complaint be 
upheld, as she considered QBE was entitled to reject the claim. She did think there might 
potentially be cover under the notifiable disease section but only if there was proof of a case 
of Covid-19 at the premises or within 250 metres of it and this had not been evidenced.  The 
Investigator also considered whether cover would be provided by the Police Authority 
section of the policy but said this required closure of the premises by the Police due to a 
danger or disturbance within the vicinity and this had not been the case. 
Mr B does not accept the Investigators assessment and has made a number of submissions 
in his initial complaint and in response to the Investigator. I have considered them all and 
have summarised the main points below: 
The properties were required to close, so the tenants could not access the premises. 
Police statements were issued urging people to comply with the Government 
restrictions and stating that police action would be taken to enforce them. This 
constituted action by the policy authority following danger or disturbance which is 
covered under the policy.
Covid-19 was everywhere, so would have been within 250 metres of the premises. 
There were hundreds of cases of Covid-19 within the vicinity of the insured premises, 
which is a densely populated area. 
The policy only requires an occurrence of the disease and does not state it is 
necessary to provide a positive test from an individual. Testing was not available to 
most people in March 2020.
As the Investigator has not been able to resolve the complaint, it has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact Covid-19 
restrictions have had on Mr B, I wont be upholding his complaint. 
Business insurance policies offer protection from some of the risks common to a business, 
but different policies provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see 
if QBE has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy 
when declining Mr Bs claim.
Business interruption
The policy covers loss of rent receivable due to certain specified events. The rent receivable 
is defined as being money contractually payable to Mr B for rent. 
The standard cover provided by the business interruption section of Mr Bs policy provides 
cover for loss caused by the interruption or interference with the business as a result of 
damage to property at the premises.  There is also a section that covers denial of access to 
the premises but it requires this to be the result of damage to properties within 250 metres of 
the premises. 
Whilst I appreciate the pandemic has caused substantial financial loss, I dont think Covid-19 
caused damage to property which has led to an interruption of Mr Bs business. So, I dont 
think the standard business interruption cover, or the sections that rely on there having been 
damage, provide cover in the circumstances of Mr Bs claim. And I think QBE acted fairly 
and reasonably in not meeting Mr Bs claim under these sections of cover. 
The notifiable disease section  
Mr Bs policy does include a section that provides cover for loss of rent receivable in the 
following circumstances: 
We will indemnify you for loss resulting from interruption of or interference with the 
business in consequence of any of the following events: 
a) any occurrence of a notifiable disease at the premises
c) any occurrence of a notifiable disease within a radius of two hundred and fifty 
metres (250m) of the premises
provided that we shall only be liable for loss arising at those premises which are 
directly subject to the incident.  
The policy defines notifiable diseases as being a defined list of diseases and any additional 
diseases notifiable under the Health Protection (Notification) Regulations 2010. Covid-19 is a 
notifiable disease. 
QBE accepts that the tenants businesses might have been affected by the Government 
restrictions in response to the Covid-19 pandemic but there was no requirement for Mr B to have closed the premises or prevented his tenants from accessing them. QBE says the 
premises were available for the tenants to use if they required. 
I do not think it is necessary to make a finding on whether the premises did have to close, as 
I do not think there is enough evidence to establish that there was an occurrence of Covid19 
at the premises or within 250 metres of them. 
As Mr B says, widespread testing wasnt available towards the start of the pandemic. And 
the Government advised people to avoid using health services if they were displaying 
symptoms of Covid-19, save for emergencies. Its therefore rare that a claimant will be able 
to produce a positive test result from that period. And to treat that as a requirement to 
demonstrate a case on the premises would, in my view, be unfair.  I therefore consider that it 
is necessary to take a pragmatic approach, and to consider whether evidence (other than a 
positive test result) can be provided that supports, on balance, that Covid-19 occurred at the 
insured premises, or within 250 metres of it. As with any insurance claim, the burden of proof 
initially rests with the policyholder to demonstrate that they have suffered a loss which their 
policy covers. 
Mr B hasnt referred to a specific occurrence of Covid-19 at the premises or within 250 
metres but said the number of cases in the local area and the nature of its businesses run 
from the premises and in the locality means its likely there was at least one occurrence of 
Covid-19 within 250 metres of the premises. However, no other evidence has been provided 
to support this. 
Mr B provided copies of the Financial Conduct Authoritys Covid-19 Calculator which gave 
an estimate of cases of Covid-19 in different areas but this only provides numbers for a 
radius of 1000m around Mr Bs premises. I do not think this is enough to determine it is more 
likely than not there was an occurrence of Covid-19 within 250 metres of the premises 
before the Government restrictions that caused Mr Bs losses were imposed. 
Having considered all the evidence it is more likely that Mr Bs loss was the result of the 
Government restrictions and not due to anyone at the premises, or within 250 metres of 
them, having Covid-19. I do not therefore think it was unreasonable for QBE to refuse the 
claim under this section of cover, as there is no evidence of there having been an 
occurrence of Covid-19 to trigger this section of cover. 
Denial of access (non-damage) extension 
A further extension to the business interruption section of Mr Bs policy covers: 
loss of rent receivable in consequence of: 
Action by the Police Authority following danger or disturbance within two hundred and 
fifty metres (250m) of the premises which shall prevent or hinder use of the premises 
or access thereto 
Mr B says the police issued statements confirming the requirement to stay at home and that 
they would be enforcing the restrictions, so the loss of rent was due to hinderance of the use 
of the premises as a result of action by the Police. 
Even if I agreed that the premises were required to close (which Ive not made a finding on) 
and that was the result of action by the police authority rather than the Government (which 
again is not established) the term requires the danger or disturbance that caused that to 
have occurred within 250 metres of the premises. The danger or disturbance would be the 
existence of Covid-19 infections. As set out above, I am not persuaded there is enough evidence to establish that there was likely to have been Covid-19 infection within 250 metres 
of the premises. I do not therefore think there was a danger or disturbance within 250 metres 
and it is not unreasonable for QBE not to have met the claim under his section of the policy 
either. 
I appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment for Mr B, but I dont think I can fairly 
require QBE to pay his claim. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2022.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman