DRN-2902193
The complaint
Mr S complains about the quality of a car he acquired under a Conditional Sale Agreement 
with Close Brothers Limited, trading as Close Brothers Motor Finance (Close Brothers).
What happened
In November 2019, Mr S entered into a Conditional Sale Agreement with Close Brothers to 
acquire a used car which was first registered in December 2016, and at the time of purchase 
had travelled around 34,000 miles. The total cash price of the car was £31,500. Mr S 
provided an initial payment of around £1,000, and monthly repayments on the agreement 
were around £630 over a 60-month period. 
Mr S says that towards the end of December 2019, when he was driving the car a red 
warning sign popped on the dashboard with a message saying that the car should not be 
driven as there is no coolant in the reservoir. Mr S says he immediately informed the 
supplying dealership who suggested to top up the fluid, which he says he did, but a few days 
later he noticed that the coolant was leaking. So, he says he informed the supplying 
dealership who asked him to take it to a third party garage and get it checked out. Mr S says 
he had two diagnostics completed. One by a manufacturers dealership and another by a 
third party garage. He says both diagnostic results detected the same coolant leakage. And, 
he says, that in February 2020 he left the car with the supplying dealership for around two 
weeks to get the issue repaired. 
He says that about three weeks later he noticed that a reduce oil warning sign popped up on 
the cars dashboard, and the supplying dealerships advised him to take the car to a local 
garage to get the oil level reduced. The local garage drained some of the oil, but Mr S says 
that after this visit the warning sign kept coming on randomly after the car had been driven 
for some time. Mr S says the at the beginning of April 2020, he noticed the coolant was still 
leaking and reduce oil warning sign was coming on. He says about a week later the coolant 
had gone below the minimum level, so he was asked to top it up as nothing could be done 
due to lock down at the time. He says at that moment in time he contacted Close Brothers 
stating that he wanted to reject the car. While they were investigating, he says he was 
contacted by the supplying dealership who said that they would be able to come up with a 
part exchange deal for him once lockdown ended, so Mr S says he asked Close Brothers to 
hold off their investigation and reopen the case if the deal was unfavourable. 
In June 2020, Close Brothers wrote to Mr S. In this correspondence they said they had 
contacted the supplying dealership to discuss Mr Ss concerns, who advised that they would 
be willing to repair the car at no cost to Mr S when they reopened after lockdown. They said 
the supplying dealership had completed previous repairs but, considering Mr S believes 
these have been unsuccessful, they have asked them to provide evidence of the previous 
repairs, and, once obtained, they can investigate. They say if the evidence showed that the 
previous repairs had been unsuccessful, then they would look to support Mr S desired 
outcome of rejection. In the correspondence they go on to say that, while they were awaiting 
documentation from the supplying dealership, they received contact from Mr S who advised 
them that he has been in contact with the supplying dealership to reach a resolution. So, 
they say, they agreed that if Mr S feels an unsuitable resolution was provided by the 
supplying dealership, they could reopen the complaint and investigate further. They 
concluded the correspondence by saying they dont uphold Mr Ss request to reject the car 
as the previous repairs have not been shown to be unsuccessful.
Mr S says that when he visited the supplying dealership and was presented with the deal, it 
was not favourable to him, so he asked Close Brothers to reopen his complaint. But he says, 
as Close Brothers were not responding to him in a timely fashion, he decided to take the car 
back to have the coolant leakage issue repaired. Right after the second repair, he says he 
took the car for a drive and noticed extremely hot AdBlue reservoir bubbling and leaking. So, 
he says, the car had to go back to the manufacturers dealership for another two days. After 
this Mr S says that the AdBlue warning sign came on the dashboard one more time, so he 
took it to a manufacturers dealership, who reset the light. The manufacturers dealership told 
him that if it appears again Mr S should bring the car back as the issue could be due to an 
AdBlue sensor or pump. It seems this issue has not reappeared since, but Mr S says he had 
enough of the car at that point as he says that one thing seemed to be happening right after 
another. He says he went back to the supplying dealership one more time to see if he could 
part exchange the car, but just like the first time, the deal he was offered was not favourable 
to him. He says he bought the car to have a peace of mind and a safe car for his family, but 
instead he says it is affecting him on a personal and professional level, and he is not 
confident to have his family in the car. So, he would like to reject the car. 
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld.
Close Brothers disagreed with the investigator.
So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
After reviewing the case, I issued a provisional decision on 8 June 2021, explaining why I 
thought the complaint should be upheld in part. In the provisional decision I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. In considering what is fair and 
reasonable, I need to take into account the relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice, 
the law and, where appropriate, what would be considered to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time.
Where evidence is unclear or in dispute, I reach my findings on the balance of probabilities  
which is to say, what I consider most likely to have happened based on the evidence 
available and the surrounding circumstances.
Mr S acquired the car under a Conditional Sale Agreement, which is a regulated consumer
credit agreement. Our service can look at these sorts of agreements. Close Brothers is the 
supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and is responsible for dealing with
complaints about their quality. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) covers agreements 
such as the one Mr S entered into. Under the agreement there is an implied term that the 
goods supplied will be of satisfactory quality. The CRA says that goods will be considered to 
be of satisfactory quality where they meet the standard that a reasonable person would 
consider satisfactory  taking into account the description of the goods, the price paid and 
other relevant circumstances. I think in this case those relevant circumstances include, but 
are not limited to, the age and mileage of the car and the cash price. The CRA says the 
quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and other things like their 
fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety, and 
durability.In Mr Ss case the car was used, with a cash price of around £31,500. It had covered
around 34,000 miles and was approximately three years old when he acquired it, and it 
seems it was in a good overall condition. I would have different expectations of it compared 
to a brand-new car. But given the age, mileage and price paid, I think its fair to say that a 
reasonable person would have high expectations of it and would expect the quality of the car 
to be of a higher standard than a car which is more road worn or has a lower price. Also, I 
think a reasonable person would expect it to be free from defects for a considerable period 
of time.
Mr S says he bought the car to have a peace of mind and a safe car for his family. Due to 
the faults that he experienced with the car he says he is not confident to have his family in it 
and he says its affecting him on a personal and professional level. So, he thinks that he 
should be entitled to reject the car. 
Close Brothers say they agree that the car was not of satisfactory quality at the point of 
supply, but they say that Mr S would only be able to reject the car if the repairs had failed. 
They say there is no evidence of this, so they say it would not be a fair or reasonable 
outcome for Mr S to be able to reject the car. 
The CRA sets out that Mr S has a short term right to reject the car within the first 30 days if 
the car is of unsatisfactory quality, however, he would need to ask for rejection within that 
time. Mr S would not be able to retrospectively exercise his short term right of rejection at a 
later date.
Mr S purchased the car in November 2019. Towards the end of December 2019, more than 
30 days after the supply date, he says he noticed a red warning sign on the dashboard. So, 
it appears that Mr S didnt spot the coolant issue within the first 30 days. Even if I accept 
there were faults which made the car of unsatisfactory quality, Mr S could only reject the car 
within the first 30 days, and only if he expressed his wish to do so. As he was unaware of the 
leaking coolant issues within the first 30 days, he couldnt possibly express his wish to reject 
the car within that time. 
The CRA says that, if the car acquired wasnt of satisfactory quality, or not as described, 
then Mr S would be entitled to still return it after 30 days, but Mr S doesnt have the right to 
reject the car until he has exercised his right to repair. So, Mr S doesnt have an automatic 
right to return the car. For me to conclude that Mr S can exercise his right to reject the car I 
would need to see that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality, because the faults he complains 
about were likely to have been present or developing at the point of sale, and that Close 
Brothers one attempt at a repair has failed. 
Considering the age and mileage of the car, and the faults Mr S experienced with the cooling 
system, I think most likely the car was not of satisfactory quality. Also, this is not being 
disputed by Close Brothers, so I dont think I need to comment further on this aspect.
In February 2020, Mr S left the car with the supplying dealership to get the coolant issue 
sorted, but about three weeks later he noticed another issue. The reduce oil warning sign 
popped up on the cars dashboard, and he was advised by the supplying dealerships to take 
the car to a local garage to get the oil level reduced. He says that, even though the local 
garage drained some of the oil, the warning sign kept coming on. So, on 28 March 2020, 
Mr S contacted Close Brothers. In this email he explained the issues he has been having 
with the car, but then a few days later, on 2 April 2020, he told Close Brothers to withhold 
their investigation as he was trying to resolve the situation with the supplying dealership. So, 
I dont think Mr S exercised his right to reject the car at this moment in time as he told Close 
Brothers to hold off on their investigation. After Mr S couldnt get what he says was a favourable part exchange deal with the supplying 
dealership, he emailed Close Brothers on 24 April 2020. In this email he notified Close 
Brothers of his intent to reject the car after lockdown ended. Two weeks later, on 7 May 
2020, he emailed them again to say that he wanted to reject the car as the supplying 
dealership failed to fix the issues with the leaking coolant on their first attempt. He tells Close 
Brothers that the leaking coolant issues are still there so he would like them to reopen their 
investigation. At this point, I think most likely Mr S would have a right to reject the car 
because he exercised his right to repair and the issues with the car were still not all fixed. 
But I can see that during the next two days Mr S continued to discuss his options with the 
supplying dealership. I can see in a copy of a text message that Mr S confirmed with the 
supplying dealership that the options they have given him are: speak to the finance company 
(Close Brothers), take the car to a local garage, or to a manufacturers dealership to get it 
repaired. And I can see that Mr S decided to take the car to a manufacturers dealership to 
get the reduce oil level issue and leaking coolant looked at and repaired. On 18 May 2020, 
the manufacturers dealership completed several repairs on the cooling system and carried 
out a car health check. Mr S didnt have to pay for those repairs as Close Brothers covered 
any money owing. So, considering that Mr S has accepted another attempt at repair and that 
repair appears to have been successful, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for him 
to be able to now exercise his right to reject the car. 
I also understand that, right after the 18 May 2020 repair, Mr S had issues with the AdBlue 
warning coming on the dashboard, and Mr S doesnt trust that all the problems with the car 
have been resolved. But Ive not seen any evidence to support that there are still problems 
with the car. Mr S has mentioned that he thinks the AdBlue still needs to be fixed as he says 
someone he knows had a similar situation and needed it repaired. But it seems that the 
technician at the manufacturers dealerships, where the second coolant leakage repair was 
completed, carried out a diagnostic test and advised Mr S to top up AdBlue fluid. And, I 
understand, Mr S was told that he will only need to book an appointment if the warning sign 
comes up again on the dashboard. It seems that the AdBlue warning has not come on again 
since then, so I think most likely this issue has now been resolved. 
Mr S says that he only allowed the supplying dealership to get the car repaired in May 2020 
because Close Brothers were not responding to him in a timely fashion. But I cant say that I 
agree, because Mr S agreed to have the car repaired only about two weeks after he told 
Close Brothers that he intended to reject it post lockdown. And this was only two days after 
he told Close Brothers to reopen their investigation and expressed his wish to reject the car. 
Also, I think he could have called Close Brothers, if he felt that they were not responding to 
him in a timely fashion. 
Overall there doesnt appear to be any outstanding issues with the car. And I dont think 
Mr S has demonstrated that the repairs already completed have now failed and therefore 
given him the right to reject the car. So, while Mr S has my sympathy, I dont think it would 
be fair or reasonable to allow him to exercise his right to reject the car. 
Most likely the car was not of satisfactory quality at the time of supply and this matter caused 
Mr S a lot of distress and inconvenience when trying to resolve it. I know he made several 
long trips to the supplying dealership and he had to correspond extensively with them as well 
as with Close Brothers. He also had to bring the car for inspection and repair to different 
garages. And, I dont think he would have needed to do any of those things had Close 
Brothers supplied him with a car that was of a satisfactory quality at the point of supply. So, I 
think Close Brothers should pay him £350 in compensation to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience caused.My provisional decision
For the reasons given above, I intend to uphold this complaint and direct Close Brothers 
Limited, trading as Close Brothers Motor Finance to:
-Pay Mr S £350 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
I asked both parties to provide me with any additional comments or information they would 
like me to consider by 22 June 2021.    
Close Brothers replied and said they have nothing further to add. 
Mr S replied disagreeing with my provisional decision and provided further submissions. I will 
address these in my findings below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Following my provisional decision Mr S has said, in summary, that the car had a 150
point safety check before the sale which he says was misleading, as there were coolant
leakage issues. He further set out that it was evident the car had previous coolant leakage 
which he says undoubtedly demonstrates the car was not of satisfactory quality upon supply. 
Mr S thinks that, because of this, he should be able to reject it.
He goes on to say that he understands that the first time he needed to give the other party a 
chance to fix the problem. But he says he should be able to reject the car because the 
coolant problem persisted after the first repair, and the reduced oil warning sign popped up 
on the cars dashboard. He also again has mentioned that after the first repair he had issues 
with the AdBlue reservoir, so the car had to go back to the manufacturers dealership for 
another two days. He says that based on the problems he had in such a short span of time 
he thinks he should be able to reject the car. He says that a car that was less than three 
years old and had travelled 34,000 miles should not have had such repairs twice. He says 
he accepts the car does not have any of those problems now, but it does not mean that the 
car has not had any ongoing issues. So, he thinks that either he still has the right to reject 
car or would be able to get a reliable same make of car.
I agree with Mr S and I think most likely the car was not of satisfactory quality at the point of 
supply, considering the age and mileage of the car, and the faults Mr S experienced. And, 
like I said in my provisional decision, I think most likely Mr S would have a right to reject the 
car after the first repair at the point when he tells Close Brothers that the leaking coolant 
issues are still there, and he asks them to reopen their investigation. This is because he 
exercised his right to repair and the issues with the car were still not all fixed. However, Mr S 
continued to discuss his options with the supplying dealership, and he accepted another 
attempt at repair which seems to have fixed those issues at the time. I know that shortly after 
he also had issues with the AdBlue warning coming on the dashboard, but Ive not seen any 
evidence to support that those problems with the car have reoccurred. So, I still dont think it 
would be fair and reasonable for him to be able to now exercise his right to reject the car. 
Mr S has recently told us that, while he was driving the car on 22 June 2021, the start and 
stop button stopped working and that there is a warning sign on the cars dashboard. He 
says that all these problems generated after the car had been repaired irresponsibly, and he 
thinks that this is related to the coolant leakage. However, I dont think this fault is something Close Brothers Motor Finance ought to be 
responsible for putting right. Mr S has entered into a Conditional Sale Agreement in 
November 2019, and this fault has only now materialised. This is more than 18 months after 
he acquired the car and travelled more than 8,500 miles; and after the car has travelled 
around 42,500 miles in total. Also, the car is approximately four and a half years old. So, I 
dont think its unreasonable to expect these types of faults to appear through normal in-
service wear and tear on a car of this age and mileage. Plus, I have considered that Mr S 
has not given us anything to demonstrate that this fault was likely to be developing or was 
present at the point the car was supplied to him, or that the start and stop had failed 
prematurely for a car of this age and mileage. Also Ive not been presented with anything to 
demonstrate that the fault with the start and stop is related to the previous faults that he has 
experienced. Considering Mr S has accepted another attempt at repair and that repair 
appears to have been successful, I still dont think it would be fair and reasonable for Mr S to 
be able to now exercise his right to reject the car.
Mr S says that Close Brothers ignored him, did not act in a timely manner and that the 
supplying dealership was pompous and arrogant towards him. He is also unhappy as he 
says it was his car warranty that covered the repairs. But, as I mentioned in my provisional 
decision, Mr S agreed to have the car repaired only about two weeks after he told Close 
Brothers that he intended to reject it. And this was only two days after he told Close Brothers 
to reopen their investigation and expressed his wish to reject the car. So, I cant agree that 
Close Brothers were not responding to him in a timely fashion. Also, I think he could have 
called them, if he felt this was the case. 
It seems like the supplying dealership tried to help Mr S throughout the process. They 
provided him with options and the option he chose was to get the car fixed. He didnt have to 
pay for the repairs done to the car and, from what I can see, I think most likely a part was 
covered by the car warranty and a part was covered by the supplying dealership. I think the 
details of who paid for what is less relevant in this scenario. What I do think is important is 
that the car was fixed, and Mr S didnt have to pay for these repairs out of his own pocket. 
Also, in my provisional decision, I have already addressed that this matter caused Mr S a lot 
of distress and inconvenience when trying to resolve it. And I still think that it is fair and 
reasonable that Close Brothers should pay Mr S £350 in compensation to reflect the impact 
this situation has had on him. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint and 
direct Close Brothers Limited, trading as Close Brothers Motor Finance to pay Mr S £350 for 
the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Mike Kozbial
Ombudsman