DRN-2882259
The complaint
Ms O is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC recorded that her credit card account is in
default.
What happened
In December 2019, Ms Os Direct Debit to repay her credit card was cancelled. 
Barclays records indicate it was cancelled by the payer.
In January and February 2020, Ms O made several manual repayments  the last 
was for £50 on 17 February 2020.
In March, April, May and June 2020, Barclays sent letters to Ms O saying her 
account was overdue. Ms O has suggested that email notifications were sent too 
during this time, although Ive not seen copies of these.
In July 2020, Ms O called Barclays. Ive listened to a recording of this call and 
summarised the key points:
oMs O said she received emails saying she missed repayments. She 
explained she hadnt received letters or any other contact as Barclays had her 
old address and telephone number.
oMs O explained she lost her card some time ago, so she couldnt access the 
app either to see what was happening. As a result, she didnt know her Direct 
Debit had been cancelled, and she believed any manual payments wouldve 
been on top of this. 
oThe agent confirmed the last payment received and the payment needed to 
bring everything up to date.
oMs O asked for the interest and charges to be refunded, as she didnt know 
what was happening with her account. The agent agreed to remove these for 
the last four months, totalling £107. She couldnt say whether this would clear 
her minimum repayment  and said she would have to call back in 48 hours.
oThe agent asked about Ms Os circumstances  she explained she wasnt in 
any financial difficulties. The agent asked to go through an affordability 
assessment. Ms O couldnt as she was at work, so the agent said shed send 
a form.
oWhen Ms O pointed out that they didnt have the address, the agent asked to 
update it. Ms O said shed update this when she calls back, as she needed to 
go. The agent gave Ms O her account number so they could locate the 
account easier when she calls back.
On 18 August 2020, Barclays sent a default notice by letter. On 29 September 2020, 
it sent a further letter to confirm that it had been registered.
On 1 October 2020, Ms O contacted Barclays. Ive listened to a recording of this call 
and summarised the key points:
oMs O said she believed she called in May or August. She explained she lost 
the card and believed there was a Direct Debit to repay it. She recalled that 
she spoke to someone and they said theyd update her details, send her a 
new card, and refund the interest accrued. Since then, she forgot about it and 
doesnt know what happened.
oThe agent updated her address and mobile number. They asked whether she 
wanted to set up a payment plan and told her the balance. They confirmed 
the account had been closed, given the number of missed repayments.
oMs O said she called about this and she was told theyd remove the interest 
and restart the account, but that didnt happen.
oThe agent read the notes from the previous call in July  that Ms O didnt 
want to complete an income and expenditure form and that shed call back in 
48 hours to check and pay accordingly.
oMs O replied with her recollection of the previous call  there werent 
payments to be made, the agent noted her new details, and gave her banking 
number. And that she wasnt asked for an income and expenditure form 
because she wasnt in financial difficulties. She was also told the account 
would be restarted and the interest would be sorted.
oThe agent said they would log a complaint so this could be investigated. They 
also asked whether Ms O would like to set up a payment plan, or whether 
shed wait for the conclusion of the investigation. Further to Ms Os question, 
he confirmed that interest had been accruing. Ms O wanted this to be 
removed before discussing the settlement. The agent added this to her 
concerns.
oThe agent asked what was agreed about the interest before. Ms O went 
through what she remembered of the call again. And that afterwards, she 
assumed it was sorted but shes since received emails to say it hadnt been.
oThe agent said shed hear back in four working days. She asked for this by 
email or letter if they couldnt get through over the phone.
Barclays replied to Ms Os concerns  it didnt think it was wrong to register the default. 
Unhappy with this response, Ms O brought her concerns to our service. 
In June 2021, I sent my provisional findings, which upheld the complaint in part. In summary, 
I wasnt persuaded that Barclays acted unfairly in registering the default. However, I did think 
it needed to credit £107 to Ms Os account and pay £100 for her distress and inconvenience. 
Barclays accepted my findings, but provided evidence that it had already refunded £106.62 
to Ms Os account in December 2020. Ms O disagreed. Among other things, she didnt think 
that her circumstances, particularly her relationship with her ex-partner, who was physically, 
emotionally and financially abusive, had been considered.  In July 2021, Barclays made an offer to settle the complaint. It agreed to remove the default, 
with the late payment markers remaining as reporting (from the cancellation of the direct 
debit to the current default date) if Ms O repaid the debt in full within three months.
I contacted both sides in August 2021 to explain why I thought this was fair. In summary, I 
explained how the offer came about from mediation. And so, it wasnt that I thought the 
default should be removed because it was caused by Barclays mistakes. But rather that, 
given Ms Os circumstances  so her previous abusive relationship and her work through the 
pandemic  whether the default was a fair reflection of how Ms O manages credit. It followed 
that I didnt think Barclays should do more on top of what it had offered. 
Mrs O asked for a final decision. She said her initial complaint was how Barclays handled 
her data, and that Id not commented on how Barclays had breached data protection laws. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive not changed my mind that Barclays offer to put things right is fair. 
Ms O said Ive not considered her complaint about how Barclays handled her data. My 
provisional findings considered how the default notice was sent to an old address. But, given 
the other information available, I considered that Ms O ought to have known about the 
position of her account without this. 
I know Ms O was particularly upset by this. Ultimately, Barclays has now offered to remove 
the default on certain conditions  which is how Id have asked it to put things right if I 
concluded that she wasnt expected to have known about the default. So I dont this is still a 
material point in reaching a fair and reasonable outcome. 
My provisional findings also noted the confusion over when Barclays updated Ms Os contact 
details  and I explained that Barclays should pay £100 to reflect her distress and 
inconvenience.  
So I have considered Ms Os concerns about this. But to be clear, my role in deciding whats 
fair and reasonable isnt simply to say whether Barclays got something wrong  or whether it 
breached data protection laws. Indeed, that more naturally fits with the Information 
Commissioners Office and the courts. Instead, I must also consider the impact that any of 
those mistakes had on Ms O, to decide how they should fairly be put right. Thats what Ive 
done here. 
My provisional findings 
For completeness, Ive also included my provisional findings below: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive upheld the complaint
in part, but I dont think Barclays should remove the default. Ill explain why:
Having listened to the call recording from July 2020, Im satisfied Barclays made Ms 
O aware that her Direct Debit had been cancelled and that she was behind on her 
repayments. It was also clear that she needed to call back to update her address and 
to find out if the refund would affect her minimum payment.Ms O has acknowledged she didnt call back. Given that no further repayments were 
received, Barclays sent a default notice by letter on 18 August 2020, and a default 
was registered on 29 September 2020. I think that was a reasonable step for 
Barclays to take, given that it last received a repayment in February 2020, over 
seven months prior.
Ive considered that the default notice was sent to an old address, and Barclays 
wouldve known from the call that Ms O didnt live there. But I also recognise that 
Barclays didnt have her new address to send the letter to  the agent was only given 
her postcode in July when they tried to locate Ms Os account.
And even if Ms O wasnt notified by letter, I think she ought reasonably to have 
known her account was in default. Thats because Barclays said the Direct Debit had 
been cancelled, and a new one wasnt set up and manual payments werent made. It 
seems she was also signed up for online statements, which showed the account was 
overdue. And from what Ms Os said, she also received emails about it.
The next call Ive listened to is from 1 October 2020. That was several days after the 
default was registered, so it was too late to stop this. Ms O thinks she was in touch 
with Barclays before that. But it doesnt have a record of any calls between July and 
October 2020. And having listened to this call in October, Ms O refers back to the last 
contact she had with an agent, which roughly fits with what happened during the 
conversation from July. So it doesnt seem there was any contact in between.
I appreciate Ms O has been going through a lot  made more challenging by working 
in a demanding role during an extraordinary year. So I can see how she might have 
missed things and got confused about her credit card account. But even if there are 
good reasons why Ms O fell behind, Barclays have to report accurate information  it 
cant say she made repayments when she didnt. So here, for me to instruct Barclays 
to remove the default, Id need to see that its not accurate  and that the reason why 
Ms O didnt make repayments was just down to Barclays mistakes. For the reasons 
Ive explained, Im not persuaded thats the case here.
Ms O might find it helpful to know that she can add a Notice of Correction to her 
credit report  to explain why this isnt her general approach to meeting repayments  
which futures lenders must read.
So in all, I wont be asking Barclays to remove the default. But I do think there are 
other matters where Barclays need to put things right for Ms O.
Ive noted a refund for £107 that was agreed in July 2020 wasnt applied to Ms Os 
account. Barclays has provided evidence  its internal guidance  that confirms the 
adjustment wouldnt have affected Ms Os minimum payment. So it doesnt change 
my mind about the repayments missed and eventual default. But Barclays need to 
apply this credit, effective from 20 July 2020, and rework the account.
Ive also considered Ms Os concerns about how things were handled after the 
default was registered on 29 September 2020. Shes said that when she first 
complained (which Im satisfied was on 1 October 2020), she wasnt told about the 
default and thought it would be investigated. I think it couldve been helpful if the 
agent explained this. But ultimately, she was told that the account had been closed. 
And whether or not she knew about the default right away, it was too late to stop it. 
So I dont think this wouldve made much difference.Ms O also queried that the debt was sold to a third party while the complaint was 
investigated. Given that the account defaulted, Barclays were able to take this action. 
But I agree it wouldve been sensible to wait until the investigation had been 
concluded. In any event, I understand the debt has now been bought back and is 
being managed by Barclays again. So I dont think this materially changed anything.
Ms O also said Barclays didnt update her details. Barclays records show that her 
address and mobile number was updated by the agent on 1 October 2020, when she 
gave them the details. This explains why the third party had her new address when 
the account was passed over on 6 October 2020.
I recognise that this doesnt match what the complaint handler told Ms O, when they 
spoke on the phone in November 2020. Having listened to it, Ms O was told the 
complaint response was initially sent to her old address and that her details hadnt 
been updated in October. I also understand that Ms O had trouble getting updates on 
her complaint, as Barclays couldnt locate her details, and that she spent a significant 
time on hold.
So I dont think Ms Os complaint was handled in the way it shouldve been  it 
seems she was given confusing information and caused more stress and 
inconvenience. So Im minded to tell Barclays to pay £100 compensation to reflect 
that.
I also note that Barclays couldnt reach her by phone as the mobile number Ms O 
gave was a digit too short. Ideally the agent wouldve noticed this at the time. But 
ultimately, I dont think I could fairly blame Barclays that it didnt notice this.
Ms O has also raised that while the complaint was being investigated by our service, 
an agent from Barclays said theyd remove the default. Ive listened to the call. The 
agent didnt confirm it would be removed, but they said it would be escalated  which 
naturally gave Ms O hope that something would be done. I think it may have been 
better if the agent was upfront that it wouldnt go further while our service 
investigated. But Im equally mindful that they were trying to help Ms O, when she 
was very upset and there were concerns for her wellbeing. And ultimately, I think its 
right that Ms O is looked after by a specialist team at Barclays. So Im not persuaded 
it did anything wrong here.
Ive also considered that Ms O was asked to make repayments after the default was 
registered. Thats because theres still an outstanding balance to settle. Going 
forward, its for Ms O and Barclays to come to an affordable arrangement to repay 
this debt, taking into account Ms Os circumstances.
I know my decision will be hugely upsetting for Ms O. Thats not my intention. But as 
an impartial decision maker, I cant tell Barclays to do something unless it was 
caused by their mistake. And having considered this very carefully, I dont think the 
default was incorrectly registered. I do intend to instruct Barclays to credit Ms Os 
account with £107, effective from 20 July 2020 and pay £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Ms Os complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC must:Honour its offer to remove the default, with the late payment markers remaining as 
reporting (from the cancellation of the direct debit to the current default date) if Ms O 
repays the debt in full within three months. For clarity, that three months starts from 
the date of this decision. 
Im satisfied that Barclays has already refunded Ms Os account appropriately with 
£106.62, so it doesnt need to do anything further about this. 
Barclays should pay £100, if it hasnt done so already, for Ms Os distress and 
inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2021.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman