DRN-2273420
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that he was charged a late payment fee and that a late payment marker 
was added to his credit file by Argos Limited.
What happened
Mr C has an Argos account. In April 2020 Mr C contacted Argos because hed received a 
letter from them notifying him that hed missed a £5 payment on his account which had been 
due in March 2020. The letter advised that a late payment fee of £12 would be applied to Mr 
Cs account and that as a result of missing the payment, a late payment marker would be 
added to his credit file.
Mr C wasnt happy with this because he had never received the statement from Argos in 
March 2020 which had informed him of the need to make a £5 payment. Mr C didnt feel that 
it was fair that a late payment fee should be applied or that a late payment marker had been 
applied to his credit file because of this, so he made a complaint to Argos.
Argos looked at Mr Cs complaint, but they noted that they had sent the statement in March 
2020 to the correct address, and they didnt feel that theyd acted inappropriately following 
Mr C missing the required payment. So, they didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Mr C remained unhappy and so he referred the matter to our service. One of our 
investigators looked at this complaint, but they also didnt feel that Argos has acted unfairly 
toward Mr C given the circumstances here. So, they didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint either.
Mr C didnt accept the view put forward by our investigator, and the matter was escalated to 
an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To begin Id like to draw attention to the fact that Argos have confirmed to this service that, 
because Mr C made a payment to clear the arrears on his account in a timely manner, and 
did so before Argos issued their monthly update to the credit reference agencies, no late 
payment marker was reported against Mr Cs credit file by Argos. 
It is often the case that businesses will report to credit reference agencies in bulk on a 
monthly basis, rather than on an account by account basis. In this instance because Mr C 
made the arrears payment before the bulk report was made by Argos, it meant that when 
Argos came to send the report, there were no arrears present on Mr Cs account and so no 
adverse information was filed against Mr Cs account by Argos to the credit reference 
agencies.
It follows that because there has been no material impact on Mr Cs credit file that I will not 
discuss this aspect of Mr Cs complaint further but will instead focus on whether it was 
appropriate for Argos to apply a late payment fee of £12.
In this instance I do think that it was fair and reasonable that Argos should apply a late 
payment fee to Mr Cs account, and I say this primarily because the payment was made late. 
Argos have provided this service with the terms and conditions of Mr Cs account, and these 
confirm that a late payment fee can be charged if a payment isnt made by the required date.
I understand that Mr C has said that he didnt receive the letter from Argos that requested 
this payment. However, I have seen that this letter was sent to Mr Cs correct address. When 
considering the issuance of posted documents, a business has an obligation to ensure that a 
letter is sent to a correct address, but they do not have an obligation to ensure that the letter 
is delivered, or seen by the intended recipient, and this is because the act of delivering sent 
post is not something over which a business has active control.
It is expected that businesses provide their customers with alternative means of keeping 
track of their account, and I can see that Argos fulfil that obligation here by providing the 
option for its customers to monitor their accounts online. It is, of course, Mr Cs choice as to 
whether he makes use of this online access. But, given that the responsibility for maintaining 
his account ultimately rests with him, I cant fairly hold Argos responsible for Mr C not being 
aware that a contractual payment was required to be made on his account.
So, its difficult for me to say that Argos have acted unfairly or unreasonably here, and so it 
follows that I wont be upholding this complaint. I anticipate that Mr C may find some solace 
in the knowledge that his credit file hasnt been impacted as he thought it had been, although 
I acknowledge that the overall outcome to this complaint may not be that which he would 
have wanted. However, I hope that Mr C can understand, given what I have explained 
above, why I have reached the decision that I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman