DRN-1460591
The complaint
Mr S complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc declined his claim on his motor insurance policy 
after his car was stolen. He wants it to pay his claim.
What happened
Mr S lost the keys to his car outside. He said his car was stolen a day later. AXA declined 
the claim because of an exclusion in the policy terms and conditions. It said Mr S hadnt 
taken sufficient care to protect his car. And it also relied on the policy exclusion that cover 
wouldnt be provided if the keys were left unattended. Mr S was unhappy with this.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought the 
policy exclusion about keys was clear. He thought Mr S hadnt reported the lost keys to AXA 
or the police. And he thought AXA had fairly and reasonably declined the claim because of 
the policy exclusion. So he thought it didnt need to do anything further.  
Mr S replied that hed never been in a situation like this before and he didnt know what to 
do. He said he didnt know car locks could be changed. He asked for his complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman, so its come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear of the stress this experience has caused Mr S and the effects on his 
health and his finances. Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers 
acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
Mr S said his keys fell from his pocket whilst he was jogging. His pocket didnt have a zip 
and he was wearing headphones at the time and so he didnt hear the keys fall. He retraced 
his steps but wasnt able to find the keys. He didnt report the loss to anyone, and his car 
was stolen from near his house within 36 hours. There was no glass or signs of a forced 
break-in around the site. 
Mr S said his family changed their front door lock. But he didnt know what to do for the car 
as he didnt know locks could be changed. He said he thought of getting a steering lock but 
hadnt done this before the theft occurred. 
I can see that Mr Ss policy includes the exclusion 
Loss or damage caused by theft or attempted theft if the keys (or keyless entry system) to 
your car are left unsecured or unattended, or are left in or on your car whilst it is 
unattended.
I think this is a common exclusion in motor insurance policies, and I dont find it unusual or 
unreasonable. But it is significant, and I would expect it to be clearly set out in the policy 
documents. 
I can see that this is set out in the policy booklet. So I think AXA sufficiently brought the 
exclusion to Mr Ss attention and it can rely on it to decline the claim. Mr S said he hadnt 
read his policy documents. But I cant hold AXA responsible for this. 
I can see that Mr Ss policy, on page 28, also contains a general condition that he must take 
reasonable steps to protect his car from loss. 
From his statements, Mr Ss keys were lost near his car from an unzipped pocket. He didnt 
take any steps to move his car or change the locks to secure it. So I think AXA can 
reasonably conclude that Mr S had left his keys unattended. And I also think he hadnt taken 
sufficient care to protect his car. 
So I think AXA is entitled by the policy terms and conditions to decline the claim. I think it did 
this fairly and reasonably after investigating the circumstances of the theft. And so I dont 
require it to pay Mr Ss claim.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 October 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman