DRN-3664584
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund the money he lost after he fell victim to a 
scam.
What happened
The circumstances which led to this complaint are well-known to both parties and have been 
clearly laid out in our Investigators view. So I wont repeat them in detail here. But, in 
summary, I understand them to be as follows.
 
On 10 March 2022, Mr A was tricked into making a payment online for £239, for what he 
thought was the purchase of a Helium Miner. But unknown to him at the time he was dealing 
with fraudsters. Ultimately Mr A never received the goods he had paid for.
Mr A raised the matter with Monzo. Monzo is not a signatory of the Lending Standards 
Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code) but has agreed to adhere to it. 
This means Monzo has made a commitment to reimburse customers who are victims of 
authorised push payment scams like this one except in limited circumstances.
Monzo looked into Mr As complaint and issued its final response on 31 March 2022 not 
upholding it. In summary this was because it said it had complied with its regulatory 
obligations and it didnt feel Mr A had taken reasonable steps to check who he was paying. It 
added that it had been unable to recover any of the money Mr A had lost. 
Unhappy with Monzos response, Mr A then brought his complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators looked into things and thought the complaint should be upheld. In summary he 
thought Mr A had carried out sufficient checks under the CRM code, that were proportionate 
to the amount he was paying and so he thought Monzo should refund Mr A the money he 
lost, along with interest.
 
Monzo disagreed with our investigators view. In summary it maintained that Mr A had not 
carried out sufficient due diligence, that hed ignored effective warnings and that the price he 
was paying was too good to be true.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has now been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been 
provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on 
what I think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to 
do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts.
Having done so, Im satisfied that, adhering to the CRM Code, Monzo should have refunded 
Mr A the £239 he lost. Im not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement 
apply in the circumstances of this case. Ill explain why.
Ive carefully considered all Monzos representations about whether Mr A had a reasonable 
basis for believing the purchase was genuine. Weighing everything up, I dont think it would 
have been evident to Mr A that there was a risk with this purchase, I say that because;
- Mr A carried out research before making the payment, reading a number of reviews 
that hes told us were all positive.
- Monzo argued the price was too good to be true, as it was around a third less than 
the usual selling priced. Ive considered this carefully, but I dont think in the 
circumstances of this case this would constitute the price being too good to be true.
- Monzo has said that the company Mr A paid was different to the company that was 
selling the item. But Mr A recognised this himself and carried out research on 
Companies House to check that he was still paying a legitimate company. He also 
checked that the bank account details he was provided with were for a UK bank, 
which they were. 
- Monzo doesnt think Mr A went far enough here and that if hed looked further into 
Companies House it would have been obvious the two companies werent linked. I 
disagree with Monzo. We mustnt lose site here that Mr A is not an expert in how 
frauds and scams of this nature play out and of how sophisticated they can be.  
Given it is not uncommon for companies to have different trading names or brands 
for multiple businesses, I think it was fair and reasonable to have been satisfied and 
reassured by what he saw.
- This was a sophisticated scam where, before making the payment, Mr A was able to 
discuss matters with the fraudsters through an online chat function. I can understand 
how this would have further persuaded Mr A that he was dealing with legitimate 
sellers. 
- Mr A has also told us that some of the alternative websites that he looked at, that 
were selling the same item, would only accept payment via crypto currency, and he 
considered that a bank transfer was a safer option. Im persuaded this further 
demonstrates that Mr A was taking reasonable steps to try and protect himself from 
the risk of fraud. 
People dont want or expect to be scammed and I think overall Mr A took reasonable, 
appropriate and proportionate steps to try and protect himself. I dont consider he had any 
reason to think the seller would not keep to their side of that bargain. The fact that the bank 
can think of additional things Mr A could have done does not mean that he did not do 
enough.
Monzo has said the warnings it provided to Mr A before he made the payment were 
effective. While the warnings, in part, intend to warn customers about potential scams they 
may be at risk of, I find that they dont meet the definition of an effective warning as set out 
by the CRM Code. The warnings highlight multiple potential scams. But they dont bring to 
life what the type of scam Mr A was falling victim to looks like, or highlight the common 
features of these types of scam.All things considered, I can see why Mr A would have been reassured, after liaising with the 
seller and after carrying out the research he did, and I think it fair and reasonable that he 
thought he was dealing with a legitimate seller for a legitimate item when making the 
payment. Im satisfied Mr A took proportionate steps to try and mitigate any risk and that it 
wasnt unreasonable for him to proceed in making the payment he did. Overall and on 
balance, Im not persuaded that Monzo has shown that Mr A lacked a reasonable basis of 
belief for making the payment, or that he ignored an effective warning.
Putting things right
For the reasons outlined above, Monzo Bank Ltd should now; 
- Refund Mr A the £239 he lost as a result of this scam.
- Pay 8% simple interest per year on that amount calculated from the date Monzo 
Bank Ltd originally declined Mr As claim until the date of settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Monzo Bank Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman