DRN-3849680
The complaint
Mrs S and Mr S complain about Aviva Life & Pensions Limiteds decision to decline Mrs Ss 
claim for total and permanent disability (TPD) benefit under their life and critical illness 
policy. They also complain about poor customer service from Aviva.
Although a joint policy, the claim and service issues relate predominantly to Mrs S, so for 
ease of reading, Ill refer mainly to her throughout my decision. 
What happened
In brief, in 2021, Mrs S contacted Aviva to discuss potential changes to her cover as she 
was moving. During the course of the conversation, Mrs S said shed not worked for a 
number of years, prompting the call handler to explain about Mrs Ss cover for TPD. A claim 
was subsequently raised, which, after reviewing medical evidence, Aviva declined. Mrs S 
appealed the decision, but Aviva maintained its position. 
Mrs S complained both about the declined claim and a number of other issues to do with the 
servicing of the policy and her contact with Aviva. Aviva issued separate final response 
letters (FRL) for the declined claim and the customer service issues.  
Mrs S didnt accept Avivas decisions, so brought her complaints to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. An investigator looked into things for her, but didnt uphold her 
complaints. She said Aviva had fairly declined the claim and acknowledged some customer 
service failings, paying £200, which she thought was reasonable in all the circumstances. 
As Mrs S and Mr S remained unhappy, the complaints have come to me for a final decision. 
To clarify, my decision deals with the issues covered in both FRL. Im aware this is not the 
entirety of Mrs Ss dissatisfaction with Aviva, but any additional matters are not within the 
scope of this decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate the significant efforts Mrs S has made to provide evidence to support her 
complaint.  Ive reviewed everything shes sent us.  But Ive focused on the points and 
evidence I consider material to my decision.  So, if I dont refer to a particular point or piece 
of evidence, its not because I havent read and thought about it. Rather, I dont consider it 
changes the outcome of the complaints.
Claim issues
Mrs S is unhappy that the claim was started when shed only contacted Aviva to ask about 
changes to her policy. I can appreciate her frustration  she didnt realise she could claim, a 
claim was started and she invested time and effort in providing her evidence, only for that 
claim to be declined. But I would expect an insurer to assist a customer by pointing out a 
potential to claim on a policy and Im satisfied Mrs S agreed to pursue that option. Aviva 
gave no assurance the claim would succeed or that Mrs S would receive the benefit. So I 
dont think its has done anything wrong in this regard.
Mrs S has also raised a number of issues about the claim being declined. The relevant 
regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And that they 
mustnt turn down claims unreasonably.
Mrs Ss policy would pay the disablement benefit if she was regarded as being:
totally and permanently disabled if, because of any injury or illness, they are 
unable to perform the essential duties of their own occupation.
The essential duties are further defined as:
those that cannot reasonably be omitted without affecting the ability to carry out 
that occupation. 
Theres no dispute that Mrs S has health issues and has been unwell for some time. The 
question that Aviva and Mrs S disagree about is whether, at the time Aviva declined to meet 
Mrs Ss claim, the evidence demonstrated she was totally and permanently unable to 
perform the essential duties of her own occupation. I appreciate Mrs S will be disappointed 
by my conclusion, but on the evidence presented, Im not persuaded that Avivas decision to 
decline the claim was unfair or unreasonable. 
I can see from the evidence that Aviva contacted Mrs Ss GP, Dr C, for medical information 
and asked some questions about her health conditions and their impact. Dr C responded 
saying that Mrs Ss current ongoing problems were nephritis which appeared to be in 
remission and asthma. He also said that whilst her medical condition had been stable for 
some time, she had suffered from ongoing fatigue and joint pains. Extensive investigations 
were carried out in 2009 and the consensus seemed to be that Mrs S was suffering from 
Chronic Fatigue Syndrome/Myalgia Encephalitis. He described Mrs Ss current condition as 
chronic ill-health, though stable, but couldnt foresee any particular interventions that would 
particularly change matters. He also said it was difficult to foresee Mrs S returning to 
employment. 
However, Dr C also commented that his information was focused on Mrs Ss medical 
problems and less on specific questions about her ability to undertake her occupation. He 
suggested Aviva might want to seek an opinion from an occupational health physician, as his 
statements were based on his knowledge of Mrs S and with reference to her medical 
records, rather than any more formal assessment.
Having received Dr Cs report, I can see that Aviva consulted its Chief Medical Officer 
(CMO) who agreed that an objective occupational health assessment was needed, leading 
to Mrs S being interviewed by Dr S, an occupational health consultant physician. 
I can see from the report that Mrs S detailed a range of symptoms and limitations on her 
day-to-day life. Dr S records Mrs S as describing various non-specific symptoms which 
appear predominantly of a psychological nature, but that Mrs S had not sought ongoing 
medical support for those symptoms. He states that:
from an objective medical perspective there is no specific impairment of functional 
capacity other than a reported inability to engage in various activities due to loss of energy and fatigue. Mrs S describes having difficulty leaving her home due to lack of 
confidence, impaired energy and anxiety. There is no significant physical impairment 
as mediated by physical incapacity. There is no cognitive impairment.
He further states that there:
is no identifiable incapacity which would prevent Mrs S engaging in part-time work 
similar to that which she previously engaged in. There are issues of loss of 
confidence and long-term deconditioning which would likely serve as barriers to any 
return to work.
 
Dr S is specifically asked if the definition for disability has been fulfilled or if there are other 
treatment avenues that need to be explored before a full balanced opinion can be given. He 
replies:
I am not able to identify any objective medical incapacity which would prevent Mrs S 
being able to perform the essential duties of her own occupation. I would be 
concerned about further medicalising Mrs Ss symptoms and placing further 
emphasis on the need for external medical treatment modalities. The solution here 
lies in psychoeducation and empowering Mrs S to manage her own well-being.
Aviva referred Dr Ss report to its CMO for a further opinion, before declining Mrs Ss claim. It 
concluded Mrs S didnt meet the policy requirements for TPD, because treatment and 
support options to improve symptoms hadnt been exhausted. 
Im aware Mrs S strongly disagrees with the content of Dr Ss report and his conclusions. 
She felt it contained significant inaccuracies and wasnt independent. She also feels unfairly 
treated because she wasnt given the opportunity to review Dr Ss report prior to her appeal 
against the claim decline being considered. I acknowledge that the chronology of events 
wasnt ideal. So Ive thought about whats likely to have happened had Mrs S been able to 
make her comments before the appeal was concluded. 
Ive reviewed her comprehensive challenge to Dr Ss report and his equally comprehensive 
response to her comments. In short, Dr S addresses each of Mrs Ss points, citing the 
evidence base for his conclusion. He reconfirms his opinion. I appreciate Mrs S thinks the 
report is flawed. But from what Ive seen, I cant say the medical content is wrong. So I dont 
think earlier sight of Mrs Ss comments on the report wouldve changed Avivas decision. I 
also note this further commentary was available to Aviva prior to it issuing its final response 
to Mrs Ss complaint about her claim being declined. 
Additionally, I know Mrs S is particularly concerned that Aviva finalised the claim and Mrs Ss 
complaint about that decision before shed be able to provide comments from her then GP, 
Dr L, in response to Dr Ss report. But Ive also seen an email from Mrs S to Aviva saying 
that the GP is a bit confused as to what it is she is to be putting other than what is already in 
my medical history as she would expect this to be good enough. So again, I dont think any 
additional comments from Dr L at that stage wouldve changed Avivas decision.  
Mrs S has recently provided a letter from current GP, Dr F. Ive read this letter and note Dr 
Fs observations. But as I referred to earlier, my focus is the fairness or otherwise of the 
claim decision Aviva made in 2021.  Dr Fs letter wasnt available to Aviva at the time, so its 
not something I can take into account in my decision.   
In summary, from what Ive seen, Aviva obtained information from Mrs Ss GP and arising 
from that and the confirmatory opinion of its CMO, obtained a specialist occupational health 
report from an independent medical examiner. Whilst I acknowledge that Mrs S disagrees with the specialist report, I think Aviva investigated and assessed the claim reasonably. It 
was entitled to rely on the specialist opinion which did not confirm that Mrs S met the policy 
terms necessary to quality for total and permanent disability. So overall, I dont think Aviva 
has treated Mrs S unfairly in declining her claim.
Service issues
Its not disputed that at times Avivas customer service fell short of expected standards. Due 
to a failure to fully update their information, a quotation was sent to a previous address. And 
Aviva accepted another quotation had been sent without being requested.
Aviva also acknowledged thered been some confusion regarding the currency of paperwork  
provided to support Mrs S and Mr S requests for policy changes. This was linked to the 
process of assessing the claim. So theyd waived the usual requirements and extended the 
deadline in recognition of the circumstances.
  
Mrs S also complained about being transferred between departments. But Aviva explained 
that policy servicing issues and claims are dealt with by separate departments, so it was 
necessary for Mrs S to be transferred so that the appropriate staff could deal with her 
enquiries. Whilst I can appreciate this mayve been frustrating for Mrs S, I think Aviva acted 
appropriately by looking to  ensure she was speaking with those best placed to assist her.
In acknowledgment of the failings, Aviva paid Mrs S and Mr S £200 compensation. Overall, I 
think the compensation fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience caused. 
So overall, I dont think Aviva treated Mrs S unfairly in declining her claim for total and 
permanent disability. And I think the £200 compensation paid for poor service appropriately 
reflects the upset caused to Mrs S and  Mr S.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Aviva Life & Pensions Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 May 2023.
 
Jo Chilvers
Ombudsman