DRN-2298326
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy Allay Claims Ltd is charging him a fee for a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) claim. 
What happened
In August 2019, Mr H said hed asked Allay to carry out a free check to see if he had any PPI 
policies. And following their findings being made known to him, said he would have decided 
what action he would then take. But in May 2020 he got an invoice from Allay asking him to 
pay their fee for a successful PPI claim. Mr H said he hadnt asked them to make a PPI 
claim with his lender, and as he hadnt been told the claim was being made, he was denied 
the opportunity to cancel. He complained to Allay.
Allay said Mr H had asked them to carry out a free PPI check, and hed signed a letter of 
authority (LoA) in August 2019 authorising them to act on his behalf to make his claim. Allay 
said theyd submitted his claim to his lender. And Mr Hs lender had auto converted his 
claim on the information theyd sent. Allay said the lender had told them in February 2020 
that theyd found PPI and Allay had passed on this information to Mr H. In April 2020 Mr Hs 
lender told Allay his claim was successful and as their agreement with Mr H hadnt been 
cancelled, in May 2020 theyd asked him to pay their success fee. 
Mr H wasnt happy with Allays response and referred his complaint to us. 
Our investigator said Allays terms were clear in that they said theyd submit a PPI claim. 
She said Allay had shown theyd told Mr H when theyd found he had PPI. And as Mr Hs 
claim was successful, Allay could claim their success fee.
Mr H didnt agree and said Allay hadnt told him in February 2020 that PPI had been found. 
And as his lender had auto converted his claim, Allay hadnt done any work to justify their 
fee. He asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
I can understand Mr Hs frustration as he said hed only asked Allay to carry out a free check 
to look into whether he had any PPI. Where there is a different version of events as is the 
case here, I base my decision on what I think most likely happened.  I need to determine 
whether Mr H had authorised Allay to act on his behalf. And if he had, whether he let Allay 
know he no longer wanted them to work for him. 
Allay has shown an online application for a free PPI check was made in August 2019. The 
personal details in this application correlate with personal details Mr H has given this service. 
The application also needed details of Mr Hs lender, and this detail was provided. So, on 
balance I think  Mr H completed the on-line form as the information was specific to him. On 
completion of the application, an LoA was generated, populated with this information. The 
LoA couldnt be submitted without a signature being added. As its not in dispute that Mr H 
completed the application, I have no reason to doubt that he added the signature to the form. 
Allays terms and conditions were also available to see. And in signing the LoA Mr H had 
agreed to them. 
Allays terms and conditions say:
We will notify you once PPI has been identified and submit your complaint to the lender. If 
the claim is successful, our normal fee, as per this Terms of Engagement, will
apply.
I can see Allay sent a request to Mr Hs lender the day after the on-line PPI application was 
completed to determine whether Mr H had a PPI policy with them. In February 2020  Mr Hs 
lender told Allay theyd found a PPI policy that Mr H had from April 1999 for a credit card.  
With the introduction of a deadline for making PPI claims, lenders had started looking into 
PPI claims for their customers requiring only a data subject access request. And this is what 
happened here, Mr Hs lender accepted Allays request sent in August 2019, once PPI was 
found, as them submitting a claim  auto conversion.
Allays records show an email was sent to Mr H, the day after Allay was told by his lender 
that PPI had been found. So, I think Allay has applied the above terms and conditions fairly 
and reasonable as theyd notified Mr H that he had PPI and a claim was submitted to the 
lender.
The terms and conditions go on to say:
From the point we submit your complaint, you have a 14 day cooling off period during which 
you can cancel your contract with us. 
So, from 18 February 2020 when Mr H was notified PPI had been found, he would have had 
14 days to cancel his agreement, this meant he had up to 3 March 2020. I havent seen any 
evidence that Mr H asked Allay to cancel his agreement within the 14 day cooling off period. 
Allay has shown they sent updates to the email address given to them by Mr H, which does 
differ from that given to us. Mr H has said he didnt get these emails, but I have seen he has 
responded to other emails sent to the same email address by Allay. So, Ive no reason to 
doubt that Mr H wouldnt have seen the other emails sent by Allay to the same email 
address. 
I can see that Allay sent a PPI questionnaire, through the post to Mr H on 3 March 2020 as 
they hadnt received any notification from Mr H that he wanted to cancel the agreement. The 
PPI questionnaire would have been used to obtain any additional information, if needed by 
the lender, about Mr Hs circumstances to help strengthen any PPI claim that was made. Mr 
H didnt return the PPI questionnaire as he said he never received it. The questionnaire 
would have been sent to the address Allay had on record and is the same address we hold 
for Mr H.
Mr H said Allay has in some way falsified the records theyve shown to us. But it isnt our role 
to consider whether there has been fraudulent activity that would be for a criminal court to 
decide. Were an informal dispute resolution service, acting as an alternative to the courts. In 
making my decision I need to determine whether Allay has acted fairly and reasonably in 
their actions with Mr H. I cant hold Allay responsible for Mr H not receiving or reading emails or post where its been shown other correspondence sent to the same details was responded 
to. 
Mr Hs agreement with Allay may not have been formalised according to him. But he has 
said he was aware when he signed the LoA that they would also use this as authority to
submit any future claim. So I dont think its enough that Mr H simply disengaged from the 
process. And by not telling Allay he didnt want them to act on his behalf before the end of 
the 14 day cooling off period, theyd submitted his claim to his lender. And the claim was 
successful.
In April 2020 Mr Hs lender told Allay theyd investigated Mr Hs claim and what their offer of 
compensation would be. I think this shows Mr Hs lender accepted Allay had authority to 
represent him in making his PPI claim. And I havent seen any evidence of Mr H making a 
claim directly with his lender. So, Im satisfied Allay were authorised to act on his behalf in 
pursuing a PPI claim for him. And Mr H hadnt cancelled his agreement within the 14 day 
cooling off period.
The agreement Mr H had with Allay was on a No win No fee basis. Allay charged a 
percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they actually undertook. 
This means that any work done on any unsuccessful claim would be done for free. When a 
claim was successful, Allays fee may be more or less than the value of the work they 
actually did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement. Im satisfied Allay 
submitted Mr Hs claim as their agreement hadnt been cancelled. And his claim was 
successful.
Allays fees were charged in line with what Mr H agreed to and reflect the fee cap thats in 
place for PPI claims. Mr H could have cancelled his claim with Allay. But I cant see he 
cancelled the claim before it was successful. 
I know Mr H will be disappointed by my decision but Im satisfied that Allay was authorised 
by Mr H to act on his behalf and his claim was successful. This means Allay can charge their 
success fee. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2021.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman