DRN-2163094
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K are unhappy about a fee which Intelligent Advisory Services Limited trading as 
Intelligent Insurance (Intelligent Insurance) have charged them for cancelling their home 
insurance during the cooling off period. Mr and Mrs K want Intelligent Insurance to charge a 
fee which is proportionate to the time they had the cover. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs K used a comparison website to take out home insurance. They received 
confirmation of the insurance and documents which included terms and conditions. Mr and 
Mrs K then cancelled the policy the following day and were charged a £50 cancellation fee 
by Intelligent Insurance. 
  
A complaint was raised and Intelligent Insurance responded to Mr K and explained they had 
reviewed a recording of his visit to the website and could see that he was given an 
opportunity to review the terms and conditions. They explained this set out when and what 
fees are applicable. They felt the fee was reasonable as it is made up entirely of the fee the 
comparison website charges. They explained the fee is non-refundable and applicable as 
soon as the sale takes place. They didnt uphold the complaint.
   
Our investigator looked into things for Mr and Mrs K and contacted Intelligent Insurance for 
their response. They explained that, not only are the terms and conditions presented for 
review prior to purchase, but customers are asked to declare they have read and understood 
these and a policy cant be bought without this declaration. Only then can payment be made 
to take out the insurance.
  
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs K disagreed so the matter has 
come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr and Mrs K will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision.
General insurance policies have a 14-day cooling off period. And, The Financial Conduct 
Authoritys Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) under Rule 7 says the 
consumer can be charged any sums that a firm has reasonably incurred in concluding the 
contract, but should not include any element of profit.
However, the consumer can only be charged an administration/cancellation fee if they were 
told that this would happen while they were buying the policy. So, I need to consider whether 
Mr and Mrs K were told about this online before they agreed to buy the policy, and not just in 
the terms and conditions which were sent after the sale was completed. 
Terms and conditions will set out key information for the consumer about what to expect 
once they take out an insurance policy. I have looked at the terms and conditions and can 
see it says, under the section Administration and Cancellation, if a consumer cancels the 
policy within 14 days from the date of purchase then a cancellation fee of £50 will apply. I 
have taken note of Intelligent Insurances comments about the terms and conditions being 
available to view and also seen the screenshots provided by them which show where, in Mr 
and Mrs Ks sale journey, the terms and conditions appeared. The screenshots show that 
the terms and conditions appear in a section headed Review Cover Details.  
I note Mr and Mrs K say that there shouldve been separate notification of the cancellation 
fee which sits somewhere more visible in the sale journey rather than the terms and 
conditions. Intelligent Insurance are entitled to decide how they draw key information to a 
customers attention when arranging a policy online. My role is to consider whether they 
have acted fairly and reasonably in charging a cancellation fee in this case and whether 
information about this was prominently displayed. 
In order to assess this, I have been on the comparison site myself to consider the sale 
journey. The terms and conditions were made available before proceeding to payment and 
are noted as useful documents to read. Similar to Mr and Mrs Ks sale journey, these 
appeared under a section headed Review Cover Details. There is then a declaration box 
which requires the consumer to tick the box to say they have reviewed, understood and 
accept the terms and conditions of the policy. The system doesnt allow the consumer to 
proceed to payment unless that box has been ticked. In online sales, where consumers dont 
typically speak with a representative from the business, there is a responsibility on the part 
of the business to ensure terms and conditions are brought to a consumers attention. And, I 
think that is whats happened here. I understand Mr and Mrs K feel the charges were hidden 
but I havent seen any evidence of this. The evidence shows that Mr and Mrs K had to tick a 
box  that they were advised to click on and had to confirm they clicked on in order to 
proceed with their application. On this basis, I think Intelligent Insurance have brought the 
cancellation fee to Mr and Mrs Ks attention and have done so at a point before they took out 
the policy. 
I feel its reasonable for Intelligent Insurance to take the view that, by ticking the declaration 
box, a customer understands they will be charged a cancellation fee if they cancel the policy. 
I havent seen any information which shows that Mr and Mrs K werent presented with the 
declaration box to tick. Therefore, I think Intelligent Insurance havent acted unfairly in 
charging Mr and Mrs K £50 for cancelling their policy. 
I have also seen an invoice sent by the comparison site to Intelligent Insurance which shows 
the sum they are charged for a cancelled policy  this sum is more than the £50 Mr and Mrs 
K have been charged. It is therefore my view that the £50 does not include any element of 
profit for Intelligent Insurance.
I do understand Mr and Mrs K will be disappointed by my decision and I wish to reassure 
them that, while I have considered all of their comments, I have only addressed those which 
I feel are relevant to my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 November 2020.
 Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman