DRN-1718466
complaint
Mr C complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, didnt give him important 
information before applying for a personal loan. He says this led to his credit file being 
impacted and financial loss.
background
Mr C had a loan with Halifax. He says when he made the final payment, he mentioned to the 
advisor that he would be making a further loan application. Mr C also says that he met with 
an advisor a few days before the new loan application meeting, and he was told based on 
his credit rating, there wouldnt be any issues obtaining a further loan. He says on neither 
occasion, or during the application, was he told that his previous loan would take time to 
show as repaid with credit reference agencies. 
The loan application was declined, and Mr C says he was told by the advisor that the reason 
was because his previous loan was still showing as outstanding with credit reference 
agencies.
Mr C says he spoke to two credit reference agencies and an independent financial advisor, 
and they explained that the declined application would now show on his credit file and 
damage his credit rating.
Mr C says that when he complained about what had happened, Halifax advised it would now 
offer him the loan and this would overturn the declined application  however, if he takes out 
a loan with a different lender, the declined application would remain on his credit file. Mr C is 
unhappy about this.
Mr C says his credit rating has been affected. He also says that based on being told the loan 
application would be successful, he paid a deposit for a new boiler, so he has suffered 
financially as a result. He said he should be paid £2,000 compensation.
Halifax offered Mr C £75. It said it was unable to recreate the discussions that were held 
with its advisors, but it accepted the information could have been clearer. 
Halifax also explained that before a loan application is completed, its unable to say whether 
the application would be successful. Halifax noted the previous loan was repaid on the last 
day of the month, which was a Saturday; and it updates credit reference agencies once a 
month, at the end of the month. It also said credit reference agencies take 30-90 days to 
update records. So, Halifax didnt consider it was responsible for the previous loan still 
showing as outstanding with credit reference agencies, at the time of the application. 
Furthermore, Halifax explained that a declined loan application footprint hadnt been 
registered on his credit file. Halifax also said a manual assessment had now been 
completed, and it was happy to offer Mr C the loan.
Mr C brought his complaint to this service, and it was considered by one of our investigators. 
Halifax clarified the following:
- The previous loan was repaid on 31 August. Halifax provided a screenshot of its 
internal system to show the loan was updated as repaid on 1 September. 
- Halifax generally reports to credit reference agencies on the tenth working day of the 
month, which in this case, meant around 16 September. It has no control how long it 
takes for those parties to update records.
- The application for a further loan was made on 17 September. The automated codes 
show the application was declined due to the overall level of indebtedness and/or 
ability to pay.
- Halifax provided Mr Cs application data to show that no open Halifax personal loans 
were picked up. However, Halifax explained there were other debts held with it, and 
debts with other lenders. Halifax said the application was declined because Mr C 
didnt meet its lending criteria at the time.
- When a manual assessment takes place, the application is reviewed by a staff 
member who can look at other factors the automated system may not pick up.
Our investigator concluded that Halifax had reported information to credit reference agencies 
in-line with its normal procedures, so he didnt think Halifax was at fault if Mr Cs repaid loan 
was still showing on his credit file at the time of the application. He was also persuaded by 
the information he had seen, that the previous loan wasnt the reason for the decline; the 
application data showed the loan had a nil balance. Therefore, he didnt think the loan 
application had been unfairly declined in the first instance.
Our investigator also noted that he hadnt seen any evidence the declined application had 
led to adverse information being recorded on Mr Cs credit file. Having listened to the call 
recording, he also didnt think Halifax later tried to force him into taking a loan with it, by 
explaining an accepted loan would remove the declined marker. He concluded that the 
advisor was simply trying to help.
Our investigator accepted that Halifax could have communicated more clearly with Mr C. 
However, he thought its offer of the loan following the manual review had resolved the 
matter; and its £75 offer of compensation fairly reflected the trouble and upset caused.
Because Mr C disagreed with our investigators outcome, the matter has been passed to me 
to decide. Halifax has told us that Mr C has since accepted the £75 offer, but Mr C told our 
investigator he still wanted a final decision from an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Amongst other things, The Lending Code says:
- customers should be made aware of what implications the application could have on 
their credit rating
- registered firms will ensure that their customers are aware of the high-level basis on 
which it will make its decision to lend to them
- if the customers application is declined, the main reason for this will be provided, if 
requested by the customerAfter our investigator considered Mr Cs complaint, Halifax provided a recording of the loan 
application meeting. Theres no discussion during this recording about the potential impact 
the loan application could have on Mr Cs credit file. However, Mr C hasnt shown us there 
was an impact, and our investigator has asked him for a copy of his credit report on four 
occasions. So, given Halifax has clarified that the credit search didnt leave a declined 
application footprint, I cant reasonably decide Halifax did something wrong here.
The recording of the meeting isnt particularly clear in places, but the advisor does appear to 
explain that the application is based on what Halifax already knows about Mr C, affordability 
checks, and information on his credit report. As such, Im persuaded it gave him high-level 
knowledge of what the decision would be based on.
During the loan application meeting, the advisor explained to Mr C that the likely reason for 
the decline was the previous loan not showing as repaid yet with credit reference agencies. 
However, Halifax later confirmed to Mr C that the advisor hadnt spoken to its underwriting 
department to understand the reason for the decision. Halifax has since explained that the 
reason was overall indebtedness and/or ability to pay, and it wasnt necessarily due to the 
previous loan still showing as outstanding with credit reference agencies. Given that the 
reason wasnt checked by the advisor with Halifaxs underwriting department, and it has 
since explained the automated codes, Im not persuaded the correct main reason was 
explained to Mr C at the time of the decline.
When responding to Mr Cs complaint, Halifax also noted that he could appeal the decision 
and the advisor should have given him the details to do so. As I say, the recording of the 
meeting isnt clear in places, but Mr C didnt appear to have been given this option. Only 
after he complained, was a manual application undertaken.
Im also satisfied that Halifax gave Mr C contradictory information about when it reported to 
credit reference agencies, and about the footprint or markers left on his credit file following 
the unsuccessful application. I say this because different reporting dates were provided to 
this service than what was provided to Mr C; and the declined footprint information in the 
complaint response letter, contradicts what Mr C had previously been told when he was 
offered the loan as a means of overwriting a declined marker on his credit file. 
Furthermore, regardless of the decline reason, Halifax could have alerted Mr C before the 
application, that his recently repaid loan would likely still be showing on his credit file, and 
this could influence the application outcome. 
I can understand Mr Cs frustration at being declined, particularly if he considers himself to 
be in a positive financial position. However, a bank is entitled to set its own lending policy, 
and its own criteria for assessing risk. 
No application for credit is guaranteed either. So, Im not persuaded Halifax provided Mr C 
with a guarantee, or that he understood the application was guaranteed to succeed. As 
such, although Mr C says he suffered financially due to paying a boiler deposit, I dont 
consider Halifax can reasonably be held responsible for these related losses.
In conclusion, I accept the information Halifax gave to Mr C at various stages ought to have 
been clearer, and I dont doubt this caused him some inconvenience and upset. However, 
Im not persuaded Halifax can reasonably be held responsible for the financial losses he 
says he suffered, and I havent seen his credit file was impacted by what happened.Overall, I consider £75 to be a fair acknowledgement of the impact the issues can 
reasonably be said to have had on Mr C. Im not persuaded I would have awarded 
significantly more if he hadnt already accepted this offer.
my final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr C. But for the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2020.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman