The complaint
Mr L complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) have mishandled his contents insurance 
claim. 
What happened
Mr L holds a home insurance policy with AXA. He submitted a contents insurance claim in 
February 2017 following a house fire, which the insurer accepted and appointed a loss 
adjuster to manage on their behalf.
Mr L complained about the handling of his claim by AXA and their agents. He says they gave 
him conflicting information about what costs would count towards his indemnity limit, as they 
told him that any costs for the removal and cleaning of his contents would be covered by the 
insurer separately. As a result, Mr L was expecting the full £75,000 of his indemnity limit to 
be paid to him and was unhappy when he only received £67,123.95 of this, as AXA had 
deducted £7,876.05 for associated costs that they said would not count towards the policy 
limit. 
Mr L also complained about other aspects of AXAs handling of his claim including, but not 
strictly limited to:
The time taken to settle the claim and an overall failure to keep him informed of its
progress;
The contractors lost some of his sentimental items and mixed others up with items
that were not his; and
Issues concerning the contractors behaviour and professionalism.
Mr L said he wants AXA to pay the remaining £7,876.05 of his indemnity limit, as well as 
compensation for their mishandling of his claim. AXA said that this amount had been used to 
pay for the cost of listing the non-restorable contents, cleaning the restorable contents, as 
well skip hire/disposal and chemical cleaning. And they said they were entitled to deduct this 
amount from the indemnity limit under the policy terms and conditions. AXA also clarified 
that their total outlay had actually exceeded the £75,000 policy limit in any event, as they 
had actually paid a total of £89,492.28 under the claim, which they agreed to pay despite the 
fact that Mr L was theoretically underinsured.  
AXA partially upheld Mr Ls complaint, however, as they agreed their handling of his claim 
had been poor. So they offered £1,250 compensation in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience caused. Unhappy with this resolution, Mr L referred his complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, as she didnt consider that AXA had misled 
Mr L in terms of what would form part of the overall sum insured. And although the 
investigator appreciated that the handling of the claim had been poor, she thought that the 
DRN-1631334compensation AXA had offered was fair in the circumstances. Mr L disagreed, so the matter 
has been passed to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I've decided not to 
uphold it as I consider the compensation offered by AXA to be fair in the circumstances.
Indemnity limit
Mr L is unhappy that AXA have deducted some of their associated costs for cleaning etc 
from his total indemnity limit, as he said they led him to believe this would be covered by 
them separately. Mr L has referenced an email sent by AXA about the removals, cleaning 
and charges, where they told him:
we can reassure you that any change [sic] for these things will come to ourselves 
though the only charge that you would expect is the agree [sic] excess of £200 which 
is your part of this claim.
We will also expect in any case where fire/smoke has been evident that possible 
removal and cleaning would be needed, so these are things we include as to [sic] 
claim process and do use approved suppliers to help with this.
I accept that AXA could have been clearer as to whether the associated costs would form 
part of the indemnity limit. But I dont think this means that they ought now to cover the 
£7,876.05 in costs outside of the policy limit  particularly when they have already 
exceeded this amount by around £22,000 already. 
The policy terms and conditions also state:
What is the most we will pay?
In total we will pay you up to the contents sum insured shown in your policy schedule 
for any one claim
So if there was any doubt as to what Mr L was entitled to, the policy document makes it clear 
that the maximum AXA are obliged to pay for any one claim is the contents sum insured  
which is £75,000. And I dont think its reasonable to expect that an insurer will incur costs 
over and above this limit just because they appointed certain contractors to carry out the 
work. Indeed, such a position could leave the insurer with limitless liability and would render 
any policy indemnity limit meaningless. I do not consider there is any evidence to suggest 
this was the intention of the contracting parties here, so it is not the interpretation I am willing 
to apply either in these circumstances. 
Mr L also hasnt been able to demonstrate that it was unreasonable for AXA to spend 
£7,876.05 on the various works that were carried out by their appointed contractors, or that 
he could have had the work completed any cheaper. But even if this could be shown, I still 
do not think it would be fair and reasonable to ask AXA to pay any further amount to Mr L, 
given that they have already paid over £20,000 in excess of his policy limit already.
So I will not be asking AXA to pay any further amount under the policy given that the 
indemnity limit has already been exhausted. Compensation
Mr L does not consider the £1,250 compensation offered by AXA to be commensurate to the 
experience he has had or the distress he has been caused. The power to make such an 
award is provided for in DISP Rule 3.7.2 of the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook, which 
sets out that I can award fair compensation for distress or inconvenience experienced by a 
customer. But such an award must be a proportionate reflection of the impact that a 
businesss actions (or inactions) have had.
Ive considered the service Mr L has received after submitting his claim, and its clear he has 
been left severely frustrated by the actions of AXA and their agents. I can see, for example, 
that there have been avoidable delays in the progress of their claim. And the insurer has 
also conceded that it should not have taken this long for the claim to have reached a 
conclusion. I can also see that AXA has failed to take appropriate care of Mr Ls belongings, 
leading to sentimental items being lost. 
But I have to consider whether, in the circumstances, the compensation awarded so far is 
proportionate to the distress and inconvenience suffered. And in order to award further 
compensation to Mr L, I would have to be satisfied that the wrongful actions of AXA and their 
agents have had a much more severe impact on him and his family, which I cant say it has 
in these circumstances.
I appreciate the experience wouldve been entirely upsetting and frustrating, particularly 
given that the insurer has lost items that Mr L considers to be irreplaceable. But I can see 
that AXA have taken this into account when considering what level of compensation to 
award, along with the other failings identified by Mr L such as the contractors behaviour and 
the time taken to progress the claim. And having taken all the submissions and 
circumstances into account, I dont consider the actions of AXA to warrant any further 
compensation at a higher level. But for the times when their service did fall below standard, I 
consider the £1,250 offered to be fair compensation in the circumstances.
My final decision
AXA Insurance UK Plc have made an offer to pay £1,250. 
I conclude that such an offer is fair compensation in all the circumstances. My decision is 
that AXA should pay Mr L (if they have not done so already) within 28 days of receiving his 
acceptance of this decision.
Mr L should note that if he accepts my decision, it will be legally binding on all parties, and 
he probably then wouldnt be able to take legal action over this matter for additional 
compensation. If, however, he rejects the decision, although his legal rights will remain 
intact, itll be purely a matter between Mr L and AXA as to whether the £1,250 offer still 
remains open for acceptance. Strictly speaking, an offer is not binding on the offeror after 
rejection of it has been communicated.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2020.Jack Ferris
Ombudsman