DRN-3934669
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited didnt pay the full value of a claim 
he made under his wedding insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr S took out wedding insurance with RSA in November 2019 to cover a wedding and 
wedding reception the following year. This had to be rescheduled because of the Covid-19 
pandemic but was eventually moved to June 2022. In March 2022 Mr S contacted RSA to 
make a claim on his policy as he believed the wedding venue had gone into liquidation. He 
sought to recover the costs hed paid to that venue and further amounts hed incur in 
rearranging his wedding at an alternative location. 
RSA thought the business Mr S had a contract with (who Ill refer to as E) wasnt the venue 
but a wedding supplier (which was responsible for facilitating the wedding at his venue). So it 
considered the claim under the section of the policy which related to the failure of a wedding 
supplier. This had a limit of £25,000 and RSA paid him that amount. However, it didnt think 
cover was available under the section of the policy covering cancellation or rearrangement 
because Mr S didnt have a contract with the venue itself. And there was nothing to show the 
venue couldnt have held the wedding if E hadnt gone into liquidation. 
Our investigator didnt think the venue and E were the same business (as Mr S had argued). 
The venue was owned by a different company which was still trading. So he thought RSA 
was right to conclude this wasnt covered under the cancellation or rearrangement section of 
the policy. And he didnt think E had presented themselves to Mr S as though they were the 
venue. So he thought it was fair of RSA to apply the terms as they had and turn down this 
part of Mr Ss claim. 
Mr S didnt agree. He said if he thought he was dealing with a supplier rather than the venue 
itself hed have taken out cover which had a higher limit and was available at the time. So I 
need to reach a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say RSA has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably
Ive looked first at the terms and conditions of Mr Ss policy. His argument is the additional 
costs he paid in rearranging his wedding should be covered under Section 1 of the policy 
which relates to cancellation or rearrangement of the wedding and / or wedding reception. 
Rearrangement is only covered where the wedding has been cancelled or curtailed for one 
of the reasons set out in the cancellation section. 
In relation to that the policy says We will pay up to the amount shown in your Schedule of 
cover for any irrecoverable expenses paid by you in respect of ceremonial attire and 
wedding services booked but not used as a direct result of the unavoidable cancellation or 
curtailment of the wedding or wedding reception. It then sets out a number of specified 
cancellation reasons that need to apply for cover to be provided. 
I think its agreed the relevant one here is the booked venue for the wedding or wedding 
reception being unable to hold your wedding due to an outbreak of infectious or contagious 
disease, damage to the venue, incomplete building work at the venue, murder or suicide at 
the premises, bankruptcy, liquidation or closure of the venue by the relevant authority.
Mr S says that applies here because the booked venue was in liquidation. But while there 
was clearly a connection between E and the venue. I dont think theyre the same business. I 
know our investigator spoke to a caretaker at the venue who suggested they were but RSA 
spoke to a different contact at the venue who indicated they were still accepting weddings 
and these could be booked independently of E. Given the contradictory information in these 
calls I dont consider either to be persuasive of the relationship between the venue and E. 
But whats clear from online information is that the venue isnt owned by E but by a separate 
business (a property development company) which continues to trade. I think Mr S would 
therefore need to have a contract with that business for cover to apply here. Thats because 
wedding services in the policy is defined as Any supplier you have a written contract with 
to provide services at or for the wedding or wedding reception on the wedding date or 
wedding reception date given. In this case Mr S didnt have a contract with the venue; his 
contract was with E. 
In any case even if he did have a contract with the venue the reason it was unable to host 
the wedding would need to have fallen within one of the specified reasons set out in the 
policy. Its unclear whether it was still hosting wedding at the point Mr Ss was due to take 
place. The call RSA had with the venue suggests it was but online information indicates the 
site has now been redeveloped into accommodation (although doesnt say when that took 
place). However, even if the redevelopment was the reason the venue couldnt have hosted 
Mr Ss wedding that isnt one of the cancellation reasons set out in the policy. So I think RSA 
was right to conclude the claim Mr S made wasnt covered. 
Ive gone on to consider whether thats fair. I agree if E had represented itself as being the 
venue and Mr S could reasonably have believed that was who he was dealing with it might 
not be fair to apply the strict wording of the term. But I dont think that is the case. 
I appreciate the email correspondence Mr S had with the caterers for his wedding (who are 
linked to E) did include the venues address and website but their own email address was 
different and referenced E and not the venue. And the invoice Mr S received from E included 
hire of the venue but also included the costs of catering, an events team, dcor and other 
items (such as centrepieces) to be supplied from Es portfolio. I think that suggests E was a 
wedding facilitator rather than the venue itself. I also note that, as our investigator said, Es online information says We create stunning, 
themed wedding & event dcor for any venue, be it a 5-star hotel, marquee, private house, 
or even a luxury yacht. That suggests its business model anticipated it working with a 
number of different venues depending on what was most suitable for the circumstances of its 
client. 
Mr S says he wasnt aware of the distinction (and would have taken out different cover if he 
had been). But his correspondence with E does suggest he had some awareness of this. In 
March 2022 he emailed E and said As you have gone into liquidation, are you aware of any 
other companies taking over to facilitate weddings at [the venue]. Taking all of that into 
account I dont think it is unfair of RSA to apply the term in this case and turn down Mr Ss 
claim for rearrangement costs. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 27 March 2023.
 
James Park
Ombudsman