DRN-3079249
The complaint
Mr P complains about Halifax Share Dealing Limited (trading as IWeb Share Dealing) 
delaying a transfer of stock from an ISA he had with a different firm. He says that the delay 
caused him a loss of around £20,000 for which he should be compensated. 
  
What happened
In January 2020 Mr P decided to transfer stocks in an ISA he had with a firm Ill refer to as S. 
Although he initially tried to initiate the transfer online, he was eventually sent a paper form 
to complete and send back. The form needed to be sent a second time as the signature 
page on the first page had been lost  but Halifax eventually received an appropriately 
completed form on 5 February 2020. That same day it asked for a valuation from S, and this 
was received on 18 February  this showed that there was some stock which Mr P could not 
hold in his Halifax ISA, so Halifax wrote to Mr P to ask for his instructions. Mr P indicated he 
wanted all the stock sold down as cash and that transferred over, and Halifax received this 
completed letter on 24 February 2020. 
No further action was taken in relation to this transfer until 12 March, when Halifax forwarded 
Mr Ps instructions to S. Mr Ps investments were sold and a cheque with the proceeds was 
sent to Halifax on 20 March  the money was then credited to Mr Ps account on 24 March. 
Mr P complained about the length of time it had taken the transfer to complete  particularly 
because, as a result of the delays, his investments were sold at a time when the stock 
market was experiencing a significant shock caused by the pandemic. He believed that 
Halifax had taken unnecessarily long  and said that without these delays, S wouldve been 
instructed to sell his investments on 20 February. He said that at this point his ISA with S 
was worth around £84,500  but by the time the stock was sold in March, this had dropped 
to just over £64,000. Mr P believed that as Halifax was responsible for this delay, it ought to 
compensate him for the loss. 
Halifax didnt agree  it said it had completed the transfer within agreed timescales. It also 
said that if Mr P had instructed it at the start to transfer the ISA as cash, it would not have 
needed to send Mr P an option letter (or request a valuation from S). Mr P didnt agree with 
Halifax and referred his complaint to this service. 
I wrote to Halifax with some provisional findings in September 2021. In it I said that I 
acknowledged the transfer had been completed within the timescales Halifax said it usually 
aimed for. But when looking at the process, it seemed to me there was a significant and 
unexplained delay which clearly had an impact on the overall timeliness of the transfer. 
I said that after it received Mr Ps completed options letter on 24 February, in which he 
instructed the sale of his investments with S and the transfer of cash to his Halifax ISA, all 
Halifax needed to do was forward this letter to S. There was no further action required of it. 
And yet it took almost three weeks for this letter to be forwarded to S. I provisionally 
concluded that, unless there was a good reason for the delay, I was persuaded that Mr P 
had not been treated fairly because he was entitled to expect that Halifax would promptly 
and without undue delay act on his instructions. And I thought that, in acting in Mr Ps best 
interests at all times, it ought to have tried to be as swift and diligent as possible when 
completing this transfer on his behalf. 
As a result, I provisionally concluded that Mr Ps complaint ought to be upheld. 
And I explained that in my view, Halifax needed to pay compensation based on what 
wouldve happened had the form been sent to S on 25 February 2020  in other words, the 
day after Halifax received it. 
Halifax didnt agree with my provisional findings. It said that I had acknowledged the transfer 
was completed within the required timescale, but that I considered Halifax could have 
reduced that timescale further by adopting a more efficient procedure. 
It said that its processes [were] designed around the regulatory requirement for that 
particular activity and it is a matter for commercial discretion as to how that process is put 
into operation by the business. It said that it had Service Level Agreements (SLAs) in place 
to aid the firm in meeting its regulatory requirement and these SLAs are dependent on 
workloads. It said that in terms of unit trust transfer processing, [its] SLA [was] set up to 
prompt activity where it is outstanding after 10 working days in a transfer. The part of the 
process I had focused on was a 13 working day period which would not therefore be out of 
the ordinary in an investment transfer of his type. 
It said that as Mr Ps transfer had been completed within the expectation he had been set, it 
didnt consider it fair that an external review [could] determine how a business should 
operate and thus negate its commercial discretion. 
Mr P accepted my provisional findings.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive not been persuaded to change my provisional findings. 
I think its important that I highlight some points before I explain why Ive not been minded to 
change my provisional conclusions. First, there is no set timescale for a transfer of this type 
and therefore the expectation is that a regulated firm will carry out instructions from its 
customers with due skill, care and diligence  in other words, as quickly and efficiently as 
reasonably possible. Whilst I understand the need for Halifax to put in place processes 
which allow it to carry out such transfers, I think its clear that Im not seeking to comment on 
or interfere with those processes at all. Which leads me to the second consideration  Im 
not seeking to challenge or make a finding on the exercise of Halifaxs commercial 
discretion. I dont agree that I made any comments in that regard at all. 
I dont agree with Halifax that this transfer was carried out fairly because, whatever its 
processes are, Im satisfied that it cannot ignore the particular circumstances of the 
consumer it is acting on behalf of  and my role is to look at the circumstances of his 
particular case, and decided what I consider is fair and reasonable based on those 
circumstances. For example, if a consumers transfer could be completed within one week  
it clearly would not be fair for Halifax to take six weeks simply because thats how long these 
transfers usually take. 
In this case, I made no comment about the transfer being completed within a required 
timescale  because there isnt one. I acknowledged that Halifax had set an expectation, and it had met it. But, as Ive said, my role requires me to consider the specific 
circumstances of Mr Ps transfer. 
Those specific circumstances show that for a period of almost 3 weeks a letter that simply 
needed to be sent on to a third party was not. I dont agree that this delay shouldnt be 
considered out of the ordinary in an investment transfer of this type. To my mind, this was 
an entirely unnecessary and prolonged delay  and given that Mr P was instructing Halifax to 
tell S that he wanted his investment sold, it was entirely foreseeable that any such delay may 
cause Mr P a financial loss. I would also add that Halifaxs response does not seek to 
explain the delay or provide a reason for it  and indeed indicates that, even according to its 
own internal timescale, action ought to have been prompted at least three working days 
sooner than it was.
Mr P has taken issue with various other parts of the transfer process, for example his initial 
receipt of a form that was badly photocopied, or the discrepancy between when Halifax said 
it received his ISA valuation from S, and when S said that it was sent. 
Ive considered his comments, but Im not persuaded those aspects of the process were 
particularly unusual or outside what I would consider reasonably efficient and diligent. This is 
why I dont agree that Mr Ps losses ought to be based on the transfer taking place by 
20 February  I think that is an unrealistic timescale. 
But Im satisfied that had Halifax acted with due skill, care and diligence, it would not have 
delayed the mere forwarding of a letter for 13 working days, or 18 calendar days. In my view, 
it wouldve acted on such a letter within a day  bearing in mind that this was, in effect, the 
last action it needed to take in order to facilitate this particular transfer. So I remain of the 
view that Mr Ps losses ought to be calculated by reference to what wouldve happened had 
Halifax forwarded Mr Ps options letter on 25 February 2020, the day after it received it.   
Putting things right
In the absence of any comments around how to put things right, I consider the approach I 
explained in my provisional findings to be fair and reasonable  but in looking at the 
timescales, Ive made a slight change:
S sold Mr Ps investments on 20 March 2020  that is just over a week after Halifax 
sent them Mr Ps options form. If Halifax had sent the form on 25 February 2020, in 
my view S wouldve carried out those instructions within a week as well  this means 
Mr Ps investments would in fact have been sold by 4 March 2020 (allowing a day for 
the form to be received by S), not 9 March as I indicated in my provisional findings. 
So Halifax needs to find out what Mr Ps investments were worth on 4 March 2020, 
when they probably wouldve been sold had everything been done correctly. And it 
needs to compare that figure, with what Mr P actually received when the cash was 
transferred to him. 
If Mr Ps investments were worth more on 20 March when S raised the cheque than 
they were on 4 March 2020, then no compensation is payable. Otherwise, Halifax 
must pay Mr P the difference. 
Halifax must also pay Mr P £100 for the trouble and upset the matter caused him. 
  
My final decisionMy final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Halifax Share Dealing Limited must pay the 
compensation Ive outlined above within 28 days of when we tell it Mr P has accepted this 
final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the compensation from the 
date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% per year simple. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman