DRN-2813548
The complaint
Mr T complains that Nationwide Building Society wont refund a number of transactions 
made from his account which he says he didnt make.
What happened
Mr T says hes been in custody or in prison since June 2018 and so all the transactions done 
on his account since then werent done by him. There were a number of transactions, 
including cash withdrawals and in-store purchases. And Mr T says he never gave permission 
for anyone else to make withdrawals from his account or told anyone else his PIN.
Nationwide investigated the transactions but refused to refund them as it didnt agree that 
fraud had occurred. It said most of the transactions were done with Mr Ts genuine card and 
PIN and it couldnt see how someone else wouldve been able to get his card and know his 
PIN. It also said the transactions werent the type of things theyd expect to see if it was 
fraud, as the full balance of the account wasnt emptied. Mr T wasnt happy with 
Nationwides response, so he referred his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint and said they felt it was likely Mr T had 
authorised the transactions, so Nationwide didnt need to refund them. Mr T disagreed, so 
the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Nationwide needs to refund the transactions to Mr T. Ill explain 
why below.
Generally, Nationwide can hold Mr T liable for disputed transactions on his account if the 
evidence suggests its more likely than not that he made them himself or told someone else 
they could make them.
Most of the transactions Mr T has disputed are cash withdrawals or in-store purchases. 
Nationwide has sent us technical evidence showing how these withdrawals and purchases 
were made. And, from this, Im satisfied that Mr Ts genuine card and PIN were used to 
make them.
But the relevant regulations say that this, on its own, isnt enough to allow Nationwide to hold 
Mr T liable. So I also need to think about whether the evidence suggests its more likely that 
not that Mr T consented to these transactions being made with his card.
Ive thought very carefully about this and I think its a finely balanced matter in this case. But 
where the evidence available is unclear or inconclusive, I must make my decision on what I 
think is most likely to have happened, based on the evidence I do have.
Mr T says he never gave anyone else permission to make withdrawals from his account and 
never told anyone else his PIN. But if this is the case, I cant see how someone else would 
know his PIN. Nationwides evidence shows most of the withdrawals and purchases were 
made using Mr Ts PIN. And given the number of possible combinations, its extremely 
unlikely someone could guess the PIN correctly. So I think its likely whoever made the 
withdrawals and purchases knew the PIN. And as they knew the PIN, in the absence of any 
other likely explanation, I think its more likely than not that Mr T consented to the 
withdrawals and purchases.
The general nature of the transactions on Mr Ts account is also not the sort of thing a thief 
would normally do after stealing a card. Generally, the way fraudsters operate is to get as 
much money as quickly as possible in order to avoid the source of the money being cut-off 
or them being detected. But here, there are gaps of several days in between the 
transactions, some of the transactions appear to be for everyday spending such as 
supermarket shopping, and the transactions never use up the full available balance in the 
account. So I dont think its likely these transactions were the result of fraud by someone 
who stole Mr Ts card.
Some of the other transactions on the account were made by contactless payment using 
Mr Ts card, or by entering his card details. But these were done in between the cash 
withdrawals and in-store purchases, so I think its likely they were all done by the same 
person. And as I think Mr T consented to the withdrawals and purchases, I think he 
consented to these other card transactions and contactless payments too.
There were also direct debits on the account, and Mr T said he also didnt authorise any of 
them. But all the direct debits on his account were in place before June 2018, so before Mr T 
was in custody. And one of the direct debit recipients has sent evidence showing it had an 
existing relationship with Mr T. So I think its more likely than not that Mr T was aware of 
these direct debits and did consent to them.
I understand that Mr T has been either in custody or in prison while these transactions have 
been made, and so it cant be him who physically carried them out. And I appreciate how he 
feels about this case, but Im afraid the evidence isnt in his favour. He doesnt need to have 
physically made the transactions for Nationwide to hold him liable, only to have consented to 
them. And, particularly as I cant see any other likely way for someone else to know his PIN, 
I think its more likely than not that Mr T did tell someone else they could make the 
transactions.
So I think Mr T did consent to the transactions, Nationwide has acted reasonably in holding 
him liable for them and I dont think it needs to refund the transactions to him.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2021. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman