DRN-1856279
The complaint
Mr M complains that Sytner Group Ltd misrepresented the finance agreement that he used 
to obtain a car.
What happened
Mr M obtained a new car in April 2018 using a hire purchase agreement. He says he was 
told by the supplying garage that he could change the mileage allowance after the first year. 
But after that first year he was told by the finance provider that the mileage allowance 
couldnt be altered. Mr M would like the mileage allowance increased, or for the agreement 
to be cancelled.
He brings his complaint against Sytner Group as the credit broker.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought the 
paperwork set out that the maximum mileage limit was for the duration of the agreement and 
that there was nothing in the agreement suggesting it could be changed.
Mr M didnt agree saying, in summary, that he felt what he was saying had been ignored. He 
also provided the paperwork from the time of the sale.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), 
I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Mr M says he was told the mileage allowance could be changed after a year. I accept thats 
possible, particularly if this is something that some lenders may allow. But, as I cant be sure 
exactly what was discussed, Ive placed more reliance on the paperwork that was completed 
at the time.
The hire purchase agreement shows the maximum mileage allowance was agreed at 
32,050. Theres nothing in the agreement to suggest that the mileage allowance can be 
altered once its agreed. And one of the questions in the demands and needs questionnaire 
was, Are you aware that exceeding your anticipated mileage on your finance agreement 
may result in a shortfall at the end of the agreement? And its been recorded that Mr M was 
aware of this.
Whilst there is a lot of information to take on board when a car is obtained using finance, 
I think Mr M would reasonably have checked that the paperwork included information about 
changing the mileage if this was important for him.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2020.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman