DRN-3545208
The complaint
Mr A has complained about AXA Insurance UK Plc. He isnt happy that it turned down a 
claim under his travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr A made a claim under his travel insurance policy after personal belongings and cash was 
lost or stolen while traveling abroad. But when AXA looked into the claim it turned it down. 
This was because it wasnt happy with the circumstances surrounding the claim and the 
inaccuracies in Mr As account. 
As Mr A wasnt happy about this he complained to AXA and as it maintained its position he 
also complained to this Service.
Our investigator looked into things for him and partly upheld his complaint. In the main he 
didnt think AXA had done anything wrong in declining Mr As claim as there were a number 
of inaccuracies in his account. But he did think AXAs service could have been better and 
suggested £50 compensation. 
AXA accepted the investigators position, but Mr A didnt agree so the matter has been 
passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and I know that this will come as a disappointment to Mr A, I agree that the 
complaint should only be partly upheld.
 
I think its important to explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information provided 
by both parties, in reaching my decision. If Ive not reflected something thats been said in 
this decision its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to the crux 
of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to reflect my 
informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I dont think 
its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question raised unless 
its relevant to the crux of the complaint.
I can understand Mr As frustration here as he was away at the time and knows what did and 
didnt happen. However, all insurance claims are subject to verification checks and in doing 
its checks AXA has a number of concerns around inaccuracies in Mr As account. And 
having looked at its concerns I cant say it has acted unreasonably here. 
I wont go over all the issues that AXA has raised but Ill highlight a few. The main inaccuracy 
concerns the reporting of the claim to the police while Mr A was away. He has provided a 
police diary extract which outlines what he told the police at the airport when he reported the 
loss. Mr A said when he went for his Covid 19 test at the airport he detected tht his passport 
was missing. However, there is no mention of the missing cash, bag and belt that he also 
looked to claim for which is surprising, especially given the amount of cash that was missing 
and the value of the missing items. 
There was also an expectancy that Mr A would make a full report to the police about the loss 
and gained a crime report (or equivalent), but he didnt do this, or he hasnt provided any 
evidence that he did. And when Mr A notified AXA about the claim the circumstances he 
outlined were different in that he said he realised his small bag (containing his travel 
documentation and money) was stolen when he went to get his luggage from the bus he was  
travelling on, which is different to the police diary extract. I know Mr A has suggested the 
police didnt want to record the additional items, but I find that surprising. And even if this 
was the case then he still needed to report the crime to the police which would have gleaned 
the additional information and allowed the police to investigate the loss or theft.
Furthermore, when Mr A gave an account to this Service there were differences to the earlier 
accounts that he had given to the police and AXA. He said he was close to the airport at the 
bus station with his hand luggage and when he went to load his things into his taxi he 
realised his hand luggage was missing. And at a later stage he said he found his bag was 
missing when he got to the hotel. So, there are clearly inaccuracies here as well.
As Mr A is aware our investigator also outlined issues in relation to the cash claim part of Mr 
As claim and raised questions around his hotel accommodation. I dont propose to go over 
the detail of this again here, but Mr A hasnt evidenced how he took out the money before 
travelling abroad. And he has suggested he took the money out himself before travelling 
abroad on the one hand and that he transferred the money to a friend who gave him the 
money on the other which is inconsistent. Plus, Mr A hasnt been able to evidence how he 
got and paid for his temporary travel documents in order to get home and went onto 
withdraw the claim in relation to his passport. And these issues are relevant to the wider 
picture of inaccuracies in Mr As claim and complaint.
Given all of this, and the fact AXA may not have met the claim in any event as Mr A didnt 
keep these high value items and cash within his sight and personal control which is excluded 
under the policy terms and conditions, I dont think AXA has acted unreasonably here. 
Finally, I can see that there was a little poor service and delay in dealing with Mr As claim. 
And AXA couldve engaged with Mr A more about a potential inaccuracy in the recording of 
the claim which may have been caused by selecting an incorrect drop-down box. So, I agree 
with our investigator that £50 compensation in acknowledgment of any stress caused here 
seems fair. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I partly uphold this complaint. I require AXA 
Insurance UK Plc to pay Mr A £50 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2022.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman