DRN-3011434
The complaint
Ms C complains that MBNA Limited (MBNA) wouldnt agree to an extension of her payment 
deferral in July 2020.
What happened
Ms C had an MBNA credit card with a limit of £6,700. In March 2020, the balance on her 
statement was £6,273.70. Minimum payments were around £145 per month. In April 2020, 
she lost her contract due to COVID-19. MBNA agreed to a three-month payment deferral 
under the measures introduced to support customers during the pandemic. This ran from 
April 2020 to June 2020. No payments were made by Ms C in those months. 
In July 2020, Ms C was still out of work and asked MBNA for an extension to the payment 
deferral. She said at that time she couldnt foresee when her income would start again. 
MBNA declined her request but instead agreed to a 30-day breathing space. This meant 
there was a reduced minimum payment of £64.83 on her July 2020 statement for payment in 
August. In August 2020, Ms C paid £200 into the account  more than the amount required. 
She continued to pay £200 each month thereafter. In December 2020, Ms C requested 
another thee-month payment deferral and this was agreed. 
Ms C complained. In July 2020, she had told MBNA that she couldnt predict when she 
would return to work  as she, like many others in her sector, were badly affected by the 
pandemic. She felt that it was unreasonable for MBNA to hold this against her. She said that 
the point of the pandemic support scheme was to help customers who found themselves in 
situations like hers. 
MBNA said that a payment deferral could be agreed if Ms C could confidently say that her 
situation would return to normal in the next three months, but Ms C couldnt say that. So, 
they felt that it wasnt in her best interest to agree a further payment deferral, as interest 
could increase her debt and lead to more financial difficulty. But they did agree to a 
breathing space of 30 days. This meant C would pay a reduced amount of £64.83 in July 
2020. MBNA said if she paid this, her account would remain up to date.
Ms C brought her complaint to this service. Our adjudicator thought MBNA had acted fairly. 
She said that because Ms C didnt know when her income would return to normal, MBNA 
were entitled to decline a payment deferral and instead, put in place the 30-day breathing 
space.
Ms C didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman look at her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued guidance to lenders on 2 April 2020 which 
explained what they expected from them during the exceptional circumstances arising out of 
the global pandemic. Their guidance asked businesses to consider payment deferrals of up 
to three months under regulated credit agreements. 
The FCA said their guidance applied where consumers were already experiencing or 
reasonably expect to experience temporary payment difficulties as a result of the pandemic. 
They also said that firms should ensure that there is no negative impact on the consumers 
credit file because of the payment deferral.
Further guidance issued by the FCA on 1 July 2020 extended these measures, and where 
consumers were still struggling due to the global pandemic, businesses were advised to 
freeze or reduce their payments for a further three months. 
In September 2020, the FCA announced that the support scheme would change from the 
end of October 2020. From then, firms could continue to support customers in difficulty  but 
it was down to their discretion and customers circumstances. And  reporting to credit 
reference agencies was reintroduced for people that had already had the maximum six 
months of payment deferrals.
The crux of Ms Cs complaint is that she believes MBNA shouldve agreed an extension to 
her payment deferral when she contacted them in July 2020. Shed already had a three-
month payment deferral from April 2020 to June 2020 when she hadnt had to make any 
payments. Up until April 2020, she was employed as a contractor. But her contract hadnt 
been renewed due to the pandemic. She told MBNA she couldnt predict when her income 
would restart, and she was receiving benefits. 
Because of this, MBNA took the view that it wasnt in Ms Cs best interests to agree another 
payment deferral. They believed that as interest built up, the debt could increase to a level 
which may cause her longer-term financial difficulties. 
I do acknowledge the impact on Ms Cs income was purely because of the pandemic. The 
FCAs guidance applied where payment difficulties were considered to be temporary. MBNA 
took the stance that a temporary difficulty would be resolved by the time any payment 
deferral expired. And I think their approach here is reasonable. 
To establish this, MBNA asked Ms C to confirm, yes or no, whether her income situation 
would improve within 3 months. Ms C couldnt confirm that. So, MBNA declined a further 
deferral. I believe they were entitled to do that here. But the FCA are also clear that where a 
deferral cant be agreed, normal forbearance rules apply. MBNA agreed to offer breathing 
space for 30 days after which Ms Cs situation could be revisited. So, MBNA appear to have 
complied with the FCAs guidance.
MBNA later agreed to a further three-month payment deferral in December 2020. Ms C told 
them her income situation was set to improve within that timescale. So, this appears to 
comply with MBNAs interpretation of the FCAs guidance. It meant Ms C benefitted from 
total payment deferrals of six months. This was the maximum permitted under the scheme. 
I do recognise that the financial impact the global pandemic had on Ms C wouldve been 
very worrying and distressing for her. I think MBNAs process of asking a simple yes or no 
question about Ms Cs future income expectations couldve been more sympathetic. I also 
think they couldve explained their decision in a clearer way at the time. 
It isnt the role of this service to ask a business to alter its procedures or processes or 
impose improvements on the level of service offered to their customers. These aspects fall 
firmly within the remit of the regulator  in this case, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
But it is our role to examine and decide whether MBNA have ultimately been fair and reasonable in the manner in which those policies and procedures are applied in the 
individual circumstances of Ms Cs experience with them.
I appreciate Ms C will be disappointed, but I cant reasonably conclude that MBNA did 
anything wrong in how they interpreted and applied the FCAs guidance here and, therefore, 
how she was treated. So, I wont be upholding Ms Cs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman