DRN-3867468
The complaint
Mrs B and Mr B complain that Scottish Widows Schroder Personal Wealth Limited trading as 
Schroders Personal Wealth (Schroders) advised them that Mr B could retire before their 
mortgage was paid off, but then refused to accept them as a client after he resigned. They 
want compensation to repay their outstanding mortgage.  
What happened
Mrs B and Mr B contacted Schroders in October 2021 as they were interested in retirement 
planning. They say they spent months going through their finances between November 
2021 and May 2022 with the adviser. And that Schroders prepared and discussed different 
cash flow models forecasting retirement scenarios during online meetings. With it advising 
that Mr B could afford to retire on 1 January 2022, rather than waiting until 2025 as theyd 
previously planned when their mortgage was due to be paid off. Details of their existing 
pensions and investments were taken for Schroders to obtain information.
Mrs B and Mr B says they decided Mr B should retire based on this advice and following a 
meeting with the adviser on 29 March 2022, he retired two days later. They say they were 
then shocked to be called by the adviser on 27 May 2022 who told them Schroders couldnt 
accept them as a client due to its charges being higher than Mr Bs existing pension 
providers. Mrs B and Mr B complained to Schroders saying if theyd been told this crucial 
information in January/February 2021, when it should have known there was a problem, Mr 
B wouldnt have retired when he did. They said it hadnt explained its charges properly and 
that it had misled them. They said Schroders should compensate them by paying off the 
outstanding mortgage, around £69,000.
Schroders rejected the complaint. It said it hadnt provided any advice and only modelled 
various scenarios based on information provided by Mrs B and Mr B. It said it was better for 
them in cost terms to stay with their current pension providers, which is why it couldnt 
accept them as clients. But it said it should have explained its decision better and should 
have dealt with their complaint sooner. It offered them £500 in compensation, which they 
didnt accept.
Mrs B and Mr B referred their complaint to our service and our investigator looked into it, but 
she didnt uphold the complaint.
Our investigator said having reviewed the calls that had taken place Schroders had 
disclosed the charges and costs for its advice and said that it would only take Mrs B and Mr 
B on as clients if it was in their best interests to do so. She said theyd watched a 
presentation on Schroders website before the first meeting which explained its advice 
process. She said during the meeting on 15 November 2021 the adviser had said based on 
the information provided it appeared Mr B could retire tomorrow. But in subsequent 
meetings the adviser had specifically stated she wasnt making any recommendation to do 
anything at that stage.
Our investigator said Schroders compliance team reviewed Mr Bs pensions during April and 
May 2022 and concluded he would be better off retaining his existing plans. She said on 29 
March 2022 Mr B told the adviser hed been subject to a disciplinary process at work where 
the employer accepted it had made a mistake but that he felt he couldnt go back. Our 
investigator said the cash flow forecasts suggesting he could retire may have given Mr B 
comfort to leave his job when he did. But she said it was clear it hadnt taken them on as 
clients or said or done anything that directly led to Mr B leaving his job when he did.  
Our investigator said she thought the £500 already paid in compensation was fair for the 
poor service in communicating it couldnt act for Mrs B and Mr B and the delay in dealing 
with their complaint and that Schroders didnt need to do anything further. 
Mrs B and Mr B didnt agree and made a number of points, including:
the disciplinary procedure was irrelevant, as Mr Bs employer had asked him to stay. 
they had declined the £500 compensation offered.  
Schroders had kept the information about charges to itself for three to four months 
but should have made them aware of this at the earliest possible opportunity. And 
that the adviser should have clarified matters at the earliest opportunity with the 
compliance team.
Schroders was ethically and morally wrong to say Mr B could retire without qualifying 
this by saying hold off making any big life changing decisions until weve got to the 
stage of you signing a contract with us. 
As Mrs B and Mr B dont agree it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding this complaint.
I know my decision will disappoint Mrs B and Mr B but having considered everything they 
have said, I dont think Schroders recommended that Mr B retire. I think it did caveat the 
cashflow information it was discussing with them during the meetings. It did explain its 
charges and disclose these at an early stage. And I dont think there was an unreasonable 
delay in it confirming it couldnt accept Mrs B and Mr B as clients. 
And in any case, it isnt clear to me how Schroders declining to take Mrs B and Mr B on as 
clients has caused them a loss. It hasnt mismanaged their investments causing financial 
losses. Theres no evidence it suggested it could achieve superior investment returns that 
misleadingly enhanced the cash flow forecasts. Yes, Mr B has forgone salary he could have 
earnt, but that was in the forecasts he states he based his decision on. So, it isnt reasonable 
to argue that Schroders should be required to repay the outstanding mortgage. 
The initial meetings preparing and running through the cashflows on 15 November and 6 
December 2021, were quite long, lasting several hours in total. So, it may be that Mrs B and 
Mr B have forgotten some of what was discussed.
The decision to retire
I think Mrs B and Mr Bs retirement plans were quite advanced at the time of the initial calls 
with the adviser complimenting them on how organised they were. The cashflow models 
were based on a great number of standardised assumptions about future expenses, ongoing 
charges, investment returns, inflation rates and so on, which I think the adviser made clear. 
The models became quite complex in the detail, but the concept is straightforward. The model takes current assets, anticipated future income streams and future expenses, and 
calculates how long a given standard of living can be sustained on an inflation adjusted 
basis utilising both income and capital. 
I think Mrs B and Mr B were highly engaged in the modelling process. They asked many 
questions and for relatively minor adjustments to be made in the assumptions. Like when 
cars might be replaced and at what age they would likely stop driving to see how this 
affected the outcomes forecast. I think this shows they understood that these were simply 
possible scenarios for discussion at this stage of the relationship. And I think the adviser 
made it clear that no actual recommendation for Mr B to retire immediately was being made. 
During the 15 November 2021 meeting Mr B said he would like to retire immediately but felt 
he needed to carry on work for another three years due to the outstanding mortgage. 
Different retirement ages were discussed and modelled, including him retiring in 
August/September 2022. The adviser then adjusted the cashflow forecast to show the 
impact of Mr B retiring in early 2022, which showed on the information provided and the 
assumptions made, this was also possible. 
Mr B said if he could retire now I would. A long discussion takes place around this with the 
adviser explaining and Mr B confirming the forecast was just using their money in a different 
way. Fees are explained (for the second time on that call), and the adviser confirms that 
Schroders compliance department would review Mr Bs pension plans to analyse viability. 
Mr B askes again if it is feasible. The adviser replies:
Based on what youre telling me it could work.
The adviser says authority letters will be sent to obtain information on Mr Bs pension plans 
and well do some analysis on what could work. The adviser suggests that Mrs B and Mr B 
double check their expenditure as that is the key thing and Mr B says he will send the 
adviser his own spreadsheet of outgoings.
The adviser says that Schroders will get the information back and put another meeting in the 
diary to have a look at what it could do, and that Mrs B and Mr B can start planning and:
even if we turnaround and you say oh no gosh, I dont think next year isnt right it 
might be eight months.
 Mr B says he was thinking 14 September next year.
So, I dont think Schroder recommended that Mr B immediately retire. And I think what Mrs B 
and Mr B say is a key aspect of their complaint  that comments about this be caveated, 
were in fact caveated. In the call of 6 December 2021 where the models were again 
discussed the adviser confirmed no recommendations were being made at present and 
analysis was required. Mr B then emailed the Schroder adviser of 6 January 2022, over the 
cashflow forecasts saying:
One more change; being realistic, I will now retire sometime between beginning of 
April to the end of July (3-6 months) from now.
 Please can you reflect this in your calculations? 
 
I think this suggests Mrs B and Mr B were making the decisions around Mr Bs retirement 
and carefully appraising the situation themselves rather than blindly following a suggestion 
that retirement might be affordable. The adviser provided an updated cashflow, but it wasnt 
until 10 March 2022 before Mrs B and Mr B got back in touch. Whilst Im not persuaded that Schroders refusal to accept Mrs B and Mr B as clients has 
caused them any material loss, it was the case that when Mr B retired, they werent formally 
clients of Schroders. And, on 10 March 2021 Mr B confirmed in an email he now planned to 
leave work at the end of March. He said;
One issue Im more conscious of are professional fees involved.
He then summarised Schroders charges and said hed been speaking to other advisory firms 
whose charges were lower. But said he would prefer to work with Schroders and asked if it 
could match the other firms charges. This suggests two things to me. First, it is further 
confirmation that Mrs B and Mr B were aware of what Schroders charges were despite 
saying in their complaint these hadnt been disclosed. And second, they hadnt themselves 
decided to proceed with Schroder at that point and were actively considering other advisers. 
I think this is clear evidence that shows that they knew the business relationship hadnt been 
formalised when Mr B made the decision to leave work at the end of March 2022.
Were Schroders charges disclosed
Schroders charges are discussed in detail during the calls of 15 November 2021 and 6 
December 2021. The same information was in its brochures already provided, so I think 
these details had been clearly set out.  
Did Schroders take too long to confirm it couldnt take Mrs B and Mr B on as clients
Mrs B and Mr B say this is the crux of their complaint. And that Schroders would have known 
once it received the information for Mr Bs existing pension providers that it couldnt accept 
them as clients and should informed them immediately. 
But I dont think there was an unreasonable delay here and I dont think it impacted the 
decision that Mr B should leave work when he did. They knew that the next stage of the 
process was for Schroder to undertake an appraisal. Based on the evidence available it isnt 
clear to me why they thought such an appraisal was being carried out and if they did why 
they didnt request updates themselves before Mr B gave his notice.
Ive come to this conclusion because on 11 January 2022 the adviser emailed an update on 
the information received about Mr Bs pension plans. This confirmed that Schroder wouldnt 
look to transfer one of the plans until April 2022 at the earliest assuming Mr B had finished 
work. Another plan potentially subject to exit penalties before age 60 is also discussed. The 
adviser asks that Mrs B and Mr B come back to her with their thoughts. 
But Mrs B and Mr B didnt get back in touch until 10 March 2022 when they confirm Mr B 
would finish work at the end of March 2022. And Mr B didnt request a report on how he 
might draw income from one of his existing pensions until he emailed the adviser on 26 
March 2022, after he had already resigned. This appears to prompt Schroders to commence 
the formal analysis in April 2022. 
 
The evidence shows Mrs B and Mr B were fully aware of Schroders charges on 15 
November 2021. And I think its more likely than not they were also aware of the charges on 
their existing plans. They appear to have been very organised in respect of their financial 
affairs and Mr B demonstrated considerable understanding of his existing plans in discussing 
them with the adviser. 
It was made repeatedly clear that Schroders would need to appraise Mrs B and Mr Bs 
existing arrangements to establish if it was appropriate for it to take over the investment of their existing arrangements. Mrs B and Mr B suggest that this would simply be a matter of 
considering the relative charges of the existing contracts compared to Schroders, meaning 
the outcome would be known as soon as details were received from the existing providers. 
But that is an oversimplification.
Whilst a charging comparison would certainly be an important consideration in the analysis, 
it wouldnt be the only one. For example, the existing plans might have had lower charges 
than Schroders, but not provided any ongoing advice. So, the impact of a higher charge 
would need to be weighed against additional services offered over the likely timeframe of the 
investments. Some analysis and projections would be required to do this. 
Like any business Schroders can chose who it wants to have as a client. And whilst there 
was lengthy engagement with Mrs B and Mr B, I havent seen any evidence that they were 
told it would definitely act for them or that the analysis was in hand before April 2022. Having 
completed the analysis it concluded that it wasnt in Mr Bs best interest for it to take over his 
pension arrangement at that time, which seems a fair and reasonable approach to adopt. 
I dont think Schroders advised Mr B to retire. Or that he did so solely because of the 
cashflow model and comments made by the adviser around that, or the possibility it might 
manage investments for them. Mr B was speaking to other financial advisers and was only 
prepared to proceed with it if it matched the other advisers charges. So, I think that other 
factors were involved in the decision. And on his own evidence Mr B wasnt prepared to 
continue with his employment following the resolution of a disciplinary matter. 
Taking everything together I dont think Schroders has treated Mrs B and Mr B unfairly. I 
think its offer of £500 in compensation for the delay in considering the complaint and some 
service issues in how it told them it couldnt act for them is fair in the circumstances. 
Schroders have confirmed this offer is still available and Mrs B and Mr B should contact it if 
they now want to accept it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 May 2023.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman