DRN-1214994
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc took more money than was required to redeem 
the mortgage. She complains she was asked to repay a debt her late husband had built up 
without her knowledge in a connected mortgage current account, which she also says she 
had no knowledge of. 
What happened
In August 2007, Mrs P took out a joint mortgage with her late husband. A condition of that 
mortgage was to have a mortgage current account attached to the mortgage. Any funds 
spent using that current account facility were repayable alongside the mortgage. 
Following a terminal illness diagnosis, a claim was made on a protection policy which 
enabled Mrs P and her late husband to redeem the mortgage. This included an amount of 
little over £7,700 to clear the mortgage current account debit balance. Mrs P complained 
about the amount needed to clear the mortgage at the time. As a result some of the 
repayment charges were refunded, but the current account balance remained paid. 
Mrs P complained again in 2019. Barclays reconsidered the complaint. It remained satisfied 
the current account debit was correctly cleared as the money was owed; it provided with Mrs 
P statements for the account (which had been addressed solely to Mr P) and explained that 
repayments had regularly been made to the account from their joint account. 
Our investigator was satisfied Barclays hadn't done anything wrong. He explained:
the mortgage current account was joint and it had been a condition of the mortgage 
to have it; and
she, along with Mr P, had signed the mortgage offer; and
Mrs P had been sent debit cards on the account; and
that only Mr P had been sent statements was allowed for in the terms and conditions 
of the account. 
 
Mrs P has asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. In summary, she questions 
whether she agreed to the terms and conditions of the account. Although she has been sent 
the signed declaration for the mortgage, she maintains this was completed over the phone 
and they were never sent the terms and conditions. She continues to question the 
statements only being sent to Mr P and she has no recollection of ever being sent debit 
cards for the account and questions if there is evidence of their usage.  She also argues the 
redemption statement, showing the balance of the mortgage current account was incorrect, 
hence the previous refunds. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I understand Mrs P feels very strongly about her complaint. I would like to reassure both her 
and Barclays that although I have only summarised the background and arguments above, I 
have read and considered everything provided in its entirety. The crux of this issue is 
whether Barclays were right to require the redemption of the mortgage current account when 
the mortgage was redeemed. And I can only uphold this complaint if I find Barclays has done 
something wrong. 
The starting point is the contract between Mrs P and Barclays - the mortgage offer. And as 
explained in the offer when Mr and Mrs P signed the mortgage deed, they agreed to be 
bound by the mortgage terms and conditions. The mortgage deed would likely have been 
signed in the presence of the conveyancing solicitor. 
Mr and Mrs P signed the mortgage declaration on 17 August 2007 alongside a direct debit 
mandate for making mortgage repayments. Although Mrs P says the mortgage was 
completed over the phone and she doesn't recall being sent the terms and conditions, I am 
nevertheless satisfied they were sent. I say this because both Mr and Mrs P have signed the 
documentation. And when comparing Mrs P's signature to that on a complaint form 
previously sent to us, I am satisfied they are similar such that I find Mrs P did sign in 
agreement of the mortgage terms. The mortgage was taken out on a joint basis, meaning 
both parties were jointly and severally liable for its repayment. 
It was a condition of the mortgage that a mortgage current account with a reserve facility 
was taken out with the mortgage. This is set out in part four and part 12 of the mortgage 
offer. As the mortgage was a joint facility, the mortgage current account was also. 
I accept Mrs P doesn't recall receiving debit cards for the account. I also accept the 
statements for the mortgage current account were only sent to Mr P. But as explained by the 
investigator, this is allowed for the in the terms and conditions for the account. And even if 
only addressed to one of a joint party, they are deemed as having been sent to both. There 
is little more that I can add to this, other to say it isn't unusual for only one party to be written 
to on a joint account. Overall, I'm satisfied Mrs P was jointly liable for the debit balance in the 
mortgage current account. 
The mortgage and the linked current account terms and conditions required the repayment 
of the mortgage current account when the mortgage was redeemed. And this requirement 
was set out on the mortgage redemption statement alongside the amount needed to repay 
the balance. So although Mrs P may have had cause to complain about some of the charges 
made when the mortgage was redeemed, I haven't seen any persuasive evidence that the 
amount required to repay the mortgage current account was wrong, or not due at all. 
Having considered the matter very carefully, and understanding why this is so important to 
Mrs P, I find that Barclays haven't done anything wrong in relation to the requirement to 
repay the balance of the mortgage current account. I therefore find no basis on which to 
make an award against it. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2020.
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman