DRN-3359477
The complaint
Miss B complains that Revolut Limited restricted access to and then closed her account.
What happened
Miss B had an account with Revolut that she opened in July 2020. At the end of March 2021, 
Revolut said her account had been flagged by its automated system, and asked Miss B to 
provide details of her income or the primary source of her funds.
But Miss B said she couldnt provide this information  she said shed inherited the funds in 
2006, and didnt have any paperwork as this was dealt with by her brother. She also said 
she couldnt provide the paperwork as she wasnt in the UK at the time. Revolut said that it 
couldnt proceed without the relevant documents, and that without them it would need to 
close the account. 
Though Miss B provided a statement showing some payments into her account, Revolut 
decided to close Miss Bs account  and gave her 60 days to withdraw her funds.
Miss B contacted Revolut to ask for an explanation of why it closed her account. But Revolut 
said that it was unable to disclose details regarding the review of the account or point out a 
reason that had raised its concerns, as required by its regulators.
Dissatisfied, Miss B referred the complaint to us.
Revolut reviewed the complaint and offered to pay Miss B £20 in full and final settlement of 
the complaint. Our investigator looked at this, and didnt think Revolut had treated Miss B 
unfairly, and said that the £20 was open for acceptance if Miss B wanted it.
Miss B didnt agree with the investigator. She thinks Revolut should pay her £100.
As the investigator wasnt able to resolve matters informally, the complaint has been referred 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Financial businesses like Revolut have to comply with a number of legal and regulatory 
requirements. This means they need to monitor customers accounts and may need to 
review them at any time. This can include asking for information about payments into the 
account. While it is waiting for that information, it may need to restrict access to the account. 
And where a business does that, it doesnt need to give reasons.
Ive also considered the terms and conditions of Miss Bs account. These confirm that 
Revolut could block Miss Bs account to meet its legal regulations. I note the terms and 
conditions allowed Revolut to close Miss Bs account by giving her at least two months 
notice  but also allowed it to close his account immediately in exceptional circumstances.
Thinking about all of this, I dont think Revolut acted unfairly in Miss Bs case.
Im satisfied that when Revolut requested the information from Miss B it was acting in 
accordance with its legal and regulatory obligations. These meant it was entitled to ask 
Miss B for information about the source of her funds. I appreciate Miss B wasnt able to 
provide this information  and given what shes told us, I can certainly understand why she 
couldnt. But this doesnt mean I can say it was wrong for Revolut to have asked Miss B for 
this information. 
Similarly, I cant say it was wrong for Revolut to close Miss Bs account. The terms and 
conditions allowed Revolut to close Miss Bs account by giving her at least two months 
notice. Here, Revolut gave Miss B notice that it would close her account and gave her 60 
days to withdraw her funds to another account. I appreciate that doing this caused Miss B 
inconvenience  she says she relied on her Revolut card for everyday spending while she 
was abroad. And she says that at the time this happened she couldnt return to the UK 
because of travel restrictions relating to Covid-19. But I cant say this is something Revolut 
was responsible for  and having given notice to close the account it was then up to Miss B 
to find other ways to transfer money for her use abroad.
For these reasons, although I have every sympathy with the position Miss B found herself in, 
I cant say Revolut did something wrong. It was entitled to ask her for information about her 
source of funds, and as she couldnt provide this, its unsurprising that Revolut then decided 
to close the account. It follows that I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint and Im not going to tell 
Revolut to do anything further to put things right.
My final decision
I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 June 2022.
 
Rebecca Hardman
Ombudsman