DRN-4219898
The complaint
Mr M complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited increased his premium for his 
motor insurance policy due to an incorrect claim on his record. 
What happened
Mr M took out a policy with Admiral and it told him he needed to add a claim from 2020. But 
Mr M said he was a passenger in the car at the time and didnt then even have a driving 
licence. A year later, Admiral eventually agreed that Mr M didnt need to report the claim and 
it refunded him £109.77 for the difference in premiums. Admiral said the incident was 
recorded against Mr M on the Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE) database by 
another insurer and it couldnt remove it. Mr M wanted a refund for the previous year and 
compensation for how he had been treated and the time it took to resolve this matter. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Admiral 
wasnt responsible for the incorrect information on CUE. But he thought Admiral had 
incorrectly held Mr M responsible for a claim when CUE recorded him as a third party. He 
thought Admiral could have explained this to Mr M and so avoided hours of calls and 
frustration. He thought Admiral should pay Mr M £300 compensation for this. 
Admiral agreed to do this and to add interest to the premium refund. But Mr M thought 
Admiral should refund all his premium and pay him up to £1,500 compensation for the 
trouble and upset caused over a significant period. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Admiral now accepts that it made mistakes in handling Mr Ms concern. Its system had 
pulled incorrect information from CUE that could have been corrected by its agents. Instead, 
Mr M had to spend hours repeating his story until a more senior agent recognised there had 
been an error and told Mr M he didnt need to disclose the claim. Then Mr M had to spend 
time contacting the insurer who had recorded the claim to clarify that he was a third party in 
the claim and so not at fault. 
I can understand that this must have been stressful and frustrating for Mr M. Hes explained 
that he was also concerned that Admiral had cancelled his policy and he was driving whilst 
uninsured, but this wasnt the case.
When a business makes a mistake, as Admiral accepts it has done here, we expect it to 
restore the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact 
the error had on the consumer. 
From what I can see, Mr M paid a higher premium for one year and then he cancelled his 
policy the next year. Admiral gave Mr M a refund of his premium for the difference the 
incorrect claim made to his policy. Mr M wanted a full refund. But I dont think this would be 
fair or reasonable as Admiral provided cover for Mr M and so he had benefit of it. Admiral 
has offered to add interest to the refund from the date the premium was paid to the date of 
refund. I think thats fair and reasonable as Mr M was without his money for some time. I 
think that fairly restores Mr Ms position. 
Mr M also wanted substantial compensation for the trouble and upset he was caused in 
trying to correct Admirals error. I can see that Mr M spent six or seven hours on phone calls 
before he brought his complaint to us. I think some of the calls could have been handled 
better and I can understand Mr M felt frustrated that he had to repeat his story. I can also 
understand that Mr M felt worried that he was uninsured for a time. 
Our Investigator recommended that Admiral should pay Mr M £300 compensation and he 
provided Mr M with our published guidelines to explain how he arrived at this amount. Im 
satisfied that this is in keeping with our guidelines for the level of impact Admirals error 
caused. And so I think thats fair and reasonable.
Putting things right
I require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to pay Mr M £300 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by its level of service and to pay Mr M interest at 8% 
simple per annum on the refund of premium from the date of payment to the date of refund, 
as its already agreed to do. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to carry out the redress set out above, as its already 
agreed to do. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman