DRN-2005933
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPl) policy taken out in 1995 
alongside a credit card. Mrs W says Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, mis-
sold her the PPl.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We've set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPl on our website and 
I've taken this into account in deciding Mrs W's case.
I've decided the policy wasn't mis-sold and I'll explain why.
Mrs W feels strongly that this policy was taken out by phone. She says she has never been 
into a Barclays Bank branch and wouldve remembered if she had. Mrs W has explained that 
she has a good memory and she feels like we are not taking her recollection into account. 
On the other hand, Barclays says the PPI was taken out in a branch. I wasnt present at the 
time this policy was taken out, so I all I can do is rely on the evidence provided to come to a 
decision on what I think is more likely to have happened. This includes what Mrs W and 
Barclays have told us, as well as the documentation available from the time. 
Id like to mention here that I have thought about everything Mrs W has said in support of her 
complaint. And where I havent reached the outcome Mrs W wouldve liked me to have 
reached, this is not because I have ignored her testimony, this is because I have found some 
other evidence to have been more persuasive, or some other scenario to have been more 
likely.  
Ive seen a copy of the credit card application that was completed and signed at the time. 
And there is nothing on the form to indicate that this form is to be posted back to Barclays in 
any way. Weve also seen that this type of form was usually used in branch sales. So, 
overall, I think its more likely to have been a branch sale.
  
Mrs W says she didnt tick the box in the application form for PPI, she remembers 
intentionally leaving this blank. She says this must have been ticked by Barclays after she 
has singed and submitted the form. Mrs W has asked us to look carefully at the tick on the 
application form - on the thickness of the tick and the style of the tick itself. 
I have looked at this form carefully and Ive considered what Mrs W has said, but I have to 
come to a conclusion on what I think is more likely to have happened. I think its unlikely that 
Barclays wouldve ticked the box after Mrs W had signed and submitted it, and this is an 
allegation of fraud, which is a serious criminal allegation and not one that we can consider at 
the Service. But I do think the tick is similar to the other ticks on the form, and I think its 
more likely than not that Mrs W did this herself, even if she cant remember this now. 
Mrs W says she doesnt recall being given advice to take out this policy, Barclays say they 
did advise Mrs W to take the policy out. But making a finding on this point isnt critical to the 
outcome of this complaint because had Barclays recommended the policy, for the reasons 
Ive outlined below, I think this was a suitable recommendation to have made.
 
Based on what I've seen of Mrs Ws circumstances at the time, I think this was a suitable 
recommendation to have made. For example, she wasn't affected by any of the exclusions 
to or limits on the PPl cover and she seems to have had a need for the cover. I note what 
Mrs W has said about having a medical condition at the time, but she explained that it didnt 
affect her daily life and she had not had to take much time of work for this in the past. So, I 
dont think this effected the suitability of the policy. 
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mrs W about the PPl wasn't as clear as it
should've been. But I think its likely she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this 
type of cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So, I don't think better information about the PPl would have 
put her off taking out the cover.
Mrs W says she didnt know about the policy at all and wouldve claimed on it if she had 
known. She says that this is further evidence that the policy was added without her 
knowledge and consent. But as Ive explained above, I think Mrs W wouldve known about 
the policy in September 1995 and its likely she chose to take it out. It might be that Mrs W 
didnt remember about the policy when she needed to claim, but if she would now like to 
make a backdated claim on the policy, she would need to contact Barclaycard in the first 
instance. The policy provided cover in the event Mrs W was made redundant from work or 
was too sick or had an accident which prevented her from working.
 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont think this policy was mis-sold. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2020.
 
Sienna Mahboobani
Ombudsman