DRN-3964013
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) wont refund money he lost after falling 
victim to a scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. 
In summary: Mr L and his wife were looking for a rental property and fell victim to a scam. As 
part of this scam, Mr L made an initial payment of £2,000 on 11 July 2022 and a further 
payment of £1,000 on 15 July 2022. When the second viewing for the property fell through 
on 19 July 2022, Mr L and his wife realised theyd been the victims of a scam and reported it 
to Lloyds.
Lloyds considered Mr Ls fraud claim under the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code 
(CRM Code) and declined to refund him. Lloyds say Mr L didnt have a reasonable basis to 
believe that the people he dealt with were legitimate or that he was paying for a genuine 
property rental. They contacted the receiving bank but were unable to recover any of Mr Ls 
funds.
Mr L wasnt happy with Lloyds response, so he brought a complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into Mr Ls complaint but didnt uphold it. The investigator felt the 
price of the property was too good to be true and based on the number of red flags that were 
present Mr L shouldve done sufficient checks to ensure that the property was genuine.
Mr L disagreed with the investigators opinion and asked for the case to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds are a signatory to the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (the CRM Code) 
which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP scams like 
this, in all but a limited number of circumstances. 
Under the CRM Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish 
that an exception applies. In this case Lloyds say Mr L made the payment without having a 
reasonable basis for believing that: the payee was the person the customer was expecting to 
pay; the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with 
whom they transacted was legitimate.
Having carefully considered everything that Mr L has told us, Im satisfied that Lloyds can 
rely on the exception to reimbursement. I say this because Im not persuaded that Mr L had 
a reasonable basis for believing the rental property was genuine, and Ill explain why:
Mr L says they had looked for properties through a genuine real estate company. 
Similar properties they found through that company were £1,300 to £1,700 per month 
excluding bills. The property they made the payments for was quoted as £1,000 per 
month including all bills and with car parking. Mr L says they didnt question why the 
property was so much cheaper but assumed it was because the landlord lived 
overseas. Based on the information available, I think the price was too good to be 
true and Mr L shouldve been concerned about why it was significantly cheaper than 
similar properties on the market. 
Mr L says hed viewed several properties through the genuine real estate company 
and hadnt been required to pay a deposit or rent upfront before a viewing. I think 
being asked to pay a deposit and rent without having actually seen the property 
shouldve been a red flag and Im not satisfied that being told it was company policy 
was sufficient explanation.
I think Mr L shouldve been concerned when his wife was told that the landlord had 
made a mistake and that payment of a second months rent of £1,000 was required 
in order to arrange the viewing. Importantly, when Mr Ls wife queried this, they were 
offered two months free rent, this shouldve concerned them when the price was 
already so low.
Its clear that Mr L and his wife had concerns at different points throughout their 
communication with the landlord and the rental agent. The landlord shared their 
driving licence as proof they were genuine, which isnt usual practice. Also, I cant 
see that they questioned why they were making a payment to an account in a 
persons name if they were renting a property through a property rental company. 
The payee name didnt match the landlords name or the name of the person they 
talked to at the property rental company. They did question when they were given a 
different payee name for the second payment and were told that it was the agent that 
would be holding the viewing. However, Im not satisfied that this explanation is 
sufficient when they thought they were dealing with a large company.
Mr L did no checks before making his payments. He didnt do any checks on the 
landlord, or on the property (for example looking for other listings with the same 
address). He also didnt do any checks on the property rental company (who he says 
theyd never dealt with before), or that they had the property for rent.
Considering all of these warning signs as a whole and not on an individual basis, I think Mr L 
shouldve been concerned about the legitimacy of the property being advertised and 
completed sufficient checks to satisfy himself that it was genuine. On that basis, Im satisfied 
that Lloyds can rely on the exception to reimbursement under the CRM Code.
Ive also considered whether Lloyds have met the standards set for them under the CRM 
Code. In this case, based on the size of the payments, previous transactions and usage on 
Mr Ls account and the gap between these payments  Im not persuaded that Lloyds were 
required to give an effective warning under the CRM Code. This means Im satisfied that 
Lloyds have met the standards set for them and I cant fairly ask them to reimburse Mr L.
Lloyds contacted the beneficiary banks shortly after being notified of the scam, however they 
were unable to recover Mr Ls money. Im satisfied that Lloyds have taken appropriate steps 
in this case.I realise that Mr L has the been the victim of a cruel scam and suffered a loss that is 
significantly impacting him and his wife. But, in these circumstances, I cant fairly ask Lloyds 
to refund him.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2023.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman