DRN-1990684
 
The complaint
Mr S complains that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited has rejected a claim 
on his legal expenses
What happened
Mr S made a claim on his legal expenses policy regarding a claim in the employment 
tribunal. DAS referred the claim to one of its panel solicitors, but they advised that the claim
wasnt likely to succeed. DAS said it wouldnt provide cover unless Mr S could provide a 
legal opinion showing he was likely to win his case.
Mr S instructed solicitors to help him with the case and DAS agreed to provide some 
funding for them to obtain an opinion from a barrister. There was some correspondence 
about how much DAS would pay for the solicitors work  it offered £100 per hour but the 
solicitors said this was not enough. They also said limiting the costs in this way would deny 
Mr S the right to use his own choice of solicitors.
The solicitors obtained an opinion from a barrister, who said Mr S did have a reasonable 
chance of winning his case. DAS then queried whether Mr S was an employee since he 
had carried out work arranged through a limited company, of which he was the sole director. 
DAS said the policy only provides cover for disputes concerning a contract of employment 
for Mr S as an individual and not for this dispute, which involves his commercial business.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld and recommended that cover be 
provided. He asked DAS to pay Mr S' claim in line with the remaining policy terms and 
conditions, and pay his reasonable legal fees at the rate of £100 per hour from the date 
when the barrister advised that his case had positive prospects of success (together with 
8% interest). 
DAS disagreed and said theres no cover for the claim as it concerns a dispute over a 
commercial contract arranged through Mr S company. 
Mr S said the barrister has confirmed the dispute relates to his employment, and this has 
been accepted by the tribunal. He also says if cover is provided, the rate of £100 per hour is 
not enough  since the panel firm refused take his case on and he couldnt find another firm 
that would deal with the case at the rate of £100 per hour. He said the hourly rate should be 
increased. He also said he couldnt afford to pay for someone to represent him at the 
tribunal hearing, which was listed for three days, and attending the hearing without a 
barrister would have a negative impact on his case.
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint. In the provisional decision, I said:
The policy provides cover for employment disputes as follows: 
"A dispute relating to your contract of employment or future employment for your work as 
an employee.The policy terms also say cover is only provided if the claim has reasonable prospects of 
success; and the rate DAS will pay for a solicitor is the same as the rate it would pay one of 
its panel firms, which is £100 per hour.
Most legal expenses policies will only provide cover if the claim has reasonable prospects of 
success  in other words, if its more likely than not the policyholder will win their case. This 
is reasonable  it wouldnt be fair to expect someone to fund a claim that isnt likely to 
succeed.
Id expect an insurer to get legal advice on prospects and DAS did this. The initial advice 
from the panel firm was that Mr S wasnt likely to be successful. In view of that advice it was 
reasonable for DAS to refuse cover.
But DAS subsequently provided funding for the barrister to review the case. And his advice 
was that Mr S did have a reasonable chance of success. So Id expect DAS to provide 
cover once it had that advice.
DAS says the policy term refers to claims about a contract of employment and work as an 
employee. It says Mr S wasnt employed directly, but had a contract through his company.
So it doesnt think the dispute concerns him as an employee. DAS also points out that the 
policy is personal to Mr S, not his company, so it cant provide cover for a contract taken out 
through his company.
I appreciate that Mr S may not have been employed directly. But this issue has been 
considered by the barrister and the advice was clear  he said:
the dispute is clearly related to his contract of employment. His employment relationship
is a standard one in the IT industry
He also advised that the Equality Act definition of employee covers the circumstances of
Mr S dispute and, if hes within the meaning of employee under the Equality Act, then its 
hard to believe this does not fall within the definition of related to in Mr S' contract.
I note also that the tribunal claim is between Mr S and the other parties involved  its not a 
claim being brought by his company. The policy provides cover for Mr S and hes the one 
bringing the legal action. The relevant term refers to disputes relating to contracts of 
employment. If the employment tribunal has accepted that Mr S is entitled to bring this claim 
in his own name; the legal advice is that he is to be treated as an employee; and the dispute 
relates to his employment, then in my judgment the claim should be covered.
The barrister provided further comments on this specific point after DAS queried it. But he 
had already covered it in his original advice and I think DAS should have accepted that. So I 
agree DAS should provide cover for any legal costs from the date when it received the 
barristers advice that the claim has reasonable prospects of success.
With regard to the hourly rate to be paid, Mr S had the freedom to choose his own solicitors.
But the policy terms are clear that DAS will only pay £100 per hour. Insurers can restrict the 
choice of solicitors, provided any restrictions do not make the choice so limited as to be 
meaningless. Mr S says he couldnt find any solicitors willing to take his case on at that rate.
DAS says it has a number of panel firms who can deal with this type of work, and it has 
agreed these terms with other non-panel solicitors in the past. So it says Mr S would have a 
reasonable choice.
If thats the case, that rate would have been reasonable here. The problem here is that it 
never agreed to provide cover. So Mr S had to instruct his own solicitors and pay their 
charges himself. In those circumstances, I think DAS lost the chance to restrict those costs to £100 per hour. I understand Mr S case was due to go before the tribunal but the hearing 
has been postponed. Mr S had paid for representation up to that point. DAS should 
reimburse the reasonable costs Mr S has incurred
But going forward, it would be reasonable to limit costs to £100, provided DAS can show 
there is a choice of solicitors willing and able to take the case on at that rate.
Replies to the provisional decision
DAS has replied to say it accepts the provisional decision, except that the most it should pay 
for costs - both those already incurred and those moving forward - should be at the hourly 
rate of £100 set out in the policy terms, which Mr S accepted when he took out the policy. 
DAS does not agree that it lost the opportunity to restrict the rate as this is the most that the 
policy would cover even if it had accepted the claim in the first place.
Mr S also accepts the provisional decision but says although his trial was postponed in 
March due to coronavirus, all the work had been done and he'd already paid the charges for 
being represented. So there's no need for any further costs going forward to be paid at the 
rate set out in the policy; all he's seeking is to be reimbursed for costs already incurred.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have accepted the provisional decision -  that the claim should have been 
covered from the date when DAS received the barristers advice that the claim has 
reasonable prospects of success. But they have both made further comments about what 
costs should be covered. And since Mr S says he's no further costs to claim for, there's no 
issue about the rate to be paid for any costs going forward. The only issue I now need to 
decide is how he should be reimbursed for costs he's already incurred.
DAS says it hasn't lost the opportunity to limit the costs to £100 per hour; that's the rate set 
out in the policy terms and the most that Mr S would ever have been entitled to. I agree 
that's the case if the claim had been covered. But the point is that, because DAS didn't agree 
to provide cover, Mr S couldn't make use of the policy. He had no choice but to instruct his 
own lawyers and agree their rates.
If DAS had covered the claim, he could have used one of their panel firms or decided 
whether to use his own firm and 'top up' their costs if necessary. He lost that opportunity. In 
these circumstances it wouldn't be fair to limit him to the rate of £100 per hour - that would 
potentially leave him out of pocket as a result of DAS' decision. I don't think that would be 
right. So it's still my view that he should be reimbursed for any reasonable costs he's had to 
pay.
Putting things right
To put things right, DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited needs to reimburse 
the reasonable costs Mr S has incurred to date together with interest on the  
costs reimbursed to Mr S at the simple rate of 8% per year from the date he paid those  
costs to the date it makes the payment to him.
If DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited considers that its required by HM
Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should also give Mr S a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct DAS Legal Expenses Insurance 
Company Limited to take the steps set out above to put things right for Mr S.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2020.
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman