DRN-4223988
The complaint
Ms L complains about HDI Global Speciality SE declining her escape of water claim under 
her buildings insurance policy.
HDI are the underwriters (insurers) of this policy. Much of this complaint concerns the 
actions of their appointed agents. As HDI accept they are accountable for the actions of their 
appointed agents, in my decision, any reference to HDI should be interpreted as also 
covering the actions of those agents.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Ms L and HDI and has taken place 
over a number of years. In my decision, Ill focus mainly on giving the reasons for reaching 
the outcome that I have.
Ms L had a home insurance (buildings) policy with HDI. In 2019 she made claims for escape 
of water and subsidence. These claims were declined. Ms L complained about the decline of 
the escape of water claim and later referred it to our Service for an independent review.
Our Investigator considered the evidence and recommended that the complaint be upheld. 
She recommended that the claim be re-investigated following the emergence of new 
evidence and HDI pay Ms L £600 for any trouble and upset caused by how theyd handled 
things.
HDI didnt accept the recommendations and the complaint was then referred to me for a 
decision. I sent both parties a copy of my provisional findings recently. As the deadline for 
response has now passed, Ive considered the complaint for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A vast amount of evidence has been provided in this complaint and although a number of 
issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues I consider to be 
materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to either party  it 
simply reflects the informal nature of our Service.
I need to be really clear to both parties about what the scope of my decision is. Ms L had 
another complaint set up with our Service regarding a declined subsidence claim shed
made. My decision will only address the declined escape of water claim.
Both parties responded to my provisional decision before the deadline set. Ms L argued 
(broadly) that she ought to be due more compensation given how long these events had 
been going on for and the impact. 
Ive considered this alongside what HDI have said about my decision being largely based on 
the new evidence (water bills) and no evidence of a leak was found back in 2019. Ive given 
fair consideration to both parties positions here.
On one hand, Ms L had two pieces of material information - that werent provided until after 
the 2019 inspection (the builders visit and the water bills). Had these been provided sooner 
to HDI theres a distinct possibility these matters could have been brought to a resolution 
much sooner. But that said, she has still suffered impact because of how HDI handled this 
claim and they were the experts in this business relationship. Neither party may be in 
complete agreement with me -  but I find £600 to be fair reasonable and proportionate here. 
My previous findings
Its important to state here that our Service have been provided with two conflicting opinions 
in this complaint. Reports on behalf of the business concluded that there was no evidence of 
an escape of water following an inspection in June 2019. Of note is:
There is no evidence that there is a leak or has been an escape of water.. 
And: 
In the absence of any known internal leaks [bold added for emphasis by 
Ombudsman], we cannot see how this could be due to an escape of water.
There is a remote possibility that it could be due to a pipe leaking under the 
floor [bold added for emphasis by Ombudsman].we would have also expected the 
water tests to reveal leakage taking place which it did not.
This is important as although HDIs investigations didnt conclude that there was a leak, they 
left the door of possibility open that there may be a leak that hadnt, at that point, been 
identified.
On the other hand, a statement/opinion has been provided (with supporting photographs) by 
Ms L from a third party builder from 8 November 2019 stating:
Upon arrival I noted that there was several areas in the rear extension that had 
issues with what appeared to be damp rising from the solid floor. After some initial 
investigation and eliminating the shower/toilet/basin I found that an area of floor 
seemed to be damper than most areas. With permission I was able to remove an 
area of ceramic tiles and sand and cement screed to expose a leaking 15mm water 
pipe in the centre of the extension. I was able to cut the leaking pipe and cap 
the pipe to prevent any further damage. [bold added for emphasis by 
Ombudsman] Unable to reconnect the damaged pipe the bathroom was left 
inoperable.
HDI have (respectfully) cast doubt on the new evidence provided by Ms L. In particular, 
theyve questioned why this was not shared much sooner than it was to challenge the earlier 
referenced report HDI had completed and pointed to. Whilst I agree it is most unusual, aside 
from the obvious questions it raises about why Ms L didnt provide HDI or our Service with 
this information much sooner - Ive not seen any other evidence that sufficiently undermines 
the authenticity of the statement.
On balance, Im satisfied that Ms L has provided supporting evidence that an escape of 
water did take place. I say this because Ms L has provided our Service with relevant 
supporting information  water bills, which record usage during the period in question. For 
ease, Ive included a summary table below but will ask our Investigator to share this evidence with HDI.
*Figure is based on the bill that followed which showed the previous usage.
Id draw attention to the period 18 February 2019 until February 2020. Ive added bold for 
ease. This shows a massive jump in recorded water usage around the time the escape of 
water claim was made and a significant decrease during the period when Ms L had the pipe 
capped in November 2019. Ive considered if there are likely any other reasons why the 
usage should spike - gardening use for example. But when I compare the 2018 and 2020 
summer usage, they arent comparable.
I have considered another scenario is the damage being claimed for not being caused by the 
pipe that was capped. But given the proximity of the damage to where the pipe was capped, 
this would mean the much higher than usual water usage being explained by some other 
means and it (a leak) then stopped by itself. And this seems less likely.
I note that Ms L has provided photos of the area closest to the water supply pipe that was 
capped in the months leading up to November 2019 and afterwards. I stress that this was a 
supply pipe and not a waste pipe. In my opinion, based on experience, these photos show 
worsening and significant damage to the walls that wouldnt be inconsistent with a leak as 
reported by Ms L. Importantly, the photos from after the pipe was capped support that drying 
out had begun to occur.
The service provided
HDI offered £200 compensation for the service issues. I find this doesnt go far enough to 
recognise the impact of their actions on Ms L, and instead I find the total of £600 
recommended by our Investigator to be fair, reasonable and proportionate. This recognises 
that there were avoidable issues with HDIs handling of this complaint and it is with the range 
of our published external guidelines on this type of compensation. https://www.financial-
ombudsman.org.uk/consumers/expect/compensation-for-distress-or-inconvenience 
Summary
Its clear that HDI did some investigations into the escape of water:
[third party name redacted by Ombudsman] who were appointed to assist with 
investigations carried out a water mains sound test which confirmed that there were 
no water supply leaks.
But in my opinion, their investigations are undermined by the water bills showing much 
higher water usage than normal during the relevant time period. When taken alongside HDIs 
comments (quoted earlier in the decision), that left open the possibility that there may have 
been an undetected leak. Having carefully considered the evidence in this complaint, I find 
that HDI have unfairly declined the claim made for an escape of water.
Both parties will be aware that the separate subsidence claim has, over time, become 
intertwined with the escape of water claim. To avoid disappointment for Ms L, I need to be 
totally clear that my direction does not at all interfere with the declined subsidence claim and 
should not be interpreted as a work around that would enable her to be indemnified for the 
damage solely caused by subsidence.
Given these events occurred some time ago, a property visit may or may not be beneficial. 
That is for HDI to decide. But in any case, the photos provided by Ms L should be a useful 
starting point - as they were contemporaneous.
My findings here are that HDI have unfairly declined the escape of water claim and my 
direction is that they now need to reconsider it. Should this be a claim that progresses to 
settlement, they need to settle the claim subject to the remaining policy terms and limits.
Without prejudicing any potential claim outcome or settlement, Id encourage HDI to 
communicate with Ms L about any mutually acceptable settlement - given there would 
appear to be little merit in Ms L resolving the damp issues and the other damage caused by 
the escape of water - if that part of her property is likely to suffer further subsidence related 
damage in the years to come.
Putting things right
HDI Global Speciality SE need to:
Pay Ms L a total of £600 compensation to recognise the impact of their actions in 
terms of how theyve handled this claim.
Reconsider the escape of water claim based on the new evidence provided. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and HDI Global Speciality SE now need to 
follow my direction as set out under the heading Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman