DRN-2564105
The complaint
Miss B is complaining that Vanquis Bank Limited lent to her irresponsibly when they gave 
her a credit card.
What happened
Miss B applied to Vanquis for a credit card. On her application she said her personal annual 
income was £13,500 and her household income was nearly £40,000. Vanquis called Miss B 
before approving her application and confirmed these figures with her. At the time of the 
application, Miss Bs credit file showed a total value of defaults of £3,900, with the latest 
being seven months prior to her application. And it showed active non-mortgage lending of 
£200. 
Vanquis offered Miss B a credit card with a limit of £500 and her account was opened in 
August 2017. 
One year later, after several missed payments against the card, and after trying to call 
Miss B numerous times, Vanquis sent Miss B a default notice. In September 2018, Miss B 
told Vanquis she was in financial difficulties and had asked a debt charity to help her. 
Vanquis accepted a payment arrangement and stopped adding interest to Miss Bs account. 
But in 2019 Miss B stopped making the agreed payments and in September 2019 Vanquis 
defaulted the account and passed it to a debt collection agency.
Miss B says Vanquis didnt make any checks on her income, her household income, or the 
affordability of the credit card. She says she had defaults and missed payments on her credit 
file at the time of her application. Because Vanquis gave her a credit card, she says, shes 
had to borrow more to pay off her debts and is suffering from financial difficulties and 
increased anxiety.
In response to Miss Bs complaint, Vanquis said theyd used a credit scoring process to 
assess Miss Bs credit stability and ability to pay. They said Vanquis is a second-chance 
lender which means they lend to people who might otherwise find it difficult to get credit. 
Vanquis said this meant that negative markers on a credit file wont always lead to an 
application being declined. They said they were satisfied appropriate checks were made, 
proportionate to the amount of credit offered, because the necessary monthly payments 
wouldnt have been expected to go over about £23.
One of our investigators looked into Miss Bs complaint. His view was that Vanquis had 
acted fairly. He thought that it wasnt unreasonable for Vanquis to have decided that the 
credit card debt was sustainable for Miss B, based on the information they considered at the 
time. Our investigator pointed out that lenders rely on the information included in an 
application  and said Miss B hadnt been able to provide any information to him about the 
income she declared on her application in August 2017.
Our investigator also said he thought Vanquis had treated Miss B fairly once her financial 
difficulties came to light  he could see theyd tried to contact her on numerous occasions 
before eventually passing her account to a debt collection agency.
Miss B didnt agree with our investigators view and asked for an ombudsman to review her 
complaint  so its come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I appreciate Miss B will be disappointed with my decision, Im not upholding her 
complaint.  While I agree with Miss B that Vanquis could perhaps have done more checks 
before lending to Miss B, I dont think it would have made any difference to their decision to 
give her a credit card. Ill explain why.
The lending decision
The Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) consumer credit sourcebook (CONC) sets out the 
rules about the sort of things lenders need to consider before they lend money to an 
individual like Miss B. As these rules were updated in November 2018, Ive looked at what 
CONC said before then, at the time Miss Bs credit card was approved.
In essence, CONC 5 required a lender to make proportionate checks to ensure that a 
customer would be able to meet repayments in a sustainable way, without incurring financial 
difficulties. This means checking that the customer would be able to make the repayments 
while meeting other financial commitments, and without having to borrow to make the 
repayments. 
CONC 5.2.1 states that a lender must make an assessment based on information from the 
customer and from a credit reference agency. I can see that Vanquis did this  they looked 
at the information Miss B provided on her application and called her to confirm the 
information. And they checked a report from a credit reference agency. 
CONC 5.2.3 says that the extent of the assessment should be proportionate and might 
depend on certain factors like the type and amount of credit, the customers credit history, 
existing and future financial commitments and any future changes in circumstances which 
could reasonably be expected to have a negative financial impact on the customer.
Vanquis told us Miss Bs £500 credit limit was considered low  and would mean monthly 
payments of around £23. And her other active debt was minimal, at £200. So they thought a 
detailed assessment wouldnt be proportionate. And, when looking at Miss Bs credit history, 
they saw that she hadnt had any negative markers for seven months  so they thought it 
was reasonable to offer her credit.
In addition, CONC 5.3.1(4)(b) says it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its 
assessment of the customers income and expenditure, on a statement of those matters 
made by the customer. Vanquis didnt check any other sources to verify Miss Bs income. 
So I think its fair to say Vanquis could have done more to check whether the credit card was 
affordable for Miss B. I then have to consider what would have happened if theyd done 
additional checks.
If Vanquis had tried to check Miss Bs stated income, its likely theyd have found it was 
much lower than shed said. When I looked at her bank statements I could only see income 
of around £80 per month. Miss B said she couldnt remember what her income had been at 
the time and said it would have been minimal. 
However, Vanquis told us its likely theyd have been willing to lend to Miss B based on the 
household income even if they knew she had very limited personal income. And I cant say 
that would have been unreasonable. After all, Miss B told Vanquis on the phone that she had 
full access to the household income. Against an annual income of nearly £40,000, Im 
satisfied it would have been reasonable for Vanquis to have approved a £500 credit card for 
Miss B.
Unfortunately, Miss B and her partner separated some months after Miss Bs credit card was 
approved. And it seems that this is the main reason Miss Bs had financial difficulties. Im 
satisfied Vanquis arent responsible for this  although CONC 5.3.1 requires a lender to consider reasonably expected future changes in income and expenditure, I cant see that 
they had any reason to anticipate the end of Miss Bs relationship with her partner.
Dealing with financial difficulties
Miss B first missed a payment in May 2018. But in June 2018 she paid what she needed to 
in order to get the account back on track. 
Then in July 2018, Miss B missed another payment. I can see Vanquis started trying to 
contact Miss B shortly after they sent her July statement. Vanquis made numerous attempts 
to call Miss B between 20 July and 3 September. During that time, they also wrote to Miss B 
on several occasions, suggesting Miss B call them to discuss an acceptable payment 
arrangement. They also suggested Miss B might like to contact a debt charity. 
On 10 September 2018, Vanquis issued a notice of default to Miss B, warning her that her 
account would be defaulted if they didnt hear from her. I can see Vanquis agreed to a 
payment arrangement in September 2018. This meant Miss B needed to pay £5 per month 
and interest charges were stopped on her account. Based on everything Ive seen, Im 
satisfied Vanquis treated Miss B fairly during this period  they made every effort to speak 
with Miss B and eventually stopped interest charges and agreed a payment arrangement 
which seemed affordable.
In April 2019 I can see Vanquis wrote to Miss B to tell her shed missed a payment under the 
arrangement. And the same happened in July and August 2019, after which Vanquis issued 
Miss B with a second notice of default. Vanquiss records show they tried to call Miss B 
many times during April and May, and again during July and August.
Unfortunately, it seems Miss B wasnt able to make the payment required by the default 
notice and so Vanquis defaulted her account and passed it to a debt collection agency. I 
cant say this was unfair  from everything Ive seen Vanquis made every effort to work with 
Miss B before passing her account on. 
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im not upholding Miss Bs complaint. Although I think there may 
have been some shortcomings in the checks Vanquis Bank Limited carried out before 
offering credit to Miss B, I dont think this affected their lending decision. And Im satisfied 
Vanquis Bank Limited treated Miss B fairly once she started to experience financial 
difficulties.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 March 2021.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman