DRN-1351026
 
The complaint
Miss P complains that Santander UK plc (when it was trading as Abbey National) mis-sold a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out by Miss P in 2001, in connection with 
a mortgage. The policy provided Miss P with cover for accident, sickness and 
unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Miss P disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is 
incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ps case.
It seems to me that the relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as those 
set out on our website. And the main questions I need to consider are:
If Santander gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it 
recommended was suitable for Miss Ps needs?
Did Santander give Miss P the information she needed to decide whether to take out 
the policy?
 
If there was a problem with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider whether Miss 
P is worse off as a result. That is, would she have done something different  such as not 
taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
I have decided not to uphold Miss Ps complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Miss P says Santander didnt make it clear to her that the policy was optional, and that she 
was put under pressure to buy it. She says Santander told her she wouldnt get the 
mortgage she wanted if she didnt buy the PPI. Ive noted everything Miss P has said.
Santander hasnt been able to provide much information from the time the policy was sold. 
Thats not surprising given the amount of time thats passed, and its similar to some other 
cases Ive seen. Its provided samples of the PPI application form that was in use at the time, and I think its 
reasonable to assume that Miss P wouldve completed something similar when she applied 
for the policy. The PPI application was separate to Miss Ps mortgage application. Santander 
has also provided a copy of Miss Ps mortgage application form.
The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between Miss P and 
Santander when the policy was sold. Im also mindful that these events took place many 
years ago, and that exact recollections of what happened can fade over time.
Ive reviewed the documents that are available, and there is nothing in them to suggest that 
taking the PPI was a condition of getting the mortgage.
So without anything else to support what Miss P has told me, I dont think I can fairly and 
reasonably say that Santander didnt make her aware that the policy was optional.
Santander has accepted that it advised Miss P to take out the policy and it doesnt look like it 
was unsuitable for her based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. I say this 
because:
Miss P was eligible for the policy given her circumstances and the PPI terms and 
conditions.
Miss P says she would have received some work-related benefits if she couldnt work 
due to sickness or accident. But the policy would have paid out in addition to Miss Ps 
occupational benefits and would do so, it seems, for longer. Having the policy in 
place would mean Miss P could use her work-related benefits to pay for other 
expenses. So I think Miss P would have had some use for the policy despite her 
existing arrangements.
Miss P wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits, 
such as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical 
conditions. As she could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I think it 
unlikely she needed better advice or information about the policys exclusions and 
limitations.
I cant be sure that the cost of the PPI was made clear to Miss P before she agreed 
to buy it. But she agreed to buy the policy knowing she would have to pay something 
for it. And Ive seen nothing to suggest it was unaffordable or that the benefit wasnt 
enough to cover her monthly mortgage repayments.
 
Its possible the information Santander gave Miss P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But she chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted this 
type of cover. As Ive already said, Miss P wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or 
limitations and the policy seems to have been affordable. So I think it unlikely Miss P would 
have made a different decision if better information had been provided  overall, I think she 
would still have taken out the policy. 
 
 
 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 March 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman