DRN-3029799
The complaint
Mr N complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund money he lost after he fell victim to 
a scam and that it granted him a loan too easily, which he facilitated the payments to the 
scammers with.
What happened
In June 2020 Mr N fell victim to a scam.
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat it in detail 
here. But in summary and based on the submissions of both parties, I understand it to be as 
follows.
Around May 2020, Mr N saw an advert on YouTube offering advice in respect of investing in 
cryptocurrency. Interested and believing the advert to be genuine, Mr N contacted the 
WhatsApp details contained within the advert. But unknown to him at the time he was now 
dealing with a fraudster. 
The fraudster told Mr N that they were a full-time trader, with many years experience and 
that the cost to Mr N would be 15% of any profits made. Believing everything to be 
legitimate, Mr N wanted to proceed. The fraudster told him that he would need to register 
with a trading platform that the fraudster gave him details for, which Ill refer to as T. Mr N 
was told once the T account was set up he would then need to fund it with bitcoin. Mr N 
already held some bitcoin with Coinbase and crypto.com, so on setting up the account on T 
he went ahead and transferred bitcoin to it.
Over the coming days, on the fraudsters guidance, Mr N began to trade and the platform 
appeared to show him making a profit. But when he tried to make a withdrawal, in early June 
2020, Mr N was told he would have to wait a few days before being able to do this. This date 
was then extended further, with Mr N also being told that he would need to pay 15% for the 
withdrawal. Following this Mr N was told that he would need a traders licence in order to be 
able to gain access to his profit. The fraudster told Mr N how he could do this and introduced 
him to another platform, where he would be able to get a licence.
In order to help fund the release fee for the profit he thought he had on his trade, Mr N 
applied for a loan. Mr N completed his loan application, for £5,000 online, and it was 
approved. 
Following this, Mr N made the following international payments to his own crypto.com 
account to convert the funds into bitcoin  and from here he paid the fees for what he 
thought would enable his funds to be released; 
8 June 2020 £2,000.18
9 June 2020 £8,500.00
9 June 2020 £2
Having made the payments, Mr N has said the fraudster cut off communication with him and 
alongside this, the website the fraudster was using was taken down. It was at this point Mr N 
realised he had been scammed.
Mr N complained to Barclays and it issued its final decision, not upholding his complaint. In 
respect of the loan, Barclays said Mr N had applied for the loan through mobile banking, so 
no paperwork was completed, but it didnt agree that it had mis-sold the loan or that it was 
not affordable. It said its affordability checks and checks it carried out with the bureau 
indicated that the loan was affordable for Mr N. It added that the online process is aimed at 
making things easier for its customers, but that even if the application had been made in 
another way (i.e. in branch or by phone), the loan would still have been approved.
In respect of the scam that Mr N had fallen victim to. Barclays explained that it had been 
unable to recover any of the money Mr N lost. And as the payments were made to 
international accounts, it was unable to consider the loss under The Contingent 
Reimbursement Model code of practise.
Mr N then brought his complaint to our service and one of our investigators looked into 
things. Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ns complaint. In summary she didnt think Barclays 
acted unfairly in approving Mr Ns loan application. She added that Mr N had sent funds to 
his own crypto account, before moving the funds on to the fraudster, and she thought that 
even if Barclays had intervened and discussed the payment with Mr N it wouldnt have made 
a difference, as she didnt think Barclays could have identified a scam risk or foreseen that 
Mr N would later send the funds to a fraudster.
Mr N didnt agree with our investigators opinion. In summary he maintained that the loan 
was not affordable. He said that had he used the money for him and his family, then he 
would be liable to pay it back. But the money was taken away by a scammer, so he is having 
to pay back what they took.
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has now been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, although I know Mr N is likely to be disappointed, Im not upholding his 
complaint. Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator did, and for broadly the same 
reasons. Ill explain why;
Loan Application
When agreeing the loan, Barclays needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it responsibly 
lent to Mr N. The relevant rules, regulations and guidance at the time Barclays lent required 
it to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks. These checks needed to assess Mr Ns 
ability to afford the loan and repay it sustainably over its term without causing him financial 
difficulties.
There isnt a set list of checks a lender needs to carry out, but they should be proportionate, 
taking into account things like the type, amount, duration and total cost of the credit, as well 
as Mr Ns individual circumstances. And it isnt sufficient for Barclays to just complete 
proportionate checks  it must also consider the information it obtained from these checks to 
make a fair lending decision. This includes not lending to someone in financial hardship; and 
ensuring repayments can be made sustainably without having to borrow further. Barclays has said it completed an affordability assessment and conducted a credit search at the point 
of the loan to assess Mr Ns creditworthiness and its decision to lend.
Ive seen that Barclays did consider Mr Ns income and expenditure, and it also had an 
existing relationship with Mr N. These checks indicated that Mr N had a disposable income 
of over £1,000 per month, with the proposed monthly loan payments being just over £100 
per month. Alongside this I can see that the checks Barclays carried out indicated that Mr N 
didnt have any adverse credit.
When considering all of this in the round, I cant fairly or reasonably say that Barclays have 
been irresponsible in its decision to approve this loan for Mr N. And on balance Im 
persuaded it carried out proportionate checks prior to agreeing to lend to Mr N. 
Im also mindful that Mr N has said that it was too easy for him to get the loan online and that 
there is a problem with the automated decision making system. Hes said where lending is 
through mobile apps and online it is impersonal and has removed the time delay humans 
take while considering their intention to borrow. Mr N feels this is flawed.
I do understand how disappointing it must have been for Mr N to have borrowed this money, 
only to then lose it to a cruel and sophisticated scam. But Barclays is free to decide how to 
set its lending criteria and its not for this service to tell Barclays who it should lend to, or 
what checks it should carry out before agreeing to provide a loan. Nor is it our role to tell any 
financial business how to operate. Thats the role of the regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority. 
Loss through the scam   
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Mr N, and I can understand entirely why he feels so 
strongly that this money should be returned to him. But having thought very carefully about 
Barclays actions, I think it did act fairly and reasonably in allowing the transfers to leave Mr 
Ns account. Ill explain why.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. And I have taken that into account when deciding what 
is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story and taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider Barclays should fairly and reasonably: 
- Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
- Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
- In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. This means that, particularly with the increase of sophisticated fraud and scams in recent 
years, there are circumstances where a bank should fairly and reasonably take additional 
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to 
make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm. 
In this case, I need to decide whether Barclays acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings 
with Mr N, when he made the transfers and he reported the fraud, or whether it should have 
done more than it did. 
In making the payments through his online banking, Im satisfied Mr N authorised the 
transactions. Because of this, Barclays had an obligation to follow his instructions. But there 
are some situations in which it should reasonably have had a closer look at the 
circumstances surrounding the transfers - as Ive explained, I consider that as a matter of 
good practice Barclays shouldve been on the lookout for unusual and out of character 
transactions. 
Barclays has a difficult balance to strike in how it configures its systems to detect unusual 
activity or activity that might otherwise indicate a higher than usual risk of fraud. But on 
balance, I cant fairly say that the transactions were so unusual or suspicious in comparison 
to Mr Ns normal account activity, that it ought to have alerted Barclays that Mr N was at risk 
of financial harm. 
I say this as, having looked through Mr Ns bank statements for the twelve months leading 
up to the scam, while the payment for £8,500 was the largest over that period, there are 
several other payments for over £1,000. These include international payments and 
payments to and from crypto trading platforms. So, I dont think, in the circumstances of this 
case, the payments Mr N made would have appeared so remarkable, that I could fairly and 
reasonably have expected Barclay to have been concerned that Mr N may have been at risk.
But it is finely balanced, so Ive gone on to think about what is more likely than not to have 
happened had Barclays have intervened. And having done so, I dont think it would have 
made a difference and I think Mr N would have continued to make his payment.  
I say that as Im mindful that at this point Mr N was making payments to one of his own 
accounts, so would still have had control over his funds and where Mr Ns account activity 
showed he had previously sent and received funds to crypto platforms, I dont think there 
would have been enough going on to have reasonably caused Barclays concern. And I dont 
think there is enough here for me to think Barclays should have suspected Mr N might be the 
victim of a potential scam. And where the funds went to Mr Ns own account, he moved them 
on from there, so there was little opportunity for Barclays to recover any funds and I cant 
fairly say Barclays could have foreseen he would move the funds onto the fraudster. 
I realise that my decision will be disappointing for Mr N and I dont underestimate the impact 
this matter has had on him. But overall, for the reasons Ive explained I cant fairly or 
reasonably ask Barclays to refund the money Mr N has lost. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2021.
 
Stephen WiseOmbudsman