DRN-2977892
The complaint
Miss A has complained that Liberty Mutual Insurance Europe SE unfairly turned down a 
claim on her business interruption insurance policy after her business was forced to close. 
What happened
Miss A held a business interruption insurance policy with Liberty Mutual. She claimed on her 
policy as her business had been forced to close by the Governments response to the 
national pandemic. Miss A also said that both she and an employee had been unwell with 
symptoms of Covid-19 in March 2020.
Liberty Mutual turned down Miss As claim. They said, while the policy covered compulsory 
closure as a result of the discovery of a notifiable infectious or contagious disease at her 
business premises, Miss As business had closed due to the Governments response to the 
Covid-19 pandemic and not because someone at the premises had Covid-19.
Miss A was unhappy with Liberty Mutuals response. She said shed told them that shed 
needed to close her business at around 7.30pm instead of 11.30pm, on the day shed been 
forced to close, due to an employee being unwell with symptoms of Covid-19. As a result of 
this Liberty Mutual agreed to pay for business interruption between those hours but didnt 
agree to pay for any further losses caused by the lockdown.
Miss A brought her complaint to us. She said she had been forced to close by the 
Government on 20 March 2020 however both her and an employee already had symptoms 
of Covid-19. Miss A provided a typed letter from her employee dated 24 March which 
apologised for having to leave work early on the previous day and explained that they 
thought they might have Covid-19 due to their symptoms of a dry cough, loss of taste and 
trouble breathing. Miss A also provided a handwritten rota for the week commencing          
23 March showing that the employee had gone home unwell. Miss A said she was unable to 
provide anything further from the time, such as phone messages, as both she and her 
employee had new phones. 
Our investigator looked into Miss As complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He didnt 
think the evidence Miss A had provided was sufficient for him to conclude that there had 
been a case of Covid-19 discovered at her business premises before she had been required 
to close. He said there wasnt a date stamp showing the date the letter had been produced 
and noted that Miss As business had been required to close on 20 March whereas the rota 
and letter indicated that the employee was unwell on 23 March. Instead, he thought Miss As 
business had most likely closed due to Governments actions in response to the national 
pandemic.
Miss A said she was aware of the date she was required to close and she felt the rota 
showed that Covid-19 had been at her business premises before this. She felt that she was 
being punished for not using technology and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
Before reaching a decision Liberty Mutual confirmed that they hadnt accepted there was a 
case of Covid-19 at Miss As business premises before she was required to close. Liberty 
Mutual said that although they had paid for a few hours of business interruption Miss As 
business should have already been closed by 23 March. So even if the employee did have 
Covid-19 on 23 March the case wouldnt have contributed to the Governments decision to 
require the closure of Miss As business.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact 
on Miss As business. However, Im not going to uphold her complaint. Ill explain why.   
  
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to 
see if Liberty Mutual has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of 
the policy when declining Miss As claim.   
The terms and conditions of Miss As policy provide cover for:
Interruption of or interference with the Business in consequence of compulsory 
closure by a public body authorised to prevent or restrict access to the Premises 
arising from
a) discovery of a notifiable human infectious or contagious disease at the 
Premises
For this extension to provide cover, the policy requires the closure of the Miss As business 
premises to have been the result of a case of the notifiable human infectious or contagious 
disease being discovered at the premises. Covid-19 is a notifiable disease, so Ive then 
considered the information I have to decide if I think its more likely than not that there was a 
case of Covid-19 at Miss As premises. 
 
Widespread testing wasnt available towards the start of the pandemic, and the Government 
advised people to avoid using health services if they were displaying symptoms of Covid-19, 
save for emergencies. Its therefore rare that a business will be able to produce a positive 
test result from that period. To treat that as a minimum requirement would, in my view, be 
unfair.  
 
Therefore, its necessary to take a more pragmatic approach, and to consider whether other 
evidence can be provided that supports, on balance, that Covid-19 was discovered at the 
insured premises. As with any insurance claim the burden of proof initially rests with the 
policyholder to demonstrate that its suffered a loss which its policy covers.  
Miss A has provided a typed letter from an employee and a handwritten rota indicating that 
the employee had to go home from work on 23 March. While these documents indicate that 
the employee had Covid-19 on 23 March, I havent seen anything other than Miss As 
comments to support that these were produced at the time. I also find the evidence 
conflicting as these documents indicate that the employee went home on 23 March. Miss As 
business should have closed on 20 March and in her initial complaint Miss A also said shed 
closed early on 20 March. In correspondence with Liberty Mutual Miss A said she closed 
early on the date of closure due to an employee having symptoms of Covid-19. I appreciate Miss As concerns about her lack of use of technology and the impact that has 
on her ability to provide more persuasive evidence. However, its for Miss A to demonstrate 
that there was most likely a discovery of Covid-19 at her business premises. Given that the 
date the employee said they went home was after Miss As business was required to close 
and I havent seen a date stamp for the letter which looks to have been produced 
electronically, I havent seen enough to persuade me that the employee had Covid-19 at the 
premises before it was required to close. As such, I also think its fair and reasonable for 
Liberty Mutual to say they havent accepted that there was a case at Miss As business 
premises prior to the date of closure, even though they agreed to cover a short period of 
business interruption on the date of closure. 
I understand Miss As employee was also at the premises prior to 20 March and if they did 
have Covid-19 they might have been incubating the disease in the days before showing 
symptoms. However, the policy requires there to have been a discovery of Covid-19 at the 
premises. So I think someone would have needed to have displayed symptoms or been 
diagnosed with Covid-19 in order for me to find that there had been a case discovered at the 
premises. 
Miss A said she also had symptoms of Covid-19 earlier in the month. However, I havent 
seen anything apart from her testimony to support that and I also have to bear in mind that 
many people who were unwell at that time didnt actually have the disease. So in this 
particular case I havent seen enough to persuade me there was most likely a case of Covid-
19 at Miss As business premises. 
I appreciate my decision will be disappointing for Miss A, but having considered the matter 
very carefully, I dont think I can fairly require Liberty Mutual to pay her claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 September 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman