DRN-2797906
The complaint
Mrs G complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold payment protection insurance 
(PPI) to her alongside a credit card in 1996. At the time, Lloyds was trading as TSB. To 
keep things simple, Ill refer to Lloyds for the rest of this decision. 
What happened
The parties agree that PPI was sold during a face to face meeting. At the time of the sale, 
PPI cost 71p for every £100 of Mrs Gs outstanding credit card balance. 
In her complaint to this service, Mrs G said that when she applied for her credit card, she 
was told by Lloyds that PPI was compulsory and she had to have the insurance. She also 
said Lloyds didnt tell her everything it should have done about the cover. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the PPI had been mis-sold. She thought the offer Lloyds had 
made to refund some of the commission Mrs G paid for the PPI was a fair way to settle the 
complaint. Through her representative, Mrs G disagreed with that view. She said that PPI 
had been recommended by Lloyds and that she wouldnt have agreed to take it out if Lloyds 
had made the information about cost clear to her. 
As Mrs G was not in agreement with what our adjudicator said, the matter has been passed 
to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken that into account in deciding this case.  
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs G, but Ive found that PPI wasnt mis-sold. And like our 
adjudicator, I think the offer Lloyds made to repay some of the commission it received from 
her PPI premiums is a fair way to settle this complaint. Ill explain why below. 
As I said above, the parties agree that PPI was sold during a meeting. I cant know what was 
said during that meeting. So to help me decide whats likely to have happened, Ive looked at 
what the parties told us about it. And Ive also considered a sample application form that 
Lloyds used for credit cards like Mrs Gs at the relevant time. Where the facts of a case are 
in dispute (as they are here), then I have to apply the balance of probabilities. That means Ill 
decide whats most likely to have happened based upon the evidence before me. 
The first thing Ive thought about is whether Mrs G would have known she had a choice 
about the PPI and that she didnt have to take it out if she didnt want to. I can see in the PPI 
questionnaire that Mrs G initially said the PPI was presented as compulsory and she was 
told she had to take it out even though she couldnt afford it. However, in response to our 
adjudicators view, those representing Mrs G said the PPI was recommended and she 
agreed to take it out, but on the basis of incomplete information.  
I dont doubt that what Mrs G told us is what she honestly recalls about the sale. But I have 
to bear in mind that its difficult to remember precisely what happened around 25 years ago  
which is when this cover was sold. And I think there is an important inconsistency in what 
Mrs G recalls. For example, it is not clear to me why, if she was told the cover was 
presented as compulsory, Mrs G would say it was recommended to her and she agreed to 
take it out. 
With that in mind, I think its most likely that what was discussed during the application 
process probably reflected what is set out in the credit card application form. So I can see 
from that sample document that PPI was presented as a separate product requiring Mrs G to 
accept the cover before it was added to her account. On that basis, I think its most likely that 
Mrs G knew she didnt have to take the PPI out and she could have refused it if she wanted 
to. 
The parties agree that Lloyds advised Mrs G to take this cover out. So that means it had to 
take steps to check whether the cover was suitable for her. To help me decide whether the 
cover was suitable, Ive looked at what we know about the policys terms and conditions. Ive 
also had careful regard to what Mrs G told us about her personal circumstances at the 
relevant time. 
I can see that if shed had to make a claim on the cover, 10% of Mrs Gs credit card balance 
could have been repaid for every month she was out of work up to a maximum of 12 months 
for each claim. Mrs G told us she was entitled to full pay for six months if she was off sick 
from work. So it follows that the PPI would have lasted for longer than her full sick pay. I 
understand Mrs G didnt have any other way of meeting her credit card repayments if she 
was out of work. I appreciate that Mrs G said the PPI wasnt affordable, but I havent been 
given any specific information about her finances at the relevant time. 
I understand Mrs G was in good health when the cover was sold. So I dont think shed have 
been affected by any of the policys exclusions about medical conditions. And I havent seen 
anything else that was unusual about her employment circumstances at the relevant time 
that would have stopped her from being able to make a successful claim. On balance, I think 
the PPI probably was suitable for Mrs G. 
Lloyds still had to give Mrs G enough information about the cover so she could decide for 
herself whether it was a good fit for her needs. I accept that its possible Lloyds didnt tell her 
everything it should have done about the cover. 
But that doesnt mean I can automatically uphold the complaint. I have to consider what Mrs 
G would have done if Lloyds had told her everything it should have done. Ive set out how 
PPI could have been helpful if Mrs G was out of work and so it follows that I cant realistically 
say more or better information about the PPI would have put her off taking it out. For those 
reasons, I find that PPI wasnt mis-sold. 
All of this means Lloyds doesnt have to refund all of Mrs Gs PPI premiums. But Lloyds has 
paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs G because it got a high level of commission 
and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium). It was unfair of Lloyds not to tell Mrs 
G about that high level of commission. 
To rectify that unfairness, Lloyds paid Mrs G back the amount of commission and profit 
share it got that was over 50% of the PPI premium. Im satisfied thats a fair outcome in this 
case. 
My final decisionThe PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI.  But Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back to Mrs G any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2021.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman