DRN-2628522
The complaint
Mr T has complained about incorrect information Royal & Sun Alliance gave him when he 
made a claim under his home insurance policy.
What happened
In April 2020 Mr T damaged a drone he owned and he made a claim online to his insurer, 
RSA. RSA contacted Mr T the following day as he wasnt sure if his policy provided cover for 
the drone. RSA told him the claim would be covered. It discussed settlement options with Mr 
T. Mr T decided to accept a cash settlement as RSA couldnt provide a direct replacement.
Mr T said he purchased a replacement item two days later. However, four days after Mr T 
first claimed, RSA left a voicemail message for Mr T. When Mr T returned the call the 
following day, RSA said it was declining his claim and wouldnt be making a settlement.
Mr T complained to RSA. But RSA said that its decision was correct. However, for providing 
incorrect information to Mr T, it paid him £50 compensation. 
Mr T asked us to look at his complaint. Our investigator thought RSA had done enough for 
the error it had made. She said that RSA had explained the cash settlement would take 
between three and five working days to be paid. She thought it had taken steps to promptly 
let Mr T know the claim wasnt covered after providing incorrect information. And she thought 
the payment it had made for its error was fair  as the policy didnt provide cover for Mr Ts 
claim.
Mr T didnt agree. He said he will send a receipt to show he bought the replacement drone 
before RSA told him it had incorrectly accepted his claim.
Mr T hasnt provided any further evidence. So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ts policy with RSA excludes cover for loss or damage of unmanned aerial vehicles. I 
think the policy wording was clear. And Mr T says he doesnt dispute what the policy says. 
Mr T says the issue is that by the time he was made aware of RSAs error, he had already 
bought a replacement drone. 
Theres no dispute that RSA made a mistake in accepting Mr Ts claim. However, the policy 
Mr T holds with RSA clearly doesnt provide cover for his claim. And so RSA isnt obliged to 
honour the incorrect information it gave him. But I think it should compensate Mr T for the 
inconvenience its incorrect information caused. 
I understand Mr T says he bought a replacement drone item two days after RSA incorrectly 
accepted his claim - this would have been the day before RSA told him of its error. 
RSA told Mr T it would send a cash settlement to his bank account in three to five working 
days. As RSA contacted Mr T within four days, I think it tried to limit the impact and there 
was a reasonable expectation that a replacement drone hadnt been purchased before the 
settlement was received. 
So I think overall, RSAs compensation payment of £50 is fair and reasonable for the error it 
made. I understand Mr T will be disappointed. But this means Im not upholding his 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman