DRN-4087177
The complaint
Mr D complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard was irresponsible in its 
lending to him.
What happened
Mr D was provided with a Barclaycard in February 2019. The credit limit was £1,900 and this 
didnt change in the period up to Mr Ds complaint. Mr D says that he shouldnt have been 
provided with the lending as he was struggling financially at the time and that the high 
interest and charges made his situation worse.
Barclays issued its final response letter in January 2023. It credited Mr Ds account with £25 
in acknowledgement of the poor service he had experienced but it didnt uphold his 
complaint in regard to unaffordable lending. It said that before lending it carries out a credit 
check and there was nothing to suggest Mr D was experiencing financial difficulties and the 
information received showed he was managing his other accounts well. It said that interest 
charged on the account was in line with the terms and conditions.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He didnt think he had seen sufficient evidence 
to say that Barclays should have considered the lending unaffordable.
Mr D didnt agree with our investigators view. He provided information showing an 
arrangement in place with two payday loan companies. He said his finances were not in 
order at the time the Barclaycard was provided. And had adequate checks been carried out 
Barclays would have seen his high level of debt and the numerous accounts he had opened 
in the previous months.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to 
these complaints is set out on our website. 
Before providing the credit card, Barclays gathered information about Mr Ds income and 
carried out a credit search. I have looked through the results of the credit search and these 
show that Mr D had four other credit cards at the time. These were all taken out in 2018 with 
one being taken out a couple of months before Mr D was provided with the Barclaycard. 
Although taking out multiple credit cards within a relatively short space of time could raise 
concerns, I note that Mr D was managing these accounts and there was no adverse 
information recorded. Additional to the credit cards, Mr D had three mail order accounts, two 
mortgage/secured loan accounts and an unsecured loan. I note Mr Ds comment about his 
payment arrangements but based on the credit search results these showed he had taken 
out several payday loans in 2015 and 2016 but that these had been settled (aside from one 
outstanding balance of £296). Mr Ds credit search didnt suggest he was struggling to 
manage his accounts at the time of his application and so I do not find that the information 
receive through the credit check alone meant Barclaycard shouldnt have provided the credit 
card. But it was important to assess the affordability of any additional credit given Mr Ds 
existing commitments.
Mr Ds income was recorded as £32,000 a year (equivalent to a net monthly income of 
around £2,100) and I find it reasonable that this information was relied on. Based on his 
credit report, his repayments for his mortgages and loan were just under £900 a month. 
Additional to this he was paying for utilities and his credit card and mail order accounts. 
However, taking this all into account and factoring in an amount for his other living costs, I do 
not find that the information suggests the Barclaycard with a credit limit of £1,900 should 
have been considered unaffordable. 
Mr D has also said the interest and charges were too high. I understand why he is upset by 
the cost of the lending but as the interest and charges were applied in line with the account 
terms and conditions, I do not find I can say that Barclaycard did anything wrong. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman