DRN-2614590
The complaint
Ms B complains that HSBC UK Bank Pls didnt make her aware that she could take a base 
rate tracker (BRT) product when her fixed rate mortgage expired. Shes also unhappy that 
HSBC has continued to charge interest on her mortgage after she took a payment holiday.
 
What happened
Ms B had a fixed rate mortgage with HSBC. The fixed rate was due to expire at the end of 
December 2019. HSBC wrote to Ms B in October 2019 to make her aware of this and to set 
out her options. Ms B emailed a mortgage advisor at HSBC to ask some further questions on 
changing her interest rate. At this time, she indicated she was minded to take a fixed rate. 
The mortgage advisor referred her to the rates shown in the letter HSBC had sent to her and 
explained if she wanted advice, they would need to book an appointment. Ms B was 
considering adding her husband to the mortgage at this time and said they would potentially 
be moving house. 
Ms B says she had an appointment in late November 2019 with the HSBC advisor. HSBC 
has no record of this. A further appointment was booked for Ms B and the mortgage advisor 
to meet. However, Ms B emailed the mortgage advisor in November 2019 to cancel this 
appointment as she said she was going to move to another lender who could offer her more 
money whilst adding her husband to the mortgage.
In April 2020, Ms B had to take a payment holiday due to the impact the coronavirus 
pandemic was having. At this time, she was told she could take a BRT without an early 
repayment charge (ERC). She said she hadnt been made aware of this option back in 2019. 
Ms B took a new BRT product in April 2020.
Ms B complained to HSBC. She said had she been told about the BRT option, she couldve 
taken that and saved money for the months until she did switch to a BRT. She asked HSBC 
to repay the difference to her. She was also unhappy that HSBC had charged her interest 
whilst she was on a payment holiday. 
HSBC didnt uphold her complaint. It said it had made her aware of the options and hadnt 
provided any advice on what was most suitable for her. It also said it was correct to continue 
to charge her interest whilst she was in a payment holiday. Ms B wasnt happy with this and 
referred the complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint, but he didnt think HSBC had done 
anything wrong. Ms B disagreed. She said HSBC shouldve discussed the BRT option 
further with her and had it done so she wouldve chosen to proceed on that basis. She still 
felt shed paid more interest than she shouldve. She asked for the complaint to be reviewed 
again. So, its been passed to me to consider and make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Ms Bs complaint is that she wasnt made aware of the option of taking a BRT 
with no ERC. And she thinks HSBC shouldve suggested this as an option. With regards to 
making her aware of the BRT, I can see this was detailed within the letter HSBC sent to her 
advising that her fixed rate was coming to an end. I think its clear within this letter that this 
product wouldnt have an ERC if repaid early.
Moving on to whether the mortgage advisor shouldve told Ms B that this option was right for 
her. Before an advisor can provide advice, they need to assess a customers needs to 
ensure they are recommending something suitable. Whilst Ms B and the advisor did 
exchange a number of emails, this was mainly information the advisor was providing and 
responding to Ms Bs questions. I dont think it wouldve been right at this time for the advisor 
to have suggested what was the best action for her to take. 
Its clear that it wasnt only a new mortgage product Ms B was interested in. She was looking 
to potentially move house, borrow more money and add her husband to the mortgage. 
Whilst its possible there was a meeting between Ms B and HSBC in late November 2019, 
its clear from the email exchange that Ms Bs husband wasnt present at this meeting. And 
given that Ms B wanted to add her husband to the mortgage, I dont think it wouldve been 
appropriate for any kind of advice to have been given at this time.   
Once the adviser had met with both Ms B and her husband, he wouldve been in a position 
to advise what would be best for them. But Ms B chose to cancel this appointment as she 
informed the advisor she would be moving to another lender. Because of this, I think it was 
fair for the advisor to assume Ms B no longer needed his help. And as Ive already said, he 
didnt have enough information at this time to provide any advice. Given this, I dont think 
HSBC shouldve recommended Ms B move to the BRT at this time. 
For the reasons above, Im satisfied Ms B was provided with information about the available 
options to her. And it was due to her cancelling her appointment and telling HSBC that she 
was moving to another lender that it wasnt required to give her further advice or provide a 
recommendation.
Ive also considered Ms Bs complaint about being charged interest whilst she had taken a 
payment holiday. The term payment holiday can be confusing, which is why the industry 
regulator actually refers to them as a payment deferral. The guidance from the regulator was 
in response to the coronavirus pandemic. It required lenders to allow people to not make 
their mortgage payments for up to six months without any adverse impact. Whilst this meant 
that payments werent due, there was no requirement for a business to suspend interest on 
the mortgage. So, I dont think HSBC was incorrect in continuing to charge interest during 
Ms Bs payment deferral. 
My final decisionI understand Ms B feels very strongly about her complaint. But my final decision is I dont 
uphold it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2021.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman