DRN-4230005
The complaint
Mr M complains that My Finance Club Limited trading as Ondal (MFC) gave him a loan he 
couldnt afford to repay while he had a poor credit score and while he had several large 
loans outstanding.  
What happened
Mr M was advanced one loan of £400 on 20 March 2023. The agreement was due to run for 
38 days with one payment due to MFC of £521.60. Mr M has had some problems repaying 
his loan and the most recent information from MFC said an outstanding balance remained 
due.
After Mr M made a complaint about the loans, MFC responded and explained why it wasnt 
going to uphold his complaint. But MFC did offer to set up a repayment plan and if so it 
would reduce what Mr M owed to the original amount he was contracted to pay. 
Unhappy with the response, Mr M referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
In the investigators assessment, he didnt uphold the complaint because the checks that 
MFC carried out showed it that Mr M should be able to afford his repayment. 
Mr M didnt agree with the outcome. He said that had MFC looked at his application, it would 
have seen rising levels of debt and recent loan applications  all of which shouldve made it 
question whether he could actually afford this loan. 
Mr M further explained that he was, at the time, having to use a large part of his wages to 
service his existing debt. Mr M has provided this service with an overview of his outstanding 
loans at the time which included two loans taken a matter of weeks before this MFC loan. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Ive taken these 
into account when considering this complaint.
MFC had to assess the lending to check if Mr M could afford to pay back the amount hed 
borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to 
the circumstances. MFCs checks could have taken into account a number of different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Ms income 
and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest MFC should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr M. These factors include:
Mr M having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr M having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr M coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr M. The investigator didnt consider 
this applied in Mr Ms case and I would agree, given there was only 1 loan.
MFC was required to establish whether Mr M could sustainably repay the loan  not just 
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayment. Having enough money to 
make the repayment could of course be an indicator that Mr M was able to repay his loan 
sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ms complaint.
Before the loan was approved, Mr M declared he worked full time and he earned £3,173 per 
month. MFC also says Mr Ms income was electronically verified through a third-party report 
 which suggested the income he had declared was likely to be accurate. For a first loan I 
dont think MFC needed to have carried out any further checks into Mr Ms income. 
In terms of monthly expenditure, Mr M provided details about his expenditure across several 
different headings such as, utilities, other, food and other credit commitments to name a 
few. MFC says Mr Ms outgoings came to £1,991. Therefore, based on the information it had 
to hand, the loan looked affordable as Mr M had sufficient disposable income to afford the 
repayment. 
Before the loan was advanced, MFC also carried out a credit search and it provided the 
results it received from the credit reference agency. It is worth saying here that although 
MFC carried out a credit search, there wasnt a regulatory requirement to do one, let alone 
one to a specific standard. But what MFC couldnt do is carry out a credit search and then 
not react to the to the information it received  if necessary.  
I am satisfied that the credit check results wouldnt have been a concern for MFC. It knew 
that Mr M had outstanding unsecured loans which had various outstanding balance from 
£998 to £6,460 and he owed £17,482 in total. These loans had been opened between 4 
months and 29 months before this loan. Mr M was up to date with his repayments and didnt 
have any adverse payment markers. 
I have thought about the total debt Mr M had, but given what the credit file showed and what 
he declared to MFC, I think it was reasonable for this first loan for MFC to not have made 
any further checks into the outstanding loans that Mr M had at the time. There also wasnt 
anything to suggest that he was reliant on payday loans to cover his expenditure or was a 
regular user of such products. This has led me to conclude that the credit searches on their own wouldnt be enough to have prompted further, more in-depth checks, or to have led 
MFC to decline the loan application. 
There were also no triggers in any of the other information given to MFC to have prompted it 
to have reviewed the bank statements Mr M has provided our service.  Given what MFC did 
know about Mr M, I think it wouldve been disproportionate to expect MFC to have reviewed 
the statements. 
Overall, given this was the only loan, it was reasonable for MFC to have relied on the 
information that Mr M provided about his income and expenditure. In my view, the checks 
MFC carried out were proportionate and showed Mr M should be able to afford the 
repayments.  There also wasnt anything else to suggest that the loan would either be 
unaffordable for him or unsustainable. 
Its possible the loan has now been repaid, given Mr M agreed a restructured payment plan 
to repay the balance, with the final payment due in July 2023. If an outstanding balance 
remains due, I would remind MFC of its regulatory obligation to treat Mr M fairly and with 
forbearance. 
I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint about the loan.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman