DRN-2370359
The complaint
Mrs S, on behalf of the estate of Mr S, is unhappy about The Royal London Mutual 
Insurance Society Limiteds decision on a claim made on Mr Ss life cover. She says Royal 
London told her husband shortly before he passed away that he was covered for £85,000. 
But it only paid out £10,000.
What happened
Royal London has accepted Mr S was misadvised during a phone call in March 2019, and 
that it shouldve told him that £75,000 of his cover had expired. Its apologised and offered 
Mrs S £2,000 for the trouble and upset its mistake caused. 
Mrs S didnt accept what Royal London said and so brought her complaint to our service. 
She said Royal London lied to her husband, and had he known some of the cover had come 
to an end, he wouldve taken steps to make sure his family was financially protected. 
Because of this, Mrs S felt Royal London should reconsider its decision and pay the full sum 
assured. 
One of our investigators considered Mrs Ss complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. 
He explained how Mr S added a £75,000 benefit to his policy on top of the £10,000 pension 
plan, but this expired before he sadly passed away in April 2019. So, Mr S was only covered 
for £10,000 at the time he died. 
Because Royal London accepted it had wrongly told Mr S that he was covered for the whole 
£85,000, our investigator looked at how this should be put right. He didnt think, given the 
circumstances, that Mrs S had lost out financially as a result of Royal Londons mistake. But 
he did think the £2,000 Royal London offered Mrs S for the trouble and upset caused was 
fair and reasonable. 
Mrs S didnt accept what our investigator said and has asked for an Ombudsmans review. 
She said Mr S was terminally ill when he spoke to Royal London, and hed wanted 
reassurance that his family would be looked after. Mrs S said theyd paid all the premiums to 
Royal London and its mistake had cost them £75,000. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. I know this will be very disappointing for Mrs S, but Id 
like to take some time to explain how Ive reached my decision. Id also like to offer my 
deepest condolences to Mrs S. This has clearly been a very traumatic and worrying time for 
her and her family  not helped by the significant mistake Royal London made. And I want to 
assure Mrs S that Ive taken account of that in reaching my decision. 
Ive read and considered the whole file and Ive listened to the call Mr S had with 
Royal London in March 2019. Ive also looked at the correspondence Mrs S has had with our 
service, which clearly demonstrates the distress and upset shes understandably feeling at 
both the loss of her husband, and the poor service she received from Royal London. 
Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, 
its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it, but because I dont think I 
need to comment on it to reach what I think is the right outcome. 
Having listened to the call Mr S made to Royal London, its clear that he wanted reassurance 
his life cover was in place. This is completely understandable given how ill he was at that 
time, and how he wanted to make sure his affairs were in order. And so, the fact Royal 
London wrongly told Mr S £85,000 worth of cover was in place was incredibly unfortunate. 
Royal London accepts it made a mistake. And so, my review has focused on the impact of 
that mistake and whether Royal London has done enough to put things right. 
I can see from Mr Ss policy information that the £75,000 cover expired before he died. And 
so, I should be clear that irrespective of what Royal London told Mr S in March 2019, its not 
contractually obliged to pay this amount to Mr Ss family. 
Mrs S has been very clear that if her husband had been told in March 2019 that £75,000 of 
his cover had expired, he wouldve taken steps to ensure his family had the financial 
protection he intended. I dont in any way doubt Mr Ss intentions  or Mrs Ss testimony 
about what her husband wouldve wanted. But because of Mr Ss poor health at the time, I 
cant say with any degree of certainty that Mr S wouldve been able to get more cover with 
Royal London or with a different insurer.   
So, taking everything into account, I cant conclude that Royal Londons mistake directly 
caused Mrs S a loss of £75,000. And so, Im unable to ask it to pay this amount to Mrs S 
here. 
As our investigator has already explained to Mrs S, we can only look at how a businesss 
mistakes have caused distress and inconvenience to its customers. And so, we cant ask 
Royal London to pay compensation to Mr Ss estate. But this situation has undoubtedly 
caused distress to Mrs S and her family. Im pleased Royal London has accepted and 
acknowledged that and offered Mrs S £2,000. And I want to assure Mrs S that this is the 
amount of compensation Id expect to see a business pay in similar circumstances. 
Im so sorry that Ive been unable to provide Mrs S with the outcome she wanted. I dont in 
any way underestimate her strength of feeling or the difficulties shes facing. But I cant 
agree that the mistake Royal London made, as significant as it was, resulted in Mrs S not 
receiving the £75,000 payment.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr S 
to accept or reject my decision before 29 December 2020.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman