DRN-3569900
The complaint
Mr S says PDL Finance Limited trading at the time as Mr Lender irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about a short-term loan provided by Mr Lender to Mr S in May 2018. The 
loan was for £300 and was to be repaid by Mr S over 6 months. When Mr S made a 
complaint to Mr Lender, he had not made a repayment. So, there is a balance that remains 
to be paid.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ss complaint and thought Mr Lender didnt do anything 
wrong when it gave him the loan. Mr S disagreed and the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr Ss complaint. These two 
questions are:
1. Did Mr Lender complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr 
S would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way and without experiencing 
significant adverse consequences?
If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr S wouldve been able to do so?
2.Did Mr Lender act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required Mr Lender to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Ss ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Mr Lender had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable and cause significant adverse consequences for Mr 
S. In practice this meant that business had to ensure that making the payments to the loan 
wouldnt cause Mr S undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Mr Lender to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr S. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ss complaint.
Did Mr Lender complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr S 
would be able to repay loan/s without experiencing significant adverse consequences?
Mr Lender has provided evidence to show that before lending to Mr S it carried out a credit 
check and asked him for details about his income and expenditure. It then calculated what it 
thought was Mr Ss disposable income to see if the loan repayments were affordable. Based 
on those checks Mr Lender thought it was fair to lend.
Based on the amount that Mr S borrowed, the repayment and term of loan, I think the checks 
were reasonable and proportionate. Those checks suggested to Mr Lender the loan was 
affordable and Mr S could sustain the repayments over the 6 month term. I appreciate Mr S 
has said he had problems managing his finances at that time and I acknowledge what he 
has said here. But I dont think this is something Mr Lender knew or ought to have known 
about from what I consider to be proportionate checks. 
Did Mr Lender act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ive also thought about whether Mr Lender acted unfairly in some other way and I havent 
seen any evidence that it did.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman