DRN-3684435
The complaint
Mr S, as director of a company I will call T, complains about the decision of 
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to decline Ts business interruption insurance claim, 
made as a result of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic.
What happened
The following is intended merely as a summary of the main events relating to this compliant. 
T is represented in this complaint, and the events have also included the involvement of 
other third parties. But for the sake of simplicity, I have just referred to T and 
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA).
T operates as a travel agency and held a commercial insurance policy underwritten by RSA. 
In March 2020, T closed as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and contacted RSA to claim 
for its losses. 
RSA declined the claim, saying it was not persuaded that T had demonstrated that there had 
been a manifestation of COVID-19 on its premises. RSA also did not think there was any 
cover in the circumstances of the claim from the other parts of the policy. 
Unhappy with this outcome, Mr S ultimately brought Ts complaint to this service. However, 
our Investigator was also not persuaded that the evidence provided had demonstrated that it 
was more likely than not that there had been a manifestation of COVID-19 at Ts premises 
prior to them being closed. 
Our Investigator also did not think COVID-19 had caused damage as required by the 
policy, or that the restrictions imposed on T by the Government regulations introduced to 
control the spread of COVID-19 were due to defects in Ts sanitary arrangements. 
As Mr S remained unsatisfied, Ts complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact COVID-19 
restrictions have had on T, I wont be upholding its complaint. My reasons are substantially 
the same as the Investigators.
T is represented in this complaint. Ts representative has submitted detailed arguments as to 
why it feels Ts claim should be met and the complaint upheld. The arguments submitted and 
pursued by Ts representative, in relation to the first two issues discussed below, are largely 
the same arguments that it has submitted on other complaints from other policyholders.
The role of our Service is to consider each complaint based on its own individual 
circumstances. However, we have developed certain approaches that are then applied to 
those individual circumstances. And where circumstances are similar, it is inevitable that 
similar conclusions will be reached. Ts representative has had our Services approach to its 
arguments explained, including within other final decisions of this service. And, unless the 
circumstances of this particular complaint are dissimilar from those previous cases, the 
same approach will be applied to this case. 
However, for the benefit of T, I will set out in this decision why its representatives arguments 
on these first two issues have not persuaded me to uphold its complaint. And also why the 
evidence provided has not persuaded me to uphold its complaint in relation to the third 
issue.
The three issues are essentially whether there is a claim relating to damage, to sanitation, 
and to disease at the premises. 
Damage
The type of cover T is looking to claim under is business interruption insurance. There are a 
range of business interruption insurance policies on the market covering different risks. For 
example, some only provide cover for basic things such as fire or flood, whilst others provide 
cover in more circumstances either as part of the policy or as optional add-ons. The starting 
point is to consider the specific policy T took out.
The core cover provided by the business interruption section of Ts policy, as well as a 
number of the extensions to this cover, is based on an interruption to the business of the 
insured which has been caused by Damage. Damage is defined within the policy as: 
Accidental loss, destruction or damage. 
Ts representative has argued that COVID-19, and the related Government restrictions, were 
Damage. And that such Damage does not need to be physical. It has argued that because 
the policy covers damage caused by any other accident, other those excluded, this means 
that any cause of Damage is covered and that this would include COVID-19 and its impact. It 
has said that this Damage does not need to be physical. 
However, I am not persuaded by these arguments. I consider that loss, destruction, or 
damage as used in this policy is most likely to refer to something physical. This is a word 
that is included in the definition of Damage in the policy. And I do not consider this definition 
to be unclear. The core business interruption cover also requires the relevant Damage to 
have occurred to property.
Ts representative has referred to a number of legal cases to argue that the virus leading to 
COVID-19, SARS-COV-2, is capable of causing damage. However, having considered the 
cases referred to, as well as the rest of the current legal landscape, I do not agree. Instead, I 
agree with the Investigator that damage would require either a physical change to property 
or specialist cleaning to remove the cause of damage. 
I dont consider it can be said that physical changes were caused by SARS-COV-2 to 
property, whether that be Ts property, its suppliers property, or property within the vicinity of 
Ts premises. And I also dont consider that any specialist cleaning of such property was 
required. I also dont think, for similar reasons, that there has been destruction of property. 
And I dont think the temporary loss of use of Ts premises (or the premises of their 
suppliers, etc.) would constitute loss as required by the policy. I consider this would need to 
be more than a temporary loss, where recovery was uncertain  the basic principle being 
that the relevant sections listed above would provide indemnity to replace that lost property. 
Whilst I appreciate the pandemic has caused substantial financial loss, I dont think COVID-19, or the related government measures, caused Damage as defined by the policy 
which has led to an interruption of Ts business. I dont think there was relevant Damage. So, 
I dont think either the core business interruption cover, or the extensions that rely on there 
having been damage, provide cover in the circumstances of Ts claim. And I think RSA acted 
fairly and reasonably in not meeting Ts claim under these areas of cover.
Sanitation 
One of the extensions to the business interruption section of Ts policy provides cover where 
there has been a closure of (or restrictions placed on) the insured premises. A number of 
reasons for such closure are listed as being covered by the policy. One of these is:
closing of the whole or part of the Premises by order of the Public Authority for the 
area in which the Premises are situate as a result of defects in the drains and other 
sanitary arrangements at the Premises
Ts representative has said that the premises were closed for sanitary reasons because it 
was not safe for the public to congregate in close proximity to one another. As such, it 
considers this subclause provides cover. 
Like our Investigator, it seems to me that the heart of the issue is whether or not an inability 
to enforce social distancing could be said to qualify as a defect in the sanitary arrangements 
at Ts premises. 
In determining this, amongst other things, Ive considered relevant case law, in particular the 
case of Brushfield Ltd (T/A The Clarence Hotel) v Arachas Corporate Brokers Ltd & Anor 
[2021] IEHC 263. This case took place in the Irish courts, but in the absence of a 
comparable English case, I feel it is useful to consider the points made in this case in terms 
of considering how an English court might decide this point of contractual interpretation. 
The judge in this case considered policy wording similar to that in Ts policy and considered, 
in part, the meaning of the term other sanitary arrangements, when used in context similar 
to Ts complaint.
The judge said, at paragraph 164:
 it is essential to consider the meaning of a contractual provision as of the date 
when the contract was concluded. The question, accordingly, is whether a 
reasonable person, in the position of the parties at the time the contract was 
concluded, would understand that the reference to a defect in the other sanitary 
arrangements at the premises was intended to capture an inability to ensure that 
appropriate social distancing was maintained.
This reflects the position of English Law that the meaning of a contract should be interpreted 
objectively, by considering what would be understood by a reasonable person, with the 
relevant background knowledge, at the time the contract was entered.
Ts policy was entered in October 2019, a number of months before COVID-19 was 
identified and long before any restrictions were introduced in the UK in relation to COVID-19. 
And, whilst social distancing has been practiced throughout history as a means of preventing 
the spread of disease, until recently, it was not in the UK. So, I am not persuaded that a 
reasonable person reading the particular wording of Ts policy in October 2019 would have 
considered this subclause to refer to an inability to enforce social distancing at Ts premises. 
Additionally, it isnt clear what Ts representative considers the defect at Ts premises 
actually is. As the judge in Brushfield said at paragraph 166, A defect inherently involves some element of deficiency or fault. T is a travel agency and no evidence has been 
provided to suggest there was any deficiency or fault in its sanitary arrangements. Im not 
persuaded that the normal operation of a business can be called a defect, and certainly not a 
defect specific to Ts premises which led to its closure. I havent been provided with any 
evidence to suggest it was the circumstances at Ts premises in particular that led to the 
Governments decision to introduce the restrictions it did in March 2020. 
For these reasons, I consider RSAs decision to not to meet Ts claim under this section was 
fair and reasonable. 
Disease at the premises
Another of the subclauses relating to closure of the premises provides cover for:
closure or restrictions placed on the Premises on the advice or with the approval of 
the Medical Officer of Health of the Public Authority as a result of a notifiable human 
disease manifesting itself at the Premises
Notifiable human disease is not defined in Ts policy, but it is not disputed that COVID-19 
would be potentially included in the cover provided. However, in order for a claim to be 
covered by this subclause, it would firstly need to be shown that this disease (or another 
which then led to the closure) had manifested at the insured premises. 
It is for T to demonstrate that it has a valid claim. So, in essence it is for T to show that it is 
more likely than not that COVID-19 manifested at its premises prior to its closure. 
The manifestation needs to be prior to the closure, as in the circumstances of this complaint 
it must have been one of the manifestations of the disease that led to the closure or 
restrictions. A manifestation after the introduction of the restrictions/closure would not be an 
event that led to those restrictions/closure. 
In terms of manifestation, I consider that this would require a person either to have 
received a positive test result or to have been displaying symptoms of the disease, whilst at 
the premises. 
Mr S has provided some evidence relating to a number of individuals. He has said he had a 
cough just prior to the closure. However, he has been able to provide limited evidence to 
support that this was related to COVID-19 rather than some other illness. I note that the 
medical evidence he has provided concerns a cough he had in July 2020 and the notes 
indicate that he had been suffering from this for nine months. I am not persuaded that the 
symptoms of a cough from around October 2019 to July 2020 demonstrate that he was most 
likely suffering from COVID-19 in March 2020. 
Mr S has provided some further evidence in relation to a customer who had a chesty cough 
in late February 2020 and then visited the premises in early March 2020. But this individual 
did not have any other symptoms that would indicate she had COVID-19. So, I am not 
persuaded the evidence provided shows this person most likely had this disease at this time. 
A different customer did develop COVID-19 and sadly passed away. But it does not seem 
this happened until 2021, so I do not consider it is relevant to the circumstances in 2020. 
They may have been on the premises in March 2020 and that may also have had a cough. 
But the limited evidence of their symptoms in 2020 does not persuade me they most likely 
had COVID-19. I note that they also apparently suffered from a chronic lung condition, which 
might account for their cough in March 2020. Lastly, Mr S has provided details of a further customer, Mr G. There is some limited 
evidence that Mr G was on Ts premises in March 2020, though this is not overly conclusive. 
Mr G then also sadly passed away  in his case in late March 2020. However, the death 
certificate for Mr G lists his cause of death as Type 2 Respiratory Failure. The death 
certificate makes no reference of COVID-19. It has been argued that death certificates at this 
time would not necessarily have listed this disease, but I am aware of others that did. It is 
also likely that whilst generally not available at this time, a patient in hospital displaying 
breathing problems would have received a test for COVID-19. But no positive test result has 
been provided. Additionally, my understanding is that Type 2 Respiratory Failure is not 
overly common in patients who have COVID-19  certainly not as an associated impact of 
the disease. It seems that COVID-19 more commonly leads to Type 1 Respiratory Failure. 
Ultimately, I am not persuaded by the evidence provided that COVID-19 more likely than not 
manifested at Ts premises prior to its closure. And in the absence of any stronger evidence, 
I am unable to fairly conclude that RSA incorrectly declined Ts claim.
Having considered the rest of the policy carefully, I do not consider there to be any area of 
cover that means RSA should have met Ts claim. I know this decision will be disappointing 
for Mr S, but I hope Ive provided him with a thorough explanation of why this policy doesnt 
offer cover in the circumstances of this claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman