DRN-2583119
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as R has complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) unfairly
turned down its business interruption insurance claim after it was impacted by the
Covid-19 pandemic.
Mr H, a director of R, has brought the complaint on Rs behalf.
What happened
R held a business interruption insurance policy with UKI. It claimed on its policy after being 
impacted by the Governments actions in response to the Covid-19 pandemic. 
UKI turned down Rs claim. They said the policy didnt cover Rs claim under the extension 
for disease because, while the policy covered losses due to some named diseases, Covid-
19 wasnt on that list. UKI said they had also considered the extension for public emergency 
but that had an exclusion for infectious or contagious diseases. 
Unhappy with UKIs response, R brought its complaint to us as it thought its claim should be 
covered. It told us about the impact of the restrictions on its business. 
Our investigator looked into Rs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He didnt think 
either the extension for disease or the extension for public emergency provided cover for the 
circumstances of Rs claim. 
R asked for an ombudsmans decision as it thought the public emergency extension 
provided cover for infectious and contagious diseases. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Rs business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if UKI have acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Rs claim.
I will deal in turn with why sections which look like they might be relevant dont provide
cover.
Disease
This extension provides cover for loss resulting from interruption or interference with Rs 
business in consequence of a list of specified covered diseases. However, it doesnt cover 
the circumstances of Rs claim, as Covid 19 isnt one of the specified illnesses.
When reaching this finding Im mindful that Covid-19 wasnt something UKI might have
known about when the policy was drafted. However, there are policies that provide cover for
all notifiable diseases, which is a defined list of diseases, updated by the Government, and
which does include Covid-19. In contrast, Rs policy sets out a specified list of illnesses
which are covered by the policy and there is nothing in the policy which implies that it
provides cover for illnesses not included, including any new illnesses which emerge. The
purpose and effect of this policy is to provide cover in the event of these specific illnesses.
There are in fact many illnesses that the policy doesnt cover. Therefore, I dont think the 
policy can or should fairly be read as covering any and all diseases.
Public Emergency
This extension provides cover for business interruption as a result of:
the actions or advice of a competent Public Authority, due to an emergency 
likely to endanger life or property, in the vicinity of the Premises, which 
commencing during the Period of Insurance, prevents or hinders the use of or 
access to the Premises, excluding:

e infectious or contagious disease
In reaching a decision, one of the things Im required to take into account, is the relevant law.
I think the High Court judgment following the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) test case 
is relevant to Rs complaint, because the High Court considered a similar term within another 
insurers policy and this part of the judgment wasnt appealed to the Supreme Court.
Paragraphs 466-467 of the judgment say:
we do not consider that the entire country can be described as in the vicinity of 
the insured premises on the wording of this policy. It follows that the government 
action and advice in response to the national pandemic cannot be said to be due 
to an emergency in the vicinity, in the sense of in the neighbourhood, of the 
insured premises.
         
There could only be cover under this wording if the insured could also 
demonstrate that it was an emergency by reason of COVID-19 in the vicinity, in 
that sense of the neighbourhood, of the insured premises, as opposed to the 
country as a whole, which led to the actions or advice of the government.
While the term considered wasnt exactly the same, I see no reason to depart from the 
judgment as I think this extension provides cover in the event of a local emergency. The 
lockdown imposed by the Government wasnt due to a localised emergency in this case. So, 
even without the exclusion for infectious or contagious diseases, I dont think this extension 
provides cover. 
Separately the Court considered another policy which included a similar exclusion to that 
within Rs policy. Paragraph 376 of the judgment says:
The order or advice contained in the 20 and 23 March government advice and in 
the 21 and 26 March Regulations was the order or advice of the competent local
authority, and was as a result of an occurrence (in fact many occurrences) of an
infectious disease. Accordingly, the carve-out applies and there is no cover under
either [this type of] wording in respect of the closure of or restriction in the use of 
the premises.
I again see no reason to depart from the position reached in the High Court judgment. I think 
the impact on Rs business was as a result of Covid-19, which the World Health 
Organisations website describes as an infectious disease. So unfortunately, this extension 
doesnt provide cover for the circumstances of Rs claim either.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr H was hoping for, but having considered the matter 
very carefully, I dont think I can fairly require UKI to pay Rs claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman