DRN-3352445
The complaint
Mrs Z complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim she 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system she says was misrepresented to her by the supplier.
What happened
In or around March 2017, Mrs Z was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P 
to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at her home. 
After being visited by a representative of P, Mrs Z decided to purchase the system and 
finance it through a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was 
subsequently installed.
In May 2019 Mrs Z made a claim under section 75 of the Act to Shawbrook. She said that P 
had made a number of representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, 
and it was these misrepresentations that had induced Mrs Z to enter into the contract with P. 
Shawbrook has accepted that there was a misrepresentation in this case and made an 
offer.  In summary theyve said they will make Mrs Zs system self-funding. So, the 
amount shell pay for the panels is the same as the benefits she will have received. 
Shawbrook has made a calculation, based on the recommendations of an industry 
expert, which looked at the actual performance of her panels and made some 
estimations about the future performance of the solar panel system.
This calculation has worked out the financial benefits she would most likely receive 
over the 15-year term of the loan. Shawbrook has calculated this figure is £8,512.23.
Mrs Z settled her loan early and paid £8,823.67 in total to Shawbrook. Usually 
Shawbrook will pay the difference between what was paid and the likely benefits of the 
system. But in this case Shawbrook decided to offer £2,000 to acknowledge that Mrs Z 
settled her loan early and may have incurred costs by doing so. They also offered £200 
for the distress and inconvenience caused by their delay in considering her complaint. 
Mrs Z rejected this offer as she said shed repaid the Shawbrook loan with various 
credit cards and doesnt believe the offer takes this into account.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. They asked Mrs Z to provide her 
credit card statements to show any additional costs she may have incurred. Mrs Z provided 
statements from one of her credit card providers, but these didnt show any payments 
towards the Shawbrook loan. The investigator asked for more statements, but Mrs Z has not 
provided these, so they concluded that Shawbrooks offer is fair based on the information 
thats been provided.
Mrs Z didnt agree with our investigators view. She couldnt remember which credit card was 
used to repay the Shawbrook loan and, therefore, couldnt provide any further information.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Shawbrook nor Mrs Z dispute that the benefits of the solar panel system
were misrepresented. As a result, this decision will deal with what I consider to be fair
compensation.
The role of this service is to help settle disputes between consumers and businesses 
providing financial services, fairly and reasonably with minimum formality. In cases like this 
one, determining fair compensation isnt an exact science. My role is to arrive at a fair and 
reasonable outcome taking account of the particular circumstances.
Ive considered whether Mrs Z should be able to rescind the contract with P and be refunded 
all payments she made to Shawbrook; less any financial benefits she may have received 
from the solar panel system. But here, I dont think it would be fair or proportionate to require 
the removal of the solar panels from her home. Rather, I think the fair outcome here is to put 
Mrs Z into a position where the panels are self-funding over the original term of the loan. By 
allowing her to keep the panels, I am satisfied that she is likely to benefit from lower 
electricity bills and FIT payments.
Ive carefully considered the methodology Shawbrook has submitted to this service to
calculate the total benefits of the solar system. This is based upon the actual performance 
and estimated future performance of Mrs Zs solar panel system.
Shawbrook has outlined that when calculating the estimated future performance of Mrs Zs 
solar panels, it will use a number of assumptions. These include the proportion of energy 
generated by Mrs Zs solar panels that shes expected to use rather than buying electricity 
from her energy provider, electricity price inflation, the degradation rate of the panels and the 
estimated retail price index (RPI). Based on the available evidence, Im of the view that 
these appear reasonable. 
Shawbrook have calculated that over the original 15-year loan term, the system wouldve 
provided benefits equalling £8,512.23. Mrs Z paid £8,823.67 in total to settle the Shawbrook 
loan. So, she paid £311.44 more than she would have done if the system was self-funding.
Shawbrook have recognised that Mrs Z may have incurred costs or inconvenience by 
settling her loan early and therefore increased the overpayments offer to £2,000.
Mrs Z has told us that she paid off the Shawbrook loan by using a credit card. So, I think its 
likely she may have incurred additional interest and costs as a result. Unfortunately, neither I 
nor Shawbrook can quantify how much those costs are without Mrs Z providing further 
information to support this. 
Therefore, I think that the offer made by Shawbrook is fair based on the information provided 
by Mrs Z so far. But I do think it would be fair for Shawbrook to recalculate the offer if Mrs Z 
is able to provide further credit card statements that show any ongoing costs she incurred as 
a result of repaying the Shawbrook loan with her credit card. 
Shawbrook have also offered £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mrs Z by 
their delays in investigating her original section 75 complaint. And I think this feels fair and 
reasonable here.My final decision
My final decision is that Mrs Zs complaint should be upheld. In full and final settlement of it, 
Shawbrook Bank Limited should:
pay Mrs Z the £2,000 offered plus £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused: 
or
recalculate the offer if Mrs Z provides further credit card statements showing any 
additional loss suffered by settling the loan early. I would expect 8% simple interest 
to be paid on this amount in addition to £200 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. This information should be provided to Shawbrook within one month after 
the decision is accepted.
If Shawbrook Bank Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs Z how much its deducted. It should
also provide her with a certificate showing this, if she asks for one, so shes able to reclaim 
any tax from HM Revenue & Customs.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman