DRN-3666257
The complaint
R, a business, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc placed a gone away marker on its 
commercial card account meaning that an important payment was missed.
What happened
R says that a marker had been applied when HSBC had recorded that an account statement 
had been returned undelivered in August 2021. R disputes this saying that the local postal 
office was familiar with its address. And it thought that HSBC ought to have contacted it to 
confirm the position. A payment it seems for a web hosting service was missed resulting in it 
being cancelled and the need for a new email address to be set up and notified to clients. R 
has also lost access to past emails.
HSBC said it hadnt made a mistake and had followed its usual process when mail is 
returned. It didnt routinely contact a customer when this happened. But this marker was a 
security measure as we assume the address is no longer correct. Once R had contacted it 
a replacement card was issued, and the marker was removed. After the complaint was 
referred to this service it offered to pay R £100 to reflect the inconvenience.
Our investigator didnt recommend that HSBC do anything more. He said that we didnt have 
a role in setting business processes. Here HSBC had explained its process, and this was a 
plausible way of stopping information being accessed by a third party. While he noted that 
the local postal office had no record of returning any mail, HSBC said that it had received the 
July 2021 statement back. And he didnt think it would be reasonable for HSBC to retain a 
copy of that for any period of time as R thought required. He noted that HSBC had made an 
offer as an acknowledgement of the problems. As he couldnt see it had made a mistake he 
thought this reasonable.
R didnt agree. The business owner stated that the assessment was inadequate and 
incorrect. It wasnt appropriate to add a gone away marker if there is no good reason and 
that would only be if the account holder was advised. There was no security risk here from a 
statement. It was strenuously denied by the postal service that the item had been returned. 
He provided pictures of the post box which was set into a wall and familiar to those locally. 
He said that errors in producing a statement can be made and he didnt believe an envelope 
was returned. HSBC shouldnt presume hed moved, and our assessment was biased. The 
compensation of £100 wasnt reflective of the consequential loss which ran into tens of 
thousands of pounds given that past emails couldnt be accessed electronically, and all 
clients needed to be notified of the new email details. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I cant know exactly what happened here and Im thinking about what is most likely. I note 
that the owner of R says he was away for a period from 26 July 2021 to 21 August 2021 and 
that family were staying at the property for their holidays. The letter box isnt typical in the 
sense that it is built into a wall of a building but then again there havent been other reported 
problems with post for R. I cant know exactly whether and where at some point in the postal 
system the item was returned. But thats what HSBC has recorded happened.
It's explained its process. While I can understand what R says about what is contained on a 
statement there is a risk of identity theft if account information is compromised. And the gone 
away marker prevented a new card being issued on the account as the old one expired at 
the end of October 2021. 
I think its that latter point too that prevented what I understand to be a renewal payment on 
the card going through linked to Rs website and email address. I dont know if the related 
business involved gave R the opportunity to pay in another way. R clearly didnt notice that 
no statements had been received from July 2021 onwards. I note from information provided 
by HSBC it was using the card and monthly direct debit payments were taken until the card 
expired. When R realised what happened a new card was sent out in December 2021 and 
then used that month for payments.  
I appreciate R thinks things should have been handled differently. But we dont have a role in 
setting processes, and I cant say that HSBC ought to have also contacted R, however 
helpful that could have been here. And as I say I dont have information to find that it most 
likely made an error in adding the gone away marker. Even if I did, I dont think HSBC could 
reasonably have anticipated the knock-on effects for R and that these couldnt reasonably 
have been mitigated in some way. HSBC has made an offer to reflect inconvenience and I 
know what R thinks about the amount involved. I dont have a reasonable basis to require it 
to do anything more. If R doesnt accept my decision it remains free to pursue this matter in 
court subject to any relevant time limits.
My final decision
HSBC has made an offer to settle this complaint which I consider to be fair in the 
circumstances. So, my decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc pay R £100 as it has offered to.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman