DRN-3624056
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain that Gresham Insurance Company Limited (Gresham) declined their 
claim for specified items following a burglary at their home.
What happened
Mr and Mrs A took out home insurance online with Gresham. The contents insurance
included specified personal belongings, namely 2 wedding rings valued at £10,578.
In October 2020 Mr and Mrs As house was burgled. The burglary took place during the
daytime when only Mr and Mrs As son was present. A number of items were stolen
including two wedding rings which had been stored in a safe in a cupboard on the second-
floor landing. The rings were valued at £9,950.
Gresham accepted the claim and paid Mr and Mrs A a cash settlement but declined the
wedding rings. They said that the personal belongings condition was not adhered to. They
referred to the policy and said that as the wedding rings were not with Mrs A or in the same
room as her when the burglary took place, they were not covered under the policy.
Mr and Mrs A complained. They said that their son had been in the same room as the rings
but when he heard the burglar entering the property, he hid in a walk-in wardrobe in his
bedroom. They thought that it was unfair to refuse their claim because their son had hidden
for his own safety. Gresham didnt agree and said that the terms of the policy had been
breached.
Mr and Mrs A brought their complaint to this service. As well as saying that they werent in
breach of the condition, they also said that they had not been aware of the personal
belongings condition. Our investigator looked into the matter and agreed with Gresham that
the condition had not been complied with. However, she upheld the complaint as she
thought the personal belongings condition had not been properly highlighted to Mr and Mrs A
when the policy was taken out and that it was unfair for Gresham to rely on it. She said that
Gresham should re-assess the claim. She also awarded Mr and Mrs A £200 compensation
as it took Gresham over three months to inform them that the rings would not be covered.
Mr and Mrs A accepted the investigators decision, but Gresham didnt. They said that the
policy was taken out online and that the personal belongings condition had always been
included at renewal. They said that it was included in the policy schedule which formed part
of the policy and that Mr and Mrs A had been advised to read this before agreeing to the
terms. They asked for the matter to be considered by an ombudsman.
My provisional decision
On 22 June 2022 I issued a provisional decision. I said:
There are two elements to this complaint, and I will deal with them separately.
Mis-sale of the policy
Mr and Mrs A say that they were not aware that the policy contained a personal belongings
condition. Had the condition been sufficiently brought to their attention, they say they would
not have taken out the policy but found another without such a condition.
The policy was first taken out online in February 2018. Gresham are unable to provide any
details of the application and say that the current online application is different to that
completed in 2018. They have said that the value of the rings would have automatically
triggered the personal belongings condition which was then included in the policy. However,
Ive seen no evidence that this was specifically brought to Mr and Mrs As attention during
the application process.
Gresham have provided a copy of the documents sent to Mr and Mrs A immediately after
their application in 2018 and Ive seen these. Ive also seen the renewal documents for
February 2020. Mr and Mrs A were asked to read the documents and check the information
was correct. The rings are specifically mentioned in the contents section of the schedule on
page 4, but there is no reference at that point to there being any additional conditions. These
conditions are found at the bottom of page 5 after details of the premium payable.
Gresham have said that they cant have mis-sold the policy because it was taken out online.
I disagree  insurers have a duty to provide policyholders with sufficient clear information
about their products when taking out or renewing policies whether that be online or
otherwise. This services approach to mis-sales is that if a policyholder has to take specific
action to comply with a particular condition, then it should be specifically brought to their
attention. This is particularly so if the condition takes away a specific part of the policy if it is
not complied with - as is the case for Mr and Mrs A.
Whilst I accept that the personal belongings condition is contained within the schedule, I
dont think it was specifically highlighted to ensure that Mr and Mrs A were aware of it. I
therefore dont think that its reasonable for Gresham to rely upon the condition to decline the
claim.
Personal belongings condition
My starting point is to look at the policy terms. Mr and Mrs As wedding rings are included in
the schedule as specified personal belongings. Page 5 of the schedule says It is a condition
of this policy that this item of the personal belongings section is worn or carried by you or,
whilst in your home or temporary residence, kept in a room in which you are present.
The policy booklet contains a definitions section. It defines You, Your as The person (or
people) named in your schedule, their domestic partner and members of their family (or
families) who are permanently living with them and their foster children who live with them.
At the time of the break in, Mr and Mrs As son was sitting on the stairs leading to the
second-floor landing. The wedding rings were in a safe bolted to the floor of a cupboard on
the second-floor landing. Ive viewed the video interview with Mrs A where she demonstrates
where the cupboard is in relation to the stairs and her sons bedroom. They are all in very
close proximity. Whilst the stairs and landing may not be a room as such, they are one
continuous space. As such, I dont think it unreasonable to say that Mr and Mrs As son was
in the same room as the rings when the break in occurred. I accept that when the rings
were stolen Mr and Mrs As son was not in the same room, but only because he was hiding
in the wardrobe in his bedroom for his own safety.
Gresham have refused the claim as Mrs A was not wearing the rings or in the same room as
them when they were stolen. However, I dont think Greshams approach is fair. Im satisfiedthat Mr and Mrs As son is included under the term you in the policy and so if he were in
the room where the rings were kept, then the condition is satisfied. It cannot be reasonable
to expect an insured, whether it be Mr and Mrs A or their son, to put themselves at risk in
order to comply with a condition of their insurance. Mr and Mrs As son had been sitting in
the same space as the cupboard and close to it when the burglary commenced and only
moved for his own safety. I therefore think it unreasonable for Gresham to refuse the claim
for breach of this condition.
I also think that although it was not a condition of the policy that the rings be stored in a safe,
it was certainly the responsible thing to do. The purpose of the personal belongings condition
must be to ensure that the rings are kept safe, and it is difficult to see what more Mr and Mrs
A could have done to keep the rings secure when they were not being worn.
Ive considered the issue of compensation. It took Gresham approximately four months to
inform Mr and Mrs A that the rings were being declined. They werent initially told that there
was an issue with the rings at all and I think Greshams communication regarding this could
have been better. The burglary was a very distressing experience for the family as Mrs A
mentioned in the video interview. I think that having the claim declined would have added to
their distress and I therefore agree with our investigator that an award of £200 for distress
and inconvenience would be fair.
Response to my provisional decision
Mr and Mrs A accepted my provisional decision. Gresham didnt respond with any further 
comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party provided any new information, I see no reason to change my decision. My 
final decision and reasoning remain the same as my provisional decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Gresham Insurance Company 
Limited to:
deal with Mr and Mrs As claim for the wedding rings under their policy; and
pay Mr and Mrs A £200 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 August 2022.
 
Elizabeth Middleton
Ombudsman