DRN-2703748
The complaint
 Mr B complains The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential) gave his financial 
adviser incorrect and misleading information which led to a financial loss and a loss of 
expectation.
 
What happened
  Mr B held an investment with Prudential and following discussion with his financial adviser 
decided to proceed with a transfer to another provider.
On 14 March 2020, Prudential received an instruction to disinvest and transfer his 
investment.
On 17 March 2020, his financial adviser contacted Prudential to follow up on the status of 
the transfer request. He was tole during this call the investment had been disinvested and 
was now held in cash. The adviser contacted Mr B and told him the disinvestment had been 
undertaken and this was good news as Prudential had announced a Unit Price Adjustment 
(UPA) which it appeared would not be applied to Mr Bs investment as it had already been 
disinvested.
On 18 March 2020, the financial adviser contacted Prudential again. He had reviewed the 
status of the transfer on the adviser portal and it looked as though the investment was still 
held in units, meaning the disinvestment hadnt been carried out. The Prudential 
representative confirmed that the request had been raised but the disinvestment had not yet 
started, and this meant the UPA would be applied to the investment. This would mean a 
significant reduction to Mr Bs funds.
Mr B was obviously very upset to receive this news. He felt Prudential had deliberately 
delayed the disinvestment for financial gain whilst causing him a financial loss and he raised 
a complaint with Prudential.
Prudential issued a final response, in which it partially upheld his complaint.
Prudential acknowledged Mr Bs financial adviser had been given misleading and incorrect 
information during the telephone call on 17 March, but it also pointed out that the transfer 
had been carried out within its service level agreement timescales. It said the application of a 
UPA was driven by market volatility and the terms and conditions of Mr Bs investment 
clearly stated when it could be applied. As the transfer request had already been placed, the 
UPA would stand even if Mr B had decided to switch funds and so no financial loss had been 
sustained as a result. It acknowledged the application of the UPA was delayed by two 
working days, and as such this was a reportable breach, which had been registered with the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). It said it appreciated this had caused Mr B avoidable 
upset and as such it offered £150 compensation by way of apology.
Dissatisfied, Mr B brought his complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into things for Mr B. He agreed with Prudential that the UPA would 
have been applied in any event and as such the misinformation Mr Bs adviser had been 
given did not cause a financial loss to Mr B. But he felt it had caused a significant loss of 
expectation. In his view, he asked Prudential to increase its compensation to £500.
Prudential didnt agree. It said whilst it acknowledged the information provided was 
misleading, it had corrected it within 24 hours and as such it felt £150 was fair and 
reasonable compensation. It asks for an ombudsman review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr B and by Prudential. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words, I 
have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome. 
I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended to regulate 
or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct Authority. 
Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer and a 
business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the business to 
put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position they would 
have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
Theres no dispute here that Mr Bs adviser was given misleading information by Prudential. 
The question I have to consider is what impact that information had, did Mr B suffer a 
financial loss or a loss of expectation as a result and if so, what would be a fair and 
reasonable way to put things right.
I have considered the submissions made by Mr B regarding deliberate attempts by 
Prudential to frustrate the process for its own financial gain. I dont agree, but I can well 
understand Mr Bs frustrations. I understand he has had less than satisfactory dealings with 
Prudential in the past and so on discovering his investment had not been disinvested prior to 
the announcement of the UPA I can see why he would have been upset.
In this case Mr B has seen his fund reduce by a significant sum, that he initially thought had 
been avoided. That said, although misinformed, Prudential did carry out the instructions 
within its service level agreements. It has already explained why the application of a UPA is 
regrettable and doesnt mean it has made any financial gain in applying it, so I dont intend to 
cover this again here.
I have also listened carefully to the telephone calls between Prudential and Mr Bs adviser. It 
is clear from them that Mr B was aware a UPA could be applied due to the market conditions 
at the time and his adviser indicated a discussion had already taken place, but on balance 
Mr B was still of the view he wished to proceed with the transfer.I appreciate Prudential makes the case that within 24 hours, the correct information had 
been provided, as his adviser was informed on the telephone call of 18 March 2020 that the 
finds hadnt been disinvested into cash and the information, he had been given on 17 March 
2020 was incorrect. But this was only because the adviser had checked the portal and was 
concerned about the information about the investment. Had the adviser not been quite so 
diligent, this information would only have come to light when the UPA was applied some two 
days later.
The adviser also clearly points out to Prudential during these telephone calls that he had 
acted on the information it provided and advised his client that the disinvestment had been 
carried out and a UPA avoided, only to have to call him back 24 hours later and advise him 
otherwise. The impact of the UPA was a significant reduction and so I agree with the 
investigator that Mr B did suffer a significant loss of expectation.
For these reasons Im persuaded the compensation suggested by Prudential should be 
increased to reflect the impact this had on Mr B.
My final decision
 For the reasons I have given I uphold this complaint and I direct The Prudential Assurance 
Company Limited to:
Pay £500 compensation to Mr B for the loss of expectation and the trouble and upset 
this matter caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2021.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman