DRN-1986748
The complaint
Miss A complains that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A. declined her claim against her single trip, travel insurance policy after she 
cancelled her trip. 
Mapfre is the underwriter of Miss As policy. Reference to Mapfre includes reference to its 
agents. 
What happened
On 10 July 2019, Miss A booked a trip with an intended departure date of                             
15 September 2019. On 11 September 2019, Miss A bought a single trip, travel insurance 
policy. On 13 September 2019, Miss As midwife advised her to cancel her holiday because 
of the risk of Zika virus. Miss A cancelled her trip and made a claim against her policy. 
Mapfre declined Miss As claim. It relied on exclusions in the policy. It said that when Miss A 
booked the trip, she knew she was pregnant and when she bought the policy, she was 
probably aware of the Zika risk, as it was clearly evident then. Mapfre said that when Miss A 
bought the policy it was likely she was aware of the circumstances that led to her claim. 
Miss A says that she didnt know she was pregnant when she booked the trip and that she 
first learned of the dangers of Zika virus for pregnant women on 13 September 2019, from 
her midwife. She says that shes not obliged to research all the diseases in her planned 
destination and that shes not an expert. Miss A thinks that Mapfres refusal of her claim is 
unfair. She wants Mapfre to pay her claim. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt think that Mapfre had 
treated Miss A unfairly. The investigator said its likely Miss A knew shed have to cancel the 
trip before she took out the policy.
Miss A didnt agree with the investigator. She said that Mapfre doesnt have proof that she 
knew about the cancellation before she bought the policy. Miss A said that she bought the 
policy, became aware of the risks and told Mapfre about the cancellation of her trip, in that 
order. She says that she bought the policy late because she didnt know single trip policies 
were available. Miss A says that the main reason she bought the policy was to insure 
against theft. She asked that an ombudsman consider her complaint, so it was passed to 
me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the relevant policy terms and conditions 
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy. The policy provides cover for 
cancellation in certain circumstances. There are a number of general exclusions in the 
policy, one of which says:
General exclusions 
We will not cover the following:
[]
31. Any claim related to a known event (see Definition on page 13) that you were aware of at 
the time you took out this insurance and/or, prior to the booking of any individual trip.
Known event
A known event is an existing or expected publicly announced occurrence, such as a named 
tropical storm, a hurricane or a strike voted upon by union members.
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that Mapfre has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Im not upholding Miss As complaint because I dont think that Mapfre treated her unfairly. I 
say that because:
When an insurer seeks to rely on an exclusion in the policy, it must show that it 
applies in the particular circumstances that led to the claim. I think Mapfre has done 
that here in relation to exclusion 31, which Ive set out above. Mapfre has also 
referred to exclusion 2, but thats not relevant here, as it relates to known medical 
conditions of certain persons other than the policyholder, so I dont refer to that 
again.  
The medical certificate completed by Miss As midwife on 14 October 2019, says that 
[Miss A] was pregnant at the time of booking the trip. Miss As midwife doesnt 
say that Miss A knew she was pregnant at that time. Looking at the pertinent dates in 
that certificate, I accept that Miss A didnt know that she was pregnant when she 
booked the trip on 10 July 2019.  
The medical certificate completed by Miss As midwife doesnt say when Miss As 
pregnancy was confirmed but Miss A says that she discovered she was pregnant at 
the end of July 2019. So, when she bought the policy on 11 September 2019, Miss A 
knew she was pregnant.
If Miss A had bought the policy at the time of booking the trip in July 2019, the 
outcome of her claim may well have been different. Ive considered what Miss A says 
about why she bought the policy so close to the intended departure date - she didnt 
know single trip policies were available and her main concern was theft. Single trip 
policies are common and generally available. Im not persuaded that Miss A has 
shown that she had a good reason why she didnt buy the policy when she booked 
the trip. Ive looked at the UK governments travel advice in relation to Miss As intended 
destination. At the time Miss A took out the policy, the advice was that there was a 
risk of Zika virus in that country, which is a cause of Congenital Zika Syndrome 
(microcephaly and other congenital anomalies) and neurological complications such 
as Guillain-Barre syndrome. The advice said that Pregnant women should 
consider avoiding travel to this country. The advice had been in those terms for 
some months and there had been considerable media coverage about the risk of 
Zika virus to pregnant women. 
So, when Miss A took out the policy, she knew that she was pregnant. It was also 
known that Zika virus was a risk to pregnant women. The policy Miss A took out is 
designed to cover unknown risks. I think that before Miss A took out the policy its 
more likely than not that she knew that shed need to cancel the trip because of the 
risk of Zika virus to pregnant women. In those circumstances, I dont think that 
Mapfre acted unfairly in relying on the exclusion Ive set out above. 
I can quite understand why Miss A wanted to cancel her trip. Shed had medical 
advice that recommended that she should avoid any trip to countries or territories 
with active Zika Virus transmission.  
The policy excludes cover for a claim that results from you acting in a way which 
goes against the advice of a medical practitioner. It also excludes any claim that 
results from travelling to a country where the Foreign and Commonwealth Office 
advised not to travel at the time the policy was purchased or when the trip was 
booked, whichever is the latter. So, if Miss A had gone on the trip, its clear that she 
would have been travelling against medical advice and to a country where the 
Foreign and Commonwealth Office had advised her not to travel. So, she wouldnt 
have been covered under the policy if shed contracted Zika on the trip. 
Miss As choices were to cancel her trip without getting her money back or go ahead 
without any cover for the Zika risk. On the face of it, that doesnt seem fair. But I dont 
think it would be fair and reasonable to direct Mapfre to deal with Miss As claim in 
this case. Thats because its established that Miss A knew she was pregnant when 
she took out the policy and Ive found that its more likely than not that Miss A also 
knew about the event which would lead to cancellation of her trip  Zika risks for 
pregnant women. 
Miss  As policy doesnt cover her for a claim related to a known event that she was 
aware of when she took out the policy. For the reasons Ive explained, I think that 
Miss As claim related to a known event that she was aware of when she took out the 
policy. I dont think that Mapfre treated Miss A unfairly in relying on the exclusion Ive 
set out above and I  dont think it would be fair and reasonable to direct Mapfre to pay 
her claim.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss As complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 December 2020.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman