DRN-1848198
The complaint
Mr S says The One Stop Money Shop Limited ("Money Shop") lent to him irresponsibly in 
April 2019. Mr S has also complained about Money Shop's debt collection practices and the 
rate of interest on the loan.
What happened
I sent Mr S and Money Shop my provisional findings on this complaint on 23 April 2020.
I explained why I was planning to uphold Mr S's complaint in part and asked for further 
comments. I'll summarise my provisional findings below but refer both parties back to my full 
provisional decision.
In April 2019 Mr S applied for a £500 loan with a term of 12 months and a monthly 
repayment of £81.25.
I didn't think Mr S' complaint about the interest rate charged should succeed. The 
rate charged was within the limits permitted by regulation and Mr S hadn't been 
treated differently to any other customer.
I didn't think Money Shop had lent to Mr S irresponsibly. The information provided to 
Money Shop by Mr S suggested he has substantial disposable income. Even 
allowing for safeguards, the loan still appeared to be affordable to Mr S. I didn't think
Mr S' adverse credit history meant it was wrong for Money Shop to have lent to him.
I did find that Money Shop hadn't always shown Mr S enough forbearance when 
dealing with him in respect of his outstanding debt. I proposed Money Shop should 
pay Mr S £200 for the trouble and upset caused.
 
Money Shop responded on the same day I sent my provisional decision. It strongly objected 
to paying Mr S £200 for trouble and upset. But it proposed, as an alternative, to remove all 
interest, charges and other fees from Mr S' loan, meaning Mr S would only have to repay the 
£500 he borrowed.
As this offer was significantly better (in financial terms) to the outcome I proposed, I put it to 
Mr S and told him that I was minded to award this, rather than the £200 for trouble and 
upset. I asked Mr S for his thoughts. Mr S had some questions about the outcome (which I 
answered) but didn't object to me making this award.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I haven't heard anything further from Mr S since we last corresponded on 27 April 2020,
I see no reason not to award the settlement proposed by Money Shop. As I said to both 
parties, this settlement is worth far more than the £200 trouble and upset I had proposed to 
award and will leave Mr S in a better position by significantly reducing his outstanding debt.
I encourage both parties to engage in a constructive conversation about making repayments 
towards the outstanding debt.Putting things right
Money Shop should do as it has offered. It should remove all interest, fees and charges from 
Mr S' loan account and ensure he pays Money Shop (and any third parties) no more than 
£500 in total.
My final decision
Money Shop's latest offer is a fair way to settle this complaint. The One Stop Money Shop 
Limited should put things right by taking the steps set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2020.
Matthew Bradford
Ombudsman