DRN-1740802
The complaint
Mr P complains that MBNA Limited wont refund the cost of a short break he paid for using 
his credit card. 
What happened
In 2019 Mr P booked a three night stay (for himself and two others) with a third party travel 
agent (that Ill refer to as D). The trip cost about £800 and included coach travel, two 
excursions, two dinners, one lunch and three nights bed and breakfast in a hotel. Mr P says 
food was inedible and accommodation was substandard  and these issues were 
acknowledged by hotel staff but not resolved when he complained at the time. Mr P paid for 
most of the cost of the trip using his MBNA credit card so he asked MBNA for a refund, 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
MBNA contacted D who said other customers on the same trip didnt report any problems. D 
acknowledged Mr P was disappointed and refunded £315, as he had no issues with the rest 
of the package. MBNA thinks thats fair - as Mr P was refunded the cost of his trip and the 
protection offered by section 75 doesnt extend to the rest of his party  and it shouldnt have 
to do anything further.   
One of our investigators looked at the evidence. She doesnt recommend the complaint 
should be upheld. She doesnt think it was wrong of MBNA to refuse a chargeback, in these 
circumstances and shes not persuaded theres enough evidence to show that there was a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation. Shes satisfied the short break was a package 
booked by D for Mr P, Mr P paid for the rest of his party as a gift and Ds liable for issues 
with accommodation and other goods and services so the matter can be considered under 
section 75. She acknowledges Mr P was disappointed with the hotels food and 
accommodation - and the hotel had mixed reviews online. But, she considers this is 
subjective. And, even if she accepted there was a breach of contract or misrepresentation, 
the refund D provided sounds fair overall. She doesnt think it would be reasonable to require 
MBNA to do more in the circumstances. 
Mr P disagrees. He feels D misrepresented the whole holiday from start to finish and 
abandoned them when things went wrong. He says he complained at the time but this was 
disregarded and things were so bad they would have gone elsewhere if they hadnt been in 
such a remote location. He thinks D should be liable to refund the full amount, because it 
was aware the hotel was filthy and unsuitable from reports of other customers - and MBNA 
should have done more to assist sooner. He asked for an ombudsman to review the matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For reasons Ill explain, my decision is I do not uphold this complaint. I realise this is likely to 
come as a disappointment to Mr P and I want to assure him that I have considered 
everything hes said and sent to us carefully. If I dont comment on any specific point its not 
because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it but, because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach what I consider is the right outcome. Where information is 
incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I base my decision on the balance 
of probabilities. 
 
Im sorry to hear about the problems that Mr P had during this short break. I can see hes 
most disappointed with D and the hotel especially. And I should make it clear, at the outset, 
that its not within my remit to require either of them to do anything here. Mr P brings this 
complaint to our service because he paid for relevant goods and services using his MBNA 
credit card and my role is to look into MBNAs response to his complaint. 
chargeback
The chargeback scheme is intended to help resolve disputes between consumers and 
merchants and the scheme operator sets the strict rules under which claims can be made. 
Im not deciding the outcome of a chargeback when I look at a complaint like this. Im 
considering instead what amounts to a fair way to resolve this matter. Ive given some 
thought as to whether theres a reasonable chance that MBNA would be able to recover Mr 
Ps money without challenge. And I think its more likely than not D would have challenged a 
chargeback successfully, as Mr P received the travel, food and accommodation he booked. 
So, like our investigator, Im not persuaded that MBNA did something wrong by not raising a 
chargeback request.
section 75
This section gives a borrower an equal claim under an agreement with a supplier against a 
credit provider where theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation, in very specific 
circumstances. I dont apply section 75 but I am obliged to take relevant law into account 
when I make my decision. Like our investigator, Im satisfied that Mr P bought this trip as a 
package so Ive gone on to consider if theres been a misrepresentation or breach of 
contract and whether MBNAs response is unreasonable. 
misrepresentation
For me to uphold this part of the complaint, I would have to be satisfied that Mr P was told 
something untrue that induced him to agree to purchase this particular package break when 
he wouldnt otherwise have done so and he lost out as a result. 
Mr P says D misrepresented this trip from start to finish. I asked him for a bit more 
information about that. He said D should have known about the poor standards due to 
previous complaints, the hotel was advertised as having three stars but didnt merit that 
rating, the rooms they got werent the same as the brochure and food was inedible. 
I havent had sight of a brochure or advertisement that indicates a particular standard of 
accommodation or food would be provided. The only details of the package that Ive seen 
are set out in the invoice which lists the following would be supplied:- 
three nights bed and breakfast in a hotel including two dinners and one lunch
two excursions including entry to a particular event
time at the destination to enjoy the festival
travel throughout.As far as I can see, all of these were provided. And, even if I accept Mr P was told the hotel 
had a three star rating, I think the meaning of that, in practical terms, depends to a large 
extent on who provides the score. Different organisations have different standards - some 
apply stars based on the availability of specific equipment such a tv or coffee maker, for 
example. Looking at the relevant hotels website - and its listing on other accommodation 
booking websites  Im satisfied it seems to have a three star accreditation.
Taking everything Ive seen into account, Im not persuaded, on balance, that there are 
sufficient grounds to reasonably conclude that D made a misrepresentation here.  
breach of contract
Mr P says the three star rating, amongst other things, led him to expect that this hotel would 
have medium to high standards but he found the accommodation and food was 
unsatisfactory. Specifically, he told us that the hotel was dilapidated, messy and dusty with 
threadbare carpets and rubbish in the corridors, food could not be eaten as it was uncooked 
- and staff disregarded his concerns and said thats how a particular dish should be cooked 
when he complained. 
I accept a reasonable person would expect a hotel to meet a reasonable standard of 
cleanliness and for food provided to be edible in this situation. But, I think this still leaves 
room for a level of individual preference and expectation - which, in turn, is likely to be 
affected by a number of factors including the price paid, amongst other things. 
In this case, Mr P paid about £800 for excursions, travel, food and accommodation for three 
people over three nights. I dont doubt he was disappointed with the standard of food and 
accommodation. I understand he feels D should never have booked this particular hotel 
because of previous complaints. And I acknowledge the hotel has mixed reviews online but, 
as our investigator explained, these are subjective. 
I asked Mr P if he had any additional evidence of the issues he describes but he doesnt. D 
says no other customer on the same break as Mr P complained - and Im satisfied that Mr P 
and his companions completed the trip. I appreciate Mr P says he felt they had no other 
option at the time, because the hotel was so remote. But, Ive seen nothing to show that he 
tried to leave or book alternative accommodation or eat elsewhere, for example. 
On balance, Im not satisfied that I can reasonably find Mr P was provided with food and 
accommodation that failed to meet the standard a reasonable person would expect  or 
below the standard that hed been led to reasonably expect. Im not persuaded that there are 
enough fair and reasonable grounds to conclude that there was a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation here. And, even if I had formed a different view about that, I dont think it 
would be reasonable to expect a complete refund, in these particular circumstances. 
Im satisfied that Mr P had some benefit from this package - in that he and his companions 
were provided with travel, food, accommodation and excursions and they completed the trip. 
Taking everything into account, I think the refund D provided seems fair overall and I cant 
reasonably require MBNA to take any further action.
My final decision
My decision I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2021.
 Claire Jackson
Ombudsman