DRN-4354504
The complaint
Miss T is unhappy with the service provided by Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited 
trading as More Th>n (RSA) following a claim made on her home emergency policy.
RSA are the underwriters of this policy. Part of this complaint concerns the actions of third 
parties instructed on the claim. RSA have accepted they are accountable for the actions of 
third parties instructed by them. In my decision, any reference to RSA includes the actions of 
any third party instructed by RSA during the course of Miss Ts claim. 
 
What happened
On 20 January 2023 Miss T contacted RSA to make a home emergency claim following a 
flood of water in her back garden. Miss T was told to contact her local water board to locate 
the stop tap, which she did. 
On 7 February Miss T was informed that RSA would need permission from the three 
adjacent properties to continue with their investigation. The next day RSA arranged to send 
letters to these properties. The letters explained that RSA needed to turn off the water 
supply to complete investigations, and that this would be done on 21 February. The letter 
also advised that if the homeowner had any issues, to contact RSA.
RSA instructed a third party (company H) to attend to Miss Ts home emergency on 21 
February. But company H didnt go ahead with completing their investigation. RSAs case 
notes recorded this was because A few neighbours on the day were not happy for the water 
to be turned off which is why they were unable to proceed. With the neighbours objecting to 
this [company H] could not proceed.
 
Miss T was told that company H wouldnt be able to complete their investigation until 
permission had been received from the homeowners of all three affected properties. Miss T 
was unhappy that RSA had changed its position from concerns being raised by a set date, to 
the affected homeowners having to provide permission to RSA.
Miss T continued to call RSA, feeling frustrated with the lack of progress being made on her 
claim. Miss T was told permission had not been received so investigation work couldnt 
continue. Miss T was asked to contact the business providing legal cover under her policy 
for help in getting the affected homeowners to co-operate with RSAs request.
 
On 16 March Miss T informed RSA On speaking to the legal team, they have informed me if 
the neighbour has had enough notice and been informed twice, they can get in contact to 
deny the water being turned off your team can override them with a final letter informing 
them they have had chances to contend and there no reply means they are o.k. with the 
water being turned off. The water from the leak has over-taken my bank garden and now 
seeping into the front garden. 
Miss T was told that RSA wouldnt be able to turn off the water supply to any of the affected 
homes without the required permission. On 20th March Miss T told RSA that none of her 
neighbours had received a letter from RSA. It was then discovered that the letters had been 
sent to the wrong addresses. Miss T confirmed the correct addresses to send the letters to. 
On 4 April Miss T advised that she had contacted the water board to ask them to switch off 
the water supply on 24 April to allow RSA to complete their investigation, and repairs. But 
before this could happen RSA received notification from the local council on 19 April 
confirming the homeowners had provided authority. 
On 2 May company H attended to Miss Ts home emergency. But they didnt complete any 
work. Company H told Miss T this was because there was no answer when they tried to 
knock on the door of one of the affected houses. Miss T called RSA to complain about work 
still not being carried out, and what the on-site engineer from company H had told her. RSA 
contacted company H and advised they could continue with any work if there was no answer 
at the door. The repairs were carried out on 3 May. 
Miss T contacted RSA on 25 May asking when further reinstatement work would be 
completed. On 5 June Miss T received notification that an appointment had been arranged 
for 8 June 2023 for reinstatement work to be carried out. Miss T took time off work in order to 
attend this appointment. However the engineer didnt attend. Miss T complained about the 
time taken to complete remedial work, and that she hadnt been contacted after the engineer 
missed the appointment. Another appointment was arranged for 29 June. On this date, the 
required reinstatement work was completed. 
RSA responded to Miss Ts complaint on 5 July. RSA said the delays on the claim were out 
of their control as the homeowners didnt provide permission until much later on in the claim. 
Miss T was unhappy with this response, and asked for this service to consider her complaint. 
The investigator found that the response from RSA didnt recognise the poor service and 
upset caused to Miss T during the claim over a prolonged period. The investigator 
recommended RSA pay Miss T £250 for the poor service Miss T had received, and the 
impact it had had on her over several months. 
 
RSA didnt accept the investigators findings saying (amongst other things) [RSA] have no 
powers; legal or otherwise to compel households to comply with their necessarily policy 
requests. More robust and threatening language in their correspondence would therefore 
have been wholly inappropriate [RSA] have systems in place to chase for responses, 
bearing in mind that that have no legal expectation to receive any. Miss T accepted the 
investigators findings. As the complaint couldnt be resolved its been passed to me for 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the evidence, I agree with the investigators outcome on this complaint for 
broadly the same reasons. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent 
commented on any specific point its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the 
right outcome.
Miss T contacted RSA in January 2023 to make a claim. But it wasnt until two weeks later 
(after Miss T called RSA asking for an update) that RSA informed Miss T about the 
requirement to provide notice to the impacted homeowners. At this time Miss T was told 
providing notice was the next step. It was reasonable for Miss T to believe that this was all 
that was needed. 
But this didnt turn out to be the case. The work didnt go ahead as planned on 21 February, 
and Miss T was left feeling disappointed. After this failed appointment, it was determined that 
RSA would need to obtain permission from the impacted properties before company H could 
proceed with any work. I can appreciate the frustration caused to Miss T because of the 
earlier miscommunication from RSA about what theyd need to deal with Miss Ts claim. 
Ive also considered that even if RSA had sent correct letters asking for permission, its 
unlikely these wouldve been received. This is because they had been incorrectly addressed. 
It wasnt until late March that this was discovered, and corrected by RSA. Im persuaded this 
added to the delays on the claim. I am mindful that Miss T was sent a response to her 
concerns on 8 February and this email confirmed the homes that RSA would be writing to. I 
have taken this into consideration when deciding what fair compensation should look like. 
Once it was confirmed with company H that permission would be required from the impacted 
homeowners, Miss Ts claim still couldnt progress because of the lack of response from the 
impacted homeowners. I can see Miss T was told to contact the business responsible for 
providing legal cover in order to get advice about asking her neighbours to co-operate with 
the permission requests. 
But even after Miss T did this, there was confusion as to what process would be appropriate 
for moving the claim forward. I accept that RSA are not responsible for what Miss T was told 
by the legal team. But given the previous miscommunication on the claim about what would 
be required before RSA could complete investigation work, I can see how Miss T wouldve 
been left feeling more frustrated by the conflicting information she was receiving from the 
different parties involved with her claim (including RSA).
RSA say that they received notification from the council which informed their decision to 
instruct company H once again to complete the required work. But this communication 
couldve been better managed- especially given previous delays on the claim. Although Miss 
T was looking forward to work commencing on 2 May, this didnt go ahead. 
The reason for this was because company H were unsure whether they could proceed 
without a homeowner being present to provide consent on the day. So despite being booked 
for the job, and on-site ready to carry out the required work, the engineers left. Miss T was 
caused further disappointment and frustration because of the work not going ahead when 
she was told it would. The required work did go ahead on 3 May, once RSA clarified with 
company H the basis on which they were able to start work. 
After these initial repairs were completed, it was agreed that further reinstatement work was 
required. But I cant see that RSA actively managed Miss Ts claim from this point on. It 
wasnt until Miss T contacted RSA and complained about the time taken to repair the 
outstanding damage that RSA arranged for company H to re-attend. And even when a date 
was agreed, the engineer didnt turn up. As a result Miss T lost a day of work, and was 
caused further upset and frustration to what had already been a difficult period with RSA in 
trying to resolve her claim. 
Im persuaded by Miss Ts testimony about the impact on her time and well-being during the 
several months of trying to deal with her claim. I have taken on board what RSA have 
explained about the impacted homeowners not responding to RSAs letters. But looking at 
the claim overall, that there were several aspects of the claim handling that fell below the 
standard wed expect, and contributed to overall delays on the claim. 
Individually these examples of poor service, including delaying in attending to Miss Ts home 
emergency call out in a timely way, corresponding with the wrong addresses, failing to communicate clearly with third parties instructed on the claim, and not progressing the claim 
for reinstatement work to be completed, dont amount to poor service that would necessarily 
warrant compensation. But looking at the claim overall, and the period in which Miss T was 
inconvenienced (several months), and how long it took to finally resolve Miss Ts claim, Im 
satisfied that it is fair and reasonable for Miss T to be awarded compensation for the parts of 
the claim that were not dealt with properly, and the impact on Miss T overall.  
From the outset Miss T was chasing RSA for updates. The case notes evidence that most 
contacts with Miss T were as a result of Miss T calling to ask for an update on her claim. 
Whilst this is mostly to be expected for the part of the claim where RSA where waiting for the 
affected homeowners to provide permission, there were also periods of the claim at the very 
start, and the end when reinstatement work was being discussed, that RSA didnt actively 
manage Miss Ts claim.  
I take on board that the issue with writing to the wrong address was not noticed by Miss T. 
And if it had, RSA may have written to the correct addresses sooner. But given the number 
of times Miss T had contacted RSA, and as RSA were ultimately responsible for managing 
the claim, I think the addresses couldve been verified sooner in the process. This may have 
impacted how the claim progressed later on.   
Ive also considered the information provided to Miss T during her claim, and how her 
expectations were managed. At the very start Miss T was provided with an overview of what 
was required on her claim. But this turned out to be incorrect- as it was permission, not 
notice, that company H needed to see evidence of before the claim could proceed. 
When agreeing for work to start on 2 May, I think RSA couldve done more to set clear 
parameters with company H on the circumstances in which they could continue when 
arriving at Miss Ts home. Especially given the time Miss T had already waited to have her 
home emergency dealt with, and the on-going issues with consent, and notice. Because this 
didnt happen, Miss T was caused further disappointment and upset with this appointment 
having to be rearranged. 
Lastly, the reinstatement work wasnt acknowledged or prioritised by RSA despite the length 
of Miss Ts claim. Miss T had to chase to ask for an update, and even when a date was 
confirmed, it didnt go ahead as planned. Miss Ts frustrations with the overall handling of her 
claim were therefore made worse by this last part of her claim being mismanaged. 
Having considered these events, and the overall handling of Miss Ts claim, I think payment 
of £250 is fair compensation to Miss T. I say this because it reasonably reflects the aspects 
of poor claim handling on the claim, and the impact on Miss T over several months as a 
result of chasing RSA, and living in her home with her home emergency claim unresolved.  
 
Putting things right
The investigator recommended a payment of £250 to recognise the impact on Miss T as a 
result of the poor service provided by RSA. I think this compensation is fair and in line with 
what I would direct in similar circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons provided I uphold this complaint. 
I direct Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to pay Miss T £250. Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Limited must follow my directions above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2023.
 
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman