DRN-1800987
 
The complaint
Mr T complains that Phoenix Life Limited mis-sold him a whole of life policy.
The complaint has been brought by a representative who Ill refer to as L.
What happened
In 1991 Mr T was advised, by a firm that Phoenix Life has since acquired liability for, to take 
out a whole of life policy. It covered Mr T in the event of death or if he suffered from a critical 
illness. The policy provided an initial sum assured of £24,000 for a monthly premium of 
about £21 per month  with 10% escalation for the first five years included. The premiums 
were invested in a managed fund.
Policy reviews took place in 2006 and 2011. The sum assured decreased to about £17,900 
and £15,600 respectively.
L complained to Phoenix Life about the sale of the policy in September 2019. They raised 
concerns about Mr T being advised to take out a unit linked whole of life policy, which 
included critical illness cover, even though the paperwork from the time of sale made no 
reference to Mr T being interested in critical illness cover or that he wanted to take any risk. 
L said that - in the event Phoenix Life make an offer - the fairest resolution would be a refund 
of premiums less the cost of the critical illness cover, with interest applied to the current date 
less the surrender value. They also added that Mr T should have the option to decide 
whether he wishes to maintain the policy going forward. 
Phoenix Life didnt uphold the complaint. They said the paperwork shows Mr T had lost 
previous life cover after losing his job and, as he was back in regular employment, he 
wanted to provide greater financial security for his wife. So, they thought this suggested both 
life and critical illness cover were a high priority for him. They also explained that while they 
didnt specifically assess Mr Ts attitude to risk, the whole of life plan is primarily designed to 
provider cover and therefore isnt intended as an investment plan  where attitude to risk 
would be considered more relevant.
Phoenix Life also questioned Ls suggestion that the critical illness cover wasnt required by 
Mr T even though they later say, in respect of the redress proposed, that he ought to be 
given the option to continue with the policy. They thought this suggested Mr T did have a 
need for the critical illness element of the policy and to be covered for whole of life rather 
than a specified term.
The complaint was referred to our service. One of our investigators looked in to it but she 
didnt think the policy (or the critical illness cover) was mis-sold as it provided the financial 
security Mr T wanted for his wife. And, he was given policy documents that explained the 
nature of the cover so he couldve cancelled it if it wasnt what he wanted. Further, while 
acknowledging Ls concerns about the investment aspect of the plan, our investigator reiterated that the main purpose of the policy was to provide cover and it wasnt for 
investment purposes.
L disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive come to same 
conclusions as the investigator and for largely the same reasons. Ill explain why.
It isnt in dispute that Mr T had a need for a protection policy as he wanted financial security 
for his wife. L however argues that Mr T didnt require critical illness cover and say this is 
evidenced by there being no reference to it in the paperwork from the time of sale. As I 
wasnt present at the meeting, I cant be sure what was discussed between Mr T and the 
adviser. I have however reviewed the Personal Financial Analysis Update document and, 
while it isnt entirely legible, under the clients objectives section it refers to providing cover 
against disability and critical illness. 
Taking this in to account, I think its more likely the adviser discussed the different protection 
options available to Mr T - including critical illness cover  at the time. Mr T wouldve also 
received policy documentation confirming how the policy worked. So, I think he ought to 
have understood what the policy covered him for and, if he had any or concerns or didnt 
think it was appropriate for him, he couldve queried this with the advisor or cancelled the 
policy. I cant see that this happened.
I also havent seen anything to show Mr T had any existing cover in place at the time. I 
therefore dont think it was unreasonable for Phoenix Life to recommend life and critical 
illness cover to Mr T as a way of meeting his financial protection needs. And, based on the 
income and expenditure that was recorded, the policy premiums were affordable to Mr T. 
L also questions the suitability of a whole of life policy, rather than one set up over a fixed 
term, for Mr T. Although there isnt anything to show why it was recommended by the 
adviser, the flexibility of the policy wouldve been advantageous to Mr T. This is because if 
Mr T experienced financial difficulties, as he did when he lost his previous job, then he had 
the option to reduce the monthly premiums by lowering the level of cover. Whereas, 
premiums for a term insurance policy wouldve had to have been maintained to prevent it 
from being cancelled. The policy also allowed Mr T to change the level of cover to suit his 
circumstances in the future. And, if he decided he no longer needed or wanted the cover, 
then he had the option to cancel it as well  with the possibility of receiving a surrender 
value.
The primary purpose of the policy was to provide life and critical illness cover. So, while 
premiums were invested, the policy wasnt designed for investment purposes. And although 
there isnt anything to show Mr Ts attitude to risk was assessed, based on the information 
available, I dont think it was unreasonable for the premiums to be invested in the managed 
fund. Im therefore not persuaded the investment element of the policy made it unsuitable for 
Mr T and his protection needs.
For the reasons Ive set out, I dont think the policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2020.
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman