DRN-3941909
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd (Accredited) unfairly declined 
a claim for storm damage under his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr H contacted Accredited to make a claim when he found his roof was leaking. He thought 
the damage was likely to have been from a storm several months earlier, but that he had 
been unaware of it because of the solar panels on his roof. Accredited declined the claim 
because it said there wasnt evidence of a storm around the time the damage was found, so 
there was no insured peril.
Mr H complained to Accredited. Accredited reviewed the claim and confirmed its decision to 
decline it. It said there was no sign of storm damage to any of the roof and no evidence of an 
insured peril.
When Mr H complained to this service, our investigator upheld it. She said Accredited had 
used the wrong time period to check for storm conditions, which Mr H had said was much 
earlier in the year. When Mr H later found the damage, hed then had the solar panels 
removed and the company that had removed them had found storm damage. Our 
investigator said she was more persuaded by Mr Hs expert than Accrediteds assessment of 
the claim. She said Accredited should settle the claim and pay interest on the settlement 
amount.
As Accredited didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
When we look at a storm claim complaint, there are three main issues we consider:
1.    do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
2.    is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Were only likely to uphold a complaint where the answer to all three questions is yes.
Ive considered the first question. When Accredited looked at the claim, it said there werent 
storm conditions around the time the damage was found. Having checked the weather 
conditions, I agree with that. However, Mr H thought the damage had happened many 
months earlier during a named storm. He said his roof was damaged at that time and a 
roofer who was doing some work for his neighbour carried out some repairs to his roof at 
that time. So, Ive looked at the weather conditions for that earlier time period. This showed 
wind speeds of up to 83mph in the local area. These are normally hurricane strength winds, 
which can cause devastation. 
Im aware Accredited has said it thinks if the damage happened around this time the water 
ingress would have happened sooner. Mr Hs solar panel company said the solar panels will 
have provided some protection to the roof itself, which would have prevented water from 
immediately entering Mr Hs home. I think Mr Hs explanation of when he thought the 
damage happened was credible, so I think the answer to the first question is yes.
For the second question, I think a storm could cause damage to a roof, including where solar 
panels have been fitted. So, I think the answer to this question is also yes.
So, Ive thought about whether the storm was the main cause of the damage. When 
Accrediteds surveyor visited, there wasnt any damage visible because the solar panels 
were in place. Mr H explained to the surveyor that the panels should have been removed 
before the visit, but this hadnt been possible due to bad weather. When the solar panel 
company removed the solar panels, it said all the damaged and missing tiles were the result 
of a storm. It said the roof mounts and the wind would have made the solar panel frame 
move up and down on top of the tiles. Accredited said the damage wasnt a direct result of 
the storm but was more of an impact from the brackets being moved by the storm. Im aware 
Accredited also later said that it didnt think there was any storm damage and it thought tiles 
had just slipped. 
Based on what Ive seen, I find Mr Hs expert more persuasive than Accrediteds 
assessment. It physically inspected the roof and assessed how the solar panels were 
attached and how this aligned with the damage to the roof. So, based on what Ive seen, I 
think its more likely than not that the storm was the main cause of the damage to the roof.
Im also aware there was internal damage. This seemed to happen much later. Ive already 
said I didnt think there were storm conditions around the time this damage was found. So, it 
cant be covered under the storm part of the policy, as there wasnt a storm that caused it. 
The only other part of the policy it could have been covered by was accidental damage. 
However, Mr H didnt have that cover. So, I think it was fair for Accredited to decline that part 
of the claim.
So, thinking about all of the above, I uphold this complaint and require Accredited to settle 
the claim for the storm damage. Mr H has already had the damage repaired, so Accredited 
should reimburse the cost of the repairs. It should also pay interest on that amount because 
Mr H lost use of the money.
Putting things right
Accredited should reimburse Mr H the cost of repairing the storm damage to his roof and pay 
interest on that amount.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is upheld. I require 
Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd to:
Reimburse Mr H the cost of repairing the storm damage to his roof.
Pay 8% simple interest on that amount from the date on which Mr H paid the invoice to 
the date on which it pays the settlement.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman