DRN-2446053
The complaint
Miss Is complaint is that A.Share & Sons Limited (trading as SCS) misrepresented her 
circumstances to a finance provider when acting as her broker.
What happened
In late 2019 Miss I entered into a contract to buy a sofa from SCS. She paid a £50 deposit 
and SCS acted as her broker in arranging a finance agreement to fund the rest of the 
purchase. Shes said when making the application the advisor applied for the finance three 
times:
Once jointly with her partner which was declined
Once in her sole name with her given occupation unemployed which was declined
Once in her sole name with her given occupation home maker which was successful
Several weeks later, a few days after shed agreed a delivery date, Miss I told SCS shed 
cancelled the finance agreement and no longer wanted to go ahead with the purchase. The 
following month, she contacted SCS again to request a refund of the £50 deposit shed paid.
Although SCS accepted the cancellation of the purchase, it didnt refund the deposit as the 
contract of sale Miss I had entered into said it was entitled to retain 25% of the purchase 
price upon cancellation which was more than the deposit shed paid. Miss I made a 
complaint. She said the finance application had been made fraudulently as her occupation 
had been misrepresented. Therefore the contract wasnt legitimate and her money should be 
refunded. SCS didnt agree. It said there was no evidence it had made numerous 
applications for the finance.
Miss I didnt accept this and brought the complaint to us to consider. Our investigator didnt 
uphold the complaint. They said according to the contract shed signed, SCS was entitled to 
keep the deposit and there was no evidence the application had been attempted more than 
once. Miss I didnt accept this. She said SCS hadnt given her any information about the 
deposit being non-refundable and maintained the application was fraudulent. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
SCS acted as Miss Is broker in arranging the finance agreement she intended to use to fund 
the purchase of the sofa. She also entered into a separate contract of sale with SCS under 
which she paid the deposit shes said should be refunded. Although these are two separate 
contracts, the contract of sale is linked to the finance agreement SCS arranged for Miss I 
and so as part of this complaint I need to consider both together.
Miss I has effectively said her contract with SCS (the one that required her to pay a non-
refundable deposit), as well as the finance agreement itself should be void because SCS 
misrepresented her occupation when applying for finance. She says when SCS applied for 
finance the first two times with correct information the finance was correctly declined. And, if 
things had been left there, she wouldnt have paid the deposit. Instead, she says SCS tried a 
third time, using false information to ensure the application was accepted.
Having considered the situation overall, based on the evidence Ive seen and the balance of 
probabilities I dont think SCS is acting unfairly in this case. In reaching this decision Ive 
taken into account:
The finance provider, which isnt party to this complaint, has confirmed there is no 
record of SCS putting through three different applications for finance in Miss Is name 
or jointly with someone else. Theres also no information to suggest it cancelled the 
finance agreement because the application was made fraudulently.
Decisions around whether or not finance agreements are accepted are primarily 
based on someones financial circumstances. Miss I has said an application which 
said she was unemployed was declined but home maker was accepted. But 
financial businesses arent allowed to discriminate against someone solely on the 
basis theyre unemployed and their income is unemployment benefits. Theres no 
evidence an unemployed application was attempted. But in any event, it doesnt 
seem likely the description of her occupation would have made a difference to the 
success of her application, given it seems likely her income (derived solely from state 
benefits) would have been the same whatever occupation she recorded.
Miss I says SCS misrepresented her occupation, but SCSs account is that the 
occupation given reflects what was discussed in the store. As theres no way of 
knowing for sure, Ive had to look at the other information available. Miss I accepted 
two contracts relating to the purchase of the sofa, chased SCS to find out when it 
would be delivered and then booked a delivery date before she cancelled the finance 
agreement several weeks later. Shes said she knew throughout this period SCS had 
misrepresented her occupation, but only raised concerns about this after SCS 
declined to return her deposit. Its not clear why she continued to proceed with the 
purchase if she felt it had been made fraudulently or what prompted her to later 
change her mind. 
The contract of sale Miss I entered into with SCS states that where we agree to the 
cancellation we may deduct up to 25% of the contract price for the product from 
your refund. If you have not paid 25% or more at the time of cancellation, we may 
ask you to pay it, and we may put any deposit you have paid towards that sum. So 
Im satisfied the contract of sale allows SCS to retain Miss Is deposit in certain 
circumstances.
Whilst she later told us she doesnt recall receiving the contract and the terms and 
conditions Ive highlighted above, Miss I has forwarded to our service a document 
shes signed confirming shed received and read the terms and conditions. So on 
balance, I think its likely she was given and accepted this information before she 
entered into the contract with SCS.
Even if Miss I hadnt been given this contract of sale, I think her behaviour reflects 
she wanted to go ahead with the purchase until several weeks after it was made 
when something changed her mind. So I think with or without the condition above, 
Miss I was always likely to have paid the deposit she did as I think its clear at the time she wished to buy the sofa and was happy to take out the finance agreement to 
enable that to happen.
Taking everything into account, on balance, I dont think Ive seen enough evidence to 
persuade me Miss I cancelled the purchase of the sofa because SCS misrepresented her 
circumstances when acting as her broker. As such, Im satisfied SCS would be entitled to 
25% of the purchase price and is therefore acting fairly in keeping the £50 deposit shes 
paid.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss I to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 January 2021.
 
Faye Brownhill
Ombudsman