DRN-2830295
The complaint
Mr M complains that Revolut Ltd wont refund a debit card payment he made for goods that 
were not received.  
What happened 
On 16 July 2019 Mr M used his debit card to make a transaction online. He wanted to buy 
basketball apparel totalling €620.13. Mr M explains that his order was not confirmed by the 
website and his computer screen went white. The money was debited from his bank 
account, but the items did not arrive.  
Mr M contacted the retailer but it said it was unable to help him without a confirmation email 
or an order number. It suggested he should contact his bank instead.  
On 7 September 2019 Mr M sent an in app chat message to the bank about the problem 
hed had with the transaction. He explained his account had been debited but hed never 
received the order confirmation. He said hed spoken to the retailer and been told to contact 
the bank. The advisor sent him a chargeback form to fill in, which Mr M completed and 
returned the same day. Ive seen a copy of the form Mr M submitted. In it, he gave a short 
summary to say the order was not finalised and his money had not been returned. He said 
hed spoken to the retailer by phone and that hed been trying to buy basketball jerseys. 
On 18 September 2019 Revolut sent Mr M an in app chat message asking for the order 
confirmation and details of the contact hed had with the retailer.
On 24 September 2019, Revolut sent Mr M a further in app chat message. It said it had not 
heard from him. It suggested he should come back online when he was ready to pick 
matters up again. 
On 25 December 2019 Mr M contacted Revolut to continue the conversation. Revolut said 
the time to raise a chargeback had expired and they could not proceed with the case any 
further. The advisor sympathised with the situation but said the bank had followed its internal 
processes correctly. Mr M explained he did not see the messages and thought the bank 
should have emailed him too. 
In April 2020, Mr M contacted Revolut to raise the issue again. He raised a complaint as it 
was a lot of money for him to lose. 
In May 2020 Revolut issued its final response. It said there was nothing further it could do to 
help Mr M. It explained when hed got back in touch, the deadline for recovering the funds 
had passed. Revolut explained the deadline was out of its control and imposed by the card 
scheme.
Unhappy with the banks position, Mr M referred his complaint to this service. 
In the interim, Mr M continued to follow up the issue with the retailer. He discovered there 
was no record of any order because hed not been shopping on its genuine website. Mr M 
had unwittingly placed an order on a cloned website controlled by fraudsters. 
Our Investigator considered the complaint but didnt think Revolut had done anything wrong. 
He thought Mr M had authorised the payment. He agreed Revolut didnt have enough detail 
from Mr M to attempt a chargeback and thought it was reasonable that it didnt do so in this 
case. He noted that the timescales and the information required to submit a chargeback 
claim werent set by Revolut. He didnt think he could hold Revolut responsible for Mr Ms 
failure to read the messages they sent to him. Whilst our Investigator was sorry to learn that 
Mr M had lost money to a fraudster, he didnt think there was anything more Revolut could 
do. 
Mr M didnt agree. He thought Revolut had been negligent. He explained hed pointed out all 
of the details to Revolut when he first raised the issue and he thought it was obvious hed 
tried to contact the retailers customer service department. He felt hed been ill advised from 
start to finish and asked for an Ombudsman to review the case afresh. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome our Investigator reached. I know this wasnt the 
outcome Mr M was hoping for, so I will explain why.
Millions of card payments are made each day and most of those transactions are problem 
free. But there are occasions where an account holder may need to query a transaction 
applied to their account, perhaps if they dont recognise it or if they think something has 
gone wrong. 
If an account holder raises concerns about a transaction, Id expect their card issuer to look 
into the situation further to see whether it has any responsibility for refunding the amount in 
dispute. It may need to provide a refund if its customer didnt authorise the transaction. 
In some circumstances, a card issuer can ask for a transaction to be refunded through the 
chargeback process
As Mr M used his debit card to make a payment and wanted a refund, Ive thought about 
whether Revolut dealt with that request fairly and did all it could to help him.
Did Mr M authorise the transaction? 
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process transactions 
that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the relevant Payment Services 
Regulations and terms and conditions of the customers account. Broadly they say Revolut 
would only be required to refund Mr M if he didnt make or authorise the disputed transaction 
himself. Mr M doesnt dispute he was trying to make payment on a website himself for goods 
that he wanted to buy. Those actions meet the requirements for Revolut to be able to treat 
the payment as authorised by him.
So Ive gone on to think about if there were any ways other for Revolut to help him, including 
whether it should have attempted a chargeback. Should Revolut have attempted a chargeback?
A chargeback is the process by which payment settlement disputes are resolved between 
card issuers and merchants, under the relevant card scheme rules. What this means is that 
Revolut can in certain circumstances ask for a payment Mr M made to be refunded. Those 
circumstances include where goods or services arent supplied by the company Mr M paid. 
A chargeback isnt guaranteed to result in a refund. But I would consider it good practice for 
a chargeback to be attempted where the right exists and there is a reasonable prospect of 
success. Each chargeback code has its own set of requirements that need to be met in order 
for a chargeback right to exist and for it to have any prospect of success. If those 
requirements arent met, the merchant or its bank would have been entitled to defend the 
claim on the basis that the basic requirements of the chargeback code hadnt been met. 
I would expect Revolut as the scheme member to have knowledge of the various 
requirements under the chargeback rules and to have advised Mr M of what he needed to 
provide. 
Revolut sent Mr M a dispute form to gather the information it needed. Under the card 
scheme rules, Mr M needs to provide evidence of the problem. The rules require a 
description of the complaint in sufficient detail to enable all parties to understand the dispute 
and the questions on the form are designed to gather this information. Having looked at the 
form, I can understand why Revolut considered it did not have enough information. Mr M did 
not provide specific enough details of the goods hed tried to buy, such as what they were or 
how much each item cost. Revolut has pointed out Mr Ms descriptions were too vague and 
unlikely to result in a strong claim.
Ive thought about whether the reason Mr M didnt provide the required level of detail about 
was because of confusion caused by the way Revolut handled things. Ive also thought 
about whether there was enough within what Mr M had already told Revolut to allow it to 
raise the chargeback in any event. But I dont think Revoluts processes were unclear. It did 
try to contact Mr M using the in app chat function to obtain more information, which is in line 
with how the digital only bank communicates with its customers. Mr M did not respond for a 
further three months. By that time, it was too late for Revolut to take any further action. 
Without additional information, I dont think Revoluts decision to not pursue the chargeback 
claim any further caused Mr M to lose out. Mr M had not provided the information required 
by the card scheme so it seems more likely than not that the claim would have failed. It also 
did not become apparent that Mr M had been duped by a cloned website until a much later 
date. 
With the information Revolut had at the relevant time, without being able to meet the basic 
requirements of the chargeback reason code, there was arguably no reasonable prospect of 
its success. The chargeback process has strict time limits which had already been exceeded 
by the time Mr M responded so there was nothing further the bank could do to try and 
recover the money for him at any later stage. 
Im sorry Mr M has lost out. Its clear he did not know he was using a website operated by a 
fraudster and I appreciate this is a lot of money for him to lose. But in the circumstances, 
I have no basis to fairly say that Revolut should be held responsible for that loss. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2021.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman