DRN-1715604
The complaint
Mrs M complains about the standard of service received for breakdown cover from her 
insurer (UK Insurance Limited, trading as Green Flag). Her complaint is about breached 
estimated times of arrival, over multiple jobs concerning the recovery of her vehicle.  
What happened
Mrs M suffered a puncture to her car on the evening of 25 October 2019 and called the 
insurer to provide assistance under the terms of her breakdown insurance policy. The 
estimated arrival time of about 11.30pm was missed, with assistance arriving at 01.00am on 
26 October. A temporary repair to the tyre was carried out, and while Mrs M was advised 
that she would be able to drive the vehicle notwithstanding a warning light, she was 
concerned at the risk of driving and stayed overnight at a hotel. Further delays and missed 
estimates of arrival time occurred on 26 October, at which point Mrs M contacted her son 
and he picked her up and returned her to her home. The insurer agreed to return the vehicle 
to Mrs M on 27 October, which they did at about 9.00pm.
Mrs M complained to the insurer about the delays and missed estimated arrival times and 
asked for compensation in respect of the costs she incurred staying at the hotel, including 
the costs of accommodation, meals and parking (£87). She also asked for compensation for 
her being unable to work over the weekend as planned (estimated at £300) and the costs of 
her son driving to collect her (estimated at £49.50). 
 
The insurer considered Mrs Ms complaint and upheld it in part, acknowledging that delays in 
the service provided and ever-changing estimated time of arrival were not acceptable. They 
paid Mrs M £100 in compensation. They said the temporary repair to the tyre meant that the 
vehicle was driveable and that Mrs Ms policy did not extend to covering any costs not 
agreed in advance. They also stated that the policy excluded costs or losses unrelated to 
getting the vehicle back on the road, so wouldnt pay Mrs Ms loss of earnings. They did 
agree, as a gesture of goodwill in addition to the compensation, to reimburse Mrs M for the 
costs of hotel accommodation, meals and car parking that the policy would not ordinarily 
have covered.
Our Investigator thought the compensation was fair but recommended that the insurer pay 
the £49.50 cost of Mrs Ms son driving to collect her. The insurer disagreed with the 
Investigators recommendation and requested an ombudsman review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is clear the insurer accepts that the standard of service provided to Mrs M fell short of the 
standards expected, and in my view £100 is fair and reasonable compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience she suffered.
  
Mrs Ms policy excludes costs or losses unrelated to getting the vehicle back on the road and 
therefore I am satisfied that she should not be compensated in respect of loss of earnings.  
Given the timing of the breakdown, the delays in assistance being provided, it is fair and 
reasonable for her to be reimbursed the costs of the hotel accommodation, meals and car 
parking charges.
In respect of the estimated cost of Mrs Ms son collecting her and returning her home I note 
that the terms of her policy include a condition that Well cover the cost of getting you and 
your passengers where you need to be using our choice of transport (my emphasis). The 
insurer argues that it was Mrs Ms choice not to travel in the vehicle after the temporary 
repair to the tyre, and to be collected by her son, and therefore this was not covered by the 
stated condition in the policy. 
I also note that the insurer agreed to come out to recover her vehicle to her home, outside 
the terms of the policy, but were delayed in arriving due to the adverse weather conditions.  
In my view Mrs Ms decision was understandable given her concerns about driving in the 
vehicle given the adverse weather conditions and the delays in arrival to recover her vehicle, 
asking her son to collect her was reasonable.   
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I partially uphold Mrs Ms complaint. I require UK Insurance 
Limited, trading as Green Flag to pay the costs of £49.50 for Mrs M being collected by her 
son.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 January 2021.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman