DRN-2297788
The complaint
Mr M complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited has turned down a cancellation
claim he made on his travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M was due to travel abroad on a packaged holiday. Hed booked some excursions
separately to the package. Due to the collapse of Mr Ms holiday provider, his trip was
cancelled. While ATOL refunded Mr M for his travel and accommodation costs; it didnt
refund him for the costs of his excursions. Mr M tried to claim these costs back through his
bank, but it wasnt able to recover his money. So he made a claim on his travel insurance
policy.
Admiral turned down Mr Ms claim. It relied on a policy term which excluded claims which
arise because of supplier failure. While it acknowledged Mr M had organised the excursions
himself, it said the cancellation of them was down to the collapse of the travel provider. So it
considered the exclusion clause applied.
Mr M was unhappy with Admirals decision and he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator thought Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. She thought Mr M wouldve
expected his situation to be covered and she didnt think Admiral had done enough to bring
the term to Mr Ms attention. She also wasnt persuaded - given Mr M had organised the
excursions independently of the travel provider - that it was fair for Admiral to rely on the
policy term to turn down the claim. So she recommended that it should reconsider the claim
in line with the policy limits.
I issued my provisional decision on 24 September 2020. In my provisional decision, I 
explained the reasons why I thought it was fair for Admiral to turn down Mr Ms claim. I said:
Insurers have a responsibility to handle claims fairly and promptly. And they mustnt turn
down claims unreasonably. So Ive looked carefully at the policy terms and the
circumstances of Mr Ms claim to decide whether Admiral has handled Mr Ms claim fairly.
First, Ive considered the policy term Admirals relied on to turn down Mr Ms claim. This
says:
Supplier failure
We will not pay any claim due to the actions or failure of any company providing or
organising your transport, to provide those services (whether caused by error, insolvency,
bankruptcy, liquidation, omission, default or other reason).
I accept Mr Ms holiday as a whole was cancelled by his supplier, due to its collapse. The
costs it was responsible for were refunded by ATOL. I acknowledge, on a strict interpretation
of the policy terms, Mr Ms claim is a consequential loss of the failure of the travel provider.
But in these particular circumstances, I dont think it was fair or reasonable to apply this
exclusion clause to Mr Ms claim. Thats because from all Ive seen, theres no suggestion
that the suppliers of Mr Ms excursions werent able to provide the services hed paid for.
Its also clear Mr M took steps to try and recover his losses from his bank. Ive seen
evidence of the efforts he made and I think he did all he reasonably could to try and get the
money back before claiming on his travel insurance policy. I do sympathise with Mr Ms
position.
But while I dont think it was fair for Admiral to rely on the supplier failure clause, I do
currently think it has other reasons why it can fairly turn down Mr Ms claim. The cancellation
section of the policy sets out the insured events that Admiral covers. These are:
Death, illness, injury or complications of pregnancy or childbirth;
Policyholders or those theyre staying with being quarantined, called for jury service
or as a court witness;
A policyholder or their travelling companion being made redundant;
A policyholder whos a member of the armed forces or emergency services having
their leave cancelled;
A policyholders home being flooded; being damaged by storm or fire or burgled
within seven days before the trip;
A policyholders passport or visa being stolen within seven days before the trip and
them being unable to get a replacement in time.
I appreciate Mr M couldnt travel as planned through no fault of his own. But having carefully
considered the policy terms, I simply dont currently think the collapse of an airline leading to
the cancellation of a trip is something covered by the cancellation section. Or something that
Admiral intends to cover under this particular section. In this case, Mr M was able to recover
the majority of his losses through ATOL.
Its unfortunate that Admiral didnt originally explain to Mr M that regardless of the supplier
failure exclusion, his claim wouldnt be covered by the terms of the cancellation section
either. But because I dont think the circumstances of Mr Ms claim fall within the insured
events Ive set out above, I dont think I can fairly or reasonably direct Admiral to pay it.
Overall, I dont currently think it was fair for Admiral to apply the supplier failure exclusion
clause to the circumstances of Mr Ms claim. But I currently think the claim simply isnt
covered by the cancellation section of the policy.
I asked both parties to send me anything else they wanted me to look at.
Admiral didnt respond to my provisional decision.
Mr M told our investigator hed received my provisional decision. But he didnt provide any 
additional comments or evidence by the further deadline we gave.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, as neither party has provided any new information or evidence, I see no 
reason for me to depart from my provisional findings. I still think it was fair for Admiral to turn 
down Mr Ms claim.So my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman