DRN-4406386
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltds (Accredited) handling and refusal
of a claim made under his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S has a home insurance policy underwritten by Accredited.
In April 2023, whilst painting, Mr S had an accident which resulted in paint being spilt across
his carpet. Mr S made a claim to Accredited for accidental damage.
Accredited asked Mr S to provide images of the damage which had been caused and quotes
for replacement carpet. Mr S was under the impression that his claim had been accepted, so
he disposed of the damaged carpet. However, Accredited then declined the claim.
Accredited said that as Mr S hadnt put sheets down to protect the carpet when painting,
they said he hadnt complied with the policy conditions to take reasonable care. They also
said the accidental damage cover had exclusions which meant the claim wouldnt be
covered either, so they declined Mr S claim.
Mr S was unhappy with Accrediteds position and approached this service.
One of our investigators looked into things but she didnt uphold the complaint. She thought
Accredited had fairly declined the claim. She also said there was no evidence that Mr S was
told to remove the carpet, so she didnt recommend Accredited do anything further.
Mr S didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
I reached a different outcome to our investigator, so I issued a provisional decision to give 
both parties an opportunity to comment on my initial findings before I reached my final 
decision.
What I provisionally decided  and why
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive reached a different outcome to our investigator, Im issuing a provisional 
decision to give both parties an opportunity to comment on my initial findings before I 
reach my final decision.
Mr S had an accident when painting which resulted in paint being spilt across the 
carpet. His policy covers accidental damage which is defined as:
Sudden, unexpected and physical damage which:
i. happens at a specific time; and
ii. was not deliberate; and
iii. was caused by something external and identifiable.
Accredited relied on two different policy conditions and exclusions when declining the 
claim. Ill consider each in turn.
Mr S was up a ladder painting when the accident occurred, he says he overreached 
and he dropped the tin of paint which resulted in paint being spilt across the carpet. 
Accredited has relied on the following condition being breached as part of the 
reasons in declining the claim:
Reasonable care and preventing loss
a. you must take all necessary steps to prevent or limit accident, injury, loss 
or damage to your buildings and contents or liability to others.
Accredited says that Mr S didnt have any dust sheets down to prevent damage to his 
carpet whilst painting. So, they say he hasnt complied with the above term. Im not 
minded to agree with what Accredited say here, Ill explain why.
Mr S has explained that he had removed the wallpaper from the wall and was 
planning on painting it. At the time the accident occurred, he was cutting in the 
edges, i.e., focussing on the smaller areas of detail with a small brush before painting 
the bigger surfaces.
Mr S was planning to paint roller the rest of the wall after doing the cutting in, and at 
that point he says he was planning to cover the carpet due to the bigger area being 
painted and the risk that presented whilst using a roller.
I dont think Mr S has acted unreasonably. He recognised the risk in using a roller to 
paint a bigger area and had planned to mitigate that risk. Whilst carrying out small 
detailing work, with a small brush closely in his control, Mr S didnt perceive any risk 
to his carpet or any need to place dust sheets or covering on the floor. It wasnt until 
Mr S over-reached on top of a ladder that the accident occurred, and he dropped the 
paint tin. Up to that point, Mr S actions hadnt caused damage to his carpet, so I 
dont agree he failed to take reasonable care during that initial painting.
Even if Mr S had placed sheets around the edges, it looks like the paint tin has hit the
ground and splattered away from it across the room, so unless the entire room was 
covered in sheets, I think that paint would have damaged the carpet in any event.
Therefore, unless anything changes as a result of the responses to my provisional 
decision, I dont think Accredited has acted fairly or reasonably by relying on a 
breach of this condition to decline Mr S claim.Accredited has also relied on the following exclusion under the accidental damage 
section of his policy:
We dont cover:

e. loss or damage as a result of any alterations, extensions, renovations or 
repairs to the buildings, including settlement or shrinkage of buildings.
However, I dont think it is fair to rely on this exclusion either. I say this because I 
dont think the painting Mr S was carrying out was alterations, renovations or repairs.
Instead, in my view, it was just routine decoration. I can see why the above wouldnt 
be covered as in my view these would be more extensive works and they would 
present an increased risk of damage to Accredited, but redecoration is standard 
routine upkeep expected of all homeowners. In fact, Accredited also dont appear to 
consider redecoration as anything significant either and this is reflected in other 
areas of the policy terms:
You must tell us before the start of any building work, conversions, 
renovations, demolitions

You do not need to tell us if the work is for redecoration only, is routine
maintenance
And under that same reasonable care and preventing loss policy condition that 
Accredited relied on when declining Mr S claim, it also requires Mr S to:
You must make sure that your buildings are maintained in a good state of 
repair.
In my view, complying with this condition is what Mr S was doing when the accident
occurred. And I dont think the above exclusion applies here.
So, unless anything changes as a result of the responses to my provisional decision, 
Im not minded to conclude Accredited has acted fairly by declining the claim on this 
basis.
In addition, Accredited has said that the paint brush and pot have been left in situ and
appear in the video and havent been removed immediately to mitigate loss. 
However, I dont agree with what Accredited say here. Mr S took the video 
immediately after the incident, with the items still in the same place. The paint was 
already on the carpet, and not just in these areas, so I dont see how removing them 
would have mitigated anything as the paint spillage and damage had already 
occurred.
Furthermore, I think Mr S acted reasonably in ensuring things were left in place so he 
could demonstrate his loss and what happened to Accredited. If Mr S had removed 
the paint can and paintbrush, equally Accredited could have challenged that decision 
too.
With the above in mind, Im minded to conclude that Mr S has acted reasonably, and
Accredited has unfairly declined his claim by relying on the above conditions and 
exclusions. Therefore, unless anything changes as a result of the responses to my 
provisional decision, Ill be directing Accredited to deal with Mr S accidental damage 
claim in line with the remaining policy terms.After reporting the loss, Mr S says he was told the claim would be settled before later 
being declined. But as a result, in the interim, Mr S disposed of the damaged carpet. 
Mr S says that if he wasnt led to believe the claim would be settled, he wouldnt have 
disposed of the carpet and could have had it cleaned instead. However, Accredited 
says it is unable to retrieve the call recording to demonstrate either way what was 
discussed.
This point would be important if I thought Accredited had fairly declined Mr S claim. 
This is because I would need to decide, on balance, if Accredited had caused Mr S to 
dispose of the carpet, and whether they needed to do anything to put that right, 
outside of the declined claim and policy terms. However, because I think Accredited 
reached the wrong claim decision, this point is to an extent irrelevant now, as if my 
final decision remains the same as my provisional decision, Ill be directing 
Accredited to deal with the claim.
Having said that though, as Mr S no longer has the carpet and has paid to replace it, 
for Accredited to deal with the accidental damage claim, they may need additional 
information from Mr S to be able to do so.
So, if my final decision remains the same as my provisional decision, and Mr S 
accepts it, hell need to liaise with Accredited directly regarding the settlement of the 
claim. But if Mr S is unhappy with whatever settlement is ultimately offered, hed be 
free to raise a new complaint about that, and bring it to us to consider, subject to our 
usual rules and timescales.
Mr S has also said hes unhappy with delays in the claim. Having considered what
happened, I dont think the timescale from claim reporting to claim decision was
unreasonable  it was only six days. However, for the reasons outlined, I dont think 
the claim decision actually reached was fair. Therefore, in addition to dealing with the 
claim in line with the remaining policy terms, Im also minded to direct Accredited to 
pay Mr S £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
So, I was minded to uphold the complaint and to direct Accredited to deal with Mr S 
accidental damage claim in line with the remaining terms and to pay Mr S £150 
compensation.
The responses to my provisional decision
Mr S responded and accepted the provisional decision
Accredited responded but they didnt agree. They said that the decision relies heavily on the 
call recording. Accredited provided this and said that at no point was Mr S told to dispose of 
his carpet. They also referred to the policy term which says items must not be disposed of 
without their agreement.
Accredited said that in light of the call, they dont see how it can be disputed that they led 
Mr S to dispose of his carpet. They also reiterated that it was only six days between the 
claim and Mr S disposing of the carpet and they questioned why Mr S did this.
Accredited also re-sent screen shots of the paintbrush in situ on the carpet and questioned 
why this wasnt removed. They also reiterated there were no dust sheets in place and 
referred to the policy conditions and exclusions. They also said that in light of this, theyd 
welcome comments from the ombudsman why the ombudsman says they have reached the 
wrong claim decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive thought carefully about the provisional decision I reached and the responses to it. 
Having done so, my final decision remains the same as my provisional decision.
In response to my provisional decision, Accredited has again mentioned the policy 
exclusions and conditions, the paintbrush being left in situ and no dust sheets being present. 
And theyve said they welcomed an explanation from the ombudsman to outline why the 
ombudsman thought they had reached the wrong claim decision.
However, it is exactly these same points which I already talked about in my provisional 
decision, to address those same arguments and points previously presented by Accredited. I 
explained my thoughts on the paintbrush remaining in situ, the dust sheet, and why I thought 
it was unfair and unreasonable for Accredited to rely on the reasonable care condition and 
policy exclusions. And I explained why I thought theyd unfairly declined the claim. So, as 
Ive already addressed these same points in my provisional decision, I wont reiterate the 
same again in full detail here. 
My final decision remains the same as my provisional decision, that I think it was unfair and 
unreasonable for Accredited to decline Mr S claim. So, my final decision remains the same, 
that Accredited need to deal with Mr S accidental damage claim in line with the remaining 
policy terms.
Accredited has also focussed their response to the provisional decision on the disposal of 
the carpet, and that they say Mr S did this prematurely and against policy conditions. I hadnt 
heard the call which Accredited referred to previously, as they didnt provide it until I issued 
my provisional decision.
Having listened to the call now though, Ill add that I agree with Accredited that Mr S wasnt 
told to dispose of the carpet. But equally, Mr S wasnt told he needed to leave it in situ either. 
Instead, he was told he needed to obtain two quotations for replacement. Accredited says 
Mr S didnt comply with the condition which states not to dispose of any damaged items, but 
equally Mr S wasnt told about this in the call either.
But regardless of now being able to hear that call, my thoughts on this follow exactly the 
same logic as outlined in my provisional decision. Whether or not Accrediteds actions, or 
lack of actions, resulted in Mr S disposing of his carpet would be particularly important if I 
thought theyd fairly declined the claim. 
If I thought the claim declinature was fair, Id then need to decide whether Accredited was 
responsible and needed to do anything outside that declined claim to put things right, such 
as replacing it outside the policy terms or compensating Mr S for the disposal. But I do think 
Accredited reached the wrong claim decision when declining the claim as outlined, so 
Accredited now need to deal with the claim under the policy cover. Mr S has already 
demonstrated the loss that occurred and damage to his carpet before disposal, so 
Accredited now need to deal with his accidental damage claim. As I mentioned in my provisional decision, Mr S may need to provide Accredited information 
to be able to deal with the claim, such as information about the type of carpet, or show the 
costs he incurred in replacing it etc if required by Accredited to reach settlement. But as I 
also said, if Mr S remains unhappy with the settlement that is ultimately offered, hed be free 
to raise a new complaint about that, and bring it to us, subject to our usual rules and 
timescales.
My final decision also remains that Accredited need to pay Mr S £150 compensation, for the 
same reasons outlined in my provisional decision.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and direct Accredited Insurance (Europe) 
Ltd to:
Deal with Mr S accidental damage claim in line with the remaining policy terms
Pay Mr S £150 compensation
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman