DRN-3857542
The complaint
Mr C complains that National Westminster Bank Plc told him an incorrect balance on the 
account when withdrawing funds. This has left him significantly overdrawn and unable to 
repay the balance.
What happened
Mr C held accounts with NatWest. In May 2021 NatWest received a report that Mr C had 
received funds that werent intended for him. They started a review of his accounts and 
blocked any transactions while they did so. 
NatWest asked Mr C to explain four transactions into his account. He said the money had 
come from his account with a third party bank. He said he had sold a car, and he was 
looking to invest in cryptocurrency.  But he couldnt provide any documentation showing the 
sale. 
To withdraw the remaining funds Mr C went into branch. He says he asked how much was 
available to withdraw and was told a figure. He then withdrew the balance in three 
transactions. However, there were pending debit card transactions on the account that 
werent accounted for, as well as funds taken and returned to the original sender. This meant 
Mr Cs account was left overdrawn. NatWest took the decision to close Mr Cs accounts  
giving him 14 days notice. As the overdraft wasnt repaid it was passed to the collections 
department and reported as defaulted on his credit file.
NatWest asked Mr C to repay the balance. But he raised a complaint about the account 
closure, and the overdrawn balance. He said that he had merely withdrawn the funds 
NatWest told him he could and didnt think he should be held liable for the overdrawn 
balance. NatWest replied to say they had closed his account in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account. They said their terms also allowed them to withdraw funds where 
they believe he wasnt the intended beneficiary. They apologised for the branch not being 
vigilant and being clear in how much Mr C could withdraw. But they said the amount 
withdrawn was in Mr Cs possession and spent. They apologised but didnt agree to write off 
the outstanding balance.
Unhappy with this answer Mr C referred his complaint to our service. Before we investigated 
NatWest made an offer of £100 to settle the complaint, but Mr C declined this. 
One of our investigators looked at what happened but didnt think NatWest needed to do 
anything further. They said based on the evidence available NatWest were complying with 
their legal and regulatory obligations when they blocked and subsequently closed Mr Cs 
account. They were satisfied NatWest had closed the account in line with the terms of the 
account. They initially said they felt NatWest had likely given him the correct information 
about the amount available to withdraw when he visited branch, as they wouldnt have been 
able to see any pending transactions. They felt the offer of £100 was fair.
Mr C disagreed, saying the investigator had misunderstood the transactions in branch, and 
what was discussed. The investigator clarified the transactions with NatWest. They then 
responded to say they were satisfied that the balance outstanding on the account was 
correct, and it was owed. They said they didnt disbelieve what Mr C had said about what he 
was told in branch but felt the £100 offered was fair to reflect any inconvenience caused.
Mr C didnt accept this, and wanted the debt cleared. As no agreement could be reached the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NatWest, as a regulated bank in the UK, have important legal and regulatory obligations to 
meet when providing accounts to customers. This includes a need to monitor the activity on 
both new and existing accounts. This can mean that they need to ask further questions 
about certain transactions on accounts, and it may be necessary to restrict accounts while 
they review the information.
In this case, NatWest received a notification that Mr C may have received funds that werent 
meant for him. Im satisfied this is valid reason to review the account and restrict 
transactions while they do so. This is in accordance with the obligations placed on banks. 
Ive considered the explanation given by Mr C, and considered the evidence submitted. But 
Im not satisfied that hes demonstrated his entitlement to the funds in the account. As such, 
I dont think its unreasonable for NatWest to withdraw available funds to return to the 
original sender.
The terms of Mr Cs account outline when they can close accounts. They can close accounts 
for any reason, so long as they provide 60-days notice. But there may be some 
circumstances where an account can be closed without any notice given. In this case 
NatWest only provided 14-days notice  although in practice the account had been blocked 
for over a month before this. And in any case the account remains open as there is a 
balance outstanding. 
Ive considered whether this decision to restrict the use of the account was reasonable 
based on the terms  and overall, Im satisfied it was. There was a series of payments in, 
and a credible report that the funds might not belong to Mr C. Its reasonable for NatWest to 
end their relationship with Mr C.
In terms of what happened in branch, I think its likely the branch staff did give Mr C the 
wrong information about what he could withdraw. Although I also accept NatWests 
explanation that the branch staff would not have been able to see the pending debit card 
transactions, or that funds were due to be removed. However, it would have been fairer to 
him if NatWest could have given him an accurate available balance at the time.
Ive reviewed the account statements, and I have noted though that even without the funds 
being returned to the original sender, the branch withdrawals and debit card transactions 
would have left Mr C overdrawn anyway. He would have been aware of the debit card 
transactions. So, I think it likely Mr C would have been overdrawn in any case.
Im not satisfied Mr C was entitled to these funds  but he has withdrawn them and been 
able to make use of them. I dont think its unreasonable for NatWest to ask for them to be 
repaid, and for them to charge the interest on overdrawn balances laid out in the terms.
Mr C has said he does not expect to be able to repay the balance  but I can see that he first 
complained about this issue the week after the withdrawals. The amount withdrawn was more than the outstanding balance, and hes not offered an explanation of why the debt 
could not have been repaid then. 
I accept Mr Cs circumstances may have changed since then, but this doesnt change his 
underlying obligation to repay the debt. As the debt hasnt been repaid, Im satisfied its fair 
for NatWest to record it as defaulted on his credit file. If Mr C cant afford to repay the full 
amount NatWest are still obliged to treat him positively and sympathetically, and to come to 
a reasonable arrangement to repay the outstanding balance.
NatWest offered £100 to apologise for the inconvenience caused by not giving him the 
correct information. Having considered the wider circumstances of the complaint, I feel this is 
a fair reflection of the impact on Mr C, so Im not asking NatWest to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that National Westminster Bank Plc must pay Mr C £100 compensation 
for the inconvenience caused by giving him incorrect information in branch.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman