DRN-3600825
The complaint
Miss R complained that TSB Bank plc (TSB) acted irresponsibly by providing her with an 
overdraft facility and increasing her overdraft limit. She is also unhappy TSB failed to cancel 
her debit card and send her a cash card as a replacement. She says this led to increased 
gambling debt. 
What happened
Miss R notified TSB through a webchat that she had a gambling addiction on 17 June 2021. 
Two days later TSB agreed an overdraft for Miss R with a limit of £250 which was increased 
the following month to £2,000. 
Soon after Miss R requested TSB put a block on her account explaining that she suffers 
from an anxiety disorder and the gambling helped her manage the disorder. TSB was unable 
to put a block on gambling transactions but advised it can offer a control or cash card but it 
doesnt guarantee gambling transactions will be blocked. It also made her aware of websites 
to assist with her gambling which would allow her to put blocks on her card.
TSB acknowledged it failed to send Miss R an ATM card and that she was still able to use 
her debit card online and continued to make gambling transactions. As a gesture of goodwill 
TSB paid Miss R £100 for this mistake. 
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought that TSB acted irresponsibly 
when it granted Miss R with an overdraft after she had informed it of her gambling addiction. 
They thought that TSB should settle Miss Rs complaint by:
Re-working Miss Rs current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from 19 June 2021 onwards are removed.
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made TSB should contact Miss R to arrange a suitable repayment plan for this. 
If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Miss Rs credit file, it 
should backdate this to 19 June 2021.
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer being 
an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments and 
returned to Miss R, along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from the date 
they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no outstanding balance 
remains after all adjustments have been made, then TSB should remove any 
adverse information from Miss Rs credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires TSB to take off tax from this interest. TSB must give Miss R a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Our adjudicator also thought TSB should make an award of £250 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused as a result of TSBs actions and ensure the right support is provided 
to Miss R to enable her to manage her gambling addiction in the future.
TSB accepted the view of our adjudicator but Miss R didnt wish to accept this offer  she 
would like further compensation as what TSB is offering doesnt come close to helping her 
pay off her overdraft or her gambling debt which she says was incurred as a result of TSBs 
failings and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, just to be clear my decision only relates to Miss Rs overdraft lending from June 
2021. And having carefully considered everything, I think that what TSB has already agreed 
to do to put things right for Miss R is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this
complaint. Ill explain why I think this is the case. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a 
consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been charged the fees and given the 
credit they shouldnt have. And we may award modest compensation that we think is fair and 
reasonable.
So where a business continues to allow a consumer to use a credit facility which it should 
have realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the consumer in the position 
theyd be in now if they hadnt paid any further interest and charges on that credit. This 
means wed normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added to any credit 
from the point the lender ought to have realised it was unsustainable. And if those interest 
and charges were paid also add 8% simple interest per year.
Im in agreement with our adjudicator here that prior to agreeing another overdraft facility 
with Miss R she had informed TSB through a webchat of her gambling problem and that it 
was impacting her mental health and financially. And even just a cursory look at Miss Rs 
statements show a significant history of gambling and using credit as a means to continue 
gambling. In these circumstances it should have been apparent that Miss R was unlikely to 
have been able to repay what she was allowed to borrow and TSB shouldnt have agreed 
further overdraft lending.
In this case TSB has agreed to settle Miss Rs complaint in line with what Id expect  and 
Miss R will be refunded all of the interest, fees and charges caused by her overdraft from 
19 June 2021 and it agreed to compensate her a further £250 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by not sending her an ATM card. So while Miss R has been left with a 
balance and she might be unhappy with this, TSB has agreed to do what Id normally expect 
it to do here.
That said, we do look at each case individually and on its own particular merits. And while 
we have a general approach to how we how we might tell a lender to put things right where it 
continued to provide credit when it shouldnt have (such as here), we can and will tell it to do 
something different and/or something more if theres a strong reason to say thats what 
would be fair and reasonable to do in the circumstances of that individual case.
Miss R says TSB havent done enough. She says because TSB failed to cancel her debit 
card and send her the ATM card she was able to continue gambling. I can see that Miss R 
confirmed in an email in August 2021 that she had received the ATM card and that prior to 
this TSB confirmed it had cancelled her debit card in its final response letter dated 30 July 
2021. However my understanding is that even if Miss R was sent the ATM card earlier or agreed to having a control card she still wouldve been able to gamble and that although 
TSB itself wasnt able to put a block on her account to stop gambling transactions it had 
provided Miss R with information on how she could do this herself  which she agreed she 
would do. 
So I dont think I can say that it was TSBs failure to send her an ATM card alone which 
allowed her to continue gambling. And on that basis I consider the compensation offered of 
£250 fair and reasonable and I dont think TSB needs to do anything more on this complaint 
point.
And as Miss R hasnt given me a reason for departing from our normal approach to putting 
things right when a customer has been given credit when they shouldnt have and TSB have 
agreed to settle the complaint in-line with this, I wont be asking it to do anything more. So 
what Miss R is left with to repay are the funds which she used. In these circumstances, and 
bearing in mind Miss R spent them, I think its perfectly fair and reasonable to expect her to 
repay these funds. And I dont think that Miss Rs unhappiness at having a balance to repay 
on her overdraft, even after her complaint has been upheld, is in itself a compelling reason 
for me to depart from our usual approach here.
Bearing in mind all of this, Im satisfied that what TSB has already agreed to do to put things 
right for Miss R is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case and Im not 
requiring it to do anything more. As this is the case, its up to Miss R to decide whether she 
wishes to accept TSBs offer. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what TSB Bank plc has already agreed to 
do to put things right for Miss R is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case. So 
Im not requiring it to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman