DRN-3281378
The complaint
Mr N complains that Blue Motor Finance Ltd irresponsibly granted them a hire purchase 
agreement they couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In January 2020, Mr N acquired a car financed by a hire purchase agreement from Blue 
Motor Finance. Mr N paid a £2,000 deposit and was required to make 60 monthly 
repayments of £515. The total repayable under the agreement was £32,917.
Mr N says that Blue Motor Finance didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if 
it had, it would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Blue Motor Finance didnt agree. 
It said that it carried out a thorough assessment which included gathering data from a credit 
reference agency for a creditworthiness check. It says it used the information gathered to 
look for signs of financial stress and affordability issues and that for Mr N no concerns were 
raised and so the proposal was accepted.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. She thought Blue Motor Finance 
ought to have realised the agreement wasnt affordable to Mr N.
Blue Motor Finance didnt agree and said the information provided didnt appear to be from 
Mr Ns bank account (rather a credit card). It asked for further evidence showing the account 
Mr N made his payments from.
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Blue Motor Finance will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice 
we consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Blue Motor Finance hasnt provided a copy of the credit check it completed. Ive therefore 
relied on the extracts from the credit report provided by Mr N. I think this gives a good 
indication of what Blue Motor Finance would likely have seen. In the month before the 
application, Mr N had taken out a loan for £7,000. This was additional to a loan taken out in 
November 2019 for £5,000. I think this ought to have raised concerns that Mr N might be 
struggling financially. It therefore would have been proportionate for Blue Motor Finance to 
have got a more thorough understanding of Mr Ns financial circumstances before lending.
Blue Motor Finance didnt verify Mr Ns income and expenditure before approving the 
finance. Given the overall size of the borrowing, the monthly repayments and the term of the 
agreement, as well as the information that I think should have been shown in the credit 
check, I think it would have been proportionate for Blue Motor Finance to have done so to 
ensure the agreement was affordable.
Ive reviewed three months of bank statements leading up to the lending decision. These 
show that Mr Ns monthly income averaged around £2,600 however this varied from around 
£2,000 one month to almost £3,500 another month which I think needed to be taken into 
account to ensure Mr N had the money available each month through the term of the 
agreement.
Mr N has provided statements from two accounts. I note the comment made by Blue Motor 
Finance about the statements provided for one account and that regular payments cant be 
seen from either account. However, looking at the information provided the statements from 
the two different accounts support each other showing transfers between them and 
payments through direct debits and other forms of transactions. Therefore, I find it 
reasonable to rely on the information in these statements in this assessment. 
The statements provided do not show many regular payments for living costs such as 
utilities, council tax and so on and Mr N has said these were paid by his wife. The 
statements do show the payments for other credit commitments which included payday loan 
payments as well as other commitments. Mr N made substantial payments to a payday 
lender in October 2019 and then further payments of £200 a month in November and 
December. Additional to this he was paying £265 for another laon. Additional to this are the 
two further loans Mr N took out in November and December 2019 which suggest he was 
paying a substantial amount of his income in credit commitment payments. The bank 
statements also show that Mr N was spending large amounts gambling. This, along with the 
increasing amount of debt Mr N was taking on, raises concerns about the sustainability of 
any further lending. As I think this would have been identified had proportionate verification 
taken place, I dont think that Blue Motor Finance acted fairly by approving the finance.
Putting things right
As I dont think Blue Motor Finance ought to have approved the lending, it should therefore 
refund all the payments Mr N has made, including any deposit. However, Mr N has had use 
of the car for around 27 months, so I think its fair he pays for that use. I note Mr Ns 
comments about not being able to afford to use the car more recently but as the car was 
available for his use I think it reasonable he pays for this. But Im not persuaded that monthly 
repayments of £515 a month are a fair reflection of what fair usage would be. This is 
because a proportion of those repayments went towards repaying interest.
There isnt an exact formula for working out what a fair usage should be. In deciding whats 
fair and reasonable Ive thought about the amount of interest charged on the agreement, 
Mr Ns likely overall usage of the car and what his costs to stay mobile would likely have 
been if he didnt have the car. In doing so, I think a fair amount Mr N should pay is £250 for 
each month he had use of the car. This means Blue Motor Finance can only ask him to 
repay a total of £6,750. Anything Mr N has paid in excess of this amount should be treated 
as an overpayment. 
To settle Mr Ns complaint Blue Motor Finance should do the following:
End the agreement and collect the car with nothing further to pay.
Refund all the payments Mr N has made (including the deposit), less £6,750 for fair 
usage. 
oIf Mr N has paid more than the fair usage figure, Blue Motor Finance should 
refund any overpayments, adding 8% simple interest per year* from the date 
of each overpayment to the date of settlement. Or;oIf Mr N has paid less than the fair usage figure, Blue Motor Finance should 
arrange an affordable and sustainable repayment plan for the outstanding 
balance. 
Once Blue Motor Finance has received the fair usage amount, it should remove any 
adverse information recorded on Mr Ns credit file regarding the agreement.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Blue Motor Finance to take off tax from this interest. Blue 
Motor Finance must give Mr N a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if Mr N asks 
for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Blue Motor Finance Ltd to put things right in the manner 
set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman