DRN-1428659
 
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy with what happened when he applied to Santander UK Plc for a further 
advance on his mortgage. He's unhappy with the service he received and that the maximum 
amount he could borrow decreased. 
What happened
Mr A had a mortgage of around £58,000 with Santander that he held on an interest-only 
basis.
On 5 August 2019 Mr A contacted Santander as he'd put in for planning permission to 
extend his house, and he wanted to borrow an extra £60,000 to complete the works.
Mr A said his house was worth £240,000. Based on this Santander said the most he could 
take on an interest-only basis was the difference between the current mortgage and £90,000 
as it requires a £150,000 equity buffer for interest-only mortgages where the repayment 
vehicle is the sale of the property. Santander also said that would be subject to valuation as 
the figure showing on its system was less than that (based on the fact Mr A had bought the 
property in December 2018 for £208,000).
Mr A gave Santander details of his income and expenditure based on which Santander said 
the £60,000 looked doable, but was tight on affordability. However, once the credit check 
was completed it came to light Mr A had a loan and a personal pension payment he hadn't 
disclosed. This reduced the maximum loan amount to £54,000.
There was contact back and forth between the parties until on 15 August Santander told    
Mr A that the maximum loan was now reduced further as his income for 2018/19 was 
declared on his tax return as £21,247 whereas he'd told Santander that it was £27,425. 
Santander said it could proceed with just £32,000 on interest-only, something Mr A agreed 
to, saying that was sufficient for the extension, he just wouldn't complete some of the extra 
works he intended.
Unhappy with everything that had happened, including various customer service issues that 
I've not listed in this background, Mr A complained to Santander. On 13 September 2019 
Santander responded to Mr A's complaint. It apologised for its customer service failings and 
paid compensation to Mr A's bank account.
When the complaint was referred to us Santander looked at matters again and said it felt a 
further £200 compensation was due on top of the £200 it had already paid. Our investigator 
thought that was a fair offer. Mr A didn't agree and so it's been passed to me to decide. 
 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I trust Mr A wont take it as a discourtesy 
that Ive condensed his complaint in the way that I have. Ours is an informal dispute 
resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint.
I dont doubt that this is very important for Mr A, but although Ive read and considered the 
whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific 
point its not because Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it 
in order to reach the right outcome. This service is impartial between, and independent of, 
consumers and businesses. What this means is that we dont represent either party, and I 
dont act under eithers instructions or take directions on how a complaint will be looked at.
It's not in dispute that Santander got some things wrong. It's admitted that and offered a total 
of £400 compensation for it. Those include, but arent restricted to, misadvising Mr A about 
the information it would need from him and the amount of calls Mr A needed to make. Whilst 
I acknowledge how frustrating it is when a business makes a mistake, mistakes do happen. 
Were not the regulator; weve no power to fine or punish businesses, and our awards arent 
punitive. Clearly no amount of compensation can change what happened. Santander has 
apologised and offered £400 compensation and having considered everything Im satisfied 
thats a fair outcome for the customer service issues.
So I turn to the main thrust of Mr A's complaint; that is, he's unhappy he's not able to borrow 
as much money as he wanted. Whilst Mr A originally said he wanted to borrow £60,000 he 
was told in the initial call that the affordability on that was tight and it was subject to 
underwriting. He was then told the maximum loan would be £54,000 based on information 
that came up in the credit check (undisclosed financial commitments). So it's clear from this 
it wasn't just a matter of Santander agreeing to the further advance.
The next problem came about because the information submitted for tax purposes for 
2018/19 declared Mr A's income as £21,247 rather than the £27,425 he'd told Santander. 
Whilst Mr A said this was a mistake and it should be £27,425 Santander had obvious 
concerns as the SA302 is the legal document upon which Mr A's tax bill was based. It's only 
right Santander should base the mortgage lending decision on the amount Mr A told HM 
Revenue and Customs he'd earned. On 15 August (so just ten days after the initial call) Mr A 
was told about the much lower lending amount and agreed to it. So whilst there were some 
customer service issues, I'm satisfied Santander told Mr A the correct position regarding the 
much lower maximum lending amount within a reasonable timeframe.
I can only deal with the complaint that was made to - and investigated by - the business. I 
cant look at any new points that have subsequently been raised. For that reason I cant 
comment on anything that has happened since Santander issued its final response on        
13 September 2019. If Mr A would like to raise anything that's happened since then as a 
new complaint then he should do so by either contacting Santander directly, or by asking our 
investigator to set a new complaint up.
Putting things right
In full and final settlement I order Santander UK Plc to pay Mr A £400 compensation, less 
any amounts already paid. 
 
 
My final decisionI uphold this complaint in part and order Santander UK Plc to pay redress as I've set out 
above. I make no other order or award. My final decision concludes this services 
consideration of the complaint, which means well not be engaging in any further 
consideration or discussion of the merits of it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2020.
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman