DRN-2419926
The complaint
Miss G complains that a mistake made by Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) meant her direct 
debit to pay her loan was cancelled. She thought the loan was paid off, and retired, but now 
BoS wants her to pay the rest back.
What happened
Miss G said that she had a loan with BoS. Her personal circumstances changed after she 
took the loan out, and she could no longer make the full monthly payment. With the support 
of a debt management company she set up an arrangement to pay BoS £150 per month. 
She said shed been making the payments for a number of years, and had greatly reduced 
the debt, from around £15,000 to £1,500.
Miss G said she received a PPI refund from BoS in October 2018, and at the same time her 
monthly direct debit payments towards the loan stopped. Miss G said she thought that this 
meant the debt was now cleared. She said no one from BoS, or the third party debt 
collection agency managing this debt for BoS, got in touch with her until a year later. 
Miss G said that BoS is now asking her to pay the rest of the debt, but she had retired in 
February 2019, because she thought all her debts had been paid off. So she didnt think it 
was fair for BoS to ask her to pay the outstanding balance now. She wanted BoS to write off 
the remaining debt.
BoS said that when it was working out Miss Gs PPI refund, it briefly credited her loan 
account. The debt collection agency which is managing the repayments for BoS thought that 
meant the debt was paid off. So it cancelled Miss Gs direct debit. 
BoS said it would usually have expected that Miss G would get letters about this. She had 
been sent two letters telling her the loan was in arrears, one in December 2018 and one in 
June 2019. 
BoS said it wouldve expected more letters to be sent to Miss G, but it appeared that the 
debt collection agency had noted Miss G as vulnerable. So it wasnt sending her all the 
letters that BoS would usually expect to go out in cases like this. 
BoS offered Miss £150 to say sorry for what had happened. But it said she still owed the 
money, and it still wanted her to pay this. Miss G said she wouldnt do that, because now 
shed retired. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said that BoS had 
accepted it caused the problem that meant Miss Gs direct debit payments were cancelled. 
Our investigator was pleased to see that it had offered £150 in compensation for this. 
Our investigator knew that the debt collection agency hadnt been in touch with Miss G when 
her direct debit was cancelled. But she said that BoS had been in touch. It had sent Miss G 
two Notice of Sum in Arrears statements, on 31 December 2018 and on 19 June 2019. Miss 
G had accepted on the phone to BoS that she did receive a Notice of Sum in Arrears 
statement in December 2018. Our investigator thought this statement wouldve told Miss G 
that she still owed money on this loan. 
Our investigator didnt think that BoS had to write off the remainder of this loan. She said she 
would expect BoS to consider that Miss Gs financial circumstances had significantly 
changed since October 2018. So she said that Miss G wouldnt just have to start paying 
£150 per month again. The debt collection agency had already said that it wouldnt ask Miss 
G to pay more than she could reasonably afford, and would ensure any repayment 
arrangement is suitable for her. 
Miss G said that shed never had any ill health or mental illness that would justify BoS or the 
debt collection agency not getting in touch. She wanted her complaint to be considered by 
an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
Its clear that BoS has made a mistake in this case. The steps that it took led to Miss Gs 
direct debit being cancelled. And then, she didnt receive the letters that BoS would usually 
expect to be issued in this sort of case. Thats because of what looks like another mistake, 
this time by the debt collection agency working for BoS. The agency had decided not to write 
to Miss G because of her health. Miss G has been clear that she had no health problems at 
the time.
As BoS made a mistake, and the agency working for it also made a mistake, I do think that 
BoS needs to pay Miss G some compensation. It has offered £150. 
Miss G says that isnt enough. She wants BoS to write off this debt, because she says she 
retired, thinking her debts had been paid. And she cant pay now.
But I dont think BoS does need to write off this debt. Thats because I dont think its BoS 
fault that Miss G retired, thinking this debt had been paid. 
Miss Gs direct debit was cancelled in October 2018. And in December 2018, BoS wrote to 
her, to say that she still owed around £1,500 for this loan. 
Miss G told BoS that she got this letter in December 2018, but then her direct debit was 
cancelled. Thats not right, her direct debit was cancelled before this. Her last payment 
seems to have been in early October. But even if Miss G just made a mistake about this, 
BoS told Miss G in December 2018 that she owed about £1,500 on her loan. So if Miss G 
then assumed that her loan had been paid off because her payments stopped around this 
time, I dont think that would be BoS fault. 
For those reasons, I dont think I can fairly and reasonably ask BoS to write off this loan now. 
I think that Miss G should talk to the debt collection agency about what she can now afford to 
pay. Like our investigator, I wouldnt expect Miss G to just go back to paying £150 per 
month. I dont think Bos has paid Miss G the £150 it offered. So Ill award that now, but Ill allow BoS 
to offset any payments it has made for this complaint, in case it has made this payment more 
recently.
I know that Miss G will be disappointed, but I dont think that BoS has to do more than its 
already offered to do. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Bank of Scotland plc must pay Miss G £150 in compensation. Bank 
of Scotland plc can count towards this award any money it has already paid Miss G for this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 March 2021. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman