DRN-3206732
The complaint
Mr B1, Mr B2, Mr B3 and Ms C complain because Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) 
hasnt paid a claim for a cancelled holiday under their travel insurance policy. 
All references to URV include the agents it has appointed to handle claims on its behalf. 
What happened
Mr B1, Mr B2, Mr B3 and Ms C held a single trip travel insurance policy. The policy was 
purchased on 1 March 2020 and was provided by URV. This complaint has been brought by 
Mr B3 on behalf of all the policyholders. Ill refer only to Mr B3 throughout this decision, for 
ease, but my references to Mr B3 include all the policyholders, where relevant. 
Mr B3 was due to travel abroad on 25 June 2020. However, on 10 June 2020, the airline 
cancelled his outbound flight. On both 10 June 2020 and 25 June 2020, the UKs Foreign, 
Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO  formerly the Foreign & Commonwealth 
Office (FCO)) was advising against all but essential international travel due to the 
circumstances surrounding Covid-19. Measures were also in place in Mr B3s intended 
destinations, restricting entry into the countries and restricting internal movement and limiting 
activity. 
Mr B3 cancelled his holiday and made a claim under his policy with URV for his unused non-
refundable costs, but URV said the claim wasnt covered. Unhappy, Mr B3 complained to 
URV before bringing the matter to the attention of our service. One of our investigators 
looked into what had happened and said she thought it would be fair and reasonable for 
URV to treat Mr B3s claim as covered under the cancellation section of his policy. URV 
didnt agree with our investigators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
URV, as the provider (underwriter) of Mr B3s travel insurance policy is the business 
responsible for assessing his claim, as well as the business responsible for the content of 
the policy documentation. URV isnt responsible for the sale of this policy, and Mr B3s 
complaint about the broker who sold him the policy has been considered in a separate 
complaint with our service. When making this final decision, Im only addressing what I think 
URV is responsible for. 
Im satisfied that our investigator identified, and set out, the relevant industry rules and
guidance which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. The investigator also
highlighted, and referred to, the key documents which are relevant to this complaint.
The policy documentation
Page 2 of the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID), which summarises the cover 
available under Mr B3s policy with URV, says:
Where am I covered? 
You will not be covered if you travel to a country or region where the Foreign and 
Commonwealth Office has advised against all travel or all but essential travel.
The policy terms and conditions, at page 1 under the heading Criteria for purchase say:
This insurance will only be valid if, at the time you bought the policy, everyone 
named on the insurance schedule: 
Is not travelling to an area that is classified as Advise against all travel or Advise 
against all but essential travel by the Foreign and Commonwealth Office at the 
time of your departure.
Page 6 of the policy terms and conditions, under the heading If you are unable to go on your 
trip says that URV will pay for certain costs if a policyholder has to cancel a trip for one of 
the following reasons:
 you, a travelling companion, a family member, a close business colleague, or the 
person you were going to stay with became ill, was injured or died;
your home was burgled, or seriously damaged by fire, storm or flood;
you were called for jury service or required as a witness in a court of law;
your pre-booked accommodation was damaged by a natural disaster, and alternative 
accommodation was not available;
you, or a travelling companion were made redundant;
you, or a travelling companion as members of HM Forces have your leave orders 
cancelled. 
An airline cancelling a flight isnt covered under the terms and conditions of the cancellation
section of Mr B3s policy, as its not a specific or listed insured event. And, the definition of 
natural disaster under this section of Mr B3s policy doesnt encompass his situation. Ive 
also reviewed the remaining sections of Mr B3s insurance policy, but I dont think he held 
any cover which would pay a benefit in the circumstances he found himself in.
Whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances
I have an overriding remit to make a decision based on what I think is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of a case. Ive taken into account the relevant law and industry 
guidelines and I dont think a strict interpretation of the policy terms and conditions leads to a 
fair and reasonable outcome in the circumstances of this case.
When Mr B3s outbound flight was cancelled, the FCDO was advising against all but
essential travel to his intended destinations. This FCDO advice remained in place on Mr B3s 
intended departure date. 
The Criteria for purchase outlined on page 1 of the terms and conditions says the insurance 
cover is not valid if a policyholder is travelling against FCDO advice. This means, if Mr B3 had travelled abroad as planned (if it was possible to do so), he wouldnt have been covered 
by the policy terms and conditions at all. But, under the terms and conditions of Mr B3s 
policy, cancellation of a trip due to changes in FCDO guidance also isnt covered. This 
means Mr B3 was left in a situation where he had no cover if he travelled, but he also had no 
cover if he cancelled his trip. I dont think this was made sufficiently clear to Mr B3.
Mr B3 would need to have read the full policy terms and conditions in order to understand 
that this set of circumstances wasnt covered. And, I dont think this information was brought 
to his attention in a prominent and transparent way. So, I dont think the combined effect of 
the policy terms was made sufficiently clear to him.
I think this created a significant imbalance in the rights and interests of Mr B3 and URV. I 
think its unlikely Mr B3 would have purchased this policy if he had realised there was no 
cover if FCDO guidance changed after he bought the policy. And, Im satisfied that travel 
insurance policies which did cover cancellation claims arising from changes to FCDO advice 
were still available on the market at the time Mr B3 bought this policy in March 2020. So, I 
think its likely Mr B3 would have been able to buy alternative insurance which did cover the 
circumstances he ultimately found himself in.
So, overall, I think it would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances for URV to treat Mr 
B3s claim as covered under the cancellation section of his policy. Ive taken into account the 
comments which URV made in response to our investigators recommendations, but these 
dont change my decision.
Putting things right
I direct Union Reiseversicherung AG to treat Mr B1, Mr B2, Mr B3 and Ms Cs claim as 
covered under the cancellation section of their policy. Union Reiseversicherung AG should 
therefore assess the claim under the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. 
My final decision
Im upholding Mr B1, Mr B2, Mr B3 and Ms Cs complaint against Union Reiseversicherung 
AG and I direct it to put things right in the way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B1, Mr B2, Mr 
B3 and Ms C to accept or reject my decision before 22 February 2022.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman