DRN-3087427
The complaint
Miss S complains about the way British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) dealt with 
reports of a gas leak at her home. She wants compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience she and her family have suffered. 
What happened
Both parties know what happened during this claim, so I wont go into detail. In summary:
Miss S has a Homeserve policy with British Gas, which provides cover for, amongst other 
things, repairing leaking gas pipes in her home. 
In June 2020 Miss S returned home from hospital with a new-born baby. She could smell 
gas in her home and contacted the gas board. A contractor working for the company that 
deals with emergencies (which Ill call C from now on) visited and said there was a leak from 
pipework somewhere in the property.
Miss S contacted British Gas, and its contractor visited a few days later. He said there was 
no leak and turned the gas back on. Miss S says he was rude and shouted at her and her 
mother, and he didnt wear personal protection equipment (PPE)  despite this being during 
the Covid 19 pandemic.
This cycle  Miss S contacting C, C confirming there was a leak and turning the supply off 
and then British Gas saying there wasnt a leak  was repeated twice more over the next few 
months. 
Eventually, in January, on the fourth visit, both C and British Gas agreed there was a leak 
and this was repaired in early February 2021.
Since then Miss S hasnt had any problems. She complained to British Gas about how it had 
treated her and her family, explaining that she and her children had been ill, suffering from 
headaches and drowsiness  and that shed been so worried that shed been to hospital 
several times and in touch with her GP. 
British Gas sent her £20 compensation for the fact that the first contractor it sent out didnt 
wear PPE. After further contact from Miss S, British Gas increased this to £700 to make up 
for the worry and turmoil shed been through for eight months.
Miss S doesnt think that was enough, so she asked us to review the complaint.
Our investigator agreed. She said that there was clear evidence that C found leaks on at 
least three occasions  and eventually said the boiler was dangerous and switched it off. 
Each time British Gas attended it didnt find a leak and switched the supply back on. Our 
investigator didnt think British Gas had done enough and had left Miss S and her young 
family in an unsatisfactory position for many months. She thought that merited compensation 
of £2,500.
British Gas doesnt think thats fair. It says there was never any possibility of harm to Miss S 
or her family and the £700 it offered was sufficient. Weve shared some of the records of 
Miss S seeking medical help for her and her children during this period, but British Gas has 
refused to increase the compensation voluntarily. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im going to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
C said on several occasions that there was a leak in Miss Ss property  and on more than 
one occasion thought it serious enough to turn off the gas supply. Ive looked at the reports it 
provided, which were available to British Gas too, and Im persuaded those reports are 
correct. But British Gas only found the leak (or leaks) eight months after Miss S first asked it 
to carry out repairs. 
Clearly there was a leak, and it seems most likely it was on pipework covered by Miss S 
policy, as otherwise British Gas wouldnt have eventually carried out the repairs. I cant see 
that British Gas did all it could to find the cause of the problem and help Miss S. Thats 
despite the fact that it must have known about Miss S new baby and her worries. 
This worry went on for a considerable time. Miss S says she was told she was being 
paranoid  and I dont doubt that, as she says she put up with the smell of gas for some time 
after this. I think thats unprofessional at least on British Gas behalf given her 
circumstances. I also dont doubt she and her mother when they say one of the contractors 
was rude.
I think British Gas made mistakes throughout this period. 
Putting things right
It now remains for me to consider what level of compensation British Gas should pay. I think 
our investigators recommendation is fair. Ive looked at the reports from Miss S visits to 
hospital and other NHS services  and its clear she was very worried about the effect of any 
gas on both her and her children. And shes explained how upset shes been about her 
babys health and has feared that if she used appliances she might cause a fire.
Miss S and her family suffered considerable distress over a long period. The worry she 
experienced over the health and safety of her family was largely unnecessary, and was 
largely the result of British Gas actions. Im glad there dont appear to be any long term 
health issues.
British Gas cant take away the full impact of so many months worry. But I think £2,500 is a 
fair amount of compensation to make up for this.  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Miss S £2,500.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman