DRN-4399477
The complaint
Mr R complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money wont reimburse money
he paid using his credit card for a holiday that didnt go ahead.
Background
I recently issued a provisional decision, which Ive reproduced below and is incorporated as 
part of this final decision. I set out the events leading up to this complaint and how I thought 
matters were best resolved. I invited both parties to let me have any further comments they 
wished to make in response. Ill address their responses later in this decision.
What happened
Mr R booked a holiday involving flights and hotel accommodation. The arrangements 
were made through an online travel company (O). Mr R paid O two separate amounts to 
cover the full cost using his Virgin Money credit card.
The holiday was scheduled to take place in early December 2021. On 6 October the 
airline K got in touch with Mr R to say it had cancelled the original flight schedule, 
providing revised booking arrangements for the same dates. Mr R didnt raise any 
objection to this change. However, on 30 November K contacted Mr R again to say that 
for operational reasons it had cancelled his flights. K said it would send updated flight 
details shortly.
By this point Mr R had become increasingly concerned over the impact of a new variant 
of  Covid-19. He told O he wanted to cancel the holiday arrangements. O cancelled the 
flights, but initially said it had no record of the hotel booking, later saying it was booked 
through a different company (albeit one that appears to be part of the same trading 
group). Mr R received a refund for his flights but remained out of pocket for the cost of the 
hotel booking; some £375.13.
He turned to Virgin Money to see if he could recover his money through his card provider. 
Virgin Money attempted to use the chargeback process operated by the card scheme. 
But O defended the claim saying that the terms of booking provided at point of sale made 
clear that it was non-refundable. Virgin Money told Mr R it couldnt assist further, either by 
chargeback or under connected lender liability provisions of section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974. It said the involvement of a third party in the accommodation 
arrangements (the hotel was not operated by O) meant that section 75 didnt apply to the 
transaction.
Mr R complained to Virgin Money about its stance, and subsequently referred his 
complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt think Virgin Money had dealt with Mr Rs claim correctly. She found 
that the travel services Mr R booked amounted to a package travel contract under which 
O was the operator and carried responsibility for performance. That gave rise to a 
potential breach of contract liability on Virgin Moneys part under section 75. However, the 
investigator felt that, as the hotel was still operating at the point Mr R chose to cancel the 
booking, the contract hadnt been breached. For similar reasons she was satisfied that 
Virgin Money had acted appropriately by raising  but not pursuing  the claim via 
chargeback.
Mr R didnt accept the investigators conclusions and has asked for this review.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, like our investigator Im not persuaded that in considering Mr Rs claim, 
Virgin Money considered whether the travel services Mr R booked constitute a package 
holiday. Virgin Moneys response to the claim (and to Mr Rs subsequent complaint) dont 
mention the additional rights afforded to him by the Package Travel and Linked Travel 
Arrangements Regulations 2018 (Package Travel Regulations) over and above those 
set out in the contracts arranged with O.
This should be a material factor in Virgin Moneys consideration both of the chargeback 
defence submitted by O and its own potential liability under section 75. Although our 
investigator didnt think Part 3, Regulation 12 of the Package Travel Regulations applied 
in the circumstances, Regulation 11 also implies a term into Mr Rs contract with O that 
has (among other things) the effect of requiring O to inform Mr R, without undue delay, of 
any significant change to the travel services.
Cancellation of the flight booking was undoubtedly a significant change. While Mr R 
received notification of this from K, there was no information to indicate when the 
substitute flights would be scheduled (as was the case with the first cancellation). So I 
cant find that O met its contractual obligations towards Mr R.
A further provision of Regulation 11 means that in such circumstances Mr R was entitled 
to terminate the contract and receive (without undue delay and within 14 days of 
termination) a full refund of all payments he made for the package. Taking all of this into 
account, theres no apparent reason why Mr R would not have been entitled to rely on the 
Package Travel Regulations provisions to terminate the package and receive from O a 
refund of all his payments. Again, O hasnt provided this and would therefore appear to 
be in breach of the term implied into its contract with Mr R.
As such, I consider that Virgin Money could  and should  have done more to question 
Os chargeback response saying that Mr R was not entitled to his money back on the 
basis that the booking terms said it was not refundable. That position doesnt appear to 
be supported by the relevant legislation, which forms part of the booking terms.
Had Virgin Money taken this into account in the chargeback claim, I consider there was a 
good possibility of it being successful. Even if Virgin Money decided not to progress a 
chargeback claim, it was still the case that the provisions of Regulation 11 are implied as 
a term of Mr Rs package travel contract. Virgin Moneys obligations under section 75 
would make it jointly and severally liable as a breach of contract for failure to provide a full 
refund to Mr R under this provision.
Its not for me to speculate as to Ks reasons for the flight cancellation, or whether Mr R 
would have been offered acceptable alternative flights had he not cancelled the booking. 
Mr Rs decision might well have been influenced by his concerns over the Covid-19 risk, 
but that doesnt mean he wasnt entitled to cancel the booking under Regulation 11. Further, O appears to have accepted he was so entitled. It agreed to refund the flight 
costs. The (incorrect) reason it gave Mr R for not also refunding the hotel booking was 
that the booking wasnt made with it.
It follows that Im minded to conclude there were deficiencies in the way Virgin Money 
approached Mr Rs claim that led to him being treated unfairly. In light of this it would be 
appropriate for Virgin Money to address Mr Rs financial loss, and to compensate him for 
the added difficulty hes faced in pursuing his claim due to the way it handled the claim.
I proposed that Virgin Money reimburse (with interest) Mr Rs remaining loss of £375.13, and 
pay him £100 as compensation for his distress and inconvenience caused by its handling of 
the claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Mr R and Virgin Money accepted my provisional findings, and were broadly in 
agreement to the proposed settlement. I therefore adopt them in full into this decision.
Mr R did query the basis of the interest calculation, which I have clarified in separate 
correspondence with him. Im also conscious that in his acceptance Mr R expressed 
disappointment with the amount I proposed for his distress and inconvenience.
In light of this, I do want to acknowledge the efforts Mr R went to in order to demonstrate his 
claim, and its not my intention to understate this, or the impact on him of doing so. I also 
want to assure him Ive noted the comments hes made about the way in which Virgin Money 
sought to defend the claim, which he considered unprofessional and unacceptable.
Of course a bank is entitled to defend a claim, though it should do so fairly and with due 
regard for its potential liability. And I do think that Virgin Money could have done a better job 
of dealing with Mr R, which is why I proposed to award compensation for the difficulty this 
caused him. But I dont have any power to fine a firm, and our awards arent intended as a 
punishment, but to recognise when a business has put a complainant to avoidable difficulty.
Having considered the overall impact Virgin Money's handling of matters had on Mr R, Im 
satisfied the £100 I proposed remains an appropriate sum in compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Rs complaint.
To settle it, Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money must now take the following steps:
1. pay Mr R £375.13, representing his outstanding loss on the package holiday
2. pay Mr R interest on the amount in 1., calculated at 8% simple annually from 17 
February 2022 (being the date it declined to meet his claim) until the date it pays this 
settlement
If Virgin Money deducts tax from the interest element of my award, it should confirm to 
Mr R that it has done so and provide him with the relevant tax deduction certificate
3. pay Mr R £100 in recognition of his distress and inconvenience
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman