DRN-1635487
The complaint
Mrs H complains about a refund Lloyds Bank PLC trading as Lloyds TSB Bank, have applied 
to her account. 
What happened
In 2013, Mrs H got into financial difficulties and entered into a Trust Deed with her creditors, 
one of whom was Lloyds. The balance owing to Lloyds at this time was £930.46.
In 2016, Lloyds accepted a payment of £141.76 to settle the debt Mrs H owed. This was 
recorded as a partial settlement  where an amount less than the outstanding balance has 
been agreed to settle the account. 
Later, in 2019, Lloyds discovered that it hadnt always taken the appropriate action when 
dealing with some it its customers accounts who were in collections. So, they reviewed 
those customers accounts as part of a rectification project. As a result of the review Lloyds 
refunded some of their customers interest and charges that had been added over the period 
where it hadnt taken appropriate action. Lloyds decided that Mrs Hs account was eligible for 
a refund of around £221.18. Lloyds paid this money into Mrs Hs account to offset against 
the debt it said was still outstanding - saying that the amount that was still outstanding was 
more than the amount refunded.
Mrs H wasnt happy with Lloyds proposal to pay the refund towards the balance. She says 
that she had settled the account. And because of this, she should get the refund sent to her 
direct. 
Lloyds responded to Mrs Hs complaint to say that it had applied the refund correctly. It said 
that it would only pay a refund directly to a customer if they had repaid the debt in full. And 
because there was an outstanding balance, the refund was being used to reduce the loss to 
Lloyds. 
Our investigator also looked into things for Mrs H. He didnt think Lloyds needed to pay the 
refund directly to Mrs H either. He said that the amount refunded to Mrs H was made up of 
interest and charges that Mrs H hadnt ever repaid  this is because she didnt settle the 
balance owing to Lloyds in full. So, he thought it was fine for Lloyds to reduce its loss with 
the refund. 
Mrs H didnt agree with our investigator and asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman  but she didnt provide any specific reason as to why she didnt agree.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, Im not upholding Mrs Hs complaint and Ill give my reasons for this 
below. 
When Mrs H entered into the Trust Deed in 2013, the balance on her Lloyds account was 
£930.46. Lloyds agreed to a partial settlement of the debt, and so £141.76 was paid to settle 
the debt in 2016. The partial settlement meant that Mrs Hs liability for the debt ceased  
therefore Lloyds wouldnt pursue her for the rest of the money owed. But there was still debt 
of around £788.70 that existed with Lloyds. 
So I now need to think about whether it was fair of Lloyds to set the refund off against the 
debt. And I think it was. 
Any charges and interest that were applied to Mrs Hs account prior to 2013 formed part of 
the balance that was subsequently considered as part of the Trust Deed. Mrs H didnt repay 
the outstanding debt in full  and so she didnt repay all the interest and charges due. Even 
when she paid £141.76 in partial settlement, this didnt cover everything she owed  but 
Lloyds agreed at this point that it would no longer chase her for the outstanding amount, and 
she was no longer liable to repay it. 
The amount Mrs H paid to settle the account would have been based on what she could 
afford at the time  and not on the balance owed to Lloyds. And so by Lloyds applying the 
refund now to offset the settled debt, hasnt made any difference to Mrs H  and she hasnt 
lost out as a result of this. 
Because Mrs H didnt ever pay the full outstanding balance, she hasnt been out of pocket as 
a result of the interest and charges not being refunded directly to her. And so I think it fair of 
Lloyds to offset the refund against its loss  instead of repaying this directly to Mrs H. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2020.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman