DRN-3492282
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Santander UK Plc (Santander) agreed to extend his interest free 
overdraft and then went back on this decision. He says it was unfair to continue to apply 
charges to his account when he was in financial difficulty. 
What happened
Mr W held a graduate account which reverted to an everyday account in July 2021. Mr W 
received notification of charges that were to be debited from his account and contacted 
Santander about this. Santander agreed to extend the interest free period of Mr Ws 
graduate account and compensated Mr W £40 acknowledging hed had to call four times 
which had caused confusion and inconvenience.
The following month and after further investigation Santander wrote to Mr W and it explained 
that it wasnt possible to extend the interest free period on a graduate account as he wasnt 
eligible for it and his account had reverted to an everyday account that will incur charges for 
use of the overdraft facility. Santander compensated Mr W a further £50 for providing 
incorrect information. 
Mr W was dis-satisfied with this and referred his complaint to us. One of our adjudicators 
looked at this complaint and thought that Santander should have stopped charging overdraft 
fees from September 2021 as by this point it was clear Mr W was in financial difficulty and 
hadnt seen or maintained a credit balance for an extended period of time and thought 
Santander should have done more and shouldnt have continued offering the overdraft on 
the same terms. 
Santander agreed to make an offer in-line with our adjudicators view. It said that it would:
Re-work Mr Ws overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges applied to it 
from September 2021 to date are removed and apply 8% interest to that amount.
Santander will use the settlement amount to reduce Mr Ws overdraft balance and 
will reduce the overdraft limit to the value of the remaining balance.
As there will still be a remaining balance Mr W should contact Santanders Financial 
Support Team within 30 days so that a reduction plan can be put in place to clear 
the remaining balance.
During this period, Santander will suspend fees and interest from being applied to the 
account.
Mr W wanted to accept this offer on the condition that additional compensation is considered 
and asked for an ombudsmans decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what Santander has already agreed to
do to put things right for Mr W is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this
complaint. Ill explain why I think this is the case. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a 
consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been charged the fees and given the 
credit they shouldnt have and we may award modest compensation. 
So where a business continues to allow a consumer to use a credit facility which it should 
have realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the consumer in the position 
theyd be in now if they hadnt paid any further interest and charges on that credit. This 
means wed normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added to any credit 
from the point the lender ought to have realised it was unsustainable. 
And in this case Im in agreement with our adjudicator here that by September 2021 
Santander shouldve done more for Mr W as by this point it ought to have been apparent that 
Mr W was in financial difficulty  a cursory look at his bank statements showed he hadnt 
seen or maintained a credit balance for an extended period of time. 
Santander have told us that Mr W wouldve still been left with an outstanding debt, once all 
adjustments had been made, and hes been refunded all of the interest, fees and charges 
caused by his overdraft from September 2021 and that Mr W should get in touch to put a 
reduction plan and that it would continue to suspend fees and interest from being applied to 
the account. 
So while Mr W has been left with a balance and he might be unhappy with this, Santander 
has done what Id normally expect it to do here. What Mr W was left with to repay are the 
funds which he used and benefitted from and I dont agree that the interest, fees and 
charges left him with a debt that he wouldnt otherwise have been left with.
I understand Mr W would like to be awarded further compensation for the for distress caused 
by Santander going back on its decision to extend the interest free period on his overdraft 
but Santander has already compensated Mr W £90 for its error which I consider fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
I appreciate that Mr W changed his account to a different account which had lower fees and 
he wouldnt have had to do this if Santander had continued to agree to extend his interest 
free overdraft. But Mr W was no longer eligible for the graduate account and Santander is 
under no obligation to provide this or a particular product just like Mr W is under no 
obligation to continue to bank with it. 
So bearing in mind all of this, Im satisfied that what Santander has already agreed to do to 
put things right for Mr W is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case and Im 
not requiring it to do anything more. As this is the case, its up to Mr W to decide whether he 
wishes to now accept Santanders offer. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what Santander UK Plc has already agreed 
to do to put things right for Mr W is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case. So 
Im not requiring it to do anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman