DRN-1757697
The complaint
Miss C complains about how PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA dealt with a claim she made 
under its Buyer Protection policy.
What happened
Miss C purchased a watch through an online marketplace in October 2019. She made a 
payment of $669.97 through Paypal.
Miss C found there were faults with the watch and it wasn't repairable. The advert had said it 
was being sold in full working order. Miss C had been in contact with the seller, and they had 
sent her two payments of $64 and $41. The first payment was made in advance for the cost 
of replacing the battery - this wasn't then needed as further defects were found which meant 
the watch was unrepairable. The second payment was sent by the seller after 
Miss C explained this to them and asked for a full refund.
At the start of December 2019, Miss C opened a dispute with Paypal requesting a full refund 
of the money she'd paid. Paypal initially declined Miss C's claim as it said the watch had 
been altered - as the seller had paid for a new battery. Miss C explained this never took 
place, so Paypal then asked Miss C to provide information from a jeweller confirming the 
faults with the watch and that it hadn't been repaired. On 12 December 2019 Miss C 
provided a letter from a jeweller which confirmed the faults and that the watch was 
unrepairable, but it didn't confirm it hadn't been previously repaired or altered. 
Paypal told Miss C on 14 December 2019 she'd need to go back to the jeweller and ask 
them to confirm the watch hadn't been repaired. It says it told Miss C she'd need to send this 
by 19 December 2019. Miss C provided the document to Paypal just over a month later. 
Paypal rejected Miss C's claim as the response hadn't been provided in a timely manner as 
required in the User Agreement Miss C accepted when she set up her account.
Our investigator looked at the case and thought Paypal should accept the claim. She said 
that the email sent to Miss C in December didn't give a definitive deadline of 
19 December 2019. It explained that was when the case handler was leaving the office for 
the Christmas break and that the matter would be moved forward when the information was 
received. The investigator accepted there was a delay in sending the information through, 
but didn't think Paypal could rely on the phrase 'timely manner' as this wasn't defined 
elsewhere in the User Agreement. As Paypal had confirmed that it would have otherwise 
accepted the claim she thought it should do so now. 
Paypal didn't agree. It pointed out it had given Miss C more than enough time to provide the 
information. The letter from the jeweller was dated 17 December 2019 so it couldn't see any 
reason why Miss C couldn't have supplied it sooner. It says it had told the seller at the start 
of December the dispute had been closed, so it wouldn't have been fair on the seller to 
reverse the payment at the end of January. 
The case has come to me to decide.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The dispute here is about what amounts to information being provided in a 'timely manner'. 
And, if it is fair and reasonable for Paypal to reject Miss C's claim as the information wasn't 
provided by the date requested. 
Having reviewed everything, I think the complaint should be upheld. I'll explain why. 
Paypal has said it set a deadline for Miss C during a phone call it had with her on 
14 December 2019. Paypal hasn't been able to provide a copy of this phone call, so I've also 
considered the email it sent to Miss C on the same day. Looking at that email, it doesn't set 
a deadline it just explains the case handler will be leaving for the Christmas break. However, 
even if I accept Paypal did set a deadline, I need to think about if the delay in providing the 
information was reasonable and if it was detrimental to Paypal's position. 
Just over a month passed between the date Paypal asked for the information and when they 
received it so, that does seem to be a long time. However, I'm mindful that it was also the 
Christmas period and the case handler was out of office. So even if Miss C had provided the 
information on 19 December 2019 at the latest, I think it's more likely than not the matter 
wouldn't have been moved forward until January in any event. 
I think Miss C has provided a reasonable explanation for the delay in providing the 
information. She's explained she wasn't able to pick up the letter straight away and had to 
make several trips to the jeweller before she was given it. She's also explained she did 
submit the document online, but it appears it didn't initially load, so she tried again later. 
I've also thought about what Paypal has said about the User Agreement and that information 
should be provided in a 'timely manner'. However, I'm mindful that this phrase isn't defined 
elsewhere in the User Agreement. I'm also mindful of the fact Paypal has explained that it 
would have extended the deadline had it been asked and, it would have otherwise accepted 
the claim as being valid, had the information been provided earlier. 
Paypal has said it wouldn't have been fair on the seller to reverse the payment at the end of 
January given it had told them the dispute had been closed at the start of December. The 
fact Paypal may not have advised the seller the dispute had been appealed isn't relevant to 
my decision. What I'm considering here is whether Miss C's claim under the buyer protection 
policy should have been accepted.
Putting things right
Having considered everything, I don't think Paypal acted in a fair or reasonable way by 
rejecting Miss C's otherwise valid claim at the end of January 2020. To put matters right 
Paypal should arrange for the money Miss C paid for the watch to be repaid to her, less any 
amounts she has already received. As the payment was made in US dollars Paypal should 
ensure that the money is returned at the exchange rate that was applicable when it should 
have accepted the claim in January 2020. 
My final decision
I uphold Miss C's complaint against PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA. I require it to do the 
following:Return to Miss C the amount she paid the seller for the watch, less any amounts 
already received.
Return the money at the exchange rate that was applicable when the claim should 
have been accepted in January 2020.
Pay interest on the amount returned at a rate of 8% simple per annum from the date 
the claim should have been accepted to the date of payment. (If Paypal (Europe) Sarl 
et Cie SCA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Miss C how much its taken off. It should also give 
her a certificate). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 July 2020.
Alison Gore
Ombudsman