DRN-2628988
The complaint
Mrs B has complained about the amount U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has offered to settle a 
claim under her landlord insurance policy for theft and malicious damage.  
 
What happened
In November 2016, Mrs B said damage to her rental property was discovered by a family 
member. It appeared to have been used as a cannabis factory.
Mrs B sent UKI two estimates for repairing the property. UKI initially declined the claim 
under the fraud condition of the policy. However, following a final decision issued by our 
service, it reconsidered the claim. 
In April 2017 Mrs B arranged for her contractor to carry out repair works. The total cost 
claimed for the works was £22,050. UKI offered her £17,241 based on costs assessed by its 
loss adjuster following an inspection. This comprised £7,600 for loss of rent, £1,450 for 
rubbish removal and cleaning, £214 for a locksmith, £4,977 for replacement doors and 
windows and £3,000 for the remainder of the repairs.
Mrs B said UKI should pay her costs as it had authorised her to carry out the repairs. UKI 
denied that any such permission had been given.
Mrs B brought her complaint to this service. I issued a provisional decision explaining why 
I wasnt minded to uphold the complaint. An extract from my provisional findings is set out 
below:
Mrs Bs policy is a policy of indemnity. That means it aims to put the policyholder back in 
the position they were in just before the loss or damage happened. So its important to 
establish what the loss or damage was.
It appears that Mrs B gave UKI very limited information about the loss. Two different 
representatives from the loss adjuster met Mrs Bs managing agent at the property in 
January and February 2017. Both representatives noted that the property had been poorly 
maintained. They noted damage to every window, ventilation covers and the front door. One 
said he couldnt see any other internal damage and none was pointed out to him by the 
managing agent.
Ill look at each element of UKIs settlement offer in turn. 
In respect of loss of rent the damage was discovered in November and the repairs were 
invoiced on 1 April 2017. I havent seen a copy of the tenancy agreement but its a fair 
assumption that rent is usually paid in advance. I also think UKI could assume that the works 
had been completed by the date of the invoice. Loss of rent is only payable while the 
property is unfit to be lived in. On that basis I think it was reasonable for UKI to allow for five 
months loss of rent at £2,300 a month and to deduct from the total the deposit of £3,900 
which Mrs B was holding.
There doesnt appear to be any dispute about the amount UKI offered in respect of rubbish 
removal/cleaning and the locksmith.
Mrs B claimed £9,050 for seven new windows, £350 for refurbishing the front door, including 
a new lock, £250 for a new kitchen door and £250 for refurbishing the other internal doors. 
UKI was quoted £4,977 to replace or repair the front door and five windows. The glazing 
company said:
whilst on site, our engineer was requested to survey for all the internal doors and 3 
additional windows as the policyholder stated that all these items were to be changed. Our 
engineer has inspected the additional items and found that there is no damage.
I havent seen any evidence to persuade me that the additional glazing work Mrs B had done 
was required to make good damage covered by her policy or that Mrs B couldnt have had 
the necessary work done for the amount quoted to UKI. So I think this part of UKIs offer was 
also fair.
The biggest discrepancy arises from the fact that UKI allowed £3,000 for the remainder of 
the works compared with £11,000 claimed by Mrs B for the following:
£2,000 for renovating the bathroom, including retiling and installing a new bath and 
hand basin;
£450 for tiling and installing a new wc;
£3,300 for redecorating throughout;
£4,000 for engineered wood flooring;
£700 for replacing water-damaged floorboards;
£550 for replacing a radiator and pipework.
UKI has provided photos showing the property advertised for reletting in June 2017. The 
bath, handbasin and tiling look the same as in the photos taken by UKIs loss adjuster before 
works were carried out except that in the earlier photos the bath panel was missing and 
there appear to be new taps. Since Im not persuaded that this work was actually carried out 
or that it was required due to insured damage, I dont think UKI was unreasonable in refusing 
to pay the amount claimed in respect of this.
Its up to Mrs B to substantiate this part of her claim. Unfortunately for her, I havent seen 
any evidence that the wc, laminate flooring in the property previously, floor boards or radiator 
and pipework were damaged by the insured event. So Im not convinced that these works 
were necessary as part of the claim either. Mrs Bs policy doesnt cover the cost of routine 
maintenance, normal redecoration and preparing the property for reletting.
Despite what UKIs loss adjusters said about there being no other internal damage I can see 
that some making good and redecoration would have been required to the walls because of 
damage shown in photos which I assume was connected to the cannabis factory activity. 
Without a clear idea of exactly how much of the flat needed to be redecorated due to 
malicious damage and how much was part of a general refurbishment, Im not satisfied that 
UKIs offer wasnt reasonable.
All in all, Mrs B hasnt shown me that UKIs settlement offer was unfair or reasonable. 
Ive also looked at whether UKI led Mrs B to believe she was authorised to proceed with the 
works on the basis of the quotes shed provided. Apart from changing the locks and rubbish 
removal I cant see any evidence of other works being authorised. On the contrary I think 
UKI made it clear it had reservations about her quotes.UKI didnt respond to my provisional decision. Mrs B asked how to accept the original 
settlement offer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the parties havent made any comment on my provisional findings, I see no reason to 
change them and they now form part of this final decision.
Mrs B should contact UKI direct regarding its original settlement offer.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman