DRN-2909498
The complaint
Mr K complains Barclays Bank UK Plc pressurised him into taking out a credit card when he 
had a gambling addiction.
What happened
In 2015, Mr M says he went into a Barclays branch to open an account and at the same 
time, he took out a credit card, with a credit limit of £800.
In 2020, the credit card account was put into default due to missed payments. Mr K 
complained to Barclays about several issues, including the issuing of the default notice and 
late payment markers on his account. These complaints havent been considered by our 
service as they brought to us too late.
Mr K also complained Barclays had pressured him into taking out the credit card. He also 
complained he was suffering with his mental health at the time and Barclays should have 
known that it was irresponsible to lend to him as he had a gambling addiction. 
Barclays didnt think it had acted irresponsibly in opening the account in 2015, and it said it 
wasnt made aware of Mr Ks gambling issues until 2020, so it didnt agree it shouldnt have 
opened the credit card account.
Unhappy with this response, Mr K brought the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
didnt think Barclays had acted irresponsibly, based on the information it had, in opening the 
account in 2015.
Mr K didnt accept that. So the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K has said he was pressured into taking out a credit card account in branch. He hasnt 
given this service much detail on why he felt he was pressured, hes said he went into the 
Barclays branch as another bank had frozen his account and he needed somewhere for his 
wages to be paid. Ive considered what Mr K has said, but Im not persuaded its most likely 
he was pressured to take out the credit card. I appreciate the event took place a number of 
years ago, but Mr Ks testimony doesnt persuade me that its most likely he was left with no 
other option but to take out the credit card.
Mr K also says the bank should have known it was irresponsible to lend to him as he had a 
gambling addiction. Ive considered the checks carried out by Barclays before opening Mr 
Ks credit card account. There are no set criteria as to what checks should have been done 
before the lending is agreed. But this service considers the checks should have been 
proportionate to the amount of lending offered. So the higher the amount, the greater the 
checks must be, and for a lower amount, then fewer checks can be made. Our service also 
considers it reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of
how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending
relationship.
Barclays has said the product offered was a credit builder product, with a limit of £800. I can 
see that it looked at Mr Ks credit history at the time of lending, as well as his income and 
expenditure. There were no defaults or missed payments recorded on Mr Ks credit file in 
2015, so there was no obvious sign that Mr K wasnt managing his finances properly. And 
given the credit limit, theres nothing in his income and expenditure that I think would have 
alerted Barclays that it was irresponsible to lend to him. Whilst Mr K did have other 
outgoings, his overall income and disposable income dont suggest to me that a credit limit 
of £800 was irresponsible, or that he would struggle to meet the minimum monthly 
repayment. So having considered everything, Im satisfied the checks carried out by 
Barclays were proportionate.
Mr K says Barclays should have been aware of his gambling addiction, but it appears this is 
the first account that he had with Barclays. So it wouldnt know how hed previously 
managed an account, or any previous spending patterns. And I havent seen any evidence 
to support that Mr K told Barclays of his gambling addiction in 2015. I accept he made 
Barclays aware of this years later, but based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied there isnt 
anything that should have alerted Barclays to this issue at the point the credit card was taken 
out. Mr Ks said he was suffering with poor mental health at the time he took out the credit 
card, but theres no evidence Barclays was aware of this. 
Overall, I havent seen anything within Barclays checks which should have prompted it to 
ask further questions about Mr Ks ability to repay the credit card or show it was 
unaffordable. So on balance, I dont think Barclays acted irresponsibly opening a credit card 
account for Mr K in 2015, so Im not going to ask Barclays to do anything differently.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Michelle Henderson
Ombudsman