DRN-1286615
 
The complaint
Mr F says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him two mortgage payment protection insurance 
(MPPI) policies. 
What happened
This complaint is about two monthly premium MPPI policies. The first was taken out with a 
mortgage in October 2001. This covered Mr F in the event he wasnt working because of 
accident, sickness or unemployment. The policy cost £31.50 each month and in the event of 
a successful claim it wouldve paid a monthly benefit of £296.47 for up to 12 months.
The second was sold in May 2002 and again covered Mr F. It was purchased when Mr F 
took out a loan for £4,000. This policy cost £2.00 each month and in the event of a 
successful claim it wouldve paid a monthly benefit of £18.53 for up to 12 months.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr F disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Fs case. Ive looked at the available information with care and have decided not to 
uphold the complaint and Ive explained my reasons below.
In both cases, a separate MPPI application form was completed and signed by Mr F. And 
Ive also seen copies of the signed direct debit mandates to set up the payments for the 
MPPI separately from the mortgage. And from what I know about Lloyds mortgage sales at 
this time, the mortgage offer paperwork says that the policies are optional. So taking all 
these things into account, Im satisfied that MPPI was separate from the mortgage and the 
paperwork suggests that Mr F chose to purchase the policies  so I think that he knew, or 
ought reasonably to have known that the MPPI policies were optional, and the paperwork 
suggests he wanted the cover.
Lloyds recommended the MPPI policies to Mr F. And from what Ive seen of his 
circumstances at the time of the sales, I think the policies were suitable for him.
I say this because Mr F was eligible for the policies  he met the policy rules about age, 
where he was living and his employment status. And from the information hes given us, I 
dont think he wouldve been caught by any of the major exclusions we sometimes see in 
these types of policies  he told us he was in good health and he was employed at the times 
he was covered. So I think he wouldve been able to make a successful claim on the policies 
if hed needed to.Mr F was working at the time both policies were taken out and he says he had good 
occupational benefits from his employer if he was off work sick. And he told us that he had 
other insurance. But this doesnt automatically mean that the policies were unsuitable. This 
is because were he unable to work, the MPPI was intended to remove the additional 
pressure of maintaining mortgage repayments, at what would likely be a difficult time.
Mr Fs mortgage represented a significant debt and there would be serious implications for 
him, as the sole borrower, if he were unable to make the mortgage repayments. It is 
reasonable to think someone in this situation would want to make sure they were protected, 
if they faced the unfortunate situation of being unable to work for an extended period of time.
Also, the mortgage was over a number of years  25  and the MPPI wouldve paid the 
monthly mortgage costs for up to 12 months for each successful claim  and on top of any 
other cover he had. So I dont think his existing cover wouldve made the MPPI unsuitable.
So taking everything into account, I think the MPPI was suitable for Mr F.
Lloyds needed to properly explain the MPPIs costs, benefits, exclusions and limitations. It 
hasnt told us anything that shows what was actually said to Mr F about this. So I cant say 
its likely Lloyds did give Mr F everything he needed to know before deciding to take MPPI.
But did Mr F lose out as a result - would he have taken the MPPI if Lloyds had properly told 
him about it?
Ive explained why I think the MPPI was suitable. Given his circumstances at the time I think 
Mr F wouldve thought the MPPI gave important cover to protect the repayments on his 
home. And that the costs and benefits were competitive and gave peace of mind. So I dont 
think Mr F lost out because I think he wouldve taken the policies if hed been given enough 
proper information about them. And as both were regular monthly premium policies, if Mr F 
decided that the cost was unaffordable, or that he no longer wanted either policy, he 
couldve cancelled them without penalty.
I realise that this will be a disappointment for Mr F, but I do not think that the policies were 
mis-sold to him. It follows that I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman