The complaint
Miss Ws complained that Santander Cards UK Limited wont refund any commission it 
received from her store card payment protection insurance (PPI) premiums for the policy she 
took out in 1998.  
What happened
Miss Ws complaint solely concerns commission and not mis-sale as I gather that issues 
already been dealt with. 
Our adjudicator looked in to the complaint but didnt think a refund of any commission was 
due.
Miss W didnt agree with the adjudicator, so the complaint was passed to me to review 
afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Miss Ws complaint. Ill explain why. 
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), issued 
some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission where PPI was sold. 
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties. So, to put that right the FCA said that 
businesses should pay back the amount of commission and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
But these rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship provisions 
in the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions  which were added to 
the Consumer Credit Act in 2006  came into force on 6 April 2007. The changes made in 
2006 explained that the unfair relationship provisions would only apply to credit agreements 
taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements taken out before then, which were still 
running on 6 April 2008. 
Santanders given us information that shows Miss Ws store card was taken out in February 
1997 and ended in June 2000. So, based on what Ive said above, I dont think the unfair 
DRN-1635315relationship provisions in the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment, or the 
rules and guidance made by the FCA in relation to the non-disclosure of commission apply 
here.
So, Santander doesnt need to refund any of the commission Miss W paid for the PPI she 
had with her store card.
My final decision 
For the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 June 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman