DRN-3070639
The complaint
Mr G has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (Halifax) mis-sold him a fee-paying Ultimate 
Reward Current Account (URCA) in May 2010.
Mr G has given a number of reasons why he says the account was mis-sold. These include 
that he was not given the option of a fee-free account, he was not given any documentation 
about the account and was not told about the exclusions that apply to the account benefits. 
He also says he was not told he had to register his car to benefit from breakdown cover, and 
that he did not have a smart phone at the time, so had no need for this benefit. He says hes 
not used any of the benefits provided by the account.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint, and she did not think that the account had 
been mis-sold. Mr G disagreed with this, so the matter was referred for an ombudsmans 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website 
and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. And having considered everything, I 
dont think that it was mis-sold.
Ive started off by considering if Mr G was given a fair choice.
Mr G says that Halifax did not give him any other option other than to take out the URCA. 
Whereas Halifax says that fee-free accounts have always been widely available in the UK 
(both from Halifax and other banks too). 
Unfortunately, due to how long ago the account was sold, there is very little evidence 
available to indicate what exactly was discussed when Mr G took out the account. However, 
although Mr G says that other accounts werent discussed with him during the sale, equally 
hes not said anything that makes me think he was led to believe that the URCA was the 
only option available to him. So overall, I think its more likely that Mr G agreed to the URCA 
knowing it was optional, and he was aware that alternative fee-free accounts were generally 
available if he wanted one. So I think Mr G was, more likely than not, given a fair choice 
when agreeing to the account.
Based on what Halifax and Mr G has said, I think the URCA was sold on a non-advised 
basis. I say this as there is nothing to suggest that Halifax assessed Mr Gs circumstances or 
recommended the URCA on the basis that it would meet his specific needs. This means that 
Halifax wasnt obliged to check if it was right for him. But it did have to give him enough 
information so that he could decide this for himself.
Due to the lack of evidence, Im unable to say that Halifax did give Mr G all of the information 
it shouldve when it sold him the account. But from what I can see of Mr Gs circumstances, 
Ive not seen anything to suggest that Mr G wouldve been put off from agreeing to the 
account, had he been given more information about it. For example, Mr G says that he 
wasnt told that he needed to register his car for the breakdown cover, but there was no 
requirement to register his car for it to be covered. And from looking at his statements, it 
appears that Mr G was crediting enough into the account to qualify for the reward payment. 
So for £7.50 a month, Mr G was able to benefit from features of the account such as 
breakdown cover and worldwide travel insurance - and Mr G has confirmed that he drove 
and occasionally travelled abroad. 
Mr G says that he had no smartphone at the time, so did not need the mobile phone 
insurance. However, the account was sold as a package, so Mr G could not pick and choose 
what it came with. So not needing one or some of the benefits doesnt mean that it was 
necessarily mis-sold. Mr G says hes never claimed on any of the benefits, but that doesnt 
mean he didnt have a need for, or relied on, the cover they provided. And I note that Mr G 
chose to continue with the URCA, even though Halifax had written to him in 2014 and every 
year since 2016 to remind him to review whether he still needed - and was still eligible - for 
the insurance benefits provided by the account. 
As such, when weighing everything up, I dont think that the account was mis-sold.
Finally, Mr G says that he was not notified that the fee was due to increase. I understand 
that the fee increased from £12.50 to £15 in 2011. Halifax says that it sent all URCA account 
holders a letter to inform them of the account fee increase. Halifax hasnt been able to show 
that it sent Mr G this letter, but it has provided evidence to show that Mr G was sent a 
welcome pack around the time of sale as well as the annual eligibility statements since 2014. 
Therefore, I see no reason why Mr G would not have also been sent the fee increase letter. 
But even if its the case Mr G wasnt sent the letter in 2011, Mr G went on to keep the 
account for many years even after the cost increased  and from what I understand, Mr G 
was aware he was paying a monthly fee for the account. So Mr Gs actions suggest that its 
unlikely that he wouldve downgraded the account to a fee-free account, had he been sent 
the fee-increase letter.
Therefore, Ive not seen enough in this case to say that Halifax should refund the URCA fees 
that Mr G has paid since he took the account out in May 2010. 
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2021.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman