DRN-3344173
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain because U K Insurance Limited (UKI) hasnt paid the full amount of 
a cancellation claim under their travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs H hold a travel insurance policy as a benefit of their bank account. The policy is
provided by UKI.
Mr and Mrs H were due to travel abroad in August 2020. Unfortunately, their holiday didnt
go ahead as planned due to the circumstances surrounding Covid-19. So, in September
2020, Mr and Mrs H made a claim under their policy with UKI for a non-refundable
accommodation deposit, exchange rate losses and unused internal flights at their intended
destination.
After initially incorrectly closing Mr and Mrs Hs claim and repeatedly requesting information
which had already been provided, UKI paid Mr and Mrs Hs claim for the accommodation
deposit and exchange rate losses in January 2021. However, UKI said the internal flight
costs werent covered under Mr and Mrs Hs policy, as theyd been offered a credit voucher
for these. This contradicted information which UKI had given Mr and Mrs H previously.
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs H complained to UKI. UKI maintained its position on the internal flight
costs but paid Mr and Mrs H £200 compensation for its unnecessary delays, leading them to
believe that the flights would be covered, and the general level of service provided. Mr and
Mrs H then brought the matter to the attention of our service.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened and said he didnt think UKI had
acted unfairly or unreasonably by declining this part of Mr and Mrs Hs claim. Mr and Mrs H
didnt agree with our investigators opinion, so the complaint was passed to me. I made my 
provisional decision about Mr and Mrs Hs complaint in February 2022. In it, I said:
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must:
handle claims promptly and fairly;
provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim, and provide
appropriate information on its progress;
not unreasonably reject a claim;
settle claims promptly once settlement terms are agreed.
Ive taken these rules into account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the
circumstances of Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
The unused internal flights
In common with most (if not all) travel insurance policies on the market, Mr and Mrs Hs
policy only provides cover for losses which cannot be recovered from elsewhere (i.e. from
the booking agent or airline in this case). UKI says Mr and Mrs Hs claim for their unused
internal flights isnt covered under their policy because they were offered a voucher.
Id generally consider that the provision of a voucher means a consumer has reasonably
recovered their losses from elsewhere, and therefore doesnt have a claim which is payable
by their insurer under their travel insurance policy. Its understandable that plans change and
a consumer may not wish to travel on the same route or with the same airline again.
However, unless a consumer has some new or exceptional circumstances and subject to the
voucher not having any unreasonable restrictions relating to location, duration and/or
transferability, I wouldnt generally think its fair to require an insurer to pay cash for the costs
claimed for instead.
There is limited information available about the voucher that was offered in this case. UKI
said it has no details of the voucher, and it seems to have based its decision to decline this
part of the claim on a note Mr and Mrs H made on a document saying theyd been offered a
voucher. UKI said, based on information available on the airlines website, this voucher was
valid until 2022.
However, Mr and Mrs H told us they refused the offer of a voucher, based on information
displayed on UKIs website at the time. So, Mr and Mrs H say they didnt receive a voucher
and cannot get a refund from the airline, as the airline isnt responding to their emails. I
asked Mr and Mrs H to provide evidence of their correspondence about the voucher. Mr and
Mrs H have provided emails to and from both the agent they booked the flights through and
with the airline directly. Ive attached a copy of these emails to my provisional decision for
UKI to see.
Im satisfied, based upon the content of these emails and Mr and Mrs Hs testimony, that
they have received neither a voucher nor a cash refund from either the booking agent or the
airline. So, I dont think its fair for UKI to consider that Mr and Mrs H have recovered their
losses for the internal flights from elsewhere.
I therefore think it would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances for UKI to pay Mr and
Mrs Hs claim for their unused internal flights.
UKIs handling of Mr and Mrs Hs claim
UKI didnt handle this claim in the way Id expect it to, and I think its clear from UKIs file that
there was confusion, unnecessary and excessive delays, and errors made when dealing with
the matter. Im pleased to see that UKI has acknowledged this and paid Mr and Mrs H £200
compensation.
If UKI hadnt made any offer in this regard, its likely that Id have asked it to pay 
compensation to Mr and Mrs H for the distress and inconvenience they experienced as a
result of how UKI handled their claim. However, overall, I think the payment of £200
compensation which has already been made is fair and reasonable in the circumstances and
is in line with any award which Id have been likely to make.
Mr and Mrs H responded to my provisional decision and said they had nothing further to add. 
UKI replied and said that Mr and Mrs H havent been refused a refund from elsewhere, so it 
will pay the claim subject to Mr and Mrs Hs agreement that if they subsequently obtain a 
refund for the flights, they will reimburse UKI for the claim payment. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Insurance is designed to indemnify a policyholder for their losses and a policyholder 
shouldnt gain financially from an insurance claim. Rather, a policyholder should only be put 
back into the financial position they were in before the insured loss occurred. 
The correspondence which Mr and Mrs H have sent to us states that neither the airline nor 
the booking agent are providing or processing any refunds. So, Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs 
H have been refused a refund. Based on the evidence Ive seen, I dont think its likely that 
this position will change, and I see no reason why Mr and Mrs H would continue to pursue a 
refund when theyve already been told that one wont be forthcoming. But, in the unlikely 
event that Mr and Mrs H were to receive a refund at a later date, I would expect them to 
repay UKI the money that has been claimed for. 
Overall, I think it would be fair and reasonable for UKI to now pay Mr and Mrs Hs claim. 
Putting things right
U K Insurance Limited should put things right by paying Mr and Mrs Hs claim for their 
unused internal flights, subject to the remaining terms and conditions of their policy. 
U K Insurance Limited should add interest to the claim payment at 8% simple per annum 
from the date of the claim until the date the settlement is paid1. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint and I direct U K Insurance 
Limited to put things right in the way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman
1 If U K Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income 
tax from that interest it should tell Mr and Mrs H how much it has taken off. It should also give Mr and 
Mrs H a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate. 