DRN-2569436
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) mis-sold them a 
mortgage endowment policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs W took out a mortgage endowment policy alongside their interest free mortgage 
in December 1989. The policy was cancelled a few years later in 1992 and they received a 
surrender value of £648.30. 
Mr and Mrs W have since complained that the policy was mis-sold to them. They say it 
wasnt suitable as Mr W was self-employed and Mrs W was a housewife, and neither of 
them had any investment experience. They say that a repayment mortgage should have 
been discussed. 
Aviva said it didnt hold any records from the point of sale, and Mr and Mrs W were also 
unable to recall any details of the sale, so it didnt have enough information to assess 
whether the endowment policy was suitable or not. Our investigator didnt uphold the 
complaint as he agreed there was insufficient evidence available to determine whether the 
policy had been mis-sold. Mr and Mrs W disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me 
to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
There is no evidence or information available from the point of sale to determine what 
was discussed or whether the policy was unsuitable for Mr and Mrs W  which isnt 
surprising considering it was taken out over 30 years ago. Mr and Mrs W have not 
been able to provide any evidence either and are also unable to recall the details of 
what happened when they took out the policy. 
I appreciate that Mr W was self-employed, and that Mrs W was a housewife. But this 
does not necessarily mean a mortgage endowment policy would have been 
unsuitable for them. I also acknowledge that they had no investment experience at 
the time, but this also does not mean they wouldve had no appetite for risk, as this 
may well have been discussed. And you do not need to have investment experience 
in order for a mortgage endowment policy to have been a suitable recommendation. 
Mr and Mrs W say that Aviva should have discussed the option of taking out a 
repayment mortgage. But again, theres no evidence available to suggest that this 
wasnt discussed.
Given the length of time that has elapsed since the policy was sold, theres insufficient 
evidence available to reliably determine whether the policy was mis-sold  and Im afraid 
that Mr and Mrs Ws circumstances (along with the type of policy they were sold) is not 
enough to assess the suitability of the policy either. 
I understand this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs W, but Im not persuaded 
Aviva have done anything wrong in these circumstances.
My final decision
Your text here
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman