DRN-3923158
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy that Tesco Personal Finance PLC, trading as Tesco Bank, sent him a 
market research email.
What happened
Mr L received a market research email from Tesco asking him to complete a survey. Mr L 
wasnt happy about this, especially as hed previously instructed Tesco to remove him from 
their marketing mailing list. So, he raised a complaint.
Tesco confirmed that Mr L wasnt set to receive any marketing mailing from them. But they 
also explained that they didnt feel that asking Mr L to complete a survey was an instance of 
marketing, and so didnt feel theyd acted unfairly. Mr L wasnt satisfied with Tescos 
response, so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel Tesco had acted 
unfairly towards Mr L in how theyd managed the situation. Mr L remained dissatisfied, so the 
matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Tesco have confirmed that Mr L has been removed from their marketing mailing list and 
dont feel that the survey request email they sent Mr L was an instance or marketing mailing.
Mr L disagrees and feels that when he informed Tesco that he didnt want to receive 
marketing mailing, it was implicit in this that he also didnt want to receive market research 
mailing. 
But marketing and market research are different things. The purpose of a marketing mailing 
is to encourage its recipient to buy something. But this isnt the case with a market research 
survey request, which is only asking for information.
I can appreciate why Mr L, like many people, may find marketing mailing  which seeks to 
persuade him to make a purchase  to be unwelcome. And its in part for this reason that 
businesses such as Tesco are obliged to allow customers to opt-out or receiving marketing 
mailing  which Mr L has.
But no such business obligation exists regarding market research survey requests  which, 
to reiterate, arent seeking to encourage their recipient to buy anything, but are only asking 
for information. And so, I dont feel that Tesco were obliged to have not sent the survey 
request to Mr L because he had opted out of receiving marketing mailing.
Mr L may argue that Tesco didnt provide him with the option to not receive survey requests. 
But, as explained, Tesco arent obliged to provide Mr L with such an option. And I dont feel 
its unfair or unreasonable for Tesco to send Mr L, or any customer, an email request for 
market research information which that recipient is free to ignore.
All of which means I dont feel Tesco have done anything wrong here. And it follows from 
this that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Tesco to take any further action. 
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr L was wanting, but I trust hell understand, given what 
Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman