DRN-3908917
The complaint
Mr A complains that Northern Bank Limited trading as Danske Bank didnt do enough to 
protect him when he was the victim of an investment scam. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr As representative has said on multiple occasions that this is an authorised push 
payment scam and referenced the principles of a related fraud refund code. As our 
investigator has set out in every response, all the payments Mr A sent to this scam were 
by debit card and via B, a genuine cryptocurrency provider. So they are debit card 
payments, not push payments. And the code referenced doesnt apply, the potential 
recovery option would be a chargeback scheme.
Its not disputed that Mr A authorised the disputed payments to be taken. The issue to 
decide is whether or not Danske Bank ought to have intervened on any of the payments 
when they were made. Or whether it needed to do more to try and recover them for Mr A 
later. And I dont think it has done anything wrong in relation to either of these.
Only one of the payments being disputed is over £100, there are four under £100. In 
relation to these low value payments, I see no reason Danske Bank needed to intervene. 
All of these were in line with Mr As other account spending, so not unusual or indicative 
of fraud or a scam.
The only high value payment was made in mid-June 2021 and was for £3,550. I accept 
this is much higher than Mr As normal account spending, but this in itself doesnt mean 
Danske Bank needed to intervene. Mr A was paying B, who hed already made two 
payments to and received two credits from. So this wasnt a brand-new payee to Mr A. 
Mr A was regularly using his account and debit card around the time of these payments 
and he completed additional security to authorise the payment. So I dont consider 
Danske Bank needed to be concerned about whether it was Mr A himself making this 
payment. And he had a high balance at the time of this payment, so his account 
remained substantially in credit despite this being a larger transaction. 
Ive then considered whether Danske Banks other responsibilities, to monitor 
transactions and act to prevent fraud, means it shouldve intervened in this payment. But 
I dont consider it needed to. Danske Bank has explained this payment didnt trigger on 
the fraud systems it does have in place. Considering its wider responsibilities and role as 
a bank to process authorised payments, I cant say this is unreasonable. I dont think this 
payment was so high in value or unusual that an automated system shouldve picked it 
up and so Danske Bank then ought to have blocked it and intervened.
Its of note that the first dealing Mr A has with B on his statements is a credit payment 
from May 2021. His testimony was that he was disputing all the payments to B in June 
2021, this credit was later added to the complaint and then removed again. Hes said he 
set up his account with B due to the scam and was told to begin investing small amounts 
in order to establish a trading account and build his profile. This doesnt explain a credit 
being the first interaction Mr A has with B on his statements  as this suggests money 
had already been paid into his account with B prior to whats on his statements.
Mr A also said that this was the first time hed made an investment. But as above, its 
unclear how he managed to withdraw from an account with B that hed never used 
before. And I can see from his statements that he received a payment from a genuine 
high-risk investment firm in August 2020. So it does seem likely he has had some 
involvement in investing before.
Mr A has mentioned certain characteristics that he says made him vulnerable. But 
Danske Bank wasnt aware he needed to be treated differently to other customers. And it 
wouldnt be fair to say that Danske Bank should refund Mr A simply because of this 
vulnerability, when its done nothing wrong in how it dealt with his payments. 
In relation to recovery, as above, as these were debit card payments this wouldve 
needed to be done by Mr A raising a chargeback claim. However, I cant see he 
contacted Danske Bank within the set timescales to raise a claim. But in any event, Mr A 
paid B before the funds were subsequently transferred on to the scammer. So he 
wouldnt be able to make a successful chargeback claim in these circumstances, 
because the service would be considered provided by B (i.e. the purchase of 
cryptocurrency).
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2023.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman