DRN-3853447
The complaint
Mrs C complains Nationwide Building Society blocked transactions and later closed her 
accounts.
What happened
Mrs C received a significant payment into her current account in July 2021. After this, she 
made a number of transactions which were declined by Nationwide. And her account was 
blocked. On each occasion, Mrs C had to either phone Nationwide or attend the branch to 
get access to her account again. In November 2021, Mrs C had a transaction to a bus 
company fail. 
Later, Nationwide decided to close all Mrs Cs accounts. Mrs C complained as she felt 
Nationwide had treated her unfairly and discriminated against her.
Nationwide said the transactions were blocked in line with the terms and conditions of the 
account but offered Mrs C £100 as a gesture of goodwill. They said the payment to the bus 
company hadnt been declined by them  so they didnt know why it hadnt been successful. 
And their decision to close Mrs Cs accounts was taken after a series of incidents during 
which they considered Mrs Cs behaviour to be unacceptable.
An Investigator considered Mrs Cs concerns. She said, in summary, she didnt think 
Nationwide had done anything wrong by declining some of Mrs Cs transactions or closing 
her accounts. She also didnt think they had made a mistake in relation to the declined bus 
payment.
Mrs C didnt accept the Investigators findings. She still felt shed been discriminated against.
As Mrs C didnt agree, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Blocked transactions
Nationwide has provided evidence of the blocked transactions and Im satisfied these were 
blocked by their fraud prevention measures. All banks and building societies have fraud 
prevention measures in place to protect customers and themselves. So I dont think 
Nationwide made a mistake by blocking a number of Mrs Cs transactions. However, I do 
understand that the frequency of transactions being blocked will have caused Mrs C 
frustration and inconvenience.
Although Nationwide didnt feel they had done anything wrong in blocking Mrs Cs 
transactions, they offered her £100 in recognition of the inconvenience shed been caused 
by having to verify the transactions were genuine each time they were blocked.
Because of the blocked transactions, Mrs C says she had trouble keeping track of what she 
spent and as a result missed a number of important bill payments. But, as Ive already 
explained, Nationwide were entitled to decline transactions picked up by their fraud 
prevention system. So I dont think the missed bill payments were because Nationwide did 
something wrong. And Nationwide offered Mrs C an appointment to go through the 
transactions on her account  but they say she didnt attend. So I think they treated her 
fairly.
The declined bus payment
Mrs C was unhappy a payment she tried to make to a bus company was declined.
Nationwide have provided evidence that this transaction was approved at their end. So, 
although I dont know why the bus company didnt accept Mrs Cs payment, I dont think this 
was because Nationwide declined it.
Account closure
The terms and conditions of Mrs Cs accounts set out the circumstances in which Nationwide 
can close a customers account. One of which is:
we reasonably consider that your conduct towards our staff constitutes abuse or 
harassment or a public order offence.
Nationwide took the decision to close Mrs Cs accounts following an incident that took place 
in January 2022. Theres no dispute that Mrs C refused to leave the branch when asked and, 
as a result, the police were called. Nationwide have also provided staff statements and their 
internal records of this incident. Mrs C has also provided a selection of videos from this 
incident as well. Mrs C has said she recognises her interactions with Nationwide werent 
always ideal but says this was a reaction to the way she was being treated by the staff.
Mrs C had previously been warned that her behaviour was unacceptable in a letter sent in 
October 2021  which concerned two incidents; a telephone call that took place in August 
2021 and a branch visit in September 2021.
Mrs C says her behaviour was a result of her mental health condition, which Nationwide 
were aware of. At the time, I can see Mrs C told Nationwide she was awaiting a formal 
diagnosis for this condition. I can see from the information Mrs C has provided that she 
found it distressing during her interactions in the branch and Im sorry shes found dealing 
with Nationwide so difficult. But Im pleased to hear shes since had a formal diagnosis and 
was looking forward to receiving treatment. I can see when Mrs C first mentioned her mental 
health condition to Nationwide they invited her to get in touch with their Special Support 
Team  its unclear whether Mrs C ever did this. But Im satisfied Nationwides offer was 
appropriate. And I dont think this means Nationwide couldnt close her accounts.
Mrs C also believes Nationwides decisions to block some of her transactions and later close 
her accounts were racially motivated. Mrs C says this because she believes calling the 
police was a microaggression and says her transactions were blocked by a racist 
algorithm.
I cant decide whether Mrs C has been discriminated against, as those findings can only be 
made by a court. But I can consider whether Mrs C has been treated fairly by Nationwide.
As Ive already explained, Mrs Cs transactions were blocked by the fraud prevention 
measures and I havent seen anything to suggest that Mrs Cs transactions were treated any differently from other customers. Similarly, Nationwides decision to close her accounts was 
based on a series of interactions shed had with them, during which they felt her behaviour 
was unacceptable.
Based on everything submitted by both parties, I dont think it was unreasonable for 
Nationwide to decide to close Mrs Cs accounts following the January 2022 incident. The 
terms say accounts can be closed in these circumstances immediately but Nationwide gave 
Mrs C about three weeks to make alternative arrangements. So I think they treated her fairly.
Finally, Im aware Mrs C holds accounts for her children at Nationwide. These accounts 
remain open although it seems they arent in regular use. Nationwide has said Mrs C should 
be able to do most of what she needs to by telephone. But if she does need to do something 
on these accounts that cannot be done by phone, she can visit one of their other branches to 
do so and not the branch where the incidents took place.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman