DRN-3149317
The complaint
A company which I will refer to as G, complains that Amtrust Europe Limited declined its 
claim after a tree fell onto the roof of its property.
Mr H, the director of G, has brought the complaint on its behalf. 
 
What happened
G owned a property that was rented out to tenants. In January 2021 the tenants reported 
that a tree had fallen onto the flat roof of the property. And shortly after this further reported 
that water was leaking into the bathroom beneath the roof.
Mr H made a claim on Gs insurance and provided a report from his roofer that said the 
damage had been caused by the falling tree.
Amtrust considered the claim but subsequently declined it. It said that when the policy was 
taken out, the flat roof wasnt declared. And if it had been, the policy would have had a 
condition added that stated the roof would need to be regularly inspected. Further it said it 
thought the damage was pre-existing and not caused just by the tree. And this wasnt 
covered by the policy.
Mr H didnt think this was fair. He said the branches had torn the flat roof, so this was a 
direct impact from the tree falling. And there were no problems with the roof before this 
happened. Further he said that the roof was a tar and gravel roof rather than a flat felt roof 
as the condition describes. So he didnt agree the condition would apply. He made a 
complaint.
Amtrust didnt uphold the complaint. It said that where a flat roof isnt made of felt the 
condition is the same, so it would still apply to the propertys roof even though it was of tar 
and gravel construction. Further it said its position on the cause of damage remained.
Unhappy with this response, Mr H brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator considered the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She 
said while she thought Amtrust were fair to say it would have applied a condition to the policy 
if it had know the property had a flat roof, she didnt consider the condition to be material to 
the claim, so didnt think this alone was enough for Amtrust to decline the claim. However 
she thought it had acted reasonably by saying the damage was likely caused due to pre-
existing damage, based on its loss adjusters report.
Mr H didnt agree. He said the loss adjuster hadnt visited the property in person, so hadnt 
been able to make a fair assessment. And he said his broker had applied for a policy for his 
neighbour and declared a flat roof, but the condition hadnt been applied. So he didnt think 
this was fair either. He asked for the case to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Amtrust has said its declined the claim for two reasons. Ive considered these in turn to 
decide if its acted fairly and reasonably when declining Gs claim. 
Flat roof condition
Amtrust has said that Mr H didnt provide correct information about the flat roof of the 
property when he took the policy out for G. When looking at a complaint where the insurer 
has alleged a misrepresentation has been made, I need to take regard of the relevant law. 
As this relates to a commercial policy, the relevant law would be the Insurance Act 2015. 
This requires a commercial customer to make a fair presentation of the risk when taking out 
and renewing a policy. This means disclosing:
everything they know, or ought to know, that would influence the judgment of an
insurer in deciding whether to insure the risk and on what terms; or
enough information to put an insurer on notice that it needs to make further enquiries
about potentially material circumstances.
In this case there is no dispute that there is a flat roof at the property. And I can see that in 
answer to the question about the amount of the roof that is flat, Mr H answered 0%. So 
there is no doubt Mr H made a misrepresentation. However, under the Insurance Act, in 
order for Amtrust to be able to take any action, it needs to show that it was a qualifying 
misrepresentation. This means it would either not have offered the policy, or have offered it 
on different terms. 
Amtrust has said that if Mr H had declared the flat roof, it would have added a condition 
specific to flat rooves. And its provided a statement from its underwriter to show that the 
condition would have been added in these circumstances. So Im satisfied that had the 
correct information been provided at inception of the policy, then the condition that requires a 
regular inspection of the roof would have been included in the policy terms. 
So I agree there has been a qualifying misrepresentation. Therefore, under the act, Amtrust 
is entitled to include the policy condition that would have been added had it had the correct 
information from the start, in Gs policy terms. 
However I also need to consider whether Amtrust acted fairly by applying the policy 
condition to this claim. 
Dominant cause of the damage
Amtrust has said that there isnt enough evidence to show that the tree falling on the roof of 
the property caused the damage that is being claimed for. But instead, it considers the 
damage to be pre-existing. When an insurer is considering a claim, it needs to decide what 
the dominant cause of the damage is. So while the tree falling on the roof may have caused 
some damage, it needs to decide if this was the main cause of the hole in the roof and 
subsequent water damage, that make up the claim. 
Both Mr H and Amtrust have provided reports about the cause of the damage. Having 
considered both Im more persuaded by Amtrusts loss adjuster report, Ill explain why. 
While Mr Hs report comments that the tree caused the damage, the report itself is from a 
carpentry company. And the main purpose of the report appears to be to provide a quote for 
repairs, rather than a detailed cause of damage report. It therefore provides no comments on the condition of the roof.
Amtrusts loss adjusters report considers the condition and age of the roof. And concludes 
that the roof was over 15 years old and was showing signs of deterioration.  It also provides 
photos that show the condition of the roof. And I can see it is moss covered and shows signs 
of age and deterioration. 
Further, it shows that the main point of impact of the tree was some distance from where the 
damage to the roof was. Mr H and his expert have said that branches caused the damage 
further down and I dont dispute this. However the impact of the branches would be 
significantly less than the impact of the tree trunk, so I think this goes further to suggest that 
this wasnt the dominant cause. 
It's reasonable for Amtrust to rely on its experts reports when reaching a decision on a 
claim. And here, the only report that comments on the previous condition of the roof is the 
one from its expert. So I think its acted fairly by relying on this, as Ive seen no evidence to 
show that the roof was in a good condition, or was regularly inspected to ensure it was. 
I note Mr Hs comments that the loss adjuster didnt visit the property in person to carry out 
their inspection. However, from what Ive seen I think they had enough information from the 
details provided by Mr H and the photos to come to their conclusion. So I dont consider this 
to be unreasonable. 
Further, because the flat roof condition that was added to the policy due to the 
misrepresentation required regular inspections to the flat roof, I consider this to be material 
to the loss. As its likely that if inspections had been carried out in line with the condition that 
any pre-existing damage would have been identified and rectified before the incident. So I 
think its also fair that Amtrust relied on that condition to decline the claim.
I therefore consider Amtrusts decision to decline Gs claim to be fair and reasonable due to 
the policy condition and its decision that the damage was pre-existing. I therefore wont ask it 
to do anything differently. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Gs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman