DRN-4429405
The complaint
Mr O complains about the way that Barclays Bank UK PLC handled his US Dollar (USD) 
business account.
Mr O wants Barclays to pay the interest he says is due together with compensation. 
What happened
Mr O holds a USD business premium account (BPA) with Barclays. Mr O received interest 
on the BPA until 2020. Mr O thinks that interest on the BPA should have started again in 
2022 but Barclays still didnt pay interest on the balance in the account. Mr O thinks that 
Barclays owes him interest on the account since January 2022. 
Mr O has provided PDF from Barclays website which shows details of the interest payable 
on the BPA from 23 March 2023. Barclays said that the link Mr O supplied relates to 
currency accounts held by international clients only. In its final response in October 2022, 
Barclays said Barclays UK business currency accounts werent eligible for interest.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Os complaint be upheld. He thought that the 
screenshots which Mr O provided were for Barclays corporate accounts and not the account 
that Mr O holds. 
Our investigator said that Barclays was entitled to decide what interest rate it applies. He 
thought Barclays offer to pay £150 compensation for any failure in service was fair. 
Mr O disagreed with the investigation outcome. He said Barclays previously paid interest 
and that he didnt receive notification of any changes to this. Mr O said the website he sent 
showed details of interest rates on the Barclays.com website and not the international 
website. 
Mr O said the £150 compensation was for another UK current account and had nothing to do 
with his complaint about the BPA. 
Mr O thinks Barclays should have been paying interest at the stated rates and in line with its 
own website. 
Mr O has just been in touch to say that when he complained to Barclays, it said the rates 
were for overseas customers. Mr O says this is incorrect as Barclays used to pay interest on 
his BPA which was never offered to overseas customers. 
Mr O says Barclays has recently told him that it is going to start paying interest on the 
account again. However, Mr O says that the rate it proposes is not in line with the rate 
advertised on Barclays UK website. 
After considering everything, I issued a provisional decision on 17 October 2023 which said:
I can see that Mr O feels very strongly about the way that Barclays has treated him 
and has provided information which he says shows Barclays is in the wrong. Im 
sorry to disappoint Mr O but after reviewing everything on file and after asking 
Barclays to provide some further information, I dont consider Barclays has made a 
mistake and I will explain why.
I dont think theres any dispute that Barclays previously paid interest on Mr Os BPA 
so I dont think I need to say more about this. Mr O also seems to acknowledge that 
there was a time during the Covid pandemic when Barclays was not paying interest 
on his BPA. Where there remains a disagreement is that Mr O thinks Barclays should 
have been paying interest on his BPA since early 2022.
More recently, Barclays has told Mr O that it will start paying interest on his BPA but 
Mr O thinks the proposed interest rate is wrong and not in line with the rate 
advertised on Barclays website.
I will start with the first part of this complaint. I cant interfere in a commercial decision 
to change interest rates but I can consider whether Barclays made the change fairly 
and in line with its terms and conditions.
Mr O has provided a copy of a letter from Barclays dated 7 May 2020 which says that 
as of 24 July 2020, the standard interest rate on the BPA will change from 1.75% to 
0%. Im satisfied that, in line with the terms of Mr Os account, Barclays gave him 
more than two months notice of the change in interest rate. So, I cant find that 
Barclays didnt make Mr O aware of the change.
Although Mr O has provided a spreadsheet with details of estimated interest payable 
from January 2022, the evidence from Barclays shows that the interest payable on 
Mr Os BPA remained at 0% until 14 July 2023. The link to the relevant page of 
Barclays website can be found at: barclays.co.uk/business-
banking/accounts/historical-interest-rates. Under the heading US Dollar Business 
Premium Account, the annual equivalent rate of interest between 24 July 2020 and 
14 July 2023 was 0%.
When looking at the rates applicable to Mr Os BPA, he needs to access these 
through the Barclays UK website, not the corporate website. Our investigator has 
already told Mr O that following UK financial reforms, Barclays set up a ring-fenced 
bank - Barclays Bank UK PLC - in early 2018 which is separate from Barclays Bank 
PLC.
The information provided by Barclays on its website explains that the two banks run 
side by side but operate independently from one another. This allows Barclays Bank 
UK PLC to set different rates to Barclays Bank PLC.
My understanding is that when Barclays told Mr O that the rates he was referring to 
were only available for international customers, this is because Barclays Bank PLC 
operates around the world  hence the reference to international.
Based on everything Ive outlined above; Im satisfied that Barclays didnt make a 
mistake when it stopped paying interest on Mr Os BPA between 24 July 2020 and 14 
July 2023 after giving Mr O notice in writing of the change in interest rate. It follows 
that I wont require Barclays to pay Mr O any interest for this period.
Turning to Mr Os recent email concerning the rate of interest Barclays is now paying 
on his BPA. He still doesnt think the rate is in line with the rate on Barclays UK 
website.As Mr Os concerns have been raised after Barclays final response, Barclays may 
ask that he makes a fresh complaint. However in the interests of saving time, Im not 
persuaded that Barclays has made a mistake with the rate.
The PDF which Mr O has provided is headed Business Premium account and shows 
interest payable on USD accounts at the rate of 2.100%. However, the page appears 
to have been accessed through the Barclays corporate website for Barclays Bank 
PLC ( barclayscorporate.com/interest-rates/currency-interest-rates/business-
premium-account) and not the Barclays UK website ( barclays.co.uk/business-
banking/accounts/compare-accounts). If Mr O follows the link to Barclays UK 
website, he will see the correct rate applicable to his BPA.
I can see that Barclays and our investigator have previously explained much of what 
Ive said to Mr O but I hope that some of the links Ive provided in my provisional 
decision will help to clarify why I dont consider Barclays has made a mistake about 
the interest on Mr Os BPA.
Mr O is correct to say that Barclays paid compensation of £150 for the poor service 
he received in connection to his current account. As I dont consider Barclays has 
done anything wrong in relation to Mr Os BPA, I dont require Barclays to pay further 
compensation. Im sorry if this comes as a disappointment.  
Further submissions
Barclays didnt have anything to add but Mr O disagrees with my provisional decision.
Mr O says his BPA has always been based in the UK and that he is not aware that the BPA 
is offered to international customers as he cant find it on the international website. Mr O 
says that interest rates reduced during the Covid pandemic but that over the last 18 to 24 
months, rates have risen again. Mr O says that when he complained about the interest rates 
on his BPA, the only reason Barclays gave to him was that the rates hed found on Barclays 
website were only for international customers so this should be the focus of his complaint.
Mr O points out that nobody has said his calculation of lost interest is wrong. He wonders 
how many others are affected. Mr O asks how the UK advertised interest rates hes provided 
for the same BPA as he holds, can be international when the rates are not displayed on 
Barclays international site and the BPA is not offered to international customers. 
Mr O is unhappy that nobody has told him what the rates are that would have been paid to 
UK customers if for some reason the rates were incorrect. 
Mr O says hes provided updated interest rate information that still shows the rate hes being 
paid is less than Barclays continues to show on its UK website. 
Mr O is unhappy with the time spent on the complaints process and feels that we are biased 
towards Barclays. He says Barclays has not provided any evidence to support what it says 
about only offering the advertised rates to international customers. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to disappoint Mr O but after having read his response to my provisional decision, 
my view of his complaint has not changed. As I said in my provisional decision  he holds a BPA with Barclays Bank UK PLC - so the relevant information about his account can be 
found on the UK website using the link I shared in my provisional decision. 
Barclays has a section on its website which explains the structure of its two divisions  
Barclays UK and Barclays International ( home.barclays/who-we-are/structure-and-
leadership). Barclays UK is the UK ring-fenced bank which offers services to personal 
customers and business clients, which includes Mr O. Barclays International consists of 
Barclays corporate and investment bank (plus its consumer, cards, and payments 
businesses) which is run by Barclays Bank PLC.
So, when Barclays told Mr O that the rates he provided were only for international customers 
 this was correct because the rates were provided by Barclays corporate bank on the 
Barclays corporate website which is part of Barclays International and run by Barclays Bank 
PLC. Mr O is not a customer of Barclays Bank PLC  he is a customer of Barclays Bank UK 
PLC. I dont consider Barclays needs to provide any further explanation of this as part of 
resolving Mr Os complaint.
As the evidence provided by Barclays shows that the interest rate payable on Mr Os BPA 
remained at 0% until 14 July 2023, I havent considered the lost interest calculation that he 
provided. No discourtesy is intended by this.
Mr O says hes provided updated interest rate information that shows hes being paid less 
interest than Barclays shows on its UK website. By this, I assume Mr O is referring to the 
PDF accessed through Barclays corporate website which he provided to us by email of 17 
October 2023. For the reasons Ive already outlined, I dont think the rate set out in the PDF 
is the interest rate applicable to Mr Os BPA. 
I appreciate Mr O has concerns about the length of time this has taken and he thinks the 
process is biased in favour of Barclays. I am sorry that Mr O has spent time setting out his 
concerns only for me to decide not to uphold his complaint. But having considered 
everything that both parties have provided, I dont agree that Barclays made a mistake or 
mislead Mr O.
Finally, I should say that the Financial Ombudsman is not the regulator of Barclays  that is 
the role of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  so I dont comment on whether other 
account holders may be affected or what would happen if the rates paid to UK customers 
were wrong. It would be for the regulator to make decisions about how Barclays runs its 
business. My job is to decide individual complaints. Mr O is of course free to take his 
concerns up with the FCA if he remains unhappy.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2023.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman