DRN-2928472
The complaint
Mr W complains TFS Loans Limited irresponsibiy approved him for a loan.   
What happened
TFS approved Mr W for a £7,500 loan in June 2016. The term of the loan was 60 months; 
with repayments of approximately £280. The purpose of the loan was listed as being for a 
purchase of a car.
Mr W complains this loan was irresponsibly lent to him. He says TFS checks shouldve 
shown the loan was unaffordable to him and not approved it. He says at the time of the 
application he was experiencing financial difficulties and was relying on family members to 
help pay his outgoings.
TFS says it completed reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr W; and this showed the 
loan was affordable to him. It says its decision to lend was fair as it relied on the information 
it was provided, and it demonstrated Mr W had sufficient disposable income to meet the loan 
payments.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. In coming to this recommendation, 
they stated:
TFS had completed proportionate checks on Mr W. This was because TFS had 
searched Mr Ws credit file; and verified his income via payslips. 
Although TFS had completed proportionate checks; it had not made a fair decision to 
lend. This was because by TFS own calculations Mr W would only be left with a 
disposable income of approximately £32.
This level of disposable income was not sufficient for the lending decision to be 
considered sustainable for Mr W; and as such should not have been approved.
Mr W agreed with the assessment. TFS did not. TFS argued it had completed proportionate 
checks; and that there was sufficient evidence to suggest that they calculated disposable 
income of £32 was enough to demonstrate the loan was affordable to Mr W. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending as 
well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice on our 
website. Ive used this approach to help me decide this complaint.   
TFS needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it responsibly lent to Mr W. The relevant 
rules, regulations and guidance at the time TFS lent required it to carry out reasonable and 
proportionate checks. These checks needed to assess Mr Ws ability to afford the loan and 
repay it sustainably over its term without causing him financial difficulties.
There isnt a set list of checks a lender needs to carry out, but they should be proportionate, 
taking into account things like the type, amount, duration and total cost of the credit, as well 
as their circumstances. 
And it isnt sufficient for TFS to just complete proportionate checks  it must also consider 
the information it obtained from these checks to make a fair lending decision. This includes 
not lending to someone in financial hardship; and ensuring repayments can be made 
sustainably. Sustainably in this instance means making payments without incurring financial 
difficulties such as having to borrow further, or failing to meet other financial commitments in 
order to meet this repayment. 
All parties accept that proportionate checks were completed in this case. Namely that TFS 
did enough to get a thorough understanding Mr Ws finances by searching Mr Ws credit file 
and completing a detailed income and expenditure check. TFS importantly verified this 
information with payslips. As such I wont enter into detailed findings, only to say I agree in 
this instance, Im satisfied that by verifying Mr Ws income, the checks were proportionate.
With that being said I agree with our investigator; that although proportionate checks were 
completed; Im not satisfied TFS made a fair decision to lend.
As has been highlighted above, any lending needed to be sustainable to Mr W. The relevant 
rules and guidelines define sustainable as meaning without incurring Mr W any financial 
difficulties and without having to result to actions such as taking further credit to supplement 
his income.
Having reviewed the information TFS collected, Im not satisfied the information it had 
demonstrated that the lending Mr W was being provided with was sustainable.
I say this because the income and expenditure assessment TFS completed calculated Mr W 
would be left with approximately £32 per month. And Im satisfied this amount isnt sufficient 
in order for the loan to be sustainable over the length of the agreement. 
Mr Ws credit file showed he had a total debt level of approximately £5,800. This included a 
number of existing open forms of credit (which were noted in the expenses below). Mr W 
had a small overdraft which at the point of the application he had exceeded the limit of by a 
small amount. There was also an unsecured loan which had been taken out a few months 
prior to this loan application. The other existing credit commitments consisted of more 
unsecured loans which had some time left to run on their terms and payday loans. 
In making the affordability assessment TFS used Mr Ws payslip to confirm his incoming 
salary. Mr W explained he gets a regular bonus which showed on one of his payslips. TFS 
did not include this payment when completing Mr Ws assessment. And Im satisfied that is a 
reasonable approach to take here; as it needed to be satisfied Mr W could afford the 
increased payments with his base salary.
When looking at the expenses TFS noted Mr W split a mortgage with a family member; and 
TFS attributed half the cost to his outgoings. However TFS had not attributed any regular 
utility bills to Mr W. Instead it noted that all of these payments  such as council tax and 
utilities  were paid solely by Mr Ws family member.
The expenditure form also had approximately £840 attributed to existing forms of credit such 
as personal loans and overdrafts. This total level of outgoings amounted to around 45% of Mr Ws income before the TFS loan repayments. 
TFS did also attribute some expenses towards housekeeping and phones to Mr W. 
However; looking through the details of this breakdown Im not persuaded the levels 
attached to the items are reasonable. For example Mr W attributed only £12.50 to clothing 
and foot wear, plus £10 a week to social activities. Taking these amounts on face value; and 
adding payments such as Mr Ws contribution to the mortgage and his total outgoings 
amounted to around 96% of his income.
Taking all of the above into account Im not satisfied the £32 disposable income would be 
enough for Mr W to sustainably meet his repayments without having to incur difficulties when 
repaying the amount. As noted above TFS had given very small margins to Mr Ws everyday 
expenses; and it had noted that the existing credit commitments amounted to a very large 
proportion of his income. This level was increased further when considering the TFS loan  
was then to be added - taking the total amount of credit repayments to well over 50% of Mr 
Ws income. 
In addition, as the loan was for a car purchase; TFS was also aware it was increasing Mr 
Ws total indebtedness for a long period of time. Mr Ws credit file had also shown signs of 
needing to support his income via forms of credit; as well as the beginning signs of 
potentially exceeding his arranged overdraft. 
Taking all of this into account and bearing in mind the definition of sustainability; Im satisfied 
Mr Ws finances were such that any unexpected changes in his outgoings were likely to 
mean he would incur financial difficulties when repaying this loan. And considering the term 
of this loan was over 60 months, Im persuaded it cannot be considered sustainable for him 
to rely on a small £32 disposable income margin for a significant period of time. 
Putting things right
To settle Mr Ws complaint TFS Loans Limited should do the following:
Add up the total amount of money Mr W received as a result of having been given 
this loan. The repayments Mr W made should be deducted from this amount; as well 
as any charges or fees associated with the loan.
a) If this results in Mr W having paid more than he received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
b) If any capital balance remains outstanding, then TFS Loans Limited should 
attempt to arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Mr W.
After all adjustments have been made and once there is no outstanding balance, 
TFS Loans Limited need to remove any negative information recorded on Mr Ws 
credit file regarding this loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS Loans Limited to take off tax from this interest. TFS 
Loans Limited must give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for 
one.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this loan against TFS Loans Limited.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman