DRN-3444455
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as L has complained that Allianz Insurance Plc unfairly declined 
its business interruption insurance claim. 
Mr O, a director of L, has brought the complaint on Ls behalf.  
What happened
L held a business protection insurance policy with Allianz. L claimed on its policy after its 
business was impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments response to the pandemic. 
Allianz turned down Ls claim. It said the interruption to Ls business wasnt caused by 
damage and while the policy covers a specified list of illnesses, Covid-19 isnt one of the 
illnesses covered. 
Unhappy with Allianzs response, L brought its complaint to our service. It referred to the 
Supreme Court judgment in the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Business Interruption 
Insurance test case in support of why its claim should be paid. In particular, it interpreted 
the judgment to say that an ordinary reader would expect the claim to be paid as damage 
had occurred. 
Our investigator looked into Ls complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as he didnt 
think the policy provided cover for the circumstances of its claim. 
L asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Ls business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if Allianz have acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Ls claim.
Damage
The core business interruption section of the policy provides cover for business interruption 
as a result of Damage. The policy defines damage as Destruction, damage or loss insured 
under Sections 1,3,4 and 7 of this Policy.
Sections 1, 3 and 4 are trade contents, goods in transit and deterioration of stock. Section 7 
is buildings, but the schedule sets out that this isnt covered in Ls policy.
For cover to apply under this section, the interruption to Ls business would need to be as a 
result of destruction, damage or loss to trade contents, goods in transit or deterioration of 
stock. Ive noted Ls point about how an ordinary reader would consider the word damage, 
but I think its clear from Allianzs definition that there needs to be damage to the insured 
property. Therefore, as I havent seen anything to persuade me that Covid-19 damaged 
property, this doesnt cover Ls claim. 
The policy is extended through various extensions. The extensions for denial of access and 
loss of attraction also require there to have been loss, destruction or damage to property in 
order to provide cover. I havent seen anything to persuade me that the interruption to Ls 
business was due to damage to property, so these extensions dont provide cover. 
Specified illness
This extension covers loss as a direct result of a specified illness occurring at Ls premises 
or within a 25 mile radius of it. The policy sets out a list of illnesses which are covered by the 
policy. The list doesnt include Covid-19. 
Given Covid-19 might not have been in existence at the time the policy was drafted, I 
wouldnt expect it to be included in the list of illnesses. But there were similar policies on the 
market that provided cover in the circumstances of the pandemic, for example policies which 
covered all notifiable diseases as set out and updated on a Government-defined list. Ls 
policy is not like this  it sets out a defined list of the illnesses which are covered. And there 
is nothing in the wording of the policy which implies it would provide cover for any new 
illnesses which might emerge. So, I dont think the policy can fairly be read as covering all 
and any new illnesses and therefore this doesnt provide cover for Ls claim.
Supreme Court judgment
L has referred to the Supreme Court judgment in support of why its claim should be paid. 
However, whether a claim should be paid still depends on the terms within the policy. In this 
case, Im afraid that the judgment doesnt impact the outcome of Ls claim. 
I recognise this isnt the outcome L was hoping for but, having considered the matter very 
carefully, I cant fairly require Allianz to pay Ls claim.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman