DRN-4064667
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited, trading as very, and who Ill 
call Shop Direct, has been linking her account to her wife.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand how frustrating this issue has been, but Im not persuaded its likely Shop 
Direct have linked her account to her wife. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs Ws wife received a report on 16 November 2022 that a hard search had been reported 
to a credit reference agency Ill call E. A few days later she received another notification 
that a credit agreement had been added to her file with E. Mrs W says that the reports 
related to her credit application with Shop Direct and that Shop Direct were wrong to link her 
account to her wife.
Shop Direct say that they couldnt have made reports to her wifes credit file as they didnt 
have her wifes details and she wasnt listed as an alias of Mrs W.
I asked E about this, and they said:
From what I see, there are no Shop Direct hard searches or accounts appearing on Mrs Ws 
wifes credit report. However, they both share the same surname, and their dates of birth are 
very similar. This could have resulted in Mrs Ws wife receiving an alert in 2022 regarding 
Mrs Ws Shop Direct account.
To investigate this further, we would need to open a complaint for Mrs Ws wife and load a
notice of disassociation. She can raise the complaint directly herself with E or if you wish
to send this on her behalf, we would need the compliant form in her name.
I dont think I have sufficient evidence to suggest Shop Direct have wrongly linked Mrs Ws 
credit file to someone else. It seems the way forward here is for Mrs Ws wife to raise the 
issue with E. Thats something our investigator will be able to help her with if she gets in 
touch.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman