DRN-3150950
The complaint
Mr A and Ms T complain about Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV)s
handling of their escape of water claim on their Home Insurance.
All references to LV also include its agents.
What happened
 Below is intended to be a summary of what happened and does not therefore include a full 
timeline or list every point that has been made.
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in detail
here. The following is a summary of the events that led to this complaint.
Decontamination took place at the property, but Mr A and Ms T hadnt received 
results of the tests
Mr A and Ms T have concerns the decontamination chemicals used have 
compromised electrical items in the property and made them unsafe
LV offered to Portable Appliance Test (PAT) all the electrical goods to establish if 
they were safe to use
Mr A and Ms T dont feel this is sufficient, they have provided supporting comments 
from their own electrician that say this method of testing would only show whether 
the item is working or not
Mr A and Ms T said a number of items in their home have been damaged by LVs 
contractors during the process of decontamination  both due to the chemicals and 
how the items have been stored in their home by the contractor
Including in the issues are missing keys to doors upstairs in the property and a 
jewellery box that is integrated into a wardrobe
Mr A and Ms T also raised issues with the flooring and Kitchen units following 
previous work from LVs contractors
LV appointed an adjuster who visited the property around March 2019
Following this, the compiled list was sent to Mr A and Ms T to provide pricing for the 
items
Mr A and Ms T said they were unable to verify the list was correct and requested the 
adjusters help in doing so
LV contacted Mr A and Ms T to chase the pricing for the items in October 2019, but 
as they hadnt heard from LV regarding the adjuster reattending this hadnt been 
provided
Mr A and Ms T raised a complaint with LV. LV accepted there had been some issues 
in their handling of the claim and offered Mr A and Ms T £250 compensation
Mr A and Ms T were unhappy with LVs further handling of their claim, they werent 
satisfied with LVs response, so they brought their complaint to our service
Mr A and Ms T have provided further detail in the form of their own spreadsheet
around the items damaged or missing following the decontamination work. They
have also provided pricing to LV
LV have raised concerns regarding some of the items and the pricing and want to
reattend the property to validate the claim
Mr A and Ms T have also provided several submissions describing the detrimental 
impact the claim and its issues have had on their family and have said they do not 
wish to have LV or any of its contractors reattend their property
Our Investigator recommended Mr A and Ms Ts complaint be upheld. He recommended LV:
Cover the costs of the replacement locks as well as the cost to fit them
Arrange for a replacement key to be provided for the jewellery box by a specialist, 
and to cover the cost of any restoration if needed.
Consider and validate Mr A and Ms Ts spreadsheet of costed content items, and 
confirm the settlement amount to settle this part of the claim
Cover the costs of all rectification works in the property for poor workmanship subject 
to further quotes from Mr A and Ms T on these issues
Cover any costs to obtain these quotes
Pay Mr A and Ms T further compensation of £600 for the inconvenience caused 
bringing the total award to £850
LV didnt agree with some of our investigators recommendations. It said they would need to
send a representative to inspect the flooring and kitchen units and the contents potentially
damaged again in more detail.
LV said this would be necessary for them to validate the claim and said it would consider any
potential settlement to Mr A and Ms T based on its findings.
I issued a provisional decision on 24 September 2021. In my provisional findings, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr A and Ms T have strong views about what has happened. I want to assure
Ive read and considered everything theyve said carefully. But my findings focus on what Iconsider to be the central issues, and not all the points raised.
I dont mean this as a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single
point the parties have raised or to answer every question asked. My role is to consider the
evidence presented by Mr A and Ms T, and by LV, to reach what I think is a fair and
reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
Air Quality Testing
Following Air Quality Testing, R said there was an elevated spore count in one of the
bedrooms and could indicate the room experienced elevated moisture levels over time. It
said this can occur due to a lack of ventilation but can also occur normally in bedrooms.
Ive not seen anything from Rs conclusion that persuades me there was a health and safety
risk but as the results of this were not shared with Mr A and Ms T for some time, I can
understand their concern and worry.
Electrical Items and testing
In the circumstances I think LVs proposal here seems reasonable. I understand Mr A and
Ms T might have safety concerns about the electrical corroding over time, but Ive not seen
anything that persuades me this is the case and I think PAT testing is sufficient at this time.
LV have also said they will consider any information of more detailed testing Mr A and Ms T
wanted to provide. Which Is what I would expect them to do. So I think theyve acted
reasonably here.
Missing Keys  Doors
Keys to doors upstairs in the property are part of the items reported missing following LVs
visit to decontaminate the property.
LV indicated in an email in January 2019 the door locks were to be changed. Mr A and Ms T
have already purchased replacement locks and I think in the circumstances its reasonable
for LV to cover the costs for these as well any costs incurred by Mr A and Ms T to have them
fitted.
Missing Keys  Jewellery Box
The contents of the jewellery box and their condition are unclear. In order for LV to consider
the claim the box needs to be opened and the contents and their condition catalogued.
Ive explained my intended direction for this in detail below
Settlement for damaged and missing items
Prior to visiting the property, I can see the adjuster emailed Mr A and Ms T in February 2019.
It said the main purpose of the visit was to make sure any of the items they said had been
affected had been assessed and inventoried.
The adjuster has said the list was compiled with direction from Mr A and Ms T. But when Mr
A and Ms T received the list were unable to confirm whether all of the items were on the list
 or what some of the references related to.
As this aspect of the claim relates to a significant number of items, which is demonstrated by
the subsequent lists provided by Mr A and Ms T and the photos of items theyve provided,
Its reasonable Mr A and Ms T wouldve found this difficult and required further assistance.
Mr A and Ms T requested the adjuster reattend the property to help identify some of theitems referred to and to help provide the pricing requested by LV, but I cant see LV ever
responded to Mr A and Ms T directly regarding this request. So the claim didnt progress.
So I can understand Mr A and Ms Ts concern when LV contacted them in October 2020
asking for the pricing.
Mr A and Ms T have since provided a detailed list with pricing for LV to consider, but I can
see there is still a dispute regarding whether some of the items were damaged as part of the
decontamination.
Issues with past repairs, kitchen units and flooring
In the inventory, the adjuster noted several issues with the repairs and damage by
contractors, including surface damage, paintwork issues, kitchen unit damage and damage
flooring. Its reasonable LV would want to review and validate this before confirming its
stance or potential settlement. Again, Ive explained my intended direction regarding this
below.
Considering the issues Mr A and Ms T have experienced throughout their claim, I can
understand why they feel strongly about any further contractors from LV visiting their
property.
I do need however to consider a resolution that is fair and reasonable to both parties. LV
have not had the opportunity to inspect the contents of the jewellery box or its condition, so I
dont think it would be reasonable for this to be opened without LV being able to provide
input into how this takes place.
The purpose set out by LVs adjuster was to inventory the items Mr A and Ms T said were
damaged during the decontamination. Mr A and Ms T requested further assistance with this,
but I cant see LV responded to them, had it done so, I feel these elements of the claim
would have progressed sooner.
Given the nature of the complaint and the number of items in question, and the dispute over
whether LV is responsible for their damage, its not unreasonable for LV to need to validate
the claim.
Ive noted LVs comments that the decontaminations companys representatives will likely
want to attend the property, but I dont think this would be fair. LV have accepted there have
been issues caused by the decontamination company and any details regarding recovering
costs from it, would be for LV to handle outside of this complaint without further 
inconvenience to Mr A and Ms T.
In order to progress matters Im recommending LV provide Mr A and Ms T with the choice of
three independent contractors to come and inspect the issues highlighted in the property,
witness the jewellery box being opened and to inventory and catalogue its contents. It should
then provide a report on its findings for LV to consider.
I would also expect LV should to take into account any associated costs incurred by Mr A
and Ms T, such as the opening of the jewellery box, as part of its consideration of the
findings.
Compensation
Following our Investigators view, I can see LV have confirmed it will make payment of a
further £600 compensation. Considering all of the information available to me, I think a totalof £850 compensation fairly reflects the inconvenience Mr A and Ms T have been caused.
So if this has now been actioned, I dont require it to pay any further compensation.
Putting things right
Based on what Ive seen so far and set out above, Im intending to direct LV to:
Cover the costs of replacement locks and any associated labour costs subject to
sufficient proof such as receipts from Mr A and Ms T
Provide Mr A and Ms T with the choice of three independent contractors to come and
inspect all the issues highlighted in the property and damage reported following the
decontamination, witness the jewellery box being opened and to inventory and
catalogue its contents, and provide a report on its findings for LV to consider
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr A and Ms T provided me with a further detailed submission. I wont detail it in full here but 
I want to assure them Ive considered everything theyve said carefully.
They reiterated some of their points regarding LVs handling of their claim, how their items 
and kitchen units had been handled by LV and the impact its overall handling of the claim 
has had on them. 
Mr A and Ms T also made some additional points which Ive summarised below.
Mr A and Ms T said theyve experienced issues with LVs handling of their claim 
throughout, and these also relate prior to decontamination at the property
Mr A and Ms T have concerns about allowing visits to their property as there are no 
guarantees that Covid-19 wont be spread or caught as a result of a visit
They dont understand what LV would achieve from visiting the property and the work 
to inventory the damage had already been completed previously by LVs contractor
The kitchen units are fitted to the wall, so Mr A and Ms T say the damage cannot be 
seen
PAT testing will not show any faults developing due to corrosion
Mr A and Ms T said they had previously been told by LV to make arrangements to 
open the jewellery box, so couldnt understand why they had now changed their 
stance. They say they have pictures of them wearing the items they need to prove 
ownership
LV responded to say they were unable to provide one contractor to carry out my intended 
directions. As an alternative, LV proposed to send a surveyor to inspect property damage 
such as the kitchen units. And provide Mr A and Ms T with a choice of three companies that 
specialise in contents recovery and restoration to inspect and produce a report on the 
damage items for LV to consider. 
LV also said given the volume of contents, it would unlikely be possible for this to be done 
over one day.LV also reiterated it agreed to reimburse the reasonable cost of fitting and replacing the 
locks on production of evidence of costs from Mr A and Ms T
Further developments
I responded to LV to elaborate on my intended directions. 
I explained while I was aware LV were keen to clarify some of the issues and reported 
damage, it had sent its contractors to Mr A and Ms Ts property previously for the purpose of 
cataloguing the damaged items - and photos and additional lists had been provided by the 
contractor along with input by Mr A and Ms T.  
So, it had already been provided the chance to carry out a full inspection and given the time 
that had passed since the decontamination companys visit, and the information already 
available, I wouldnt expect one to be required. And to do so again would cause further 
disruption to Mr A and Ms T. 
But as it was attending the property to witness the opening of the jewellery box, LV should 
also be given the opportunity while there to inspect, re-catalogue or enquire about some of 
the items in the home where required in order to assist in resolving the claim. But this should 
be while LV were in attendance to witness the jewellery box being opened.
So I reiterated my intended directions set out in my provisional findings. I also said LV 
should look to minimise both the inconvenience Mr A and Ms T are put to and limit the 
interaction that is needed with them during the visit.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware there have been other issues Mr A and Ms T have raised previously regarding 
their claim with LV  and I can see they have brought other complaints to our service. But 
my decision focuses on the issues raised by Mr A and Ms T in their complaint letter in 
October 2019 and considers events following LVs previous final response issued in 
December 2018.
I want to assure Mr A and Ms T Ive considered everything theyve said. But my decision 
remains the same, and for the same reasons. Ill explain why.
Concerns about Covid 19
I understand Mr A and Ms Ts concerns about LV revisiting their property in relation to 
Covid-19. LV will need to ensure the representative visiting the property follows relevant 
Covid protocols. And I would expect it also to arrange the visit at a time that is convenient for 
Mr A and Ms T. 
Handling of the claim and LV revisiting the property
I understand Mr A and Ms Ts disappointment about how their claim has been handled along 
with the other issues theyve described  and I can see how the decontamination contractor 
treated the items in their home would have been an upsetting experience for them. 
I can also understand Mr A and Ms Ts experience throughout the entirety of their claim, and 
the personal issues theyve described, has led to their strength of feeling regarding LV 
visiting the property.LV has said it wants to carry out further validation work before it is prepared to offer any 
potential settlement. Ive explained to LV I thought it had already been provided the chance 
to carry out a full inspection. But as it is visiting the property to witness the jewellery box 
being opened, it can use this opportunity to revalidate certain aspects of the claim in order to 
help it progress. As matters have not progressed, I dont think its unreasonable for it to do 
so. 
I appreciate this may be inconvenient to Mr A and Ms T but I think this has been recognised 
in the compensation they have been paid. Im also mindful, as the natural course of an 
insurance claim, LV is entitled to take reasonable action required to satisfy itself of the 
validity of the claim. And, this isnt something I would usually look to interfere with. 
LV said during its visit it would like to look at the buildings related damage  such as the 
kitchen units. Ive said LV should look to minimise any disruption to Mr A and Ms T caused 
by its visit. But any insurance claim of this nature does involve some inconvenience. So, 
Mr A and Ms T should also expect that LVs further visit may cause some. 
In this case both parties will need to work together to minimise disruption  one way of 
achieving this for example may be discussing if anything needs to be removed prior to LVs 
visit.
PAT testing 
I understand Mr A and Ms T might have safety concerns about the electrical items 
concerned corroding over time, but as Ive set out in my provisional decision, Ive not seen 
anything that persuades me this is the case. 
Given the amount of time that has passed since the decontamination work took place, I think 
it is more likely than not any corrosion would have already taken place and would likely be 
identified through PAT testing.
LV have also said they will consider any information Mr A and Ms T wanted to obtain and 
provide from further testing independently. Which is what I would expect them to do. So I 
think theyve acted reasonably here.
Jewellery Box
LV said it wants to be present to witness the jewellery box being opened as it would allow it 
to be satisfied of what items are present inside it. 
Mr A and Ms T said they were told previously by LV to get on with opening the box. 
Mr A and Ms T have provided some detail of what they believe is present in the box, but its 
whole contents arent clear and there is no information available that persuades me 
otherwise. So I dont think LV are being unreasonable in wanting to witness the box being 
opened to see whats inside before considering this aspect of the claim.
Mr A and Ms T said they have photos of themselves wearing the jewellery if proof of 
ownership is required. Any claim regarding the items in the jewellery box will be for Mr A and 
Ms T, and LV, to discuss following the jewellery box being opened. 
But I will manage Mr A and Ms Ts expectations that photographs of them wearing items of 
jewellery they mentioned may not be considered sufficient proof of ownership alone. LV may 
require more information if any items require their consideration in relation to the claim.
Progressing the claimAs Ive said, I understand LV visiting the property will lead to some inconvenience for Mr A 
and Ms T, however I feel this is necessary for the claim to conclude. And I expect both 
parties to work together to bring matters to a resolution.
However as directed, disruption should be minimised as much as possible, and I think Mr A 
and Ms T should work with LV and assist them where possible to enable them to complete 
their enquiries quickly.  
Putting things right
To put things right, LV should:
Cover the costs of replacement locks and associated labour costs. Subject to 
sufficient proof, such as receipts, from Mr A and Ms T
Provide Mr A and Ms T with the choice of three independent contractors to attend the 
property, further inspect highlighted issues and damage in the property and witness 
the jewellery box being opened to inventory and catalogue its contents. The 
contactor should then provide a report on its for findings for LV to consider
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr A and Ms Ts complaint.
To put things right I direct Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited to do as I have set 
out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Ms T to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 December 2021.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman