DRN-2316077
The complaint
Mr H says Gain Credit LLC trading as Drafty, irresponsibly lent to him. He says that Drafty 
offered him a small line of credit that was manageable. But it increased the limit on the 
account and then he couldnt afford to make the repayments going forward. He thinks Drafty 
shouldnt have done this. 
What happened
This complaint is about one running credit account Drafty provided to Mr H in January 2019. 
This was an arrangement where Mr H could withdraw up to an agreed credit limit. Each 
month he would need to repay a minimum of 2% of the outstanding balance plus any 
accrued interest and charges, or £10 if this was higher. 
The account had an initial credit limit of £300. Mr H withdrew up to this amount almost 
straight away. The statements provided by Drafty show the accounts credit limit was 
increased to £580 in March 2019.This increase may have taken place shortly before the 
statement dates as they are monthly and cover the previous months transactions. 
Mr H again withdrew up to this limit almost straight away. He remained at, or close to, the 
credit limits for much of the remainder of the active life of the account. Mr H made his last 
withdrawal in September 2019. I understand the facility still has an outstanding balance.  
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. He thought that Drafty had made 
proportionate checks before approving the lending. He thought that it couldve made further 
checks going forward but he didnt see anything in the information Mr H had provided that 
showed it shouldnt have lent. 
Mr H disagreed. He said that he had borrowed up to the maximum allowed, and he stayed 
at, or around the credit limit of the account. This showed that loan wasnt suitable for him. He 
also still thought that Drafty shouldve made better checks before increasing the credit limit.
As no agreement was reached the complaint was passed to me, as an ombudsman, to issue 
a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending  including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  on our website. Broadly 
speaking, this all means that Drafty needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it didnt lend 
irresponsibly. In practice, this means it should have carried out proportionate checks to make 
sure Mr H could repay their loans in a sustainable manner. Additionally, there may come a 
point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly demonstrates that the 
lending was unsustainable.
Applying this to the circumstances of this particular complaint, I have reached the same 
outcome as our adjudicator, for essentially the same reasons.
Ive seen a record of the information Mr H provided when he completed his application. Mr H 
said he had a monthly income of £1,350 and he had regular monthly outgoings of £850. This 
left him with a monthly disposable income of £500. 
The credit agreement showed that Mr H would repay around £33 for 12 months if he drew 
down the full amount straight away. So, the lending wouldve seemed affordable to Drafty, 
given the information Mr H supplied at the outset. 
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessments Drafty did at the start of the 
lending were proportionate. And I think its decision to approve the initial lending was 
reasonable.
As Mr H has said, the credit limit on the account was increased to £580 shortly after it 
started. But this would increase the monthly repayments to just over £60 which would still 
look to be affordable to Drafty  based on the information Mr H declared. So, I dont think 
this further borrowing is enough in itself to say the complaint should be upheld on its own. 
And as our adjudicator said it may have been that Drafty shouldve looked closer into Mr Hs 
circumstances before it did this, and for the later lending. Its clear that Mr H did have one or 
two other short term loans but his bank account doesnt show any significant financial 
problems at the earlier point in the lending when most of the borrowing, and the credit limit 
increase, took place
I havent seen any further information that shows its likely Drafty was made aware of any 
financial problems Mr H mightve been having. Or anything that wouldve prompted it to 
investigate Mr Hs circumstances further. 
So I think it was reasonable for Drafty to rely on the information it obtained. Because of this I 
think Draftys decisions to lend, and increase the credit limit, were reasonable and Im not 
upholding Mr Hs complaint about them. 
I would remind Drafty of its responsibility to treat Mr H fairly in respect of any amounts he 
may still owe on the account. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject my decision 
before 4 December 2020.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman