DRN-3050313
The complaint
Mr L and Miss S complain about Great Lakes Insurance SEs failure to pay their costs after
they had to cut short their holiday.  
What happened
Mr L and Miss S took out an annual travel insurance policy through a broker in November
2019. They declared a number of medical conditions to Great Lakes, which it agreed to
cover for an additional premium. One of the conditions Great Lakes agreed to insure was
Crohns Disease, which Miss S suffered from.
In March 2020, Mr L and Miss S were in a country Ill call S. They were due to travel on to
two other countries, I and M. However, as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, I suspended
most Visas. And countries began to close their borders. Miss S was also concerned because
cases of Covid-19 had been found in S and she was worried about how this might affect her
medical condition. So she got in touch with her GP, who told Miss S that the medication she
took to control Crohns Disease put her in a high risk category for Covid-19. They advised
her to return to the UK. As a result, on 16 March 2020, Miss S and Mr L spoke with Great
Lakes about cutting their trip short and flying home.
Mr L and Miss S agreed with Great Lakes that theyd arrange their own new return flight and
make a claim for their curtailment costs upon their return to the UK. However, they said that
they were told by Great Lakes call handlers that they didnt have a valid claim on the policy.
It seems this was because they hadnt taken out an optional Travel Disruption Extension
(TDE), which provided cover for changes to Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) travel
advice. The FCO went on to advise against all but essential travel on 17 March 2020 and
then to advise all UK nationals abroad to return to the UK on 23 March 2020.
As they were concerned that they would be left substantially out of pocket, Mr L and Miss S
organised refunds of most of their costs. But they were unhappy with the way Great Lakes
had responded to their situation and they asked us to look into their complaint. They
requested a refund of their policy premium and a refund of their telephone call costs.
Our investigator didnt think Great Lakes needed to refund Mr L and Miss S policy premium.
Thats because they were outside of the 14-day cooling-off period and they hadnt actually 
cancelled their policy. She also thought Great Lakes had correctly advised Mr L and Miss S
to submit a claim after they got back to the UK. But she noted that while the circumstances
of the claim werent strictly covered, there was a term in the policy excluding cover if a
policyholder travelled against FCO advice. She considered that once the FCO advice
changed on 17 March 2020, Mr L and Miss S wouldve been left in the position where there
was no cover if they did travel and no cover if they cut short their trip. The investigator didnt
think this was fair or reasonable. So she recommended that Great Lakes should assess Mr L
and Miss S claim as if theyd taken out and paid for the TDE cover.
I issued a provisional decision on 12 August 2021. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I thought it would be fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to consider Mr L and 
Miss S claim. I said:
Relevant Regulatory Rules
The Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) Principles for Business) say that a firm should
pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
The FCAs Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) requires insurers to act
honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its customer. It
also requires insurers to handle claims promptly and fairly.
The FCAs The Responsibilities of Providers and Distributors for the Fair Treatment of
Customers, which also forms relevant regulatory guidance, states that financial businesses
should consider the impact of their actions or inactions on customers throughout the lifecycle
of the service being provided.
Ive also borne in mind the relevant law, which includes the unfair terms provisions in the
Consumer Rights Act 2015.
The Policy Terms
So Ive considered, amongst other things, the terms of Mr L and Miss S policy and the
available medical evidence to decide whether Great Lakes treated them fairly.
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of Mr L and Miss S policy, as these form the
basis of their contract with Great Lakes. As theres no dispute that Mr L and Miss S cut short
their trip and their policy schedule shows that they didnt take out the optional TDE, I think
the relevant section of the contract is Cutting Short Your Trip. This says:
What is covered:
We will pay up to£5,000 for Comprehensive cover (up to £15,000
may be available, please see the table of benefits for details) for your non-refundable
deposits and amounts you have paid (or you have contracted to pay), for your travel and
accommodation (including £350 for Comprehensive cover) which you do not use because of
your inability to complete the trip due to:  
a) an unforeseen illness, injury or death of you, a close relative, travelling companion or any
person with whom you have arranged to stay during the trip.
b) you or any person with whom you plan to travel being called up for Jury Service or
being summoned as a witness in a Court of Law (other than in a professional, or advisory
capacity).
c) accidental damage, burglary, flooding or fire affecting your home, occurring during your
trip, when the loss relating to your home is in excess of £1,500 or your presence is required
by the Police in connection with such events.
In this case, while I dont doubt Is decision to suspend most Visas and the change in FCO
advice did feed into Mr L and Miss S decision to curtail their trip, Im not currently persuaded
these were the main reasons. Miss S says that given she has Crohns Disease, she was
worried about the potential risk to her if she contracted Covid-19 and so she spoke with her
doctor, who advised her to return to the UK. The GP has provided a letter, dated 17 March
2020, which supports what Miss S has told us. The letter says:
My patient is currently in (S) and was planning to travel on to (I) and (M). As there are cases
of the current Coronavirus in (S) she needs to return to UK as soon as possible. She has a
diagnosis of Crohns Disease and her immune supressing medication she takes to control
this puts her in a high risk category.In my view, it was Miss S concern about the high risk Covid-19 posed to her if she
contracted it which was the main reason she and Mr L decided to cut short their trip.
Having looked carefully at the policy terms, I can see that curtailment due to a medical
practitioner advising against continuing travel isnt something the policy covers. So I agree
that on a strict interpretation of the policy terms, Mr L and Miss S claim simply isnt covered
by the terms of their contract.
What is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances?
However, I can depart from a strict interpretation of the policy terms if I feel their application
produces an unfair result. Thats the case here. I say that because the policy also includes a
Medical Declaration section. This says:
To be covered, you must be fit and able to undertake your planned trip, and: you are NOT
travelling against the advice of a doctor (or would be travelling against the advice of a doctor
had you sought his/her advice.
I can see that the applicable policy summary also clearly highlights that there is no cover if a
policyholder travels abroad against medical advice. So the at a glance paperwork Great
Lakes provided also highlights that Mr L and Miss S wouldnt have had any cover had they
ignored the GPs advice and continued with their trip.
So in this case, if Mr L and Miss S had continued with their onward trip as planned, they
wouldve been travelling against Miss S doctors advice. This means their policy wouldve
been invalidated and they wouldnt have been entitled to under cover at all under the policy,
under any section. As such, if Mr L and Miss S had travelled on to I and M, despite the
doctors advice, their policy wouldve been of no value to them whatsoever. In effect then, Mr
L and Miss S were left in a position where they werent covered if they travelled on to other
countries when the GP had told them not to and they werent covered if they cut short their
trip. And in my view, I dont think its fair and reasonable - in the circumstances of this case 
for Mr L and Miss S to have no cover when they were left with no option but to curtail their
trip following the doctors advice to do so.
I appreciate Miss S didnt suffer an exacerbation of Crohns Disease. But her doctor thought
it put her at high risk of illness if shed travelled on. And I note that Miss S had declared this
condition to Great Lakes, which had agreed to cover it. Shed also paid an additional medical
premium. I think then that its fair to conclude that Miss S claim did, in effect, arise from a
condition which Great Lakes had agree to accept, albeit indirectly.
So overall, in these particular circumstances, I currently think the fair and reasonable
outcome is for Great Lakes to consider a claim for Mr L and Miss S costs, in line with the
remaining terms and conditions of the policy. Mr L and Miss S will need to complete a claim
form and provide evidence of the costs they havent been able to recover (and which they
feel ought to be considered) for Great Lakes to assess.
Premium Refund
I appreciate Mr L and Miss S feel that Great Lakes should pay them a refund of their
premium. Ive thought about this. In some circumstances, I might find that a pro-rata refund
of premium is a fair outcome and therefore direct an insurer to pay such an award.
In this case though, while the contract provides for a full refund of premium if the policy is
cancelled within 14 days; theres no evidence that Mr L and Miss S did cancel their policy at
all during the policy year. Indeed, Great Lakes told us that the policy ran to term. This meantGreat Lakes remained on risk of a claim during the whole policy year. Taking this together
with the fact that Im planning to direct Great Lakes to consider a claim on the policy, Im not
persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable to direct it to pay any refund of premium here.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence or comments they wanted me to 
consider.
Neither Great Lakes nor Mr L and Miss S had anything more to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, as neither party has provided any further evidence, I see no reason to 
change my provisional decision. So my final decision is the same as my provisional decision 
and for the same reasons.     
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint.
I direct Great Lakes Insurance SE to consider a claim for Mr L and Miss S curtailment costs, 
in line with the policy terms and conditions upon provision of a completed claim form and any 
evidence it requires to assess the claim.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Miss S to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 October 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman