DRN-3414922
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy with how Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) dealt with 
her request for assistance as a result of the Coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic.
What happened
On 27 June 2019, Mrs B was supplied with a car through a hire purchase agreement with 
VWFS. She paid an advance payment of £1,948.74 and the agreement was for £41,508.79 
over 49 months; with 48 monthly repayments of £546.11 and a final payment on £20,095.50.
In April 2020, Mrs B contacted VWFS to tell them her income had been affected by the 
Covid-19 pandemic. And she asked what her options were. VWFS sent her an income and 
expenditure form for completion and, in May 2020, told her they were able to offer her a 
payment deferral. But they also told her that shed need to pay the missing payment for April 
2020 to be eligible, which she did. A payment deferral was then agreed and put in place to 
cover the payments from June to August 2020.
VWFS also told Mrs B that the payment deferral wouldnt affect her credit file. But Mrs B 
didnt sign and return the payment deferral amended agreement because she didnt agree 
with the terms being offered  her monthly payments would increase, and she wasnt being 
given the opportunity to add the deferred payments to the end of the term instead.
VWFS reported the payment deferral as arrears on Mrs Bs credit file, despite continually 
telling Mrs B they wouldnt do this. Mrs B cleared the deferred payments in December 2020, 
but VWFS still reported arrears in January 2021, before correcting Mrs Bs credit file.
Mrs B was unhappy that VWFS didnt offer her the option to add the deferred payments to 
the end of the term, and that VWFS reported these as arrears. Which she said resulted in 
her being unable to remortgage and having to pay a higher interest rate. So, she brought her 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator said it was a business decision whether to extend the term of an agreement, 
or to increase the payments, to repay deferred payments. And, while they should take a 
customers circumstances into consideration, theyre not obliged to offer an extension to the 
term in all cases.
Given that Mrs B had three years left on the term when the payment deferral was agreed 
and given that interest would be charged on the deferred payments, the investigator thought 
Mrs B would pay more overall if the term was extended. And, as hed seen nothing to show 
that Mrs B couldnt afford to spread the deferred payments over the remaining term, he didnt 
think VWFS had done anything wrong by not offering a term extension.
The investigator also said VWFS told Mrs B repeatedly that her credit file wouldnt show any 
adverse data, and they told her itd been removed when it hadnt. And Mrs B felt she had to 
clear all the deferred payments in one payment as a result. So, he didnt think Mrs B had 
been treated fairly.
However, he hadnt seen anything to show that Mrs B was turned down for a mortgage 
solely because of the information VWFS were reporting.
Finally, the investigator said that, while Mrs B had difficulties in contacting VWFS, he needed 
to consider that they were receiving higher volumes of customer contact at a time when their 
operations were affected by Covid-19. So, in these circumstances, delays would be 
reasonably expected. But, if the issues with the credit file had been resolved sooner, Mrs B 
wouldnt have needed to contact VWFS as much as she did.
So, taking everything into consideration, the investigator said that VWFS should pay Mrs B 
£250 compensation for the trouble and upset shed been caused.
VWFS agreed with the investigator, bur Mrs B didnt. She said her credit file only showed 
that VWFS were recording missed payments, so she thought this proved why the 
remortgage was refused. And shes asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mrs B was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to look into complaints about it. 
It's clear from VWFSs contact notes that Mrs B first contacted them on 12 April 2020. She 
explained that she was newly self employed and her income had been affected by Covid-
19. At this stage, the Financial; Conduct Authority (FCA) hadnt issued any guidance about 
how businesses such as VWFS should treat customers in Mrs Bs situation. 
VWFS asked her to complete an income and expenditure form, so they could assess what 
assistance they could provide, and they also gave Mrs B a quote for terminating the 
agreement when she asked for one. Given the circumstances, Im satisfied that VWFS acted 
reasonably by taking these initial steps.
The FCA published guidance on 24 April 2020, to cover Mrs Bs circumstances. This said 
that a firm should grant the customer a payment deferral for 3 months unless the firm 
determines (acting reasonably) that it is obviously not in the customers interests to do so. 
The guidance also makes it clear that a payment deferral shouldnt be considered as 
arrears. The guidance came into force on 27 April 2020. The FCA issued updated guidance 
on 15 July 2020, which allowed a second payment deferral, for up to a further three months, 
to be granted.
However, the guidance also allowed VWFS to continue to charge interest on the deferred 
payments, and it didnt specify that customers must be given the option to be able to add the 
deferred payments to the end of the agreement and extend the term.At the time the payment deferral had finished, Mrs B had a little less than three years 
remaining on the term of the agreement. Given this, and that interest was being charged on 
the deferred payments, I dont think that VWFS acted unreasonably by offering to spread the 
deferred payments over the remaining term, rather than extending the term  by doing so 
they reduced the amount of interest Mrs B would be charged.
Im aware that, on 19 August 2020, Mrs B told VWFS that, had she been told that a term 
extension wouldnt be possible when the payment deferral was offered to her, she wouldnt 
have accepted it. And this wouldve avoided the impact on her and her credit file. However, I 
dont believe this wouldve been the case. 
On 18 May 2020, Mrs B told VWFS that her income was from drawings and not from salary. 
And that she hadnt been able to take any income since lockdown started. Which means 
that, given that she had no income, if Mrs B hadnt taken the payment deferral, the payments 
to VWFS would still have been due. And, with no income, she wouldnt have been able to 
afford these. So, VWFS wouldve reported the missed payments as arrears. And, unlike with 
a payment deferral, VWFS were able to report an arrears situation. As such, Mrs B wouldve 
found herself in a worse situation by declining the payment deferral.
However, as Mrs B refused to sign and return the payment deferral paperwork, VWFS were 
within their rights to class the deferred payments as arrears. But they chose not to and, as a 
result, needed to manually amend Mrs Bs credit file every 30-days to remove the arrears 
their system was automatically reporting. Its not disputed that VWFS didnt always do this 
and arrears were reported when they otherwise shouldnt have been.
Mrs B has said that VWFS reporting arrears to the credit reference agencies resulted in her 
being turned down for a remortgage. And shes provided an email from her mortgage broker, 
dated 18 August 2020, saying that a mortgage application was declined due to adverse 
credit on the credit report. Shes also provided an updated credit report showing that she 
has no adverse credit recorded against her. 
While Ive noted the email from the mortgage broker, the broker doesnt make the decision to 
lend - the mortgage lender does. There are multiple factors when considering whether to 
approve a mortgage, and the credit search is just one of them. These factors include, but are 
not limited to, affordability. And a customers affordability is affected by things such as their 
employment, income, expenditure, and how much they owe on credit at any given time.
As stated above, Mrs B confirmed to VWFS that shed recently become self-employed, and 
she wasnt drawing any income. These are major factors which would affect an affordability 
decision. So, without confirmation from the mortgage lender that the adverse credit being 
reported (and removed) by VWFS was the sole reason why the remortgage application was 
declined, I wont be asking VWFS to compensate Mrs B for this.
Finally, Mrs B has complained of her difficulties in getting through to VWFS to discuss her 
account. The Covid-19 pandemic was an unprecedented situation. Government advice was 
for people to work from home where possible, and VWFS wouldve needed to adapt their 
ways of working. And this came at a time when, for the same reasons, VWFS experienced a 
large increase in customer contact. 
So, while I appreciate how frustrating this was for Mr B trying to get through to VWFS, I dont 
think VWFS did anything wrong because they were receiving a very high volume of 
customer contact at a time when their normal operations were disrupted due to 
circumstances outside of their control.Putting things right
The investigator has recommended that VWFS pay Mrs B £250 compensation for the impact 
of them not removing the arrears from her credit file every 30-days, and the impact this day 
on her  had this been done she wouldnt have needed to contact VWFS about it, and 
wouldnt have had to spend so long on hold while VWFSs normal operations were affected.
This is what I wouldve directed had it not been recommended. As such, I agree with the 
investigator that VWFS should pay Mrs B £250 compensation for this.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mrs Bs complaint. And Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited must follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman