DRN-3652603
The complaint
Mr S complains Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited handled his motor insurance claim 
poorly. 
Mr S has been represented for this complaint. For ease Ive referred to the actions and 
comments of the representative as being those of Mr S.  
What happened
In December 2020 Mr S car was damaged in a collision. He claimed against his RSA motor 
insurance policy. After the insurers authorised repairer (AR) returned his car Mr S 
complained. He wasnt satisfied with the quality of the repairs. He felt the car had been 
returned with faulty brakes  resulting in him making several return visits to the AR. He was 
unhappy damage to the rear of the car hadnt been repaired despite numerous requests. 
In June 2021 RSA responded to the complaint. It said damage to the rear of the car was 
unrelated to the incident claimed for. It said the issues reported by a diagnostics check 
werent related to work carried out by its AR. So RSA refused to make any further repairs. 
Mr S wasnt satisfied so came to this service. 
In July 2022 our investigator gave her opinion on the complaint. She didnt agree with Mr S 
that RSAs communications with him had been unreasonable or inadequate. She wasnt 
persuaded damage to a bumper was from the collision. But she did find RSA should have 
accepted and repaired damage to the cars brakes as claim related. She felt its failure to do 
so earlier had caused Mr S unnecessary distress about the safety of his car  and had 
caused him inconvenience. She recommended it pay him £300 compensation in recognition. 
Neither RSA nor Mr S accepted the investigators suggested outcome. As a result the 
complaint was passed to me to decide. Mr S felt the compensation recommended wasnt 
enough  instead £1,400 would be fairer. RSA didnt accept the brake damage was related 
to the claim incident. It said Mr S hadnt, contrary to the investigators opinion, needed to 
return to the AR multiple times for the same issue  but had instead on each occasion raised 
new issues. 
In August 2022 I issued a provisional decision. I explained why I didnt intend to require RSA 
to pay Mr S any compensation or do anything differently. My reasons for taking that position 
form part of this final decision, so Ive copied them in below. I also invited Mr S and RSA to 
provide any further information they would like me to consider before I issue a final decision. 
RSA didnt respond to the provisional decision, but it provided some further detail in 
response to a specific request. Mr S didnt accept my provisional decision. He provided 
comments in response. Ive responded to them below. 
what provisionally Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I dont intend to 
require RSA to pay Mr S any compensation or do anything differently. 
As this is an informal service I havent addressed every comment, point or piece of 
evidence here. Instead Ive focused on what I consider to be the most significant 
issues and evidence. But I would like to reassure Mr S and RSA that Ive considered 
everything provided. 
Based on what Ive seen I cant say RSA acted unfairly by refusing to repair the 
disputed damage to the rear of Mr S car. Considering the description of the incident 
and the location of the damage, Im not persuaded by whats available that the two 
probably are related. Mr S said he would provide photos to support his position but 
hasnt done so. 
Mr S has referred to various electrical issues picked up by a diagnostics check. The 
check seems to have happened some months after the initial repairs. If the others 
were claim or AR repair related Id expect them to have been picked up during its 
own diagnostic check. But it seems only one of those issues was  a mirror problem 
Mr S has accepted as non-claim related. So Im not persuaded RSA has acted 
unfairly in regard to the various electrical issues raised by Mr S. 
I havent decided if the issue with the brakes was caused by the incident, resulting 
from the ARs original repairs or unrelated to either. Thats because if it was any of 
these three possibilities it wouldnt change the outcome to this complaint. I still 
wouldnt be awarding any compensation. Ultimately I consider the AR dealt with the 
brake issue reasonably.
I understand its frustrating for policyholders but some incident related repairs arent 
apparent at first  they only become so at a later date. After further use, for example. 
If the brake issue was incident related, I havent seen anything to persuade me it not 
being diagnosed and repaired initially was due to RSAs or its ARs negligence. 
Again sometimes problems can result from an ARs initial repairs. But unfortunately 
repairs arent always 100% successful first time around, there are often snagging 
issues. Again I can understand why this happening would be frustrating for a 
policyholder. When it does happen Id expect the insurer or its AR to respond 
promptly and reasonably  and thats what happened in this case. As far as I can see 
the AR considered the fault and took action to repair it over a reasonable timescale. It 
doing so within a few weeks of being informed of the problem.
I accept this will come as a disappointment to Mr S. But as Ive said Im not 
persuaded RSA acted unreasonably or unfairly in regard to the brakes. So I cant say 
it caused him any significant unnecessary distress or inconvenience. That means, 
unlike our investigator, I dont intend to require it compensate him for this. Neither will 
I be requiring it to do so for how it communicated with Mr S. 
Ive considered what hes said about RSAs communication being inadequate, rude 
and discriminatory. However, I havent seen enough to persuade me he was treated 
in the way hes described. Mr S felt RSAs final response letter was patronising. I 
dont agree it is. RSA contact notes and written correspondence that Ive seen dont 
support what he says. So I havent seen enough to persuade me RSA should 
compensate him for how it communicated with him during the claim.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said Id expect the various electrical issues, found in a later 
diagnostic check, to have been picked up by RSAs earlier one. Mr S responded to say if it 
had done its own diagnostics the brake fault would have shown up. 
Ive now examined RSAs diagnostic report. This is dated January 2021. I hadnt previously 
realised this service had been provided with a copy. Having considered it, I asked RSA to 
clarify matters. Having received its response I think its earlier explanation, in its final 
response letter, is unclear. It reads as though only one of the warnings highlighted by Mr S 
was found in RSAs own check.   
However, RSAs earlier diagnostic does show some of the warnings found on the later one. 
These relate to climate control, anti-alarm sensor and distance regulation. It also shows two 
brake related warnings. These are steering angle sensor  no basic setting and data bus 
implausible message. RSAs recent explanation is the AR felt the warnings, highlighted by 
Mr S, to be unrelated to the collision or its repair work  otherwise it would have resolved 
them. 
Neither of the two brake related warnings appear on the later diagnostic. So the AR may 
have resolved them at the time, I cant say for certain now. In any case, as far as I can tell, 
neither of the warnings seem to relate to the brake issue Mr S reported after the car was 
returned  a knocking sound resulting from damaged brake pads. One warning relates to 
missing data and the other, when not resolved, can result in poor steering. So Im not 
persuaded the diagnostic should have made the AR aware of a potential claim related brake 
issue.   
Mr S says RSAs engineer believed the brake problem to be claim related - a result of the 
brakes being applied with force during the collision. Unfortunately the engineers comments 
to RSA, shown in file notes, dont align with what Mr S reports. Instead the engineer appears 
to consider the problem likely to be caused by the presence in the brakes of a stone or other 
contamination. He also refers to a lack of application of copper slip. 
Ive considered Mr S latest comments about the timeline involved with the brakes  and the 
visits he made to the AR. But Im still not persuaded RSA acted unreasonably or unfairly 
regarding the brakes. 
As for the other diagnostic warnings, I accept its possible they were claim related and so 
should have been resolved by the AR. But Mr S hasnt provided anything to persuade me 
they most likely were. I wouldnt expect an insurer to resolve every problem with a car 
following a claim  only those that are claim related. On balance I havent see enough to 
make me think the AR probably should have resolved these other issues. 
Mr S has now provided some photos to support his position that the damage to the rear of 
his car is claim related. These show that damage, plus some to two other vehicles. Having 
considered them, the description of the incident and the location of the damage, Im still not 
persuaded the rear damage is most likely claim related.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to pay 
Mr S any compensation or do anything differently. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman