DRN-2508558
The complaint
Ms Gs complaint is about some late payment markers applied to a loan account she held 
with National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest).
What happened
Ms G took out a joint loan with the late Mr G in November 2011. Mr G passed away 
before the loan was settled, so Ms G became solely liable for the remaining balance.
 
In September 2016, Ms G discussed her repayment options with NatWest. NatWest 
put the account on hold to stop further action.
The loan was settled in December 2018. Later, when applying for a mortgage, Ms G 
noticed a number of late payments recorded on her credit file against the loan 
account and complained to NatWest.
NatWest said it had recorded Ms Gs missed payments correctly because it had sent 
Ms G a number of letters to request she contacted it to set up a repayment plan. And 
as she didnt maintain monthly payments, these showed as missed payments on her 
credit file until the loan was settled.
Ms G didnt agree and brought her complaint to us. 
After investigating, our investigator concluded the complaint shouldnt be upheld 
because they found NatWest had recorded and reported the missed payments 
correctly on Ms Gs loan account. 
 
Ms G doesnt agree. She says she was told in branch that her credit report wouldnt 
be affected while she waited for the funds to pay off the loan. And if she had been 
advised correctly by NatWest she would have paid off the loan sooner.
The complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for the following reasons:
I understand from the contact notes that Ms G wanted to avoid a default. I can also 
see NatWest attempted to contact Ms G regularly regarding the status of the loan 
between 2016 and 2018. The contact notes indicate NatWest told Ms G the 
consequences of not paying off the loan. NatWest eventually took action to move the 
account to default by sending letters of notice, as no payment had been made for 
some months. And it appears this was done in order to prompt a response from     
Ms G. The default action was paused once the remaining balance of the loan was 
paid. 
So on balance, Ive not seen anything to suggest NatWest told Ms G there would be 
no impact as a result of missed or non-payments of the loan. And Im not persuaded 
Ms G wouldve taken action to settle the loan earlier in the circumstances. I say this 
because whilst I acknowledge there was a delay in Ms G obtaining the funds to settle 
the loan, I can see NatWest discussed other options such as token payments 
towards the loan in September 2016. So Im persuaded Ms G was aware of other 
options to repay the loan but took no further action at the time.
 
I acknowledge this was a difficult time for Ms G, as she had become solely liable for 
the debt. But having considered NatWests actions as a whole, Im satisfied it treated 
her positively, sympathetically and fairly in this case. It froze interest for a number of 
months, delayed the decision to move the loan towards default, and allowed Ms G to 
settle the loan in full by deferring the end date and loan arrears. 
Ms G says she was told in branch her file wouldnt be affected whilst she waited for 
the funds to pay off the loan. But in the same response shes also said she was 
advised to proceed to make minimum payments. I cant see any payments were 
made at all to the loan during this period. So Im satisfied NatWest has reported on 
the loan account activity correctly. 
Whilst I understand Ms Gs frustration and the impact this has had on her credit file, I 
agree that NatWest have recorded the missed loan payments correctly, so I wont 
require it to take any further action.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about National Westminster Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2021.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman