DRN-3160688
The complaint
Ms F says Evergreen Finance London Limited (trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk) irresponsibly 
lent to her.
What happened
This complaint is about one instalment loan Moneyboat provided to Ms F in July 2021. The 
loan was for £200 and it was to be repaid in four monthly instalments of £69.49. From what I 
can see, an amount remains outstanding. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that Ms Fs complaint should be upheld. Ms F disagreed. 
She said her multiple applications for credit in a short space of time should have alerted 
Moneyboat that she was having trouble managing her finances. And so the complaint was 
passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Moneyboat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms F 
could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Moneyboat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Moneyboat was required to establish 
whether Ms F could sustainably repay her loan  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to 
make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Fs complaint.
Moneyboat asked Ms F for information about her income and expenditure and it carried out 
credit checks. Ms F said her monthly income was £1,500. She said her monthly outgoings, 
including other credit commitments, were £660. But Moneyboat saw that Ms F had further 
credit commitments and so it increased these, leaving her with a monthly disposable income 
of £700. 
I cant see anything untoward in the credit checks that Moneyboat carried out that should 
have prompted further checks. Ms F had other loans, but this isnt unusual in short-term 
lending. And I can see that she appeared to be repaying them on time. And, as far as I can 
see, Ms F had only one other short-term loan that was due for final repayment. 
As this was Ms Fs first loan with Moneyboat, I think its checks were proportionate and 
sufficient. From the checks, it looked as if Ms F could afford to repay her loan sustainably. 
So I cant say it was wrong for Moneyboat to have provided this loan. 
Ms F said shed made multiple applications for loans. And I can see that Moneyboat rejected 
other loan applications that Ms F made. But this doesnt mean that Moneyboat should have 
declined all her applications. 
I accept that Ms Fs actual circumstances may not have been reflected either in the 
information she provided, or the other information Moneyboat obtained. And Ms Fs actual 
financial position might well have been apparent if further information  such as bank 
statements  had been obtained. 
But Moneyboat could only make its decision based on the information it had available at the 
time. And as it was in the early stages of a lending relationship with Ms F, I dont think it had 
reached the stage where there was a greater risk of the loan being unsustainable for Ms F. 
In these circumstances, I dont think Moneyboat needed to take further steps to verify the 
information provided. 
Equally Im only able to uphold a complaint where I can safely say that a lender has done 
something wrong. And, in this case, I think Moneyboat carried out reasonable checks even 
though it looks like the information it was provided wasnt reflective of Ms Fs actual financial 
position. 
Moneyboat relied on the information it was provided with and given the amount of the 
repayment involved, together with Ms Fs declared income and Ms F only taking one loan, I 
think that this wasnt unreasonable. As this is the case, Im not upholding Ms Fs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman