DRN-4086133
The complaint
Mrs W complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement 
with Polesworth Garage Limited, who Ill call Polesworth.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs W, but I dont think Polesworth have been unreasonable here 
and Im not asking them to take any action.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs W acquired her car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the car should have 
been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Polesworth, who are also the 
supplier of the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is 
satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory 
taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant 
circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mrs W. The car here was about 
eleven years old and had already completed about 67,000 miles. So, I think a reasonable 
person wouldnt expect it to be fault free as would perhaps be the case with a brand new car.
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs within the first six months we are to 
assume it was present at the point of supply, when Polesworth were responsible for the cars 
quality, unless they can demonstrate otherwise. 
Ive reviewed the job cards provided by Polesworth. I understand that Mrs W disputes their 
authenticity, but having reviewed them Ive found nothing to suggest they are not accurate 
records of work reported to them and/or completed by them.
There were several issues reported to Polesworth within the first six months. Ive seen that 
the near side front drive shaft, offside front track rod ends, front brake discs and pads, off 
side front bottom ball joint with lower arm, and a wishbone, was replaced free of charge 
through the warranty. The job cards also explain that the Diesel Particulate Filter was 
cleaned abut three months after the car was supplied to Mrs W. I havent seen evidence that 
Mrs W didnt want the car fixed during that period, or that she wished to reject it, and Im 
therefore persuaded that Mrs W approved those repairs and the business took the action 
required of it under the relevant legislation.
The relevant legislation explains that if faults occur after six months the onus is on the 
consumer to demonstrate they were present, or developing, when the car was supplied to 
them. I can see that Mrs W needed to commission work after six months had elapsed. I dont 
think shes been able to supply evidence that those faults were present or developing when 
the business had responsibility for the quality of the car (on inception of the deal). Ive not, 
for instance, been provided with any expert mechanical opinion on those subsequent issues. 
A diagnostic, completed in March 2021, suggested there was a problem with the lower arms, 
that the driveshaft had an oil leak, the sub frame was corroded, and there was excessive 
wobble in the steering. Polesworth Garage had carried out repairs to the suspension only a 
couple of weeks previously, under warranty. As the problems identified in the diagnostic 
would, presumably, also be covered under warranty, it would have been a benefit for 
Polesworth to have completed the work. But following the diagnostic report, the car wasnt 
returned to Polesworth until September 2021. I think, if the diagnostic had been a true 
representation of the faults present on the car at that time, Mrs W would have been likely to 
have returned the car to the dealership for further repairs. I say that because the dealership 
had been supportive and completed work under warranty, and at no cost to Mrs W, when 
shed done so in December 2020, January, February, and March 2021. So, I dont place 
much weight on the diagnostic report, especially as aspects of it werent worked on for more 
than 12 months.
The near side front driveshaft and track rod ends appear to have failed again after the 
repairs in late 2020 and early 2021. Those subsequent failures happened after Mrs W had 
completed about a further 20,000 miles in the car. I dont think it would be reasonable, given 
that amount of mileage, to suggest they were failed repairs. It appears they failed a little 
earlier than would, perhaps, be expected for new parts, but the business didnt have to fit 
new parts (I dont know if it did) they only had to ensure that the parts they fitted were 
suitably durable for a car of this age and mileage, and I think they were.
Mrs W has referred me to a newspaper report about the dealership. Im reviewing this case 
on its individual merits and I dont think it would be reasonable to take information about 
other, non-related cases, into account.
Ultimately, Im not persuaded Polesworth have been unreasonable here and Im not asking 
them to take any further action.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman