DRN-4286031
The complaint
Mr P complains about the actions of J.P. Morgan Europe Limited trading as Chase when he 
was tricked into making payments on his debit card as a result of a scam. 
What happened
In July 2022 Mr P came into contact with a merchant via social media and was invited to join 
an investment group on a messaging platform. He was then given an account manager and 
registered with the merchants platform. In total he made five debit card payments totalling 
around £4,000 from 24 July to 24 August 2022. 
After he wasnt able to withdraw his profits, he became suspicious and raised a claim with 
Chase. But Chase said it wasnt going to offer a refund. So, Mr P brought his complaint to 
this service. He said the payments shouldve been stopped and more shouldve been done 
to recover his money. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said that the payments Mr P 
made werent sufficiently unusual for Chase to have intervened. And because they were sent 
to accounts in his own name at genuine crypto exchanges the money couldnt be recovered 
via a chargeback. 
Mr P disagreed and has asked for an Ombudsmans decision. He said the payments were 
unusual and Chase shouldve done more to stop and then warn him about these types of 
payments. If it had then the scam wouldve been stopped. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. Im sorry to hear that Mr P has been the victim of a cruel scam. I know he 
feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a disappointment to him, so Ill 
explain why. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
Ive firstly considered whether Chase shouldve done more to stop all the payments Mr P 
made towards this scam. It is common ground that Mr P authorised the scam payments with 
a total loss of around £4,000. I accept that these were authorised payments even though Mr 
P was the victim of a scam. So, although it wasnt his intention to pay money to the 
scammers, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs) and the terms of his 
account, Mr P is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of
practice and good industry practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate
for Chase to take additional steps or make additional checks before processing a payment in 
order to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
So, Ive looked into what this means for this case and whether Chase should have done 
more here to prevent the payments in dispute.
Here, Mr P sent various payments over a month to two legitimate crypto exchanges. The 
payments were for relatively small amounts at first, ranging from around £300 to £500. This 
was then followed by a later and larger payment of £2,200. I can see from Mr Ps statements 
that there werent a lot of previous payments to compare these ones to because the account 
had only recently been opened. 
And because the payments were made over a period of time, they created a pattern of 
spending on Mr Ps account that wouldnt have seemed unusual even when he made the 
slightly larger payment of £2,200. So, I dont think the payments were so unusual that Chase 
shouldve stopped them and asked further questions of Mr P. Because of this, I dont think 
Chase missed an opportunity to prevent the fraud from taking place. 
Here, because the payments were sent to accounts at the crypto exchanges in Mr Ps own 
name a chargeback couldnt be raised by Chase here. As a result, Chase didnt treat Mr P 
unfairly by not raising a chargeback and not attempting to recover his money. 
Im sorry to hear Mr P has been a victim in this way, but I dont think Chase are responsible 
for his loss and so I cant fairly ask them to do more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 December 2023.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman