DRN-3539256
The complaint
Mr Ns complained that he wasnt able to access his account with HSBC UK Bank Plc 
(HSBC) using their app or website  so he couldnt make essential payments.
What happened
In early 2022, Mr N found he couldnt use HSBCs mobile banking app to complete his day to 
day banking.  He tried uninstalling and reinstalling the app, but this didnt solve the problem.  
So he contacted HSBC.  HSBCs agent talked him through how to get access again and told 
Mr N HSBC were in the process of migrating their system  but hed not yet been migrated.  
Mr N complained to HSBC.  HSBC sent two responses.  In the second response, they said 
they couldnt assure Mr N thered be no problem in future, but their staff were working to try 
and stop that happening.  And they said the issue may have been caused by a technical 
glitch.
HSBC also said theyd made a note of the feedback Mr N had given about the issues and 
offered him £60 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
Mr N wasnt satisfied with HSBCs response and brought his complaint to us.  He remained 
in correspondence with HSBC, as the issues recurred.  Before they sent their file to us, 
HSBC reviewed their handling of the complaint and noted Mr N had had to correct some of 
the information they included in their response.  So they increased their offer of 
compensation to £100.
Our investigator considered Mr Ns complaint and concluded HSBC had made a fair offer to 
resolve it.  He said, that while it was clear Mr N had been inconvenienced, HSBC had 
resolved the matter quickly.  And he could have accessed his accounts in other ways (for 
example, telephone banking) if the app wasnt working for him.
Mr N didnt agree with the investigators view as he said the issues were still ongoing and 
hed had to lease an iPad to access the account.  He said he doesnt trust telephone banking 
and it isnt convenient.  And he said he was concerned that hed have to upgrade his phone 
to make use of the new app following migration  and regularly after that to keep up with any 
further updates HSBC made.
The investigator responded to Mr N, explaining that hed considered the initial complaint 
because that was the one HSBC had responded to and Mr N had brought to our service.  
But he contacted HSBC, who consented to dealing with the ongoing issues at the same 
time.
Along with providing consent, HSBC told the investigator theyd provided Mr N with a 
Physical Secure Key (PSK) allowing him to access his account via the internet if the mobile 
app isnt working.  But they acknowledged theyd delayed in doing that  so HSBC increased 
their offer of compensation to £200.  And they suggested Mr N may be having issues 
because he uses an older phone.
Mr N disputed there was any issue with accessing the app due to the age of his phone.  And 
he didnt accept HSBCs increased offer.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im upholding Mr Ns complaint.  But Im not asking HSBC to do more than 
theyve already offered to resolve it.  Ill explain why.
I understand Mr N has been frustrated by not being able to access his account as he wishes.  
Thats clearly inconvenient.  HSBC have acknowledged that and offered him compensation 
for this.  Its right theyve done that.  
It seems the problems may be linked to HSBC migrating their online banking.  This sort of 
migration often causes issues for businesses.  And, while its unfortunate this may have 
happened here, I dont think its fair for me to suggest HSBC shouldnt do this.  Nor can I say 
that future apps shouldnt require more up to date operating systems than Mr N has on his 
current phone.
HSBC havent been able to say exactly why Mr N had issues accessing his account.  But Im 
satisfied they looked into it.  And they fixed the issue when he called  but unfortunately only 
temporarily.  And they provided a PSK (albeit after a delay) to give Mr N another alternative 
means of access.
And there are alternatives, such as telephone banking, available to Mr N.  I understand he 
doesnt want to use this.  But thats his choice  as it will be his choice whether to update his 
phone in future.  It doesnt mean he cant access his account if he needs to.
Putting things right
Having weighed up all the information, I think £200 is a reasonable amount of compensation 
for HSBC to pay Mr N.  He was clearly inconvenienced by the fact he had to call HSBC to 
have the app reactivated, only for it to fail again.  But he was told during the call about the 
migration and that it was causing issues.  
So I think its reasonable to say that, after that first contact, Mr N was aware he may have 
use alternatives for his banking.  Im satisfied those alternatives were available, so its not 
fair to say he was without banking facilities.  I dont think its reasonable to say HSBC should 
pay more compensation because those facilities werent provided in Mr Ns preferred format.
Nor do I think HSBC should pay more compensation because of the potential issues Mr N 
said he may face.  He told us he was worried about his credit score suffering if he couldnt 
settle bills and if he couldnt pay the fees for a relatives care.  While I do understand those 
worries, I can only direct compensation for what has actually happened  not what might 
occur.  Ive seen no evidence that any of these problems came to pass.  
So its not appropriate for me to say HSBC should pay more compensation on this basis.  Im 
satisfied the compensation theyve offered Mr N is adequate for the errors and delay detailed 
above.  I dont think they need to do any more than that to resolve his complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ns complaint about HSBC UK Bank Plc 
and directing HSBC to pay him the £200 compensation theyve previously offered him.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2022.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman