DRN-3920940
The complaint
Mr E complains that Bank of Scotland plc reduced his credit card limit unfairly. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked through everything, I agree with the outcome reached by our investigator for 
these reasons: 
The terms and conditions of Mr Es credit card account state that Bank of Scotland 
may reduce his credit limit. These terms were accepted when Mr E took out the card. 
A bank wont give any notice when they reduce a credit limit. This is because they 
dont want to risk customers spending credit they may not be able to repay. Bank of 
Scotland wrote to Mr E on the same day as the reduction. They also sent a text 
message. So I am satisfied they followed the correct process. 
They explained that they regularly review limits to check they are offering the right 
level of credit. As part of any review, they look at the information they hold about their 
customers, the account history, and any information credit reference agencies share 
with them. Based on their review, they found it may have been difficult for Mr E to 
repay the limit held on the card. 
Mr E said he had enough to repay the borrowing and had always paid everything 
back that he had borrowed in the past. Bank of Scotland carried out a full financial 
review in January 2023 to see whether they could increase Mr Es limit. But due to 
adverse information showing on his credit file they were unable to do so. 
They said after six months of the adverse information being cleared, they can carry 
out another review. This would involve a credit search and would be subject to a new 
application. I find this to be fair and reasonable. 
If Mr E has any concerns about the information showing on his credit file, he would 
need to contact the credit reference agencies directly in order to dispute and 
potentially clear it.
I understand Mr Es frustrations, and while know this isnt the outcome he was hoping 
for, I hope I have clearly explained my reasoning on why Im not able to ask Bank of 
Scotland to reinstate the previous limit. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2023.
 
Danielle Padden
Ombudsman