DRN-3425172
The complaint
Mr and Mrs I complain about unnecessary delays when they applied to port their mortgage 
with Nationwide Building Society. They say they had to apply to another lender. Mr and Mrs I 
ask for compensation for their financial loss, including the early repayment charge (ERC) 
they paid to Nationwide, and their stress and anxiety.
What happened
Mr and Mrs I had a mortgage with Nationwide. They wanted to move home and in March 
2021 applied via a broker to port their mortgage and take out additional borrowing. They say 
they were asked for the same information and documents more than once. Nationwide 
required a structural survey, which Mr and Mrs I say was unnecessary. 
Due to the delays, Mr and Mrs I decided to apply elsewhere. They say another lender made 
a mortgage offer before Nationwide had completed its process (which by this time had taken 
nine weeks). Mr and Mrs I decided to proceed with the other lender. However, they had to 
pay a £380 broker fee and £2,300 ERC, as well as the cost of the structural survey. 
Nationwide said it had asked about school fees and for a visa more than once. It offered £75 
compensation. 
Our investigator said Nationwides offer of compensation was fair. The investigator said it 
was reasonable for Nationwide to ask for a structural survey, and this meant the application 
took longer than usual. Our investigator said that Nationwide hadnt received a request from 
the broker to escalate the application.
Mr I said the investigator hadnt taken all of the errors made by Nationwide into account, or 
the stress it caused them. He said £75 wasnt adequate compensation. He said while 
Nationwide might have been at the point of issuing a mortgage offer when they decided to 
go elsewhere, after nine weeks of errors theyd lost trust in Nationwide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
The time taken by Nationwide to process Mr and Mrs Is application is important to the 
outcome of this complaint. So Ive set out briefly what happened.
Nationwides records show it received Mr and Mrs Is application and supporting documents 
on 9 March 2021. It asked the broker for information about payments for school and nursery 
fees on 10 March, and chased the broker for this on 17 March 2021. Mr and Mrs Is 
responses were received on 18 and 22 March 2021. While Mr and Mrs I said the nursery 
fees would end soon as the child at nursey would be school age, Nationwide wanted to 
check if this meant an increase in school fees. This was resolved by 24 March 2021. 
Nationwide says it asked for the same information on two occasions. However, given the 
matter was resolved on 24 March 2021, any delay this caused cant have been for more than 
a few days. 
A valuation was carried out on 6 April 2021. The valuer said the property wasnt suitable 
security, but this could change with a structural survey. Nationwide informed the broker of 
this on 7 April 2021. 
Mr and Mrs I arranged a structural survey. Nationwide says it received the structural survey 
report on 23 April 2021. It sent the report to its valuers, who confirmed the valuation and that 
the property was suitable security on 30 April 2021. Nationwide says once it received the 
report it acted within its usual time scales.
On 6 May 2021 Nationwide asked for Mrs Is visa. It already had this. Its records show this 
was resolved on 7 May 2021. Nationwides notes show it approved Mr and Mrs Is 
application on 10 May 2021. Later the same day however, Nationwide was told Mr and Mrs I 
had decided to go elsewhere.
Was it fair and reasonable for Nationwide to ask for a structural survey?
Nationwide asked for a valuation of the property. This was so that it could assess whether 
the property was suitable security for the loan. It instructed a qualified surveyor, a member of 
RICS, and I think it was entitled to rely on the valuers expert opinion.
The valuer said there were cracks which could indicate movement. The valuer said the 
property wasnt suitable security, but this could be re-considered with a structural survey. 
Mr and Mrs I say the property was sound and the structural survey was unnecessary. But I 
dont think its reasonable to say that Nationwide should have proceeded without a structural 
survey, given the advice from its valuer. It was for Mr and Mrs I to decide whether to pay for 
a structural survey so that their application could proceed. I dont think its fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances to require Nationwide to compensate Mr and Mrs I for the 
cost of the survey.
Was it fair and reasonable for Nationwide to apply the ERC?
Mr and Mrs I took out a fixed interest rate mortgage product in 2019. An ERC applied if the 
mortgage was repaid before January 2022. This was set out clearly in the product offer in 
the form of a table. Mr and Mrs I repaid the mortgage during the product term and 
Nationwide applied the ERC, as it was entitled to do under the mortgage terms and 
conditions.
Mr and Mrs I say its unfair for Nationwide to apply the ERC. In effect, they say they had to 
borrow elsewhere because of Nationwides errors and delays.
There was almost nine weeks from the date of Mr and Mrs Is application to the date it was 
approved. This was longer than the average time, and certainly longer than Mr and Mrs I 
were happy with. That doesnt necessarily mean that Nationwide made errors, or if it did that 
these errors were the only or main reason for the application taking this amount of time. 
I need to take into account that it took over three weeks (between 6 April and 30 April 2021) 
for the structural survey to be carried out and for the valuer to confirm the property was 
suitable security. As Ive said, I dont think its reasonable to say that Nationwide should have proceeded without the structural survey. Mr and Mrs Is application was approved five 
working days after the valuer said the property was suitable security and confirmed the 
valuation. 
Nationwide accepts it asked for information it already had on two occasions. I dont think this 
caused delays of more than a few days. 
Mr and Mrs Is solicitors wrote to Nationwide on 5 May 2021 saying they were ready to 
exchange contracts and had a deadline to exchange of 14 May 2021. Nationwide approved 
the application on 10 May 2021. Had Mr and Mrs I continued with Nationwide, I think it would 
have provided a mortgage offer in time for them to exchange contracts on or before 14 May 
2021. Overall, taking into account the time taken with the valuation and survey, I dont think 
the timescales were so unreasonable as to make it fair and reasonable to require Nationwide 
to refund the ERC.
Putting things right
Nationwide offered £75 compensation for asking for information it already had. While this 
was no doubt frustrating, I dont think this caused significant delays or inconvenience to Mr 
and Mrs I. I think the compensation offered is fair and reasonable for any upset and 
inconvenience caused. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs I dont agree that a structural survey  which added both to the 
cost and the time taken to process their application  was necessary. But I think Nationwide 
was entitled to say it wouldnt proceed without this. I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
require Nationwide to compensate Mr and Mrs I for the cost of the survey.
If Mr and Mrs I hadnt cancelled their application I think Nationwide would have issued a 
mortgage offer in time for them to exchange contracts. While Nationwide made errors, I dont 
think they were so concerning as to make it impossible or unreasonable for Mr and Mrs I to 
proceed. Ultimately, it was for Mr and Mrs I to decide whether to proceed with Nationwide or 
the other lender, taking into account the relative costs of the interest rates offered, brokers or 
other fees and the ERC.
It follows that I dont think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances to require Nationwide 
to refund the ERC or pay compensation to Mr and Mrs I for the cost of the structural survey 
or any fees they paid to their broker. 
My final decision
My decision is that Nationwide Building Society should pay £75 to Mr and Mrs I, as it offered 
to do. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I and Mr I to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 May 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman