DRN-1791573
 
The complaint
Mr T complains that TSB Bank plc (TSB) insist on sending correspondence to both himself 
and his father without identifying them by their first names. Mr T lives with his father and 
shares the same title, surname, and first letter of their first name, and so it is impossible to 
identify for whom a letter is actually intended. As a consequence, Mr T inadvertently opened 
a letter intended for his father, rang TSB and was given information relating to his father, 
which he regards as a data breach, and for which requires compensation.
What happened
Our investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and issues, and is 
known to both Mr T and TSB, so there is no need for me to repeat it here in any detail. 
Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. So, if Ive not mentioned 
something its not because Ive ignored it, rather its because I dont think its of direct 
relevance to the issues I need to deal with. 
TSB have a policy of writing to their customers using their title, first letter of the first name, 
followed by their surname. Very obviously for Mr T that causes a difficulty with 
correspondence addressed to his father who shares the same details as his son.
When Mr T received such a letter, he rang TSB, went through security and discussed what 
appeared to be the details of a complaint, none of which were familiar to Mr T.  Ultimately 
the error was realised but not before Mr T had received information about his fathers 
account. In complaint to TSB, Mr T argued they should address correspondence to him 
using his first name; that he passed through telephone security using his own credentials 
which seemingly enabled access to be given to his fathers information, and that the call 
handler should have identified the error much sooner.
In response, TSB maintained their position and view as to how they address letters and say 
they do not intend to change it. But they do recognise that in Mr Ts case they fell into error 
when they began to discuss his fathers complaint and so they paid Mr T £25 by way of 
compensation.
Mr T was unhappy with TSBs final response and so approached this service to see if we 
could assist in resolving the dispute. An investigator looked into the complaint, and having 
done so, concluded that although there had been poor service by TSB in so far as the 
telephone call was concerned, the amount of compensation TSB offered and paid was 
enough to put things right. 
Mr T didnt agree with our investigators view and asked for the complaint to be passed to an 
Ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to mediate individual disputes between 
consumers and businesses, and to award redress where it is appropriate. I have considered 
both sides views in considering whether TSB acted fairly and reasonably. Ive looked at the 
issues raised and considered all the available evidence. I must make an independent 
decision about what I think is right for each case, and thats what Ive done here. In this 
case, I dont think that TSB has done anything wrong and Ill explain why.
At the outset I feel I should clarify that any overall concerns about business process would 
need to be raised with The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). They take a principles-based 
approach to conduct regulation, letting businesses choose how they incorporate those 
principles into the way they deal with customers. This is reflected in the remit the FCA has 
given this service under the Dispute Rules in the FCA Handbook. 
Our service doesnt have the power to make rules for financial businesses, assess or direct 
that they change their policy or procedures. We only look at what happened in the 
circumstances of the individual complaint and check that TSB followed its rules and 
procedures and is applying them fairly to all customers. What that means is I cant influence 
or tell TSB to change their policy on how they address their customers since that is a 
decision they are entitled to make. What I have noted however is that Mr T chose to register 
his contact details with TSB using a different title to that of his father, which in my view is a 
basis for saying that he ought to have known the letter he opened was not for him, since it 
did not bear the title he had specifically given TSB.
The failure in service occurs when Mr T calls TSB and despite giving his own security details 
it does not flag with TSB that they are talking to the wrong person. Mr T has suggested that 
the call he had with TSB was longer than 10 mins. There is no evidence to support this, and 
indeed the call provided to this service is in fact 10 minutes in duration. I must therefore 
conclude that Mr T is mistaken in his belief.
I think it is probably correct that there has been a data breach here, but I do not have powers 
to deal with the same since that would fall under the remit of the Information Commissioners 
Office (ICO). What I can look at is whether there has been a breach of confidentiality. On the 
evidence, there was no breach of Mr Ts data or his confidentiality, only that of his father. 
Having said that I fully accept that from Mr Ts perspective he would be left wondering how 
secure his own details might be. The impact on Mr T is therefore minimal in my view, 
amounting to a loss of time and some generalised anxiety regarding overall security.
TSB has accepted that it didnt get things right in this respect and because of that it should 
compensate Mr T. Although it has paid Mr T £25, he doesnt believe this is enough to put 
matters right, stating a sum of £5,000 is more reasonable. Ive given this some further 
thought and in so doing Ive considered the level of awards this service has made for trouble 
and upset in similar cases. I also thought about the impact, as I have found it to be, on Mr T. 
Putting all of this into the balance I think what TSB paid Mr T is fair and reasonable. 
So, although Mr T will probably be disappointed with my decision, and whilst TSB did indeed 
make an error, I cant say TSB has subsequently acted unfairly or unreasonably here and 
Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
TSB has already paid £25 to settle this complaint, and that is fair and reasonable. So, my 
final decision is that I dont require TSB to do anything else.
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint against TSB Bank plc.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2020.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman