DRN-1700548
 
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Lloyds Bank PLC closed her account following a large international 
cash transfer out of her account. She says the bank gave her incorrect advice about this 
transfer and it resulted in her being arrested and questioned by police.
What happened
Mrs L had a current account with Lloyds. 
On 20 November 2018 Mrs L went to her local branch to send some cash to her father who 
was ill abroad. Prior to this Mrs L had checked with branch staff if this was permitted. As 
Mrs L was reassured, she transferred the money.
Mrs L then visited the branch again having been requested to do so, she was again 
reassured that nothing was wrong.
Four weeks after the transfer Mrs L was sent a letter saying the bank wanted to close her 
account giving 60 days notice.
 Mrs L complained to the bank. She wanted to know why the account was going to be closed 
but the bank staff she spoke to wouldnt give her a reason. So, she raised a formal complaint 
with the bank.
The bank provided Mrs L with a final response letter in February 2019. It confirmed the bank 
would close Mrs Ls account on 1 April 2019 following a 60-day notice.
Mrs L was unhappy with the banks decision so complained to our service.
In May 2019 Mrs Ls house was searched by the police and she was arrested and 
interviewed. £600 worth of damage was done to her front door by the police effecting entry. 
Mrs L thought the bank had contacted the police because they had money laundering 
concerns. She said the transaction was genuine and Lloyds contacting the police caused her 
extreme distress and inconvenience.
Our investigator looked in to the complaint she said the bank had done nothing wrong 
because it had followed its own process when it decided to close Mrs Ls account. Although 
she was aware Mrs L was very distressed at what had happened to her, she said looking at 
the evidence, the bank hadnt been responsible for the police visiting Mrs Ls house and 
arresting her. She said despite Mrs Ls distress the bank had acted fairly when they closed 
her account.
 Mrs L was unhappy with the investigators view so the matter has come to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. having done so I have come to the same 
conclusion as the investigator for broadly the same reasons.
A bank is entitled to close an account with a customer just as a customer may close an 
account with a bank. But before a bank closes an account, it must do so in a way which 
complies with the terms and conditions of the account.
 The terms and conditions of the account  which both Lloyds and Mrs L had to comply with 
 say it could close the account by giving her 60 days notice. Lloyds has done this. So, its 
entitled to close the accounts as it seems its already done.
I know Mrs L was disappointed Lloyds decided to close her account. But as I have said, the 
bank can make commercial decisions about who it offers banking services to. It cannot 
unfairly discriminate against a customer. But it can say it no longer wishes to do business 
with individuals or small businesses. Thats because it has the commercial freedom to 
decide who it wants to contract with. I am satisfied Lloyds has exercised its commercial 
decision legitimately when it decided to close Mrs Ls account so I cant fairly and reasonably 
say its done anything wrong.
 Mrs L wants Lloyds to explain the reason it decided to close her account. And I can 
understand Mrs Ls frustration that she hasnt been provided a detailed explanation. But as 
the investigator has explained, Lloyds is under no obligation to provide this information to 
her, as much as shed like to know. So, I cant say Lloyds has done anything wrong by not 
providing this information to her. 
Mrs L suspects Lloyds is responsible for the police action. She wants Lloyds to compensate 
her for the damage to the front door and the distress caused. However, I have looked at the 
evidence provided, and I cant see the bank contacted the police. Mrs L says she was told by 
the police the bank had contacted them, but I have seen no evidence supporting this so on 
balance I dont think its likely the bank contacted the police.
I accept having her home searched and being questioned by police as well as having the 
front door broken was very distressing to Mrs L.  But as Ive said this didnt happen as a 
result of anything that Lloyds did. So, it wouldnt be fair for me to make an award against 
Lloyds.
I know Mrs L thinks the bank staff she spoke to gave her incorrect information by suggesting 
there was nothing wrong with the transfer she made. The evidence I have seen does not 
support this is what happened, so I dont think the staff Mrs L spoke to gave her incorrect 
advice, so I wont be asking Lloyds to do anything else about this.
 In summary, I recognise how strongly Mrs L feels about whats happened, and I dont doubt 
it was a frustrating time. I realise Mrs L will be disappointed by my decision, but overall, 
based on the evidence Ive seen, I cant say Lloyds has acted unreasonably and treated 
Mrs L unfairly when it closed her account. So, Im not going to ask them to do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above I do not uphold the complaint,Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2020.
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman