DRN-2125671
The complaint
Mrs R obtained a kitchen through a fixed sum loan with Hitachi Capital (UK) PLC. She 
complains that the kitchen isnt of satisfactory quality and the installation is incomplete. She 
brings her complaint under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, and were set out in my 
provisional decision, so I am not going to describe them again here. 
My provisional decision
I thought the complaint should be upheld and I set out my reasons why. I said:
Under section 75, if theres been a breach of contract by the retailer, Mrs R also has, 
subject to certain conditions, the right to make a claim against Hitachi, as the finance 
provider, for the breach. My role isnt to decide whether or not section 75 applies 
here. Rather, Im required to decide what, if anything, Hitachi should do to resolve 
this complaint. When taking into account whats fair and reasonable, Im required to 
take into account (amongst other
things) any relevant law. Relevant law includes section 75.
Why I think Hitachi has to take steps to put things right
The retailer designed the kitchen and should have shown reasonable care and skill. 
The design included an oven and a microwave which were to be installed one above 
the other. Mrs R clearly understood that these ovens would match and they dont. 
Whilst Mrs R signed to agree the order, I think it was reasonable for her to assume 
that the retailer would order two items that matched.
The installation of the kitchen is incomplete. The retailer says this is because Mrs R 
hasnt allowed it to complete the work and that the delay was caused by Mrs R  
because the level of the units was raised to install flooring. But, having carefully 
considered both the independent report and the photographs and video provided by 
Mrs R, I find there are enough faults with the kitchen and its installation for me to 
conclude that reasonable care and skill wasnt shown and theres been a breach of 
contract.
Hitachi provided the finance for the kitchen, so it is responsible for putting things 
right.
Why I dont intend to ask Hitachi to arrange for repairs
The relationship between Mrs R and the retailer has clearly broken down and I dont 
think it would be fair to allow the retailer to fix the faults. I could recommend Mrs R 
obtained quotes for a third party to carry out the necessary repairs. But I agree with 
our investigator that there are too many faults with the kitchen to make repair a 
reasonable remedy here.
What Hitachi must do now to sort this out
Mrs R should be allowed to reject the kitchen and Hitachi should refund everything 
paid under the terms of the finance agreement and arrange to collect the kitchen. 
Whilst this will cause more disruption for Mrs R in the short term, this resolution will 
enable her to choose a new kitchen and have it installed by a business of her 
choosing.
Mrs R first complained to the retailer in April 2019. Shes been trying to resolve this 
matter for more than a year. I dont think its fair that she should have to wait much 
longer. Hitachi should arrange to remove the existing units at a time and date 
convenient for Mrs R  she is likely to want to coordinate this with the delivery of her 
new units.
If, in removing the existing units, any remedial work is required  for example to 
flooring or plastering  Hitachi will need to arrange to complete this no later than two 
weeks after it removes the existing units.
Mrs R has provided evidence to show that she paid £1,390 to the kitchen fitter, and 
£405 to an electrician. The work shes paid for will have to be done again when the 
new kitchen is fitted, so I think Hitachi should reimburse Mrs R for these costs.
Compensation  out of pocket expenses
When Mrs R complained about the oven, she says she was advised not to use it so 
that it could be returned unused. And Hitachi told her to keep a note of any expenses 
she incurred as a result of not having a fully functioning kitchen. Later the retailer, 
and Hitachi, said the oven and the microwave oven were what she had ordered. Ive 
already set out why I think Hitachi is responsible for the wrong ovens being ordered 
and supplied. Taking into account that Mrs R was also without water for two months, 
I think she should be reimbursed for the cost of eating out. The receipts shes 
supplied show that her and her husband did not eat out frequently, relying on 
takeaways and microwave meals. When they did eat out, their spending was modest. 
They say they dont wish to claim for the cost of the small amount of alcoholic drinks, 
which I think is fair.
There is one receipt which is unreadable, so Ive used an average of the other 
receipts. And two of the receipts were duplicates (Mrs R submitted the credit card 
receipt as well as the food receipt). So the total cost of food (without alcohol) was 
£650.73 which I think Hitachi should reimburse.
Mrs R also explained that, because they were left with bare plaster for so long, they 
became troubled by the dust that was being created. So they bought paint to seal the 
plaster. I think Hitachi should reimburse them for this cost - £21.99.
Compensation  distress and inconvenience
Ive considered the impact of the breach of contract on Mrs R. Shes been without a 
functioning kitchen for over a year and I think she should be compensated for the 
trouble and upset shes been caused and her loss of enjoyment  shes told us the 
new kitchen was a retirement present for her and her husband and that shes not 
been able to entertain friends and family as shed planned. Ive also taken into account that after Hitachi arranged an independent report which, in September 2019, 
concluded that the kitchen should be removed and a new one installed. But Hitachi 
didnt change its position as a result of the findings of the report. It effectively 
continued to dispute the findings of that report  by passing us the retailers defence 
of the defects.
Our investigator recommended Hitachi paid Mrs R £250 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. I consider a further £1,000 to be fair and reasonable in these 
particular circumstances  making £1,250 in total. Its hard to see that the distress 
and inconvenience that Mrs R has suffered has been anything less than substantial. 
So Im setting this element of the compensation she should be paid in the middle of 
the range our service considers appropriate for substantial distress and 
inconvenience.
Mrs R agreed with my provisional decision.
Hitachi passed it onto the supplier who said, in summary, that it agreed to pay the 
compensation. But it said an independent expert should be instructed to complete a report to 
assess the nature and amount of work required to make the kitchen satisfactory.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Hitachi has not raised any new information or evidence in response to my provisional 
decision. It had already said it thought a second independent report should be completed 
and I took this into account in arriving at my earlier conclusions. Im not persuaded a second 
report is required  theres nothing to suggest the first report was unfair or inaccurate. And I 
also set out why I thought replacement of the kitchen was the fair and reasonable remedy.
So I find no reason to depart from my earlier conclusions.
Putting things right
Hitachi Capital (UK) PLC should:
1. Remove the kitchen at a convenient time to both parties  accepting this will be 
largely driven by the timetable for Mrs R sourcing a replacement.
2. If, in removing the existing units, any remedial work is required  for example to 
flooring or plastering  Hitachi will need to arrange to complete this no later than two 
weeks after it removes the existing units.
3. Refund the deposit paid.
4. Refund any payments made towards the agreement.
5. Refund the £1,795 Mrs R has paid for extra work that has not been able to be 
completed, and that she will need to arrange again once a new kitchen has been 
fitted.
6. Pay Mrs R £672.72 to reimburse her for the cost of her out of pocket expenses.7. Hitachi should add 8% simple interest to the payments it makes under 3, 4, 5 and 6 
above, from the date of payment to the date of settlement. 
8. Pay Mrs R £1,250 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Hitachi to take off tax from this interest. Hitachi must
give Mrs R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Hitachi Capital (UK) PLC should pay 
compensation and take the action set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2020.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman