DRN-3051707
The complaint
Mr D complained that Oakbrook Finance Limited (trading as Likely Loans) lent to him in an 
irresponsible manner.
What happened
Mr D was given a single loan by Oakbrook as follows: 
Loan 
NumberDate 
BorrowedAmount 
BorrowedRepayment 
TermMonthly 
repaymentInterest 
(APR)
One 03/05/2017 £3,000 30 Months £195.49 79.9%
Mr D has faced problems making his repayments and so a balance remained outstanding on 
the loan when he made his complaint.
One of our investigators has assessed Mr Ds complaint. She thought that the checks 
Oakbrook had done before agreeing the loan had been sufficient and that its lending 
decision was fair based on the information it had gathered. So she didnt conclude that the 
complaint should be upheld. 
Mr D didnt agree with that assessment. He mainly felt that Oakbrook didnt do enough 
checking before it agreed to lend and had it done so, it wouldve realised that he wasnt in 
paid work at the time (although hed put on his application that he was employed). 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
The rules and regulations at the time Oakbrook gave this loan to Mr D required it to carry 
out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he 
owed in a sustainable manner. 
Checks had to be borrower focused  so Oakbrook had to think about whether repaying 
the credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr D. In other 
words, it wasnt enough for Oakbrook to simply think about the risk of not getting its money 
back, it had to consider the impact on Mr D of having to make the repayments hed signed 
up to over the whole of the term of the loan.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate check will depend upon a number of things 
including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the consumer (e.g. financial 
history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or financial 
difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
 the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
 the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
higher repayments from a particular level of income)
 the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact that the total 
cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to make repayments for 
an extended period).
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether Oakbrook did what it needed to 
before agreeing to lend to Mr D.
Mr D was entering into a significant commitment with Oakbrook. He would need to make not 
insignificant monthly repayments for a period of two and a half years. So I would expect that 
Oakbrook would want to gather, and independently check, more detailed information about 
Mr Ds financial circumstances before it agreed to lend to him than it did. And I dont think 
that the checks it did were enough. Heres why I say this.
Oakbrook gathered some information from Mr D before it agreed the loan. It said that in line 
with its internal processes at the point of application, a standard credit assessment was 
conducted, which included a review of Mr Ds credit report with a credit reference agency. It 
also asked him for details of his income and based on what Mr D said, it calculated his 
earnings from employment worked out at around £2,313 per month. 
I think having a proper understanding of his likely income was a crucial factor in a fair 
lending decision in these particular circumstances. But, as far as I can tell, Oakbrook didnt 
take any further steps to check who Mr Ds employer was or whether he was working or 
what his monthly salary would likely be. 
Oakbrook also told us that it made its lending decision without gathering any details of 
Mr Ds expenditure. I think that would also have been key information when deciding 
whether to lend to him. 
Oakbrook has only been able to provide us with a high-level summary of the information it 
received from the credit check. Oakbrooks credit checks at the time suggested that Mr D 
had around £600 outstanding debt and six active accounts that all appeared to be well 
managed, with no signs of any money problems evident in his credit history. 
So I dont think the checks Oakbrook did before agreeing the loan were proportionate.
But although I dont think the checks Oakbrook did before agreeing the loan were sufficient, 
that isnt enough of a reason for me to uphold Mr Ds complaint. In order for Mr Ds complaint 
to succeed I would also need to be able to say that proportionate checks would have shown 
Oakbrook that Mr D couldnt sustainably afford the repayments. 
Ive considered all the available information that would help show me what a proportionate 
check is likely to have revealed at the time so I can say what Oakbrook was likely to have 
found out had it done more in-depth checks. In particular, Ive looked carefully through the 
information from HM Revenue & Customs and the bank statements Mr D has sent us.   
Mr D has told me he wasnt working when he took out this loan  and Ive no reason to doubt 
that hes sure about what hes told us. But I cant uphold his complaint just based on what he says because it seems thats not what he told Oakbrook at the time when he provided salary 
information in support of his application. I must look at all the available information and 
decide what I think, on balance, is most likely. This means making some reasonable 
assumptions where theres only limited information. And I must be impartial. 
Looking at information from HM Revenue & Customs about Mr Ds contributions paid in the 
tax year 2017-2018 (which covers the date of this loan), I can see that his contributions from 
paid employment were around £74 for the whole year and his record is noted Year is not 
full. This doesnt show if Mr D was in work on the day he took out this loan. But, because his 
earnings were sufficient in that tax year to meet the threshold for paying some National 
Insurance contributions, it shows that Mr D was in work for at least some of the time 
between April 2017  April 2018. 
Mr D has also provided his bank statements so Ive looked through these to see what 
Oakbrook was likely to have found out had it done more in-depth checks. In the absence of 
other evidence, I think the bank statements Mr D has sent me give a reasonable insight into 
his finances at the time. And had Oakbrook done proportionate checking it would likely have 
seen that, in the months running up to him taking out this loan, Mr D appeared to have been 
operating his account in overdraft from time to time  and he was around £1,995 overdrawn 
around three weeks before taking out this loan. But I can also see that he was making 
frequent (and some substantial) transfers into and out of the account from another account 
he was operating (which Mr D hasnt sent me bank statements for). So I dont feel I can fairly 
draw any firm conclusions about the way Mr D was managing his money at the time as I only 
have a partial understanding of the overall state of Mr Ds finances at the time. And theres 
nothing I can see on Mr Ds bank statements that shows me he wasnt in paid work when he 
took out the loan. 
Mr D sent us a link in an email to his credit report online but I havent been able to see that 
document  in order to access that information it looks like Mr D would need to enter his own 
log in details. But Oakbrook has also provided us with a more recently acquired credit report 
which shows more information about Mr Ds credit history at the time of this loan. 
The credit report contains historic information showing that Mr D had six active credit 
accounts open when he applied for this loan  two credit cards, two current accounts, a 
utility account and a telecommunications account. Even if Oakbrook didnt have the full 
details of Mr Ds credit history, this shows that the results summary Oakbrook relied on at 
the time seems to have been accurate. And I cant fairly say that this information was 
enough to have prompted a responsible lender to have declined Mr Ds loan application. 
It isnt unusual for applicants for this type of high cost loan to have a credit history showing 
other borrowing, overdraft use or even an impaired credit record  and these things wouldnt 
necessarily be reasons to prompt a responsible lender to decline a loan application. 
Im very sorry that Mr D has had a problem paying this loan and thats hes struggling 
financially. But, as things stand, I havent seen enough to make me think that had Oakbrook 
done a proportionate check it wouldve seen signs that Mr D was already facing serious 
financial difficulty. And given that Oakbrook gathered information that didnt show any 
obvious signs that Mr D was experiencing serious debt problems and the loan appeared to 
be affordable for him, I cant fairly uphold his complaint.
I havent seen anything to make me think that Oakbrook treated Mr D unfairly or 
unreasonably some other way. So I havent seen enough to be able to uphold Mr Ds 
irresponsible lending complaint. This means I cant fairly say that Oakbrook needs to do 
anything to put things right for Mr D.I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mr D but I think it is reasonable for 
Oakbrook to expect him to repay what he has borrowed  although on flexible terms to 
reflect his financial situation while he has continuing money problems. 
I take this opportunity to remind Oakbrook (or any a third-party debt collection agent) that it 
should always discuss payment options constructively with Mr D and treat him fairly and 
sympathetically if Mr D needs further time to pay what he still owes.
I hope that setting things out as I've done helps explain how I've come to my provisional 
decision. And if Mr D would like help to manage his finances theres more information about 
how to get free debt advice on our website  or we can provide contact details if he gives us 
a call. 
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr D told us that he stood by his complaint that this loan was given to him without full checks 
being done first. He told us his tax records clearly showed that he wasnt working when this 
loan was taken out. And, for a loan of this size, he expected the lender to have at least 
checked bank statements and/or payslips from work. He said if Oakbrook had done that, it 
wouldve realised he was jobless and not lent to him.
Oakbroook told me it has nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr D feels strongly about what happened and he holds a different view to 
me. I would like to assure Mr D that Ive taken carefully into account all the information I've 
been able to see and everything thats been said, including his comments in response to my 
provisional decision. 
Im very sorry that Mr D had a problem with debt and that his circumstances have been so 
difficult. But what Mr D has told me isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold the 
complaint. Weve explained that we cant open online links in communications sent to him by 
the tax authorities and asked if Mr D can send us more information about this but he hasnt 
responded. So I think its fair and reasonable for me to proceed on the basis of the 
information thats on file. 
Where the information is inconsistent or incomplete, as some of it is here, I must make my 
decision based on the information thats available to me. I havent seen enough overall 
safely to be able to say that Oakbrook should have realised this loan was not sustainably 
affordable for Mr D. So I cant fairly conclude that it acted unfairly or unreasonably when it 
provided it.
As no further comments have been received in response to my provisional decision that 
change what I think about this case, I still think its fair not to uphold this complaint for the 
reasons I explained in more detail in my provisional decision. 
My final decisionFor these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman