DRN-3260434
The complaint
This complaint is about the service provided to Mr and Mrs G by mortgage brokers 
London and Country Mortgages Ltd (L&C) during a mortgage application to a lender Ill 
call N. The application was turned down by N after it was established that the source of 
most of Mr and Mrs Gs deposit was family gifts rather than personal savings. This left 
Mr and Mrs G with abortive legal costs of over £500, which they believe L&C should 
refund to them for having recommended a mortgage for which they were never eligible. 
What happened
By way of a provisional decision dated 5 January 2022, I set out my provisional conclusions 
on how this complaint should be determined. The following is an extract from the provisional 
decision.
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mr and Mrs H and L&C. Im also 
aware that the investigator issued a detailed response to the complaint, a copy of which has 
been sent to all parties, and so I dont need to repeat all the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Mr and Mrs G being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary in my own words 
(and rounding any figures) and then focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont 
mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was 
material to the outcome of the complaint. 
In September 2020, Mr and Mrs G completed an online mortgage enquiry form, in which 
they described their deposit as coming from personal savings. Based on this, and other 
information gleaned from Mr and Mrs G, L&C recommended a mortgage with N and the 
application was made on 2 October 2020. 
In mid-October, information came to light causing L&C to check if the money for the deposit 
had recently been gifted to Mr and Mrs G. They confirmed that this was the case, and when 
this information was relayed to N, it turned down the application, as its policy was not to 
accept applications where more than 25% of the deposit is a gift.
L&C set about sourcing a mortgage with a different lender, but the seller of the property 
wasnt prepared to wait for this, and withdrew from the sale to Mr and Mrs G in favour of 
another buyer. This left Mr and Mrs G with abortive legal costs of over £500, and they 
complained to L&C that this was result of them having been recommended a mortgage for 
which they werent eligible.
L&C rejected the complaint and Mr and Mrs G referred it to us. Our investigator considered 
L&C to be at fault and recommended the complaint be upheld and redress awarded to 
Mr and Mrs G. L&C has asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the 
round.
We have no regulatory function; thats the role of the Financial Conduct Authority; nor are we 
a consumer protection body. Were an alternative dispute resolution body; an informal 
alternative to the courts for financial businesses and their customer to resolve their 
differences. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. That means I dont have to address every individual question or issue 
thats been raised if I dont think it affects the outcome.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to a different conclusion from the investigator. I set out my 
provisional findings below so that both parties can comment before I finalise my decision.
As I understand it, Mr and Mrs G have attributed the rejection of their application to structural 
failings on L&Cs part. Thats because the case manager who identified the issue with the 
deposit wasnt qualified to the same degree as the mortgage advisor who had made the 
recommendation in the first place, and seemingly wasnt in contact with the advisor to 
discuss the implications of the new information. 
Mr and Mrs G say the advisor admitted as much in a phone conversation with them. Its not 
been possible to obtain a recording of that conversation, so Ive no way of checking what the 
advisor said or the context in which he said it. However, Im satisfied I dont need to hear that 
conversation to decide this case fairly. 
Thats because I dont agree that structural failings on L&Cs part caused Mr and Mrs Gs 
application to N to be rejected, and their purchase aborted. Very simply, this happened 
because the information they gave to L&C, which it relied on to recommend N as a lender 
and initiate the application to it, was inaccurate.
Mr and Mrs G say: When filling out the mortgage application forms, we had said the funds 
were coming from "savings" because the funds were in our personal savings account.  
The form Mr and Mrs G filled out listed several potential sources of deposit, one of which 
was gift. So Im satisfied Mr and Mrs G would have known that any part of the deposit 
theyd received from family gifts should be disclosed as such. Also, the section of the form 
they ticked as the source of their deposit didnt simply say savings; it said personal 
savings. But Mr and Mrs G hadnt saved this money personally. So Im also satisfied 
Mr and Mrs G should have been aware what they were declaring wasnt correct. 
Mr and Mrs G say L&C didnt tell them about the importance of the source of the deposit, or 
disclose Ns lending policy rule to them. It didnt need to do either of those things; all L&C 
needed to do was trust that Mr and Mrs G had given it accurate information on which to 
formulate its recommendation. 
Our investigator said that L&Cs case manager should have realised the new information 
would impact on the suitability of the advisors recommendation. Again, I have to disagree. 
The new information clearly impacted on the prospect of the application to N being accepted, but the advisors original recommendation was sound, based on what he had been told 
before he made it. 
In summary, L&C did all that I would reasonably expect a broker to do in a situation such as 
this, including being prepared to source the mortgage from a different lender once N said no. 
It might still have been possible for Mr and Mrs G to complete their intended purchase, but 
their vendor wasnt willing to wait. Thats not down to any act or omission on L&Cs part.
I gave the parties two weeks to reply to the provisional decision; weve not heard from L&C, 
meanwhile Mr G has emailed to say he and Mrs G disagree with my provisional conclusions. 
They maintain L&C should have acted as soon as it knew the information on which its 
recommendation had been based could no longer be relied on.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered afresh everything that both parties have said and provided. Having done so, 
I wont be departing from my provisional conclusions. 
Ive noted what Mr G has said, but I dont consider it likely that anything would have 
happened differently if L&C had called a halt to the application to N as soon as it found out 
Mr and Mrs G hadnt answered its question truthfully. It would still have had to start a new 
mortgage application to a different lender from scratch, and Ive no reason to think 
Mr and Mrs Gs vendor would have acted any differently on hearing that.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 February 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman