DRN-4323717
The complaint
Mr Z complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC blocked and closed his account. Mr Z says this 
caused him inconvenience and financial loss for which he should be compensated.
What happened
Mr Z had a personal account with Barclays. In February 2023, Barclays decided to review 
Mr Zs account. Whilst it completed its review it restricted the account and moved the funds 
to a sundry account. At the time the balance of the account was £5,000. 
Barclays completed its review on 22 February 2023 and returned Mr Zs money to his 
account. During the review, Mr Z wasnt able to use the account, and no payments could 
leave or be made into the account. Following this, in March 2023, Barclays decided to close 
Mr Zs account and wrote to him giving him two months notice that hed need to make 
alternative banking arrangements. Mr Zs account was closed in May 2023. 
Mr Z complained to Barclays. He explained that the banks actions had caused him a great 
deal of stress and that he missed out on a holiday he had planned because he had no 
access to his account. He also said that a number of direct debits werent paid which meant 
he had to pay charges. In response, Barclays said it hadnt done anything wrong and had 
blocked Mr Zs account to comply with its legal and regulatory obligations. The bank also 
said it had closed the account in line with the terms and conditions. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr Z asked us to investigate his complaint. He said the block 
on his account had caused him a lot of problems. He explained that he was due to go on 
holiday to France and had booked hotel accommodation, which couldnt be cancelled. And 
because of the block on his account, he couldnt buy train tickets to travel to France.  So, he 
wants Barclays to compensate him for the cost of the hotel and his missed holiday. Mr Z also 
says that he had to rearrange his direct debits, which was a nightmare, and he had to pay 
charges for missed debits. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Zs complaint.  She said whilst she appreciated 
Barclays actions had caused Mr Z trouble and upset, she thought Barclays hadnt done 
anything wrong. She looked at all the evidence and was satisfied that Barclays had acted in 
line with their legal and regulatory obligations when it blocked Mr Zs account. And had 
closed the account in line with the account terms. So, she didnt uphold Mr Zs complaint.
Mr Z disagreed. He wants a proper explanation about why Barclays blocked his account and 
dont want him as a customer. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would add too that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat 
evidence from financial businesses as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if 
it contains information about other customers, security information or commercially sensitive 
information. Some of the information Barclays has provided is information that we 
considered should be kept confidential. This means I havent been able to share a lot of 
detail with Mr Z, but Id like to reassure him that I have considered everything.
I appreciate that Mr Z is upset that Barclays blocked his account. I can also understand that 
this was no doubt stressful for him especially as the banks actions meant direct debits went 
unpaid and he wasnt able to pay for train tickets to France. So, he missed out on his trip and 
was left out of pocket having paid for hotel accommodation. But for me to uphold this 
complaint, I must be satisfied that the bank has done something wrong. And in this case, I 
dont think it has. Ill explain why.
I want to make it clear that I understand why what happened concerned Mr Z. Ive no doubt it 
wouldve come as quite a shock to him to find out he couldnt access his money and his 
account had been blocked. But as the investigator has already explained, Barclays has 
extensive legal and regulatory responsibilities they must meet when providing account 
services to customers. They can broadly be summarised as a responsibility to protect 
persons from financial harm, and to prevent and detect financial crime.
Having reviewed all the evidence, Im satisfied that Barclays were acting in line with its legal 
and regulatory obligations when it restricted Mr Zs account. The terms of Mr Zs account 
also permit Barclays to restrict access to accounts. So, I cant say Barclays treated Mr Z 
unfairly when it blocked his account. I understand not having access to his account caused 
Mr Z problems with his direct debits and paying for the costs of his trip to France, but it 
wouldnt be appropriate for me to award Mr Z compensation since I dont believe Barclays 
acted inappropriately in taking the actions that it did when it blocked Mr Zs account. 
Whilst Barclays are entitled to restrict a customers account, Id expect them to do so in 
timely manner. Mr Zs account was blocked on 10 February 2023 and the review was 
completed on 22 February 2023. Given everything Ive seen I cant say there were any 
undue delays. So, Im satisfied that Mr Zs account wasnt blocked for longer than necessary.
Ive next gone on to consider whether Barclays acted fairly when it closed Mr Zs account. 
Its generally for banks and financial businesses to decide whether or not they want to 
provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless 
theres a very good reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a bank must keep 
customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had their account closed.
Barclays have relied on the terms and conditions when closing Mr Zs account. Ive reviewed 
the terms and they explain that Barclays can close an account for any reason by giving two 
months notice. 
Having looked at all the information available to me, including Barclayss actions and the 
information its provided Im satisfied that Barclayss decision to close Mr Zs account was 
reached legitimately and fairly. Ive reviewed the terms and conditions and circumstances of 
this complaint, and Im satisfied Barclays acted in line with them, so, it was entitled to close 
the account as it has already done. Barclays have provided Mr Z with the full notice period, 
so I cant say Barclays have acted unfairly in taking the actions it did. Ive considered 
whether Barclays need to offer any compensation in regard to the closure. But from what Ive 
seen the decision to close Mr Zs account was reasonable. So, I wont be asking Barclays to 
do anything to resolve this aspect of Mr Zs complaint.In summary, I appreciate that it was upsetting and stressful for Mr Z when Barclays blocked 
his account, removed his money, and then closed his account. So, I realise Mr Z will be 
disappointed by my decision. But it wouldnt be appropriate to make an award of 
compensation since I dont believe Barclays acted inappropriately in taking the actions it did.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman