DRN-2221752
The complaint
Miss L complains about how Assurant General Insurance Limited dealt with her mobile 
phone insurance claim under her gadget insurance policy.
Miss L will see that my decision is about a business with a slightly different name to the 
business referred to by our investigator. Assurant General Insurance Limited is the policy 
insurer responsible for claims and the correct business for my decision to be about. The 
change in business hasnt affected the outcome of my decision. My references to Assurant 
include its agents
What happened
In October 2019 Miss L claimed on the policy for a damaged phone screen. Assurant 
accepted the claim and Miss L paid the £50 claim excess. Assurant received the phone on 
18 October, repaired the problem and returned the phone to Miss L on 23 October. The 
repaired phone came with a warranty.
On 27 October 2019 Miss L told Assurant the phone now had no sound. Assurant agreed to 
repair the phone under the warranty. It received the phone on 18 November 2019, repaired 
the problem and returned the phone to Miss L on the 19 November.
On the 25 November 2019 Miss L complained to Assurant that: shed lost business due to 
the problems with her phone; Assurant hadnt checked the phone was fully functioning 
before returning to her; it hadnt offered her compensation for breaking the sound function.
On 11 December 2019 a team manager at Assurant called Miss L to discuss her complaint 
and she said her phone now had a different fault.
Assurant offered to exchange the mobile phone for a replacement or pay Miss L £180 cash 
settlement to buy a replacement phone, once she returns the faulty phone. It accepted the 
phone became faulty following its repairs and it delayed in setting up Miss Ls complaint. It 
offered Miss L £75 to apologise for her inconvenience.
Miss L complained to us. She said she suffers from social anxiety, had to pay someone to go 
to a library to print information to return her phone and had panic attacks due to this issue. 
She said Assurant ignored some of her emails and gave poor service. Miss L agreed the 
£180 to buy a new phone but she wants the money to go into her account before she returns 
the faulty phone. Miss L doesnt think £75 compensation is enough and she wants all the 
policy premiums and £50 excess she paid refunded.
Our investigator said Assurants offer was fair.
Miss L disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. She says Assurant should refund all 
her payments as it didnt provide the service it should have.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think Assurant did give Miss L some poor service but its offer to put things right was fair. So 
I partly uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Assurants repair reports for the two repairs it carried out on Miss Ls phone show that once 
the repairs were completed the phone had a full quality test which it passed both times. So  
the evidence is the phone was checked and was fully working before the phone was 
returned to Miss L.  
The phone did develop other faults shortly after returning to Miss L. Theres no evidence to 
support that Assurant caused those faults but it accepts the phone became faulty following 
its repairs. Once Assurant knew about the first fault it agreed to repair, as was fair. When 
Assurant knew about the second fault it offered to replace the phone and a few days later 
offered the alternative of sending Miss L a cash settlement. Thats a fair offer by Assurant 
and more than it needs to do under the policy.
Ive seen evidence that at the time Assurant made the offer £180 was enough for Miss L to 
buy an equivalent replacement phone and shes agreed the amount. I think Assurant can 
fairly say it will only pay Miss L once she returns the faulty phone, which is standard practice. 
I wouldnt expect Assurant to send a Miss L money to buy a replacement phone while the 
she still had the faulty phone that needs to go back to Assurant.
As to Assurants service, Im satisfied it repaired the phone in a reasonable timescale. The 
only substantive delay was Assurant not following up on Miss Ls emails of  25 and 27 
November until calling her on 11 December. Assurant accepts that was an unreasonable 
delay, apologised and offered £75 compensation. Thats a reasonable amount and more 
than I would have said Assurant had to pay if it hadnt made the offer.
Miss L says she had panic attacks due to the situation and she had to pay someone to help 
her get the paperwork. Ive no medical evidence about her medical condition and Assurant 
doesnt need to refund Miss L any payment she made to someone else. As the £75 
compensation is more than I would have awarded I think its a reasonable amount for the 
situation Miss L describes. 
Miss L also said she lost income because of Assurants delay in repairing her phone. I dont 
think it did delay in its repairs. And the policy is clear Assurant doesnt cover any loss of 
profit. It doesnt need to make any payment to Miss L for any lost income. 
Miss L mentioned that an Assurant manager was rude to her on a call and wouldnt let her 
speak. I havent looked into that mater as I cant see she complained to Assurant about that 
and she would need to do so before we could look into the matter.
Theres no reason for Assurant to refund the policy premiums or the £50 excess to Miss L. 
Shes had the benefit of being insured by the policy and ultimately the result of Miss Ls 
claim is that Assurant is paying her £180 to buy a replacement phone.   
Putting things right
Assurant gave some poor service to Miss L, as it accepts. It must pay her £75 compensation 
for her distress and inconvenience, as its already offered. Upon Assurant receiving Miss Ls 
faulty phone it must pay her £180 cash settlement to resolve her claim, as its already 
offered.My final decision
I partly uphold this complaint. I require Assurant General Insurance Limited to pay Miss L:
£75 compensation for her distress and inconvenience, as its already offered, and
£180 cash settlement to resolve her claim, as its already offered, once its received 
Miss Ls faulty phone.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman