DRN-3165107
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) gave him an overdraft 
without checking his credit history. 
What happened
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Bs concerns and didnt think NatWest had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr B unfairly. Mr B, disagreed and so the complaint was passed to 
an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including the 
key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive referred to this 
when deciding Mr Bs complaint. Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail. 
NatWest needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
NatWest needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr B 
would be able to repay what he was being lent before providing any credit to him. Our 
website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. 
Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of 
how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship. But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income 
was low or the amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the 
greater the risk of it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial 
difficulty. 
So wed expect a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer 
irresponsibly. Mr B says if NatWest had checked his credit file it wouldve seen he had 
defaults registered against him. But NatWest has told us at the time Mr B was approved for 
the £250 overdraft the defaults hadnt show up on the credit report as Mr B had provided an 
incomplete address history and the credit reference agency it used hadnt yet managed to 
link all Mr Bs addresses. 
So I dont agree that NatWest approved Mr B an overdraft when it knew he had defaults 
registered against him  NatWest carried out the appropriate credit check on Mr B and were 
entitled to rely on the information provided to it.
Id also add that the overdraft was for a modest amount of £250. And given the credits going 
into the account of around £2,000 a month, I dont think that it was unreasonable for 
NatWest to conclude Mr B would be able to repay the additional funds within a reasonable 
period of time. 
This means that I dont agree NatWest provided Mr B with an overdraft unfairly or 
irresponsibly. That said, even though Mr Bs overdraft wasnt approved irresponsibly, 
NatWest still wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr B if it applied any interest, 
fees and charges to Mr Bs account in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly 
and reasonably to have been aware Mr B was experiencing financial difficulty. 
So Ive considered whether there were instances where NatWest didnt treat Mr B fairly and 
reasonably. I dont think that NatWest did treat Mr B unfairly or unreasonably though. I say 
this because having looked at Mr Bs statements I cant see anything to suggest that 
NatWest ought to have realised he might have been experiencing financial difficulty prior to it 
being notified of this. 
I accept that Mr B was using his overdraft regularly. But it is clear that funds were going into 
the account which reduced the outstanding balance and at times brought it into credit. 
Equally while Im not seeking to make retrospective value judgements over Mr Bs 
expenditure, nonetheless the transactions leaving the account are mainly - if not all - non-
committed, non-contractual and discretionary.  
Furthermore, the amount being credited to Mr Bs account each month didnt indicate that 
there was no reasonable prospect of him seeing a credit balance at any stage either. 
I accept neither of these things in themselves mean that Mr B wasnt experiencing financial 
difficulty. But there isnt anything in these transactions in themselves which ought to have 
alerted NatWest to any potential financial difficulty. 
So, in these circumstances I dont think that it was unreasonable for NatWest to proceed 
with adding the interest, fees and charges it did until Mr B got in touch. And I dont think that 
NatWest treated Mr B unfairly or unreasonably which means that Im not upholding this 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman