DRN-3884520
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with the service provided by HCC International Insurance Company Plc 
trading as Tokio Marine HCC (HCC) following a claim for damage to his watch, under his 
contents and personal possessions insurance policy. 
What happened
HCC are the underwriters of this policy. Part of this complaint concerns the actions of the 
agent, company T. As HCC have accepted they are accountable for the actions of company 
T, in my decision, any reference to HCC includes the actions of company T. 
Mr C purchased a watch in 2016. Mr Cs watch was designed to be used underwater. The 
operating instruction manual for Mr Cs watch explained:
Water-resistance: a watchs water-resistance cannot be permanently guaranteed. It 
may notably be affected by the ageing of gaskets or by an accidental shock to the 
crown. We recommend you have the water resistance of your watch checked once a 
year by an authorised [watch] Service Centre.
What are the service intervals? Like any precision instrument, a watch needs regular 
servicing to ensure that it functions perfectly. We cannot indicate the frequency of 
such work, since it depends entirely on the model, the climate and the owner's 
individual care of the watch. As a general rule, a watch should be serviced every 5 to 
8 years, depending on the conditions in which it is used.
Mr C says he was aware of the need for his watch to be serviced every 5 to 8 years as this 
information was given to him when he visited a watch retailer in 2018. 
Mr C arranged for insurance for his watch with cover starting on 1 January 2022. The policy 
terms and conditions explained:
D) Your duties
1) You must take all reasonable steps to prevent loss, damage or an accident
The policy terms and conditions included the following exclusion in the event of a claim:
I) Wear and tear, anything that happens gradually and general maintenance
This insurance does not cover loss or damage resulting from wear and tear, anything 
that happens gradually, general maintenance or a lack of sealant of grout.
In April 2022 Mr C wore his watch underwater for the first time. Mr C noticed condensation 
on the inside of the watch shortly after using it underwater. 
Mr C contacted HCC to make a claim under his insurance policy. Mr C confirmed that he 
hadnt had his watch checked or serviced since hed purchased it.
HCC arranged for an inspection of Mr Cs watch by a third party specialising in the 
assessment of jewellery claims. The third party noted In order to maintain the watch 
waterproof the seals have to be replaced every 12-18 months as well as the crown/glass/ 
valve checked if the watch is used regularly in water. 
HCC didnt accept Mr Cs claim because of the exclusion relating to wear and tear, which 
they said applied in this case. HCC said the inspection of the watch determined that the 
condensation had been caused by the failure of the internal rubber seals that had perished 
over time. HCC also said that if Mr C had had his watch checked or serviced since hed 
purchased it, the perishing of the internal rubber seals would have been discovered and the 
seals replaced, preventing the failure of the watchs waterproofing when you were in the 
water.
Mr C was unhappy with this decision, and brought his complaint to this service for 
investigation. Mr C said the terms and conditions for his insurance policy did not specify 
servicing of the watch in order for a claim to be accepted. Mr C also said the watch was in 
perfect working order before he used it in the sea, and therefore it could not have been 
gradual wear and tear that had caused the issue. 
The investigator found that HCC hadnt dealt with Mr Cs claim fairly. The investigator found 
that Mr C was aware that his watch would need to be serviced every 5- 8 years. As the 
incident had taken place before a service was reasonably due, it wouldnt be fair for HCC to 
rely on the wear and tear exclusion for rejecting the claim. The investigator also said that Mr 
C had used his watch under water for the first time so it was reasonable for him to not have 
had a water resistance check on his watch before the incident had happened. The 
investigator asked for HCC to reconsider Mr Cs claim.
HCC didnt agree with the investigators findings. HCC said the requirement to have a water 
resistance check carried out was made clear in the operating instructions booklet, and on the 
watch retailers website. As Mr C hadnt done this, HCC wouldnt be able to accept the claim. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved it was passed to me for decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the evidence I agree with the investigators outcome on this complaint for 
broadly the same reasons. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent 
commented on any specific point its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the 
right outcome.
The main reason for rejecting Mr Cs claim is because HCC consider that Mr C didnt do 
enough to fulfil the care instructions for his watch- namely, the servicing of his watch, and 
annual water resistance check, which they say wouldve prevented the failure of the watchs 
waterproofing when [Mr C was] in the water.
Its not disputed that Mr C was aware of the need to have his watch serviced every 5-8 
years. As the investigator has explained, Mr C was well within this window at the time of 
making a claim. So I dont think it would be reasonable for HCC to rely on this requirement 
as a reason for rejecting Mr Cs complaint. In response to the investigators findings, HCC have focused on Mr Cs failure to complete 
an annual water resistance check. HCC say the damage caused to Mr Cs watch is a direct 
result of Mr Cs failure to carry out this requirement. So Ive considered whether HCC have 
acted fairly in reaching this decision. 
HCC say the operating instructions explained the need for Mr Cs watch to be checked on an 
annual basis. But I havent seen anything in the policy terms and conditions provided to Mr C 
which make this requirement clear. 
The operating instructions say We recommend you have the water resistance of your watch 
checked once a year by an authorised [watch] Service Centre. This information is provided 
in page 5 of a 35 page densely worded document. I think HCC needed to do more to make 
this requirement clear in the policy terms and conditions. Had HCC considered the care 
requirements in the operating instructions a condition of a claim being met, then this 
shouldve been clearly specified in the policy terms and conditions. I cant see that it was. 
HCC say regardless of the frequency that Mr C was using his watch underwater, he 
shouldve had the water resistance checked annually. As I dont think this requirement was 
made clear at the time insurance was taken out, Ive considered whether this is something 
Mr C shouldve done in order to meet the policy requirement of taking all reasonable steps 
to prevent loss, damage or an accident.
The third party that assessed Mr Cs claim specifically noted that a time span of 12-18 
months between having the watch checked would be expected if the watch is used regularly 
in water. Its not disputed that Mr C used his watch underwater for the first time in 2022. I 
dont think its unreasonable that Mr C hadnt had his watch checked for water resistance 
before this time, as he didnt regularly use it for leisure underwater. 
I dont think HCC have shown that Mr C failed to take reasonable care with his watch. The 
make and model of Mr Cs watch supported underwater use so it is fair for Mr C to have 
used it this way without anticipating any problems. Mr C hadnt regularly used the watch 
underwater so I dont think theres enough evidence to say that he shouldve been aware of 
the need to have regular checks of the watch- specifically to ensure the water resistance 
features of the watch were functioning correctly. 
Mr C has given a compelling testimony about the care and attention provided in looking after 
his watch- including the frequency of its use, and insurance taken out for the purpose of 
maintaining its value. I think Mr C did what was reasonably required of him to maintain and 
look after his watch.
I dont think HCC have done enough to evidence reliance on the wear and tear exclusion of 
Mr Cs policy as a reason to reject the claim. HCC say a requirement in order for this 
exclusion not to apply in this case would be evidence of Mr C having his watch checked for 
water resistance, as this wouldve prevented the issue with the faulty rubber seal. But I dont 
think the terms and conditions made this requirement clear, and given Mr Cs use of the 
watch, I dont agree that its something he ought to have known. 
Putting things right
To put things right HCC must assess the claim for damage to Mr Cs watch without relying 
on the wear and tear exclusion. The claim must be assessed in accordance with the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy.My final decision
For the reasons provided I uphold this complaint. 
HCC International Insurance Company Plc trading as Tokio Marine HCC (HCC) must follow 
my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman