DRN-4387996
The complaint
Mr P has complained about the delay in Haven Insurance Company Limited having his van 
repaired after it was damaged in an accident and he made a claim under his Commercial 
Vehicle Plus Insurance Policy.
A claim handling agent acted for Haven in arranging the repairs to Mr Ps van, but for the 
sake of ease Ive only referred to Haven in this decision and its approved repairer.
Mr P is represented by Mrs B, although he has mainly corresponded with us on his 
complaint himself. 
What happened
Mr Ps vehicle was damaged in an accident in November 2022. He put in a claim for the 
damage and decided he wanted to have his van repaired by Haven on 2 December 2022. 
Haven arranged for his van to go to one of its approved repairers to be repaired. There were 
delays on Havens part in authorising the repairs due to communication issues with the 
approved repairer. Then, once the repairs were authorised, there was a delay getting the 
parts. 
Mr P complained to Haven about the delay in getting his van repaired. It investigated his 
complaint and issued a final response on 4 May 2023. In this it explained the reasons for 
some of the delays and apologised that these were  in the main  down to it or its approved 
repairer. And it offered Mr P £150 in compensation. It said the repairs couldnt proceed at 
that stage due to parts not being available as a result of an industry wide shortage of parts. 
Mr P still wasnt happy and asked us to consider his complaint. 
One of our investigators did this. He issued his first view on it on 18 August 2023. In this he 
said that the delay in repairing Mr Ps van and the poor communication around this was 
unacceptable. He recommended a payment of £500 in total for the distress and 
inconvenience Mr P had experienced because of this. As it wasnt clear how long it would 
take to get all the parts needed to repair Mr Ps van he said Haven should treat it as a total 
loss and settle his claim by paying Mr P the cost of replacing it, less any policy excess 
applicable. He also said Haven should have provided Mr P with a replacement van while his 
van was off the road. And that hed lost income from his job as a self-employed delivery 
driver because Haven hadnt provided a replacement van while dealing with the claim. He 
said Haven should pay him £63.59 per day to compensate him for this up to the point his 
claim was settled. 
Haven didnt agree with the investigators view. It said it would pay the £500 in compensation 
for distress and inconvenience. And pointed out that all the parts had arrived and that Mr Ps 
van should be repaired by 8 September 2023. In view of this it didnt agree it should be 
treated a as a total loss. It wouldnt agree to cover Mr Ps loss of income because it thought 
hed turned down the small courtesy vehicle offered to him by its approved repairer and not 
told Haven he needed a large van instead. It said if hed told them this it would have 
provided him with a van so he could continue to work. 
Our investigator carried out some further enquiries with Mr P as a result of Havens 
response. When he did this Mr P told him the approved repairer had never offered him a 
courtesy vehicle. He also said he had only worked for one day a week during the period he 
had been without his van, but that he was already doing this for additional income at the time 
his van was damaged. 
Our investigator then issued a second view on Mr Ps complaint on 15 September 2023. In 
this he explained that he no longer thought Haven should treat Mr Ls van as a total loss, as 
it had been repaired and returned to him on 5 September 2023. But he explained why it 
remained his view that Haven should pay Mr P £63.59 per day for the period he was without 
his van, plus a total of £500 in compensation for distress and inconvenience. He gave Haven 
until 29 September 2023 to respond to his view. But despite the investigator chasing Haven, 
it didnt respond. Therefore, he told Haven it would be passed to an ombudsman for a 
decision. Haven still hasnt responded.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My starting point is to look at the terms of Mr Ps policy. And these say that if the insured 
vehicle is with one of Havens approved repairer it will provide Mr P with a courtesy vehicle 
for the duration of the repairs. It goes on to say that where required it will supply him with a 
PV2 vehicle, as defined by the Association of British Insurers;  such as a Vauxhall Vivero.
Based on what Haven have said and its conversation with its approved repairer, I think it is 
more likely than not that Mr P was offered a small hatch back car by the repairer. I say this 
because the repairer has referred specifically to the make and model of the car it offered. 
And it would be normal procedure for it to offer this option to Havens customers. I 
appreciate Mr P doesnt recall this after such a long period of time has passed, but I think it 
is likely Mr P turned this car down. But from what the repairer has said it seems he made it 
clear this was because it was unsuitable for his business. In view of this, I think the repairer 
should either have offered him a PV2 vehicle or  if it couldnt provide one - it should have 
told Mr P to contact Haven and ask for one. Or it should have told Haven Mr P needed a 
PV2 vehicle. And  as Havens agent  I think its failure to do any of these things prejudiced 
Mr Ps position. I say this because I think, if it had done so, Mr P would have realised he was 
entitled to a suitable replacement vehicle and contacted Haven straight away, who would 
have provided one. Or Haven would have contacted Mr P and offered him a PV2 vehicle, 
which he would have accepted. This would have meant he could continue his business as a 
delivery driver. 
I do not agree with Havens view that it was for Mr P to contact it and ask for a PV2 vehicle 
after he turned down the small car hed been offered. As, while I appreciate it is mentioned in 
the small print in his policy that he is entitled to a PV2 vehicle, he wouldnt necessarily have 
been aware of this. And it was Havens job to make sure he was. And  even  when he 
complained to Haven about the delay with the repair, I cant see it ever checked with Mr P 
what the impact on him of this delay was. Despite the fact it knew he had a commercial 
policy and was using his van for his business. Instead, it simply acknowledged his complaint 
and offered him £150. I appreciate Havens point that often when a customer refuses a 
courtesy vehicle it is sometimes because they have an alternative vehicle. But this is not 
always the case. And I think it is more likely than not that it was clear to Havens approved 
repairer this was not the reason in Mr Ps case. So, Haven should have made sure its 
approved repairer, as its agent, was aware of its customers options and that it needed to tell 
Mr P to contact Haven about getting a suitable vehicle. Or, as Ive already said, it could have 
let Haven know Mr P needed one. So this is a failing on Havens part, which affected Mr P. So, Im satisfied it was Havens fault that Mr P couldnt carry out his normal work as a 
delivery driver for a long period. And, in terms of what is fair and reasonable, I do not 
consider he should be held responsible for any failure on his part to mitigate this loss by 
either contacting Haven or hiring a replacement van himself. This is because I am satisfied 
he did not realise Haven might provide a replacement van and he could not be expected to 
commit to a significant outlay to hire a van without having any idea when the repairs to his 
van would be completed. 
Therefore, as part of the fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint I think Haven should 
compensate Mr P for his loss of earnings in the period its approved repairer was instructed 
to repair Mr Ps van to the point he got it back fully repaired. This is because Im satisfied this 
loss flows directly from Havens failure to comply with the terms of its policy and provide Mr 
P with a suitable PV2 replacement vehicle. And it is also due the failings of its agent. It 
seems this period was 2 December 2022, when Mr P said he wanted to proceed with the 
repairs and Haven instructed its approved repairer, to 5 September 2023, when Mrs B has 
said Mr P got his van back fully repaired. This is a period of 277 days, allowing for the fact 
Mr P couldnt really have expected to have a replacement van and work on 2 December 
2022 if this was the date he said he wanted to proceed with the repairs. 
Im satisfied the amount of £63.59 per day on average is what Mr P lost. I say this because I 
have seen an account, signed by his accountant. And I have no reason to doubt the validity 
of this evidence. And it shows what Mr Ps income and expenses were for a period of 137 
days leading up to when his vehicle was damaged. He earned £17,820 in this period and 
had expenses of £9,108.08, leaving a net profit of £8,711.92. This works out at £63.59 per 
day. I cant see any reason why Mr P wouldnt have continued to earn this amount per day 
on average moving forward. I appreciate he wouldnt have worked at his delivery job every 
day, but this is an average amount across the full 137 days in the period. So I consider it fair 
and reasonable for Haven to compensate him by paying this amount per day for the whole 
period he was without a van, i.e. 277 days. This means I consider Haven needs to pay Mr P 
£17,614.43 in compensation for loss of income. It may be that Mr P will need to pay tax on 
some or all of this amount, but that is a matter between him and HMRC.
Im not awarding interest on this amount, as it is part of what I consider to be a fair and 
reasonable outcome without analysis by a forensic accountant or with full scrutiny of Mr Ps 
bank statements etc. I also appreciate Havens point that I have not reviewed a full profit and 
loss account for the period leading up to Mr Ps claim. But we are an informal dispute 
resolution service and I am satisfied with what Mr P has provided in evidence. Plus, our 
investigator has given Haven the chance to respond on it in more detail and raise further 
suggestions or objections and it has chosen not to do so.   
I also agree with our investigator that Havens failure to get control of its repairer and 
expediate matters also caused Mr P a great deal of distress and inconvenience. And Im 
satisfied the right amount of compensation for this is £500 in total. Haven can deduct the 
£150 it offered Mr P if it has already paid it. 
I dont see any need for me to require Haven to treat Mr Ps vehicle as a total loss, as he 
now has it back fully repaired.  
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ps complaint and make Haven pay 
Mr P the following:
£17,614.34 in compensation for loss of income. £500 in compensation for distress and inconvenience, less £150 if it has already paid 
him this amount. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ps complaint and order Haven Insurance Company 
Limited to do what Ive set out above in the Putting things right section. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman