DRN-3289789
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as D has complained that AXIS Specialty Europe SE (AXIS) 
unfairly turned down its business interruption insurance claim. 
Ms L, a director of D, has brought the complaint on Ds behalf. D is also represented in 
bringing this complaint but, for ease of reading, Ill refer to all actions and comments of the 
representative as being those of D. 
What happened
D held a business protection insurance policy with AXIS. D claimed on its policy after its 
business was impacted by Covid-19 and the governments response to the pandemic. 
AXIS turned down Ds claim as it thought D had closed due to the government regulations in 
response to the pandemic which wasnt something covered by the policy. 
Unhappy with AXISs response, D brought its complaint to our service as it thought the policy 
provided cover under the extension for murder, suicide, disease, vermin and poisoning. In 
particular it said its closure had been due to the number of cases of Covid-19 in the local 
area and because sanitary arrangements couldnt be maintained. D referred to the High 
Court judgment in the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Business Interruption Insurance 
test case. It said the judgment found that demonstrating the occurrence of cases of Covid-
19 in the local area was enough to demonstrate that there had been a case at the insured 
premises. 
Our investigator looked into Ds complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as he didnt 
think the policy provided cover for its claim. 
D asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the governments related actions have had an
impact on Ds business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if AXIS have acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Ds claim.
Disease
The relevant part of this extension covers D for business interruption as a result of an 
occurrence of:
Contagious and/or Infectious Diseases occurring at the PREMISES excluding 
acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) or an AIDS related condition
Covid-19 is a contagious or infectious disease. So, for this extension to provide cover for Ds 
claim, the interruption to Ds business would need to be as a result of a case of Covid-19 
occurring at the premises. 
Widespread testing wasnt available towards the start of the pandemic, and the Government 
advised people to avoid using health services if they were displaying symptoms of Covid-
19, save for emergencies. Its therefore rare that a claimant will be able to produce a 
positive test result from that period. And to treat that as a requirement to demonstrate a 
case occurring at the premises would, in my view, be unfair.
Its therefore necessary to take a more pragmatic approach, and to consider whether other 
evidence can be provided that supports, on the balance of probabilities, that Covid-19 
occurred at the insured premises prior to closure. As with any insurance claim, the burden 
of proof initially rests with the policyholder to demonstrate that its suffered a loss its policy 
covers.
I havent seen anything to point to a specific case of Covid-19 at Ds premises, instead D has 
referred to the prevalence of cases within the local area. D has referred to the High Court 
judgment in the FCA test case. However, the Courts judgment was in relation to policies 
which required Covid-19 to have been within a surrounding area and not at the premises 
themselves so I think D still needs to demonstrate that there was most likely a case of Covid-
19 at its premises. I have to bear in mind that most people at that time didnt have Covid-19, 
so I dont think there being cases in the local area is sufficient for me to fairly conclude that 
there was most likely a case of Covid-19 at Ds premises. Therefore, I think its fair and 
reasonable for AXIS to find that this part of the extension doesnt cover Ds claim. 
Sanitary arrangements
The extension also covers interruption to Ds business as a result of an occurrence of:
Closing of the whole or part of the PREMISES on the order or advice of any 
Local or Government Authority consequent upon Vermin and/or Pests or defects 
in the drains or other sanitary arrangements at the PREMISES
Its clear the closure of Ds premises wasnt as a result of vermin or pests or defects in the 
drains. However, I understand D thinks that an inability to maintain social distancing at its 
premises should be considered a defect in its other sanitary arrangements.
No evidence has been provided to suggest there was any deficiency or fault in Ds sanitary 
arrangements other than an inability to maintain social distancing and Im not persuaded that 
the normal operation of a business can be called a defect, and certainly not a defect specific 
to Ds premises which led to its closure. I also havent been provided with any evidence to 
suggest it was the circumstances at Ds premises in particular that led to the governments 
decision to introduce the restrictions it did. So, I think AXIS acted fairly and reasonably in 
deciding that this doesnt cover Ds claim. I recognise this isnt the outcome D was hoping for but, having considered the matter very 
carefully, I cant fairly require AXIS to pay Ds claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman