DRN-2282697
The complaint
Mr R complains that the car he acquired through a conditional sales agreement with Close 
Brothers Limited (Close Brothers) wasnt of satisfactory quality. He wants to reject the car 
and have his agreement cancelled.
Mr R is represented by Miss N. However, for the purpose of this decision I have referred to 
Mr R throughout.
What happened
Mr R entered into a conditional sale agreement with Close Brothers on 31 January 2020 to 
acquire a used car. He collected the car on 3 February and contacted the dealer the next 
day about a knocking noise. He says he was told it could be due to the new brake pads. On 
29 February the engine management light (EML) came on and the noise was still happening. 
Mr R says he was told to have checks carried out under the warranty. The car was booked 
into a garage on 14 March and the water pump was replaced which Mr R says resulted in 
the light going off.
In May 2020, Mr R says further dash board lights came on and on 7 May the car went to the 
garage where the bonnet catches and sensor were found to be broken. The car was then 
taken to the garage for a third time on 17 May as the EML had come on again. At this time 
the bonnet catches were replaced but Mr R had to pay £20.
Mr R raised a complaint with Close Brother in May 2020. Close Brothers asked for a report 
to be provided to show there were faults. This took place on 29 June 2020 costing Mr R 
£108. The report found several issues including excessive wear and corrosion. Mr R says 
this would have been apparent to the dealer when it carried out the work and checks before 
supply and so should have been explained to him. He said that had he known of the issues 
with the car he may not have acquired it.
Mr R sent the report to Close Brothers but says he didnt receive a response. Mr R says that 
under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA 2015) Close Brothers were required to prove the 
car was of satisfactory quality as the issues had arisen within the first six months. He said 
that he was only required to allow one opportunity for repair, but the car had repairs on three 
occasions and issues remained. He said he should have been allowed to reject the car.
Close Brothers says that it required evidence from Mr R to show there were faults with the 
car that were present from the point of supply.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She said that repairs had been undertaken 
under warranty and resolved some of the issues which she thought reasonable. She noted 
that Mr R had paid £20 on 17 May 2020 when repairs should have been undertaken under 
warranty and that the supplying dealer had agreed to reimburse Mr R this amount.
Regarding the issues identified in the 29 June 2020 inspection she thought these issues 
were due to wear and tear rather than faults either present or developing at the point of 
supply.
Mr R didnt accept our investigators view. He said issues arose within the first few months 
when he had driven the car less than 2,000 miles. He said the excessive wear noted in the 
inspection report would not have happened in the time he had the car and that the faults 
were present at the point of supply and not correctly recorded in the MOT or by the dealer. 
He reiterated that had he been aware of the issues present with the car he may not have 
completed the acquisition or would have had the worked carried out before collection. 
Mr R said the warranty expired in August 2020 and had Close Brothers responded to the 
issues raised and authorised repairs these could have been possible under warranty, but 
this wasnt now possible. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R acquired a used car through a conditional sale agreement with Close Brothers in 
January 2020. Under the regulations, specifically the CRA 2015 Close Brothers can be held 
liable if the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. Satisfactory quality takes 
into account factors such as the age and mileage of the car and what a reasonable person 
would expect taking into account all the circumstances. 
At the time of acquisition, the car was over eight years old and had been driven over 
103,000 miles. Given this it is reasonable to expect that the car would have suffered some 
wear and tear. It is also possible that older cars with a higher mileage can experience issues 
shortly after acquisition even if these werent present at the point of supply.
In this case Mr R says he noticed a noise the day after collecting the car. The documents 
provided show that before Mr R collected the car a MOT took place along with a vehicle 
health check and service. As the car passed the MOT it is reasonable to accept it was road 
worthy at the time of supply. However, it is still possible that issues not identified in the MOT 
can be present or developing.
When the noise was first raised it was suggested this could be due to the new brake pads. I 
can see these were replaced as part of the pre-acquisition service. Mr R then raised other 
issues that were dealt with under the warranty. As the warranty repairs appear to have 
resolved the issues raised at the time I find this was a reasonable remedy. I understand that 
Mr R was required to pay £20 for one of the repairs and I agree this shouldnt have 
happened, but I can see the dealer agreed to reimburse this which I find reasonable.
The outstanding issue relates to the noise. Mr R was concerned by the issues he had 
experienced and the ongoing noise from the car and raised his complaint with Close 
Brothers. 
Under CRA 2015, a consumer has a short term right to reject if a fault is identified within the 
first 30 days. I note that Mr R reported the issue the day after he collected the car, but the 
noise was thought to be due to the new brake pads and wasnt investigated at that time. 
Mr R then raised further issues over the next few months and repairs were carried out under 
warranty. As the repairs were undertaken at no cost to Mr R and appeared to resolve the 
issues he had raised I find this a reasonable remedy.
Close Brothers said that further evidence was needed to show the noise was due to a fault. I 
understand why Mr R was upset at having to pay for an inspection report, but I find it 
reasonable, and in line with the regulations that evidence of a fault was required. The inspection report recorded issues with the car. However, in order to hold Close Brothers 
liable for the issues, and the cost of the report, I would need to be satisfied that the car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality at acquisition.
The inspection report noted that the front brake discs were excessively worn, and this was 
causing a noise. It also noted excessive wear to the lower suspension arm ball joint, 
corrosion of a brake pipe, damage to tyres and the bumper corner being not fitted correctly.
I appreciate the comments Mr R has made about the use he had of the car and that this 
wouldnt have led to excessive wear of the brake discs and suspension arm ball joint. 
However, as he acquired a car that was over eight years old and had been driven over 
103,000 miles it would be expected that serviceable parts of the car would have suffered 
wear and tear. As the car passed the MOT and the service only required the replacement of 
the brake pads, I find it more likely than not that at the time the car was provided while 
certain parts may have suffered some wear and tear they were still within the acceptable 
limits. Mr R was then able to drive the car for around six months before the inspection. This 
will have caused further wear and while the parts may have been of satisfactory level at the 
time of acquisition by this time repairs were required. 
The issue with the bumper would have been noticeable at acquisition and it isnt 
unreasonable to accept that an eight year old car will not be in a perfect condition. I do not 
find this means that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality.
I appreciate that it is frustrating to have to undertake repairs shortly after acquiring a car. But 
in this case, having considered the issues raised and noting these related to serviceable 
parts, and considering the checks carried out before supply, I do not find I can say the 
ongoing issues with Mr Rs car are due to faults rather than wear and tear.
I note the comment made about the time taken and Close Brothers not responding to the 
outcome of the inspection. Mr R raised his concerns with Close Brothers in May 2020 and 
Close Brothers issued a final response letter date 18 June 2020. I find this reasonable based 
on the communication that had been received to that time. The final response letter asked 
for evidence of the cause of the noise. Mr R then had a report carried out, the invoice for 
which is dated 29 June 2020. He sent the report to Close Brothers and I can understand why 
he is upset that he didnt get a response to this. But as he raised his complaint with this 
service in mid July 2020 and information was received from the business as part of this 
investigation I do not find this has resulted in any disadvantage to Mr R.
I appreciate the comment made regarding the warranty and that this expired in August 2020. 
However, as I do not find I can say the evidence shows the car wasnt of satisfactory quality 
at the point of supply, I do not find I can say that Close Brothers is liable for the repairs.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Close Brothers Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman