DRN-3306430
The complaint
Mr B and Ms O complain QIC Europe Ltd unfairly declined their insurance claim for damage 
to their property.
What happened
In July 2021 Mr B and Ms O made a claim on their QIC home insurance policy. A leak 
through their roof resulted in damage to internal ceilings. But QIC declined the claim. It said 
there wasnt any evidence to suggest the damage was the result of an insurable peril (an 
event or cause of damage covered by their policy). QIC felt lack of maintenance was the 
most likely cause. 
In response to a complaint from Mr B and Ms O QIC continued to decline the claim. It said it 
had considered if the damage had been caused by a storm  a peril covered by their policy. 
QIC gave various reasons why it didnt feel that was the case  including a lack of storm 
conditions around the date the claim had been made. 
Mr B and Ms O werent satisfied with QICs response. They feel QICs investigation into their 
claim was inadequate. They would like their claim to be paid and reimbursed repair costs. 
Our investigator felt QICs decision to refuse the claim was fair. She felt there wasn't enough 
to show there had been a storm. Mr O and Ms B didnt accept her assessment. So the 
complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Insurance policies usually only provide cover for loss or damage caused by specific events  
known as insurable perils. Mr B and Ms Os policy covers their home against damage 
caused by a range of perils. These include fire, flood, storm, escape of water, subsidence 
and theft. 
Ive first considered storm as thats the obvious starting point for a leaking roof. The policy 
defines storm as winds of at least 55 miles per hour, rain at a rate of 25mm per hour, snow 
at a depth of 30cm in 24 hours or severe hail that damages hard surfaces.
QIC says it checked weather records for the propertys area during the month before the 
claim was made. The highest wind it found was 32 miles per hour  and rainfall of almost 
14mm. This service checked weather reports  we didnt find reports of weather that would 
meet the policys or this services definition of a storm. Mr B and Ms O havent provided any 
reports or evidence that persuades me there were storm conditions in their area. So Im not 
persuaded there was a storm around the time of the loss. That means I cant reasonably say 
storm was probably the cause of the damage. Mr B and Ms O say poor weather certainly 
caused the damage. But unfortunately their policy doesnt cover them against all poor 
weather  only storms.
Ive seen images provided by Mr B and Ms Os roofer. They show felt, under the roof tiles, in 
poor condition with cracking and holes. The roofer says storm was the cause of damage. 
However, Im still not persuaded it probably was. 
QIC feels a lack of maintenance was probably the main cause. Its said there was no visible 
damage to the roof tiles. Photos of the roof that Ive seen dont show any damage to, or 
movement of, the tiles. So it seems most likely to me, considering the overall condition of the 
felt, that gradual deterioration of the roof materials over time was the main cause. It seems 
likely the weather conditions highlighted that existing problem. 
Mr Bs said he didnt claim against the storm cover, instead that cause was suggested by 
QIC. I think its likely he and Ms O arent concerned which peril a claim is paid under. They 
understandably want QIC to cover the cost of repairs. 
So when deciding if QICs decision to decline the claim was fair, I considered if the damage 
could be cover by any other part of the policy. Im not going to provide my reasons in detail 
here. But having considered the available evidence, I cant say the damage was most likely 
caused by any of the perils Mr B and Ms O are insured against - including flood or escape of 
water. The build up of water doesnt seem to have been substantial enough to constitute a 
flood for example. The water didnt escape from pipes or white goods as required for 
escape of water. So I cant say QICs decision not to cover the cost of repairs was unfair or 
unreasonable.  
Mr Bs complained QICs investigation wasnt adequate. Hes highlighted its surveyor using a 
camera on a pole to inspect the roof  rather than arranging for a platform. Even if I agreed 
QICs inspection wasnt thorough enough, I wouldnt say it negatively influenced the outcome 
of the claim. Having seen photos showing the condition of the roof felt, Im satisfied it was 
fair and reasonable for QIC to refuse the claim.      
I understand Mr B and Ms O were frustrated by QICs communications during the claim. It 
initially failed to tell them of its decision to decline. I accept this would have been a frustrating 
inconvenience for them. But I cant say the impact on them, of poor communications, was 
enough for me to require QIC pay Mr B and Ms O any compensation.My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mr B and Ms Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Ms O to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 March 2022.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman