DRN-1609608
The complaint
Mrs Z is unhappy with the level of funding provided by Amtrust Europe Limited in relation to 
a claim made on her Legal Expenses Insurance (LEI) policy. She is also unhappy with the 
service shes received.
Mrs Z has been helped with her claim and complaint by a representative. But for ease of 
reading, Ill refer to all actions of her representative as having come from Mrs Z herself.
Where I refer to Amtrust, this includes their agents and claims handlers. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So Ill only provide a 
brief overview here.
Mrs Z has the benefit of insurance for certain legal expenses which is provided by Amtrust. 
In January 2019 Mrs Z made a claim. She was in dispute with some neighbours and in 
summary said that damage had been caused to her property as a result of a neighbours 
leaking roof. 
By March 2019 a panel solicitors firm M had begun looking at Mrs Zs claim. They said she 
would need to obtain a report from a Chartered Surveyor. This was to enable them to assess 
the claim's value and whether it had reasonable prospects of success (which was a 
requirement of cover under the policy). 
By April 2019 Mrs Z had complained about the service she was receiving from M. She said 
she had lost faith in them and asked to appoint her own solicitor. Amtrust advised that she 
didnt yet have freedom of choice in relation to a solicitor as her case wasnt yet at the stage 
where she needed to start proceedings. But they did appoint another of their panel firms T 
to act on her behalf.
T were appointed on 25 April 2019 and on 8 May 2019 they wrote to Mrs Z asking for further 
information (including the surveyors report). Mrs Z had already provided this to Amtrust on 
23 April 2019. By 14 May 2019 a partner from T wrote to Mrs Z explaining that he felt there 
had been a breakdown of confidence and trust between them and that they would no longer 
act for her. 
The following day Amtrust offered Mrs Z the option to use her own solicitor, provided they 
would agree to the non-panel terms of appointment. They explained that as there was a 
conflict of interest between her and a panel firm, they felt this was the best way to proceed. 
By 19 May 2019 Mrs Z had instructed another firm S to represent her. She asked that 
Amtrust provide cover under the policy. Amtrust forwarded a copy of their terms of 
appointment for S to consider. On 19 May 2019, counsel for S provided an opinion that the 
claim had the required 51% prospects of success, based on the surveyors report. 
S signed Amtrusts terms of appointment in June 2019. There had been an ongoing dispute 
as to the value of the claim. Amtrust referred to a policy term which says that cover will only be provided if the claim is proportionate to pursue. So they were monitoring costs to ensure 
this was adhered to. Ss report said the value of the claim was £4,219 so Amtrust had 
capped funding at this amount. They also declined to increase it in line with the costs of 
certain disbursements  they said they dont include such costs in the value of the claim. 
Mrs Z complained. She was unhappy with Amtrusts decision and also with the service she 
had received from her claim handler and wanted her to be replaced. Amtrust responded to 
the complaint in a letter dated 2 July 2019. In summary they didnt agree theyd acted 
unfairly and didnt uphold the complaint. 
The matter was referred to our service and one of our investigators looked into it. He didnt 
think Amtrust had acted unfairly and so didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. By 
this point the claim had progressed and there had been further developments and further 
funding agreed. But our investigator explained that this complaint only dealt with Amtrusts 
actions up until they had issued their final response in July 2019. As Mrs Z didnt accept the 
outcome the complaint was passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator and for essentially the same reasons. Let me 
explain why. Ill focus on what I believe to be the key issues to explain my decision. So if I 
dont mention a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or 
thought about it. Its just that I dont feel the need to reference it to explain my decision. 
Mrs Z has expressed dissatisfaction about the panel firms of solicitors appointed under the 
policy. But Amtrust arent responsible for the actions of their panel solicitors who will have 
their own complaints procedures. So I wont be commenting further in relation to the 
complaints about the legal advice or service provided by solicitors. 
I also agree with our investigator that it wouldnt be appropriate to comment on the 
developments since Amtrust issued their final response letter to Mrs Zs complaint. I 
understand that further funding has since been agreed. But this doesnt automatically mean 
that the decisions Amtrust took at the relevant time were incorrect. 
At the relevant time, S valued Mrs Zs claim at £4,219 (plus the cost of the surveyors report 
and the court fees). Amtrust agreed to cover up to the value of the claim and the court fee. 
But didnt agree to take into account the cost of the report. 
Mrs Zs policy says: There is no cover where An estimate of the Advisers Costs of acting 
for You is more than the amount in dispute. Terms like this are very common in this type of 
insurance and I dont think this is inherently unfair. Generally, someone wouldnt pursue 
legal action where the costs of doing so are more than the amount in dispute. So I dont think 
an insurer should have to either. 
Mrs Z placed the value of her claim at a higher figure; this primarily related to the cost of the 
chartered surveyors report. Amtrust referred to another policy term which says: You must 
supply at your own expense all of the information which we reasonably require to decide 
whether a claim may be accepted.
Again I think this term is clear and fair. It is for Mrs Z to show that her claim meets the 
requirements of the policy. M said that the report was required to assess whether or not 
there were reasonable prospects of success. So I dont think it can fairly be said that the costs of this report were incurred after the requirements of the policy in relation to prospects 
and proportionality had been met. But the report did allow for those assessments to be 
made. So, I dont think Amtrust were being unreasonable in applying the above policy term 
when declining to consider the costs of the report as part of the value of the claim. 
And irrespective of this, Im aware that Amtrust have since increased the amount of cover 
available as the legal case has progressed. So even if Amtrust had been wrong at the time, 
Im satisfied it hasnt had an impact on Mrs Zs legal action.
There was a short delay caused by Amtrust not initially sending the report to Mrs Z's new 
solicitor. But I'm not persuaded this impacted either Mrs Z's legal claim or had such an 
impact on her that compensation needs to be paid. The report was obtained within a 
reasonable time, and Mrs Z had been using a representative to handle her claim, so I think 
any impact on her would have been minimal. 
Mrs Z was also particularly unhappy with her case handler at Amtrust. She asked that she 
be assigned another member of staff. Amtrust declined this request. Which of their staff deal 
with which of their customers is a decision for Amtrust. Im not persuaded that Mrs Z was 
treated unfairly or suffered a loss as a result of Amtrusts decision in this regard. 
Overall, within the parameters Ive set out above, I dont think Amtrust acted outside the 
policy or terms or unfairly. So I wont be telling them they need to do anything further to 
resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2020.
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman