DRN-4302793
The complaint
Mr B says Greystone Financial Services Limited (Greystone) gave him unsuitable advice to 
transfer his defined benefit (DB) pension fund into a policy with Standard Life. He says this 
has caused him financial detriment.
Mr B is represented by Spencer Churchill Law Limited (SCL).
What happened
Mr B was a car salesman and joined his then employers occupational pension scheme in 
the 1980s. In the following decade his employer embarked on the process of winding-up its 
final salary scheme. Greystone was the firm appointed by trustees to provide information 
and independent advice to the employees affected by the changes.
Matters came to a head for Mr B in 1997, when he received advice from Greystone to 
transfer the value of his DB fund into a Section 32 pension plan with Standard Life. At the 
time he was 51 years old and married.
Section 32 plans were created in the Finance Act 1981. This allowed the transfer of benefits 
from an existing workplace pension scheme into a personal pension. One of the main 
reasons for this was to cater for a situation where trustees were winding up a DB scheme, 
transferring (or buying out) the individuals pension rights to an individual pension policy. 
Originally, these plans had to mirror the rules of the previous workplace pension.
Mr B accepted Greystones recommendation in 1997. In 2008 he switched his Section 32 
plan benefits to a new provider. Ultimately he bought an annuity and started taking these 
benefits from 2009.
SCL raised a complaint on Mr Bs behalf in December 2022. It had several concerns about 
what happened in 1997. It said Greystones advice was unsuitable, that the firm had been 
negligent and in breach of duties it had to Mr B. It said hed lost certain guarantees and 
protections as a result of the transaction. It said his risk appetite and capacity for loss wasnt 
properly assessed. And it raised matters such as the increased charges he faced.
Greystone responded to Mr Bs complaint on 23 March 2023. It said his case had been 
brought too late:
I have considered the limitation issues arising in relation to the timing of Mr B's complaint. 
When he made his complaint to our firm in December 2022, more than 25 years had passed 
since he made his transfer in relation to the group scheme pension in May 1997. It also 
appears that more than 15 years has passed since he purchased an annuity with Aviva in 
2008 (in which our firm was not involved in any way). Mr B's complaint is therefore time 
barred by the Court's 15 year longstop rule.
In addition, much longer than 6 years has passed since he made the transfer in relation to 
the scheme, therefore the 6 year limitation rule has expired. Also, when he made his 
complaint more than 3 years had passed since he became aware (or ought reasonably to 
have become aware) that he had cause for complaint (notwithstanding our view that any 
complaint would not be justified). If Mr B refers his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service or the Courts, we will raise these limitation points and will ask for the complaint to be 
rejected on these grounds as time barred.
SCL disagreed with Greystones assessment on jurisdiction and it raised Mr Bs complaint 
with this Service. An Investigator concluded that his case was one we could consider. And 
he went on to review the merits of his arguments. Having done so he didnt uphold the 
complaint because he concluded Mr B didnt have a choice about whether to stay in his DB 
scheme. 
SCL, on Mr Bs behalf, disagreed with the Investigators findings and conclusions. But it 
failed to provide any new evidence or arguments in support of its position.
As both parties couldnt agree with the Investigators view, Mr Bs complaint has been 
passed to me to review afresh and to provide a final decision.
Our jurisdiction to consider Mr Bs complaint
Our service was set up by Parliament under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 
(FSMA). Its important to make clear that as a public body we dont have a general, at large, 
power to investigate any complaint. We can only investigate what FSMA and the rules made 
under it say we can  this sets the boundaries of our scheme. And we have no legal power 
to investigate complaints that are beyond our jurisdiction. 
FSMA gives the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) the power to say what complaints we can 
and cant consider. The FCA has set these out in the Dispute Resolution chapter of its 
Handbook (also known as DISP or the DISP rules). If a business doesnt consent, this 
Service cant consider a complaint which isnt made within specified time limits. 
Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R says: 
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service more than 
-six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
-three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought 
reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint;
unless: In the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time limits in DISP 
2.8.2 Rwas as a result of exceptional circumstances. 
Mr B is worried hes lost out because of advice he received from Greystone to transfer his 
DB pension in 1997. 
Taking the six-year rule first, a complaint is out of time if its referred to our Service more 
than six years after the event complained about. Thats unless the complaint was referred to 
the respondent business within that period and the complainant has a written 
acknowledgement or other record of the complaint having been received. 
Mr Bs case was raised with Greystone in December 2022. It issued a final response to him 
in March 2023. As the advice complained about happened in 1997, his case is out of time on 
the six-year limb of the test. In respect of the three-year test. I need to decide when Mr B became aware, or ought 
reasonably to have become aware, that he had a cause to complain. And having established 
that date, determine whether he brought his complaint within three years of it. 
In making its case to time bar Mr B, Greystone said:
In our view, due to the information that would have been available to Mr B about his pension 
provision over the years, we consider that he was aware (or ought reasonably to have been 
aware) well before December 2019 that he had cause for complaint based on the grounds 
on which he is now bringing the complaint (notwithstanding that we do not consider that the 
complaint should be upheld). For example, our understanding is that Mr B would have 
received regular statements direct from the pension provider each year since the pension 
began in 1997. These statements would have updated him each year on the performance of 
his pension. Our understanding is that these updates would also likely have included 
projections to Mr B's chosen retirement age, thereby supplying him with comparative 
information and the opportunity to review the likely fund available to him on retirement.
We also note (from the information provided in the complaint letter) that Mr B appears to 
have transferred his pension plan to Aviva in June 2008 (which, for the avoidance of doubt, 
we had no involvement in). We expect that this was the purchase of an annuity, because at 
that date Mr B would have been aged 62. This itself was almost 15 years ago. Accordingly, 
at that date in June 2008 Mr B would have been aware of the total amount in his pension 
fund and the exact annuity figure that his pension fund was able to purchase, and since then 
he would have been aware of the amount of the annuity payments which would have been 
paid into his bank account for the past 15 years. If (as he complains) he did not consider that 
the amount he was receiving as annuity payments was acceptable and/or that it was lower 
than he expected to be receiving compared to his previous pension provision and/or that 
other benefits had been lost, he would have known this for the past 15 years and well before 
December 2019.
I dont find Greystones argument here compelling. Thats because I cant see Mr B was 
provided with the information he wouldve needed after 1997 which showed him a 
comparison of his pension fund, nor later his annuity benefits, with what he wouldve been 
receiving from his former DB scheme. It hasnt done enough to evidence otherwise.
I think Mr B became aware of cause for complaint in late 2022 when he saw an advert in a 
newspaper about the potential for things to have gone wrong when people transfer away 
from their final salary pension schemes. SCL raised his complaint with Greystone in 
December 2022. 
So, Mr Bs complaint is duly made and this Service can consider it. Ill now go on to look into 
the merits of his case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Based on the available evidence, Im not upholding the merits of Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain 
why.
The first thing Ive considered is the regulation around transactions like those performed by 
Greystone for Mr B. Of course, I must be mindful that law, regulation and industry best 
practice have evolved over the past twenty five years. Whats required of firms now, wasnt 
necessarily the case in 1997 when it gave Mr B its advice. 
Nevertheless, a good starting point for my consideration is the FCA Handbook. This contains 
twelve Principles for businesses, which it says are fundamental obligations firms must 
adhere to (PRIN 2.1.1 R in the FCA Handbook). These include: 
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence. 
- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers 
and treat them fairly. 
- Principle 7, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of its 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading. 
While most of the Principles were formalised in 2001  a few years after Mr B received 
advice - they were nevertheless built upon existing regulations and accepted practice. And I 
dont think any firms would argue that they wouldnt have tried to adhere to such standards 
prior to this. As such, they provide a useful framework for thinking about his complaint.
Greystone was the adviser to the trustees of Mr Bs DB scheme when they took the decision 
to wind-up the final salary pension. It put in place a process to engage with members of the 
scheme. This was by way of a group presentation, followed by individual appointments. A 
letter sent to Mr B in February 1997 confirmed arrangements and noted he would be 
informed of his options.
Ive seen a letter sent to Mr B dated 18 February 1997 in which Greystone confirmed the 
background to what was happening with his DB scheme and what options he had. This 
stated:
In March 1995, the [DB scheme] was closed for all contributions from existing 
membersThe department within Inland Revenue known as the Pension Schemes Office 
has now agreed that the scheme has officially been wound up.
Greystone are now able to advise you of the various options available to you when you 
consider the transfer of your fund out of the final salary scheme.
Unless you are receiving a pension income in retirement from a Final Salary Scheme, you 
are unable to leave your pension where it is. For this reason your transfer options are as 
follows:
-To transfer into your [employers] (Standard Life) Group Personal Pension Plan
-To transfer into a Standard Life Section 32 Policy
-To transfer into a Section 32 or Personal Pension Plan of another insurance 
company-To transfer into your new Employers Company Pension Scheme
This makes it clear there was no option for Mr B to leave the benefits from his existing DB 
scheme in place. The only option available was to transfer the benefits to an alternative 
pension.
Greystone recommended a Section 32 plan to Mr B because of his circumstances. He was 
over 45 and married. It was designed to mirror some of the benefits hed have had under his 
DB scheme. It would provide for a greater tax-free lump sum than a personal pension plan 
option. If hed been contracted out of the State Earnings-Related Pension Scheme under his 
DB scheme then the Section 32 plan would provide a guaranteed minimum pension for that 
element. And the death benefits prior to retirement were better than a personal pension.
While Mr B had the option of taking a Section 32 plan from any provider in the market, I can 
see the recommendation was for Standard Life. And this is likely because it was already the 
in-house provider and was offering to add an extra 5% to client fund values if they opted for 
its product.
With regards the fourth option, had Mr B left his employer and joined a new company 
pension scheme, then there might have been an argument that if the new arrangement had 
been a DB scheme, and if its rules had permitted the transfer in of his available funds, that 
might have been a good option. But thats not an argument advanced by SCL on Mr Bs 
behalf and theres no evidence to suggest this option was relevant to him.
So it is apparent that, since Mr B wasnt already receiving a pension from the scheme, he 
had no option to retain the benefits within his employers DB scheme. From the alternatives 
that were available, based on the evidence provided and what we know about his 
circumstances, its more likely than not the recommendation made by Greystone for a 
Section 32 plan was the most appropriate.
At the heart of the complaint SCL advanced on Mr Bs behalf was that Greystones advice to 
transfer out of his DB scheme was unsuitable because of the benefits that would be lost as a 
result. But of course, he had no option but to transfer out following the winding up of his 
former arrangement.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2023. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman