DRN-4190589
The complaint
Mr B complained because Vanquis Bank Limited refused to refund him for a transaction 
which he said he didnt make.
What happened
Mr B opened a credit card with Vanquis in November 2022. His new card was sent out, and 
activated using the mobile number recorded on the account. Mr B registered for the app 
using his phone on 7 December.
On 21 December there was a £1,107 payment to a technology retailer, with the payment 
authorised using the app on Mr Bs registered phone.
On 23 December, Mr B rang Vanquis. He said he hadnt made this payment. Vanquis 
investigated, but it didnt agree. It wrote to Mr B on 15 February 2023 and said that the 
payment had been made by accessing the app on Mr Bs phone. It said the transaction 
would have needed Mr Bs credit card number, CVV (security number on the card), and Mr 
Bs date of birth. And once the app was registered to Mr Bs phone, it was protected by a 
five-digit passcode or face/fingerprint ID.  So Vanquis said it couldnt see how a third party 
could have made the transaction. 
Mr B didnt agree and complained. Vanquis issued its final response letter on 14 April. It still 
didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint, for the same reasons as in its February letter.
Mr B wasnt satisfied and contacted this service.  He complained that he hadnt authorised 
the payment and wanted a refund. He was also unhappy about how long his complaint to 
Vanquis had taken.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. He pointed out that this online payment 
would have needed all the card details. Mr B had said hed never shared his card details. 
Also, the transaction was authorised using the app on Mr Bs phone, and hed said the 
phone was in his possession at the time of the transaction. As no-one else knew the card 
details or could access Mr Bs phone, it wasnt possible for an unknown third party to have 
carried out the transaction.
Mr B didnt accept this. He said he was a victim of fraud and it had caused him distress and 
frustration. He said he hadnt authorised the transaction. He said hed contacted the 
technology retailer which had sent him an invoice for the disputed transaction which showed 
the purchase had been sent to a different address. Mr B said he believed Vanquis had 
compromised or exposed his details. He said that he believed the investigators outcome 
was biased. Mr B asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Who is liable for the payment?
There are regulations about disputed transactions, and the relevant regulations here are the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer 
didnt authorise the payments, and the customer is liable if they did authorise them.
Mr B said he didnt authorise the transaction, so Ive looked at what the technical evidence 
shows. 
This shows that the online payment was authenticated using Mr Bs registered phone and 
his mobile app. I also note that the payment would have required Mr Bs credit card number, 
CVV security number, and his date of birth. There was also a five digit passcode or face 
ID/fingerprint in order to access the app.
Mr B told us that he still had his phone; that he lived alone; and that he hadnt shared any of 
his card or other security details. So I dont see how anyone else could have carried out the 
transaction. Mr B says he thinks Vanquis compromised his account, but thats not credible 
when it was carried out using Mr Bs phone. 
Mr B says the retailers invoice shows that the item purchased was posted to a different 
address from his. Im not persuaded by this argument. Its easy to have an item posted to a 
different address, which could have been a friend or relatives address. I also think its 
unlikely that the well-known retailer would have sent Mr B the invoice unless it had been a 
purchase by Mr B  it wouldnt have sent him someone elses purchase information.
I also note that Mr Bs credit limit was £1,200. The disputed transaction was for £1,107. The 
computer records show that no further transactions were attempted. This indicates that 
whoever made the transaction knew that the transaction was close to the limit. If a third party 
fraudster had carried out the disputed transaction, its likely theyd have continued to try to 
make transactions in order to maximise their gain. 
So I consider its more likely than not that Mr B carried out the disputed transaction himself, 
or allowed someone else to do so after letting them have access to his card, phone and 
security information. In either case, Mr B is liable for the transaction.
Vanquis timescales about Mr Bs complaint.
Ive looked at the timescales in which Vanquis dealt with Mr Bs complaint. When Mr B first 
raised his claim on 23 December, Vanquis sent a Declaration of Fraud and Forgery form to 
him. Mr B didnt return that. By 10 February, Vanquis decided to progress the claim anyway, 
without Mr Bs declaration. It wrote to Mr B with the outcome on 15 February. Banks have 
eight weeks to provide a response, and Vanquis met this when it replied on 15 February.
Mr B complained again on 22 February about the outcome, and Vanquis responded to this 
on 14 April, which again was within the eight week timescale.
So I find that Vanquis responded to Mr B within the official timescales for it to respond to a 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 August 2023.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman