DRN-3110586
The complaint
B, a limited company, complains that Hiscox Insurance Company Limited rejected a claim on 
its business protection insurance policy.
What happened
B provides IVR (Interactive Voice Response) phone system services. In 2018 B set up an 
internet account using a search engine to advertise its services to potential customers. 
However, that account was suspended soon after.
B developed a new service and in July 2018 entered into a contract with a third-party 
company (which Ill call M), to market its new services through Ms account on the basis 
that B would provide the infrastructure and advertising management.
Between July and September 2018, a number of Ms advertisements were disallowed by the 
search engine, which caused disruption for the business.
In October 2018, B took out a business insurance policy with Hiscox.
In October 2019 M advised B that it intended to bring a claim against B and on 3 January 
2020 M sent a formal letter of claim. B informed Hiscox of a potential claim the same day.
Hiscox reviewed the matter and sought advice from solicitors. It then declined the claim, 
saying:
exclusions in the policy terms for pre-existing problems and insufficient resources 
applied to the claim; and
it was entitled to void the policy in its entirety due to an unfair presentation of the risk 
by B when it took out the policy.
B said Hiscox misunderstood Ms claim; the insured peril was in fact the internet account 
being suspended, which affected the delivery of service  and that didnt happen until after 
the policy was taken out.
When B brought the complaint to this service our investigator didnt think it should be upheld. 
He said B bought the policy around three months after its contract with M had started, and it 
was already aware by then that there was a problem, since it hadnt generated the revenue 
promised for M and there was already a large shortfall. So he thought it was fair for Hiscox to 
decline the claim. 
B disagreed with the investigator. B has been represented in the complaint by Mr I, who has 
made a number of points on Bs behalf. I wont set them all out in detail, but in summary the 
key points are that the investigator failed to consider in detail the reasons why the expected 
revenues were not met; there were different issues at different times; many of the problems 
with the search engine only happened after the policy started; and the investigator hasnt 
explained how these were the same event or were causally connected to form a series of 
events.
The investigator reviewed Mr Is comments but didnt change his view. So B has requested 
an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Hiscox rejected the claim it also said it was entitled to void the policy because B didnt 
make a fair presentation of risk when it bought the policy. But Hiscox didnt in fact void the 
policy (which was later cancelled by B). So the only issue to determine is whether Hiscox 
was entitled to reject the claim.
The policy does provide cover for this type of claim. But  as with most insurance policies  
there are exclusions and limitations on the cover provided, set out in the policy terms.
Hiscox has relied on an exclusion for pre-existing disputes. This exclusion says theres no 
cover for a pre-existing problem, which is defined as
anything, including any potential claim or any actual or alleged shortcoming in your work, 
likely to lead to a claim or loss, which you knew or ought reasonably to have known about 
before we agreed to insure you.
 
So if B was aware (or should reasonably have been aware) of the problem with M at the 
point when it bought the policy, that dispute wont be covered.
B entered into a contract with M on 3 July 2018  around three months before it took out the 
policy. Between July and September, a number of Ms advertisements were disallowed by 
the search engine. In September 2018, B wrote to the search engine on behalf of M and said 
our business solely relies on advertising via to operate and the current disruption was 
having serious financial effects.
The information Ive seen shows monthly revenues under the contract were not being met 
during the three months before the policy started. The returns for July, August and 
September 2018 were all below the contractual figures.
Mr I says that, while the contract B agreed with M envisaged revenue of £3.6 million over a 
24-month period, that doesnt mean the revenue would be even from the start  it was likely 
the first few months would be lower and revenues would then increase over time. But the 
contract says B will produce £75K+ per month on its premium numbers for the duration of 
this agreement - revenues doubling with premium numbers. And Ms claim is that there 
was a breach of contract from July 2018 onwards. Ms formal letter of claim said that 
between July and September 2018 it received a total of £21,500 and the expected revenue 
for the same period was £450,000. 
This means that when B took out the business insurance policy in October 2018, there was 
already a deficit of over £400,000. 
When considering the claim, Hiscox sought legal advice. And that advice was that Bs 
argument that there hadnt been a breach of contract at the date when the policy started 
because B and M hadnt agreed fixed monthly targets was wrong as a matter of law because 
 amongst other things  
the contract specifically referred to expected monthly revenues of £75,000 per month 
for both numbers being used (so £150,000 per month in total).B was aware the search engine had disallowed advertisements, and there was a very 
real risk they would not be approved subsequently (as had happened previously with 
B's own account). So any deficit in revenues would not be made up and would only 
get bigger.
B specifically referred to significant losses being incurred in an email to the search 
engine on 4 September 2018.
Mr I says the problems experienced with the search engine later on are not the same as the 
issues it faced before taking out the policy. He has gone into some detail explaining the 
differences. I have considered his points carefully but dont think they make a difference. 
Even if the further issues B experienced with the search engine are different from the earlier 
problems, that doesnt alter the fact that B knew it was already failing to provide the income 
set out in the agreement with M before taking out the policy. The claim M made against B 
wasnt based on the suspension of the search engine account. It was a claim for breach of 
contract (and misrepresentation relating to that contract) concerning the promised revenue. 
Even if the precise reasons for the problems changed, the crux of the matter is that B was 
being pursued for not providing the revenues it had promised. And it knew that was 
happening before taking out the policy.
Hiscox has also referred to an exclusion for claims caused by Bs failure to ensure it has 
sufficient technical, logistical and financial resources to perform a contract. So if the issues 
were due to problems with the search engine, Hiscox says that means B hasnt taken 
reasonable steps to ensure it could service the contract entered into with M.
Taking all of the above into account, Im satisfied the decision to reject the claim was in line 
with the policy terms and was fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2022.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman