DRN-4413739
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy that AXA XL Insurance Company UK Limited (AXA XL) declined a claim 
made on a group personal accident insurance policy.
What happened
Mr G has the benefit of a group personal accident policy (the policy).
A claim was made on the policy in mid-2022 in respect of a back injury Mr G says he 
incurred during a football match. 
AXA XL declined the claim because it concluded that the bodily injury Mr G experienced 
wasnt caused by an accident as defined by the policy.
After Mr G complained to AXA XL about its decision, and it maintained its position to decline 
the claim, he brought a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator looked into what happened and didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint. Mr G 
disagreed and raised further points in reply. These didnt change our investigators opinion 
and the complaint has been passed to me to consider everything afresh to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AXA XL has a regulatory obligation to handle insurance claims promptly and fairly. And it 
mustnt unreasonably decline a claim. 
The relevant terms and conditions of the policy
The policy says:
If an Accident occurs during the Period of Insurance and Effective Time that causes 
Bodily Injury to an Insured Person which results inTemporary Total 
DisablementWe will pay the Insured Person up to but not exceeding the Benefit 
Amount for the Benefit Period stated if shown as insured in the Policy Schedule. 
Temporary Total Disablement means:
Temporary disablement which entirely prevents the Insured Person from engaging in 
their Usual Occupation
Accident and Accidental means:
A single, sudden, unusual and unexpected event, which occurs at an identifiable time 
and place during the Period of Insurance and the Effective Time which causes Bodily 
Injury
Bodily Injury means:
Injury which is caused solely by Accidental means and which independently of illness 
or any other cause occurs within twelve months from the date of the Accident
Has AXA XL fairly and reasonably declined the claim?
I know Mr G will be very disappointed but for the reasons set out below, Im satisfied AXA XL 
has relied on the terms of the policy to decline the claim. 
Mr G says he suffered an injury to his back after being tackled during a football 
match in October 2021. 
I dont think AXA XL has unreasonably relied on the information Mr G put in his claim 
form when asked how the accident occurred. Its reflected during the game I started 
to feel a pain in my back and down my left leg. Theres no mention of Mr G being 
tackled.
Mr G has provided an extract of the accident book for the relevant football match. It 
does reflect: player involved in a tackle with opposition player. Pain presented in leg 
following attempts to run following collision. However, I dont think this, in isolation, is 
persuasive evidence that the tackle caused the injury to Mr Gs back.
As part of the claim form, Mr Gs GP completed a doctors statement. It reflects that 
they answered Mr G first presented with low back pain, a year before, in September 
2020, and first received medical attention for this condition then. There had been 
ongoing issues despite private chiropractor and eventually had MRI in Feb 2022. 
Mr G says his GP is mistaken and has provided extracts of his GP records in support 
that theres no entry in his medical records in September 2020. However, I dont think 
AXA XL has unfairly relied on the doctors statement when declining the claim 
particularly as the doctor hasnt provided a follow up statement to correct what was 
said and to explain why they provided the information as part of the claim form. 
Further, the report reflecting the radiology examination undertaken in February 2022 
 and after the MRI  describes the clinical history as L buttock and posterior thigh 
pain since running Marathon in October 2021. No change despite extensive 
conservative treatment. Slight reduction L5 myotome on L? disc bulge. Theres no 
mention of Mr G reporting that his symptoms began after the football match in 
October 2021. And as the marathon took place a week before the relevant football 
match, I think AXA XL has fairly relied on the radiology report in support of its reason 
to decline the claim.
Ive taken on board all Mr Gs points including what he says about if the injury had 
been caused by the marathon, he wouldnt have been able to play football the 
following week. Further, he hasnt been able to exercise or play football since the 
injury and has undergone surgery. However, looking at the totality of the evidence, 
Im satisfied that AXA XL has fairly concluded that theres insufficient evidence that 
Mr Gs back injury was caused by being tackled during the football match. Or that the 
bodily injury was caused by an accident, as defined by the policy terms. 
AXA XL has said that it would reconsider Mr Gs claim if he provided any evidence in 
the form of a medical report that establishes his injury was caused by playing 
football. I think thats fair and reasonable.AXA XL hasnt paid the benefit amount stated in the policy schedule to cover physiotherapy 
arising from bodily injury. However, for that benefit to be paid it must be established that an 
Accident occurs during the Period of Insurance and Effective Time and causes Bodily Injury 
to an Insured Person that directly results in a valid Temporary Total Disablement Claim. 
As Im satisfied AXA XL has fairly concluded that Mr G didnt experience bodily injury caused 
by an accident, as defined by the policy terms, I dont think a claim for the physiotherapy 
benefit has been established. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman