DRN-4126652
The complaint
Miss J is unhappy with the service she received in one of HSBC Bank Plcs branches.
What happened
The circumstances that led to this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat 
them in detail here. But, in summary:
Miss J visited one of the banks branches in order to set up two new payees on her 
current account and make a faster payment to each. She says she queued for 10 to 15 
minutes and was then, rudely, told to wait while other customers were served. 
HSBC accepts the situation might not have been handled as well as it should have been. 
The bank paid £40 compensation to Miss J on the day of the event and offered an 
additional £60 after further investigating her concerns. Miss J thought the offer was an 
insult and referred her complaint to this service.
Our investigator thought the banks offer was fair. Miss J disagreed and asked for £2,000 
compensation. The investigator didnt agree this was reasonable, so the matter has come to 
me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Unfortunately, when it completed the full complaint investigation, HSBC didnt ask the branch 
staff for their recollection of events. And, given the time that had passed by the point we 
requested this information, it wasnt possible to get this from any of the staff who were 
involved. Instead, the bank explained that when branches are busy, counter staff sometimes 
ask customers to wait if they want to undertake transactions which usually take slightly 
longer to complete, while they help other customers with quicker transactions. HSBC says 
this can help to reduce overall queueing times. 
The above approach doesnt seem wholly unreasonable. But Ive also taken into account 
that Miss J says the branch staff didnt properly explain to her why she needed to wait. And 
the member of staff, who eventually helped her, managed to complete her request fairly 
quickly. What this meant, in Miss Js words, is that she was left feeling humiliated and that 
the decision not to serve her was racially motivated. It also seems, given that compensation 
has been offered alongside an apology, that HSBC accepts, to some extent, that it could 
(and should) have handled things better.
Ive thought very carefully about what Miss J has said about how this incident made her feel. 
Despite what shes said, I think the bank has taken her concerns seriously and tried to put 
things right promptly after she raised her complaint  this includes giving a written apology. I 
realise Miss J has been HSBCs customer for many years and I appreciate her strength of 
feeling as well as the time its taken her to pursue this matter. But, overall, I think an award 
of £100 represents fair and reasonable compensation given the particular circumstances of 
this complaint. I also hope that it helps Miss J to know that someone impartial and 
independent has looked into her concerns.
My final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay a further £60 compensation to 
Miss J.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2023.
 
Ruth Hersey
Ombudsman