K820x#14complaint
Ms C says The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2003.  The policy was added  to 
Ms Cs credit  card account  when she applied for the card by post.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion.
Ms C mainly  says that she was entitled  to significant sick pay benefits, and if the costs  
versus benefits, as well as the policys  optional nature had been made clear to her, she 
wouldve declined the policy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Cs complaint.
I think RBS made Ms C aware that the PPI was optional and she chose to take it. RBS has 
provided a copy of the credit card application  she completed. Ms C had to tick to add the 
policy to her RBS credit  card and it looks as if Ms C did this. And shes  signed and dated the 
completed application. This sale took place a long time ago so I can understand why Ms C 
has forgotten now. But, from what Ive seen, she made it clear on the application  form she 
signed that she wanted to take the policy out. So, on balance, I find that RBS did make  it 
clear that PPI was an optional feature,  and that Ms C applied  to have it. 
RBS didnt advise  Ms C to take out the policy so it didnt have to check  if it was suitable  for 
her. But it still had to make sure that Ms C had enough information to make a proper  
decision about whether PPI was right for her.
Its possible the information RBS gave Ms C about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. Ive taken into account  Ms Cs comments, including  what shes  said about having 
other means  to cover the repayments. But Ms C chose to take out the policy  and so appears 
to have wanted this type of cover despite  this. 
And I cant reasonably  say that Ms C couldnt have benefitted from the PPI. She was entitled 
to 6 months  full sick pay, followed by 6 months on half pay. But the policy couldve paid out 
in full for up to 12 months per accident  and sickness claim. So the PPI provided better 
protection than she couldve relied  on getting  through her employer. And it wouldve paid out 
on top of sick pay providing  Ms C with a useful benefit at a difficult time  especially bearing 
in mind that she mightve had some extra costs as a result of being sick or disabled and she 
wouldve only been on half pay after being off work sick for 6 months. 
Ref: DRN08015202PPI wouldve  also paid out for up to 12 months for any one claim if Ms C lost her job and 
became unexpectedly  unemployed.
Although Ms C mentioned having  some  other  insurance and mortgage  protection, PPI 
provided a different sort of cover and protected her credit  card monthly repayments. So this 
information doesnt affect my overall view.
And Ive taken into account  that Ms C mentioned  having savings. But I havent seen any 
details of savings  she had when she took out her credit card  and I dont know  if she 
wouldve always had savings to rely on if shed needed to make  a claim.
Being entitled to redundancy  benefits wouldnt have helped Ms C if she was off work  sick. 
And (as long as the policy was still running) PPI wouldve paid out in addition  to any 
redundancy money she mightve got if shed lost her job, giving her some additional financial 
security in those circumstances.
There were some things the policy didnt  cover.  But it doesnt  look as if those applied  in 
Ms Cs case.  So, I dont think having more  information about  things the policy didnt cover 
wouldve affected her decision to take it out.
I cant see that the cost of the policy was clearly  communicated to Ms C before she agreed  
to buy it. But she chose  to take it out so it looks like she wanted to have the benefits  the 
policy offered, despite the other  means she was able to rely on. And it doesnt look as if the 
policy was unaffordable for her. 
So I think it unlikely Ms C wouldve made a different decision if better information had been 
provided. On balance I think shed still have taken  out the policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Ms Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 August 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0801520