K822xcomplaint
Mr B complains that in 2012 Nationwide Building  Society debited  his account with a number 
of card payments  that he didnt make  or authorise, and that its now not prepared to refund 
those payments and compensate him adequately.  
background 
During 2012 a number  of card payments were made from Mr Bs Nationwide account  to a 
number of online gaming and similar  websites, mostly for relatively small sums of money.  
Mr B contacted Nationwide at the time about  transactions which  he said he hadnt authorised 
and Nationwide  removed  them from his account  while they investigated  through the card 
scheme, Visa. Nationwide told Mr B that, depending on the outcome of that investigation, his 
account might be re-debited at a later date. That is what happened  and, whilst there were no 
further disputed  payments  after October  2012,  Mr Bs account was by that time, overdrawn.  
It continued to incur charges and interest, increasing  the overdraft. 
Nationwide instructed debt collectors, who contacted Mr B in 2013.  He sought external 
advice about this and other financial matters, but it doesnt  appear  that he contacted 
Nationwide again  at that time. 
Mr B contacted Nationwide again in early 2018 to dispute again the payments made in 2012. 
Nationwide said it had few records going back that far. Because it hadnt heard from Mr B, it 
had assumed there was nothing more to investigate.  It didnt agree to what Mr B had asked 
for, namely  that his overdraft (by then more than £350) be written off. 
Mr B referred the matter to this service.  One of our adjudicators suggested  to Nationwide  
that, given the time that had passed  and the difficulty  in establishing what  exactly had 
happened in 2012, it should consider  writing  off the overdrawn balance and paying Mr B 
£47.32  the amount  by which  the account  had been in credit  on 13 August 2012. 
Nationwide agreed, but Mr B didnt think that went far enough. He said,  after some  
discussion, that he wanted a further payment of £500 in recognition of the distress hed 
suffered. Nationwide didnt agree and the adjudicator said he thought  Nationwides  offer was 
fair. Mr B asked  that an ombudsman review the case.     
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When determining a complaint, I must decide what I consider  to be a fair and reasonable 
outcome in all the circumstances. In most  cases,  that will require me to make  findings about 
what happened at the time of the events that led to the dispute.  In this case, that means how 
Mr Bs debit  card (or more accurately, his debit  card details) came to be used to make  the 
payments that hes now disputing.  As the adjudicator identified, however, thats made more 
difficult here by the passage of time.  Its not possible now, for example, to obtain reliable 
information from the online gaming businesses that took the payments. The adjudicator 
considered the possibility  that a family member had triggered the payments when playing 
online games. I agree thats quite likely, and its possible  they did that without  realising any 
payment was involved. 
What is known, however,  is:
Ref: DRN03748052Mr B queried the payments  in 2012. 
After investigation by the card scheme,  they were re-debited to Mr Bs account.  
He didnt  dispute them again for more than five years. 
Following this services involvement, Nationwide agreed to write off the account balance 
and make a small payment to Mr B. 
In order to resolve this complaint in a manner which I consider to be fair and reasonable, 
therefore, I must first consider whether Nationwides offer,  if accepted, would produce a fair 
outcome. In my view it would. If I were to make a finding that Mr B didnt, as he says,  
authorise the payments, my starting  point would be to require Nationwide to refund them. By 
writing off the overdrawn balance on Mr Bs account,  Nationwide will do that and refund 
charges on the account. 
Mr B has asked  for a substantial payment in addition. I must however have in mind that he 
didnt pursue this matter  for many  years,  and that may have  made it impossible for 
Nationwide to demonstrate exactly how the payments came  about. I dont believe that It is 
down to Nationwide that it has taken so long for this issue to be resolved. I believe therefore 
that the adjudicators proposal  is a fair resolution and that Nationwides offer reflecting it is 
also fair. I shall however,  for completeness, make an award in the same terms. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Nationwide Building  Society should,  in order to resolve 
Mr Bs complaint, write  off the debt in respect of Mr Bs overdrawn account  balance and pay 
Mr B £47.32.  Under the rules of the Financial  Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 November 2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0374805