K820x#14Complaint
Mr P and Mrs D have  complained about a life and critical illness  protection policy  they took 
out in 2004 with Scottish Widows Limited.  They have said they were told they had to take the 
policy in order to be granted their mortgage,  but they didnt need it as they already had cover 
in place. They also dont  think  the policy provided them with enough cover.
Background
In 2004 Mr P and Mrs D met with an adviser  during  the process  of taking  out a new 
mortgage. At the time they were in their early thirties and early forties and were  both 
employed on a full-time  basis. They had three  dependants.  They already had life protection 
in place taken  out some years before protecting a previous mortgage of just over £50,000 
over fifteen years.
They were  applying for further borrowing  of just over £27,000 taking their total liabilities to 
£79,000 set up on a repayment basis over twenty-five years. So, to protect  their total liability 
they were sold a decreasing term assurance policy, which included critical illness cover and 
waiver of premium, and which matched the term and amount of the lending.  
The complaint was assessed  by one of our investigators who was of the view it couldnt be 
upheld. She was satisfied the policy wasnt a condition of the lending and couldnt  see 
anything that confirmed Mr P and Mrs D were  told otherwise at the time of the sale. She felt 
the policy was of benefit to Mr P and Mrs D and that it provided the correct level of cover 
when they took the policy  and it was only later when they increased  their borrowing again 
that the policy didnt provide the right level of cover.
Mr P and Mrs D didnt  agree with the assessment. They remained of the view that despite 
informing the adviser  of their previous cover they were  told they had to take the new policy.  
They said they were  pressured to take out the policy and the adviser took advantage of a 
nave couple.  They also raised a new point.  They  were  unhappy  that they found information 
that stated Mr P was covered for 100% of the policy but Mrs D was only covered for 25%.
The investigator considered Mr P and Mrs D s comments but wasnt  persuaded to change 
her initial outcome. So as no agreement could  be reached, the complaint has been passed 
to me to review for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  the 
complaint can be upheld.
The crux of Mr P and Mrs D s complaint is that they were told they had to take the policy out 
to secure the further lending they were applying for. I obviously wasnt  at the sales  meeting 
so I cant know what the adviser told Mr P and Mrs D during this process  or what information 
would have been given to them at this time.  I obviously do not doubt what they have  said but 
as an impartial service  I need to also consider the evidence provided by Scottish  Widows  to 
ascertain whether their claims can be supported.
Having looked  at all that has been provided  to me from the time of the sale, including  that 
submitted by Mr P and Mrs D, I have seen nothing from either party  that confirms the policy 
Ref: DRN02972982was a condition  of the lending they were applying  for. Nor can I identify any evidence  of 
pressure selling. In fact, the documents especially  the personal  summary and 
recommendations letter states  that both Mr P and Mrs D had inadequate financial 
arrangements in place to protect their lending and they both wanted to ensure the mortgage 
would be paid should one of them die so as to not burden the remaining partner. So, while I 
appreciate what Mr P and Mrs D have said it would  be unreasonable  for me to take their 
word over the evidence  that has been  provided  to me. I therefore cant  safely  conclude  that 
Mr P and Mrs D were  told incorrectly  by the adviser  that they had to take the policy  to get the 
mortgage they were  applying  for.
Given I cant uphold this part of their complaint, I think its important for me to look at whether 
the policy was of use to them, or in other words was suitable for them,  to reassure them  that 
they havent been paying out for something  unnecessarily.
Mr P and Mrs D were  increasing their borrowings  to £79,000 and they had no other 
protection that met this amount  their existing policy was around  £30,000  short and wouldnt 
have covered the term of the new borrowing. So, some sort of protection was a good idea for 
them to take out. If they had decided to not put anything  in place had one of them passed 
away the remaining  family would have been  left with trying  to repay the significant  amount of 
lending they had taken out. This would have been at an undoubtedly difficult  time. So, this 
policy would have been useful in this situation  for the remaining family.  Also,  given there was 
critical illness cover, had either Mr P and Mrs D  been diagnosed with a critical illness this 
policy would have paid out a lump  sum to them  that could have been  used  to perhaps 
supplement their income if they were  not in a position to work or repay the outstanding 
mortgage debt if they so wished.
I know Mr P and Mrs D have said that they should have been told to increase the cover on 
their previous policy and this would have been  cheaper, but it is not for me to comment  on 
this. Increasing their protection could have  been  done a couple of ways and the adviser  
chose to give them a whole new policy. I dont know how much it would have cost them to 
increase their old policy or what other  polices were  on the market  that they could have 
chosen from. But all I can do is look at whether the advice  they were  given was suitable  
not what the best possible advice  could have been.
I am also satisfied that the type of policy was the right one for their type of borrowing  it 
protected the full amount  of the borrowing  for the full term but was also set up on a 
decreasing basis  to match the repayment basis of the mortgage. This way they werent 
paying for more  cover  than they needed.
I know Mr P and Mrs D have said the policy didnt cover them  for the full amount of their 
borrowing, but this isnt correct. Their total borrowing, as I have already said above, in 2004 
was £79,000 due to the additional borrowing of around £25,000  that they were applying  for. 
And this is the level of protection the policy gave them. Mr P and Mrs D did borrow  more  in 
2007 and so their borrowing increased. However, this doesnt have anything  to do with the 
policy taken out three  years before. If they wanted the protection to cover the additional 
borrowing in 2007  it was up to them to ask for this. All the policy  sold in 2004 could do was 
protect the level of liabilities they had in place at the time and from everything I have seen 
this is what it did until Mr P and Mrs D increased  their borrowing again three years later.
I know Mr P and Mrs D are concerned  that they feel the policy covered Mr P 100% and Mrs 
D only 25%. I am a little unsure  of what they mean exactly by this, but I have found  
paperwork that relates to the payment protection insurance (PPI) they took out for the 
Ref: DRN02972983mortgage at the same  time. This states the proportion of benefit  that would be paid under 
that PPI cover if a claim was made.   So, this doesnt have anything to do with the term 
assurance they are complaining about. 
Overall therefore, for the reasons set out above, I am of the view that the policy  Mr P and 
Mrs D were sold in 2004  was suitable for them, met their needs and objectives and was a 
good idea to have. I also cant find any evidence that supports their claims that they were  
told they had to take the policy or were pressured  into buying it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 January  2020.
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0297298