K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains that ReAssure Limited overstated the value of his pension more than once 
and he lost out.
background
Mr R said in August 2018 he was told his pension was worth  around £214,000. He decided  
to take a pension lump  sum of 20% of his pension and just over £30,000 was paid out. In 
November he asked  about taking another lump  sum so he checked  the value and took 
another lump  sum in December  2018  of just under  £30,000. He made further contact in 
February 2019 and was given a fund value and transfer value and an annual  statement 
which reflected a value  of around £212,000. In late February 2019 he completed papers to 
take the rest of his pension as a lump sum. In March he was told the correct value was 
actually around  £128,000.  In fact the correct values after the September and December 
2018 withdrawals  were around  £171,000  and £124,000 approximately.  He didnt feel the 
offer of £500 for the mistake was fair and felt he should be given  about  20% of the missing  
money to compensate for the mistake.
ReAssure said it accepted it had overstated the value of his policy  on more than one 
occasion between  December 2018 and March 2019.  It admitted it gave a value of around 
£212,000 in March 2019 but doubled  checked before it implemented the request for full 
encashment. It then realised that his withdrawals in September and December 2018 had not 
been reflected  and it was giving higher valuations than was actually the case. It apologised 
and offered £500 compensation. 
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision in this case, I said the following.
Its clear ReAsssure made a mistake  and issued incorrect valuations for Mr Rs pension.  
Where a party makes a mistake the law requires they be put back in the position they 
wouldve been had the mistake not been  made. That would  mean that Mr R would receive 
the correct value of his fund not that he should get the overstated  value. 
However the law says that where  a party has acted  to its detriment in reliance on incorrect  
information it could  result in a recoverable loss. The position is clearer where the other party  
has been told that reliance is being placed  on the information in order  to make  a decision. I 
havent seen any evidence that Mr R expressly stated to ReAssure he was relying on the 
valuations in making a decision. 
As Mr R says he placed reliance on the valuations I want to consider what  he knew  at the 
time and whether any such reliance was reasonable. Mr R made his first encashment  in mid 
September 2018 and another in December 2018.  I note also that both encashment  forms 
indicate he had financial advice so I might reasonably have expected  his IFA to have 
commented on the overall fund values.
I note from the file notes  provided by the business  that on 21 December Mr R called and 
questioned the value  of the fund compared to his wifes fund and asked them  to provide  
information including the withdrawals he had made.  This suggests he suspected the 
encashment hadnt  been  taken into account. I note also that his encashment payment was 
received on 27 December 2018  and he calls to confirm  receipt  and again to question the 
value. The notes  show he says the value doesnt  look right due to the partial encashment.
Ref: DRN04356192So it seems  that in December Mr R had suspicions the valuations  might not have been 
correct. 
I think he was prudent  to make those calls. I think a reasonable person wouldve questioned 
the valuations  given his withdrawal of circa  £30,000  and then a total of nearly £60,000  plus 
tax. He wouldve  achieved  some amazing investment growth  for the value of his pension to 
return to the start within a short  time after making  such large withdrawals compared to the 
overall value. 
So it seems  that Mr R wasnt confident  the information provided  was correct. But even if I am 
wrong in that conclusion,  I have asked Mr R what he wouldve done differently had he had 
the correct values. He said had he known  the correct position  he mightve made  different  
decisions. 
He said his financial position had worsened  over the last couple of years as his business had 
shrunk leaving him with large tax liabilities for the times when things were better. At the 
same time hed lost income from a holiday home. The financial position wouldve  been fine if 
hed sold the holiday home or received the pension he thought  he was going  to get. It now 
seemed no property sale was imminent and he might need to sell the property for much  less 
than the offer they turned down in December 2018.  Instead his pension had been  mostly 
used up paying  tax and his wife was now drawing down her pension. 
Mr R has suggested he acted in reliance on the valuations to make decision in three areas 
(1) not accepting  an offer for sale of a property (2) paying tax bills (3) committing  to 
discretionary spend.
I have considered each of these in turn.
The property
I have considered the correspondence regarding the property. Mr R says an offer was made 
in December 2018 but declined. He says that if hed known the correct position he wouldve 
accepted the lower.  
However as I have noted at the time it seems Mr R was questioning and seeking to check  
the value of his pension.  Given  this was in December 2018  it doesnt seem he was certain of 
the value so I cannot reasonably conclude he was relying on it to make the decision about 
the sale of the property.
Even if I am wrong there is no direct  evidence that he declined the offer because  of his 
pension. Nor is there certainty the sale wouldve  proceeded then or when he tried to revive  
the offer in 2019. I say that because he says the potential buyer was concerned  about the 
absence of a mains power supply, the fact a later attempt to revive the sale failed and hed 
been advised sales could take as much as five years and he might need to sell at a lower 
price.
Tax bills
Mr R says his business  and holiday property income have reduced. He usually took income  
from his business  but for the last few years these  had been decreasing making paying tax 
for the previous year difficult. He said his and his wifes personal tax bill for January and July 
Ref: DRN043561932018 were around  £22,000 and £30,000  respectively.  He thought  the corporation  tax due in 
2018 was around  £30,000. These  amounts related to the 2017/18  tax year.  He was now 
falling behind in his payments for 2019  and 2020.  He said the deterioration in the business  
had prompted  him to draw his pension and then his wifes to meet the liabilities.  
I note that these liabilities were created and fell due before Mr R made his first encashment 
in September  2018. So I cant say he relied  on any incorrect  pension  valuation in failing to 
pay them.  I note also that by December 2018  hed withdrawn nearly £60,000 in total and by 
early 2019  nearly  £90,000 in total which wouldve  been sufficient to cover  these payments.  
These liabilities were  created due historic business  and property income. Mr Rs inability to 
pay was due to a fall in the levels of income  and not because  of any reliance on the pension 
value which  at the time these fell due was being  correctly represented to him.
Discretionary spend
Mr R said he spent around £4,000 to £5,000 on a holiday, £5,000  for work  on a kitchen and 
continued to pay school fees of around £21,000  per annum. He said he might  not have  
spent these sums. He hasnt provided  information  as to the dates these were incurred. Given 
his worsening financial  position I can see they couldve  created financial pressure. I have not 
seen evidence to suggest that he relied on the pension  valuation in entering  into these 
liabilities, nor in deciding  to continue his pre-existing liability  for school fees.  
So I dont  think there is reasonable  evidence to show that he relied on the incorrect pension 
valuations in making decisions about these  issues. I have not therefore considered further  
whether it wouldve been reasonable to do so. 
I can understand Mr Rs frustration but he isnt entitled to receive money that was never  his. 
So I dont  think there is any basis for an award for financial loss.
I have considered the position in relation to distress  and inconvenience. Such an award isnt 
made to punish  the business  but to reflect the impact on the individual. I note the current 
offer of £500 by way of apology. I can see the misstatement  has caused upset for Mr R at a 
time when  he was under financial pressure and wanted to find money to pay his debts. I also 
note that between December 2018 and February 2019 ReAssure continued to issue  
inaccurate valuations  notwithstanding Mr Rs request to double check  the valuations. I think 
this mustve been distressing for him given his need for money. Even though  he clearly had 
doubts about the valuations he was given they created hope  that the position was better  
than it was. I think the impact on him was substantial due to his financial position. I think an 
award of £750  would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I proposed to uphold  this complaint in part and propose to direct  that ReAssure Limited 
should pay Mr R £750 for distress and inconvenience. 
For the avoidance of doubt if the offer of £500 has already been paid then a further £250 
would be payable.
ReAssure queried  the increased compensation award. It said its original offer fell within what  
was reasonable  for substantial distress and inconvenience and felt it was an equally fair 
award.
Mr R said he wasnt aware of the law but felt it was common sense that if he was told his 
pension was worth  a certain amount  on numerous occasions he would base his actions on 
Ref: DRN04356194that information. He therefore felt the loss from acting on that information should  be 
recoverable. He said the information  had given him security to reject an offer on his property. 
This had been  very damaging to him and meant  his wife had also needed to cash  in her 
pension. He didnt  see why he shouldve told ReAssure he was relying on the figures.  He felt 
he was entitled  to rely on the information given repeatedly verbally  and in writing. He 
acknowledged that his deteriorating financial  position was his responsibility  but felt 
ReAssures actions had made it worse.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered the comments  from ReAssure but dont agree. I think  their offer was more 
consistent with an award  for moderate  distress  and inconvenience. I indicated that I felt the 
distress and inconvenience caused was substantial and made an award  commensurate  with 
that. ReAssure didnt dispute my view that the distress  was substantial. Accordingly I remain  
of the view that my proposed award is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case. 
Mr R makes a number  of points that hed made  in the past and which  I have considered in 
my provisional decision (e.g. rejecting the offer on a property and relying  on information) and 
accordingly my view has not changed. I note that he says he wasnt  aware  of the law. But 
that doesnt mean that he should become  entitled  to money that was never  his. So while I 
am sorry to disappoint Mr R I havent changed my mind.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part and propose to direct  that ReAssure Limited should pay Mr R 
£750 for distress  and inconvenience. 
For the avoidance of doubt if the offer of £500 has already been paid then a further £250 
would be payable.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 April 2020.
Colette Bewley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0435619