K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W took out a packaged  bank account  (PBA) with HSBC UK Bank  Plc (HSBC) in 
2007 and they say it was mis-sold.
background
Mr and Mrs W took out an HSBC Plus Account (HPA)  in December 2007. 
The HPA benefits  included worldwide family travel insurance, fee free cash withdrawals 
abroad; fee free overdrafts and better rates  for overdrafts, credit cards and savings 
accounts; and a range of other offers. It cost £12.95 per month.
The HPA was re-branded in February 2010  as an Advance account with added  insurance 
benefits and the same price. In November 2014, the insurance benefits were  removed from 
the account, and the remaining benefits were provided  free. Mr and Mrs W were then offered 
insurances for the lower fee of £9.95 under the brand title of Insurance  Aspects  (IA) which 
they took up.
Mr and Mrs W say that they were advised to take out the original HPA but it wasnt right for 
them and they didnt know they were  paying for it. Mr W says that he wasnt  present  at the 
original sale and didnt  know  about the account change.
Our adjudicator didnt  think that HSBC mis-sold the account. Mr and Mrs W disagree so the 
case has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
Firstly I need to consider  whether Mr and Mrs W knew they had a choice whether to take out 
the fee paying HPA, and whether they chose  to do so. I think they did and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs W say they didnt  know there was a monthly fee for the HPA. In my view I think  
their memory is mistaken. I say this because the benefits of the HPA were substantial. And 
when Mr and Mrs W were offered them I think its more likely  than not they wouldnt have 
expected the benefits  for free. Also, the fees were  not insubstantial and appeared on their 
account each  month.  So I think if they hadnt known about or wanted to pay the fees, they 
would have quickly challenged  them but they didnt.
I note that Mr and Mrs W had a fee free bank account with overdraft facilities before they 
took out their HPA.  So at the time of the sale, I think its more likely  than not that they were 
aware that there was a range of fee free accounts available with overdraft facilities  from both 
HSBC and other banks  and financial  institutions. I say this because banking  is a competitive 
market and bank  accounts are widely  advertised  and I think  Mr and Mrs W were experienced 
users of banking facilities.  So if having  a fee free account was important to them I think they 
wouldve checked with HSBC or elsewhere  in the market and not taken  out the HPA. 
Ref: DRN09498242So while I dont doubt Mr and Mrs Ws honest recollections, in my view they knew they had a 
choice whether to pay a fee for an account with overdraft facilities  or not and they chose to 
take the HPA out and pay the fees.
Mr W says that he wasnt  present at the sale and didnt know that the account had been 
upgraded to an HPA.  Before I consider this I need to look into whether the HPA sale was 
advised or non-advised.
HSBC says that this was a non-advised sale, by which it means that it didnt recommend the 
HPA to Mr and Mrs W personally  or advise them to take it out. Mr and Mrs W say that HSBC 
did advise them to take it out. 
I dont know what was said during the sale, but Ive not seen anything such as any records of 
discussions about Mr and Mrs Ws needs  and circumstances or suitability checks  to show me 
clearly that HSBC did make a personal recommendation to them. I accept its possible that in 
providing information to Mr and Mrs W and explaining the benefits of the HPA,  HSBC may 
have said or implied  that it was good  idea to take out the HPA.  But this isnt the same as giving 
a personal recommendation. And based  on this services knowledge of HSBCs sales 
practices at the time, I think its more likely than not that HSBC  sold the HPA to Mr and Mrs W 
on an information only basis.  
This means  HSBC did not have to ensure that the HPA was suitable for Mr and Mrs W, but it 
did have to provide  Mr and Mrs W with good  enough information about  the HPA so they could 
make an informed decision about whether to have it or not.
I will now go back to consider whether Mr W knew about the account upgrade.  
Mrs W is clear that she spoke to HSBC and obtained the information about the HPA, and Mr 
W is saying that he didnt  know about  the account  upgrade. Again, I do not doubt  Mr and Mrs 
Ws honest recollections  as the sale was a long time ago, but I think  its more likely than not 
that Mr W did know about the upgrade. I say this because I think its likely Mr W had to sign an 
application form to take out the new account and, even if he didnt, I also think hed likely have 
noticed the account fees on the account  statements quickly in the months that followed. And if 
he was unhappy  they couldve closed or downgraded the account  but they didnt.
Did HSBC provide Mr and Mrs W with enough  information about the account to make  an 
informed decision?
I think it did. I say this because HSBC was trying  to sell the account  to Mr and Mrs W, so I 
think its very likely  that they provided  a lot of information both in discussion and in documents  
that followed. Mr and Mrs W had been running an overdraft  for some time before the HPA sale 
and they had a credit card and savings account.  So I think  that when HSBC  explained  the 
better overdraft facilities and the better  interest rates on credit  and savings accounts,  this 
would have been of interest to them. And they used the preferential overdraft facilities on offer 
from the time of sale; and they later benefitted  from preferential rates  on their credit  card and 
savings account.
I can see nothing in Mr and Mrs Ws personal circumstances that would have stopped them  
using the HPAs benefits. And it was for them to decide what  they wanted to use.
Ref: DRN09498243Mr and Mrs W say they had a Halifax PBA as well, so the benefits were duplicated. But as this 
was an information  only sale, it was for them  to consider whether it was right to take out the 
HPA as well as their Halifax account.
So, in my view Mr and Mrs W knew they had a choice about the HPA and they chose to take it 
out. And I dont think there is anything HSBC didnt  tell them  that would have changed  their 
minds and put them off taking  out the HPA.
my final decision
So my decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 November 2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0949824