K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains about the level of service provided  by Hargreaves Lansdown Advisory 
Services Limited (Hargreaves Lansdown) in connection with the purchase of investments  
through his self-invested personal  pension  (SIPP).  
background
Over the weekend of 20 to 21 October 2018, Mr W accessed his Hargreaves Lansdown 
SIPP online to place  trades to purchase units in nine funds. This included an order  to 
purchase £15,000 worth of units in a FTSE 200 index tracker fund, which  Mr W immediately 
cancelled and replaced with a new trade to purchase £35,000 worth of units  in the same  
tracker fund. 
On the next working day, Monday 22 October, Hargreaves Lansdown experienced a 
technical issue which prevented it from placing Mr Ws trades for several days. The 
combination of Mr W cancelling  one of his trades and the delay  in placing all nine trades led 
to incorrect account  information being  displayed when Mr W logged  into his SIPP  on                           
22 October. He says he wanted to purchase  £80,000 worth  of units  in a silver-based 
investment on that date as a short term strategy until 26 October. But he was prevented  from 
doing this because the technical issue resulted in an incorrect  cash balance being displayed.
Mr W says this issue caused him to experience distress, which was made worse when he 
phoned Hargreaves Lansdown and it provided,  as a result of the technical issue, conflicting 
information about what had happened and the amount of cash available in his SIPP. So he 
complained.
In response to Mr Ws complaint, Hargreaves Lansdown explained that an isolated issue 
occurred on the morning of 22 October  which prevented a number of client  trade instructions 
being processed. It said it had identified the root cause and had taken steps to ensure  the 
error wouldnt be repeated. Hargreaves Lansdown accepted it was responsible for this error  
and that it had caused Mr W to suffer trouble and upset. To put things right,  Hargreaves 
Lansdown:
adjusted the value of the SIPP account to place  Mr W into the position he would have 
been in had the nine trades been placed  on 22 October 2018, as they should  have 
been; and
offered Mr W £185 compensation, broadly equivalent to three  months fees, in 
recognition of the inconvenience caused
Mr W wasnt satisfied  with Hargraves Lansdowns  offer. So he contacted this service.  He 
said, in summary, that Hargreaves Lansdown:
failed to offer him the lowest  unit price  on the nine funds from the period                  
22 October to 25 October 2018, despite  inferring  that it would do so;
profited by completing the trades when unit prices were lower,  yet charged him the 
higher price;
Ref: DRN00760082failed to acknowledge that by the time he was able to purchase  the silver-based 
investment, the unit price  had increased substantially and, as a result,  no longer 
represented an attractive short term investment  he said he had suffered a financial 
loss equivalent  to the gain he had missed out on;
failed to provide  a reasonable  service between 21 October and 18 December 2018;
failed to acknowledge and recognise  the full impact its poor level of service  had on 
his well being; and
failed to make appropriate  adjustments in response to his recorded vulnerabilities 
Our investigator didnt  recommend upholding this complaint. She was satisfied that 
Hargreaves Lansdown:
had put Mr W into the correct financial position with regard to the nine trades that 
should have been  placed on 22 October;
was sympathetic to Mr Ws recorded  vulnerabilities when dealing with him; and
did not prevent  Mr W from placing any further trades on 22 October  after she had 
listened to recorded  calls between Mr W and the trading  desk
Mr W didnt accept our investigators findings and requested that this complaint  be referred 
to an ombudsman. He provided additional  comments for me consider, which  essentially 
repeated his previous comments. To put things right Mr W wants Hargreaves Lansdown to:
increase its cash compensation offer to £500  to better reflect  the exceptional distress 
and upset he says hes suffered;
reimburse the costs  associated with repeatedly chasing for information and 
complaining multiple times;
offer the lowest unit price between 22 October  to 25 October 2018 on the nine funds 
in question; 
offer compensation equivalent  to the 2.5% margin  he failed to realise from buying 
£80,000 worth of units in the silver-based investment on 22 October and selling them  
on 26 October 2018
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W has made substantial submissions  in support of this complaint. I am grateful for these. 
His submissions clearly  set out the circumstances that led to this complaint and the effect  
this has had on him. But I hope  Mr W will understand  that its not my intention to address 
every point hes raised. My final decision only addresses those  points I consider relevant.
Ref: DRN00760083Scope of this final decision
In his most  recent submissions, Mr W refers to an earlier complaint about Hargreaves 
Lansdown to which it previously issued a final response letter  and about the poor level of 
service his wife  also a client of Hargreaves  Lansdown  has allegedly received. Under this 
final decision  I cannot comment  on those  other  complaints.  The scope of this final decision 
only covers the events described  above.
Hargreaves Lansdowns error
Its not in dispute  that Hargreaves Lansdown made an error when it failed to place Mr Ws 
trade instructions on 22 October. Ive considerable sympathy with Mr W and understand his 
frustrations. But errors  do happen. When a business makes an error like this, I expect  it to 
place its client, as close as possible, into the position they would have been had the error not 
occurred.
It may be useful if I explain for Mr Ws benefit  that we generally  award  compensation for:
financial loss; and/or
non-financial loss - including  any trouble and upset caused
In terms of Mr Ws financial loss in connection  with the nine trades,  Im satisfied that the 
steps taken by Hargreaves Lansdown to remedy the matter  are fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. This is because the value of Mr Ws SIPP account  was adjusted by 
Hargreaves Lansdown to place him into the position he would have been in had the nine 
trades been placed on 22 October 2018, as they ought to have been. I dont think  it would be 
a fair outcome if Mr W is placed into the position  based on the lowest  unit price  between           
22 October and 25 October  2018,  as hes requested. That would  be to his advantage and 
place him into a position hes not entitled to be in.
Mr W says that in placing him into the position  as at 22 October, Hargreaves Lansdown  
profited from purchasing  the relevant units at a lower price at a later date. In my view, 
Hargreaves Lansdowns financial position in rectifying this matter is irrelevant. What matters  
is placing Mr W into the correct financial position, which Im satisfied  Hargraves Lansdown 
has done.
In terms of non-financial loss, these tend to be for modest amounts. I think the £185 
compensation offered by Hargreaves Lansdown  in recognition of the inconvenience  and 
disruption caused is reasonable. I say this because the account  adjustment and clarification 
about what had happened was provided  to Mr W within a short timeframe after the error 
occurred. 
Silver-based investment
Mr W says Hargreaves  Lansdowns error prevented him from purchasing £80,000 worth of 
units in a silver-based  investment on 22 October. Im not persuaded this element of his 
complaint should  be upheld.  Let me explain  why. Firstly, I havent seen sufficient 
contemporaneous evidence that persuades me Mr W intended to make that specific  
purchase on 22 October and for a total value of £80,000. Secondly, during his phone calls 
with Hargreaves Lansdown on that date, the trading desk informed Mr W that he was still 
able to trade but he didnt. So he chose not to trade  rather than being  prevented from 
trading.
Ref: DRN00760084my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
If Hargreaves Lansdown Advisory  Services Limited  hasnt done  so already, it must pay Mr W 
£185 compensation in line with its previous offer.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my final decision before 27 July 2019.
Clint Penfold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0076008