K821x#15complaint
Mr L acquired household fixtures, supplied by Kitchens Plus Limited, by means of a fixed  
sum loan agreement made in January 2018 with a financial services business. He complains 
that he had intended to pay cash for the fixtures   but Kitchen Pluss salesperson persuaded 
him, by mis-representing the agreement,  to acquire  them  by means  of a fixed  sum loan. He 
wants (a) his agreement  to be rescinded,  and (b) to be enabled to pay cash for the fixtures.
.
background
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 17 March  2020  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision. In my provisional  decision, I explained that I disagreed with our adjudicators  view 
that the complaint should not be upheld. I thought it should be upheld.
Mr L responded to my provisional decision,  saying that he agreed with my conclusions  and 
recommendations. But Kitchens Plus disagreed, making the following points in summary:
1.A copy of Mr Ls agreement was given  to him at the point of sale  this clearly 
showed an annual  interest rate of just under  10%, and a daily rate of 0.79%
2.At no point has it been made aware by Mr L that he had not received this 
documentation, that he was unhappy  or that he wanted another  copy  of his 
agreement
3.Mr L was aware that the information he had provided to it and the financial services  
business included  his email address  but he never questioned why he did not 
receive a welcome email, even after he received a welcome  letter from the financial 
services business
4.It is not at fault, if the welcome  letter  contained  information that was incomplete or 
misleading  and so, in fairness, the whole impact of any consequential failings 
should not fall on it
5.Mr L was aware of the length  of his agreement (180 months) and his monthly 
payments (just under £180), and so he was also aware that his total payments would 
exceed £30,000, given that his loan was £17,000  which would have raised  
questions about the interest rate
6.Mr L:complained to the financial  services  business (he felt the start date for monthly 
repayments was too early)  it is hard to believe that he did not become  aware  of the 
relevant interest  rate, in the course of this complaint
 
Ref: DRN01540702my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where evidence  is incomplete, 
inconsistent or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and wider circumstances.
first and second points  above
In the findings section  of my provisional  decision, I wrote the following:
 there is no strong evidence, one way or the other, about whether  or not:
Kitchen Pluss salesperson mis-sold the agreement to Mr L (which is what Mr L says 
happened)
Alternatively, the salesperson correctly sold the agreement, and Mr L simply chose a 
loan with an interest rate of just under 10%, repayable in 180 monthly instalments 
(which is what  Kitchen Plus says happened)  
And Kitchen  Plus gave Mr L a copy of his loan agreement (Mr L says that it did not)
... Mr L has consistently put forward his understanding of events, and  regarding  the 
welcome email  he has been  proved  correct,  when evidence apparently to the contrary  
was clarified. And the case he makes is entirely  plausible. 
But the case made by Kitchen Plus is also entirely  plausible. And so my decision is finely 
balanced. 
I emphasised that both (mutually  contradictory)  versions of events are plausible.  Kitchen 
Plus is restating its version of events in these two points.
third point above
Kitchen Plus referred  to a welcome email that Mr L should have received from the financial 
services business. It argues that Mr L should  have realised that he had not received this 
email, and so should have  chased it up. 
It is very likely that, if Mr L had chased up the email, he would have become aware that his 
agreements annual interest rate was nearly 10%.  But I find it more likely that he would not 
have chased up a welcome email,  until the household fixtures  he had acquired  had been 
installed, given  that repayments were not supposed to begin  until installation  was complete.
In these circumstances, I do not think it is fair or reasonable to expect  Mr L to have chased 
up a welcome email. And so I disagree with the argument made  in this third point.
fourth point  above
Mr L received a welcome letter  from the financial services business in February 2018. As 
noted in my provisional decision, this letter included information on the size of his first 
monthly payment,  the date it was due (in March  2018) and the size of his loan. But the letter 
did not include the number of monthly payments required, the total amount to be repaid 
(including loan charges), or the interest  rate.  
Ref: DRN01540703Kitchen Plus argues that the whole impact  of any incomplete or misleading  information in the 
welcome letter should not fall on it. But there  are two different reasons why Mr L did not 
receive complete  information:
Ether Kitchen  Plus or the financial services business made  an administrative error, 
which caused Mr Ls email address to be incorrectly recorded, which  in turn meant he 
did not receive a welcome email from the financial business
And (more importantly, in my view) Mr L says that Kitchen Plus did not give him a 
copy of his loan agreement  although  Kitchen  Plus says that he was given a copy
I would only agree with this fourth  point, if I also agreed that it had given Mr L a copy of his 
agreement. But that takes me back to my finely balanced mis-selling  decision.  
fifth point above
Kitchen Plus argues that, because Mr L was aware  the length  of his agreement  and his 
monthly payments,  he should have worked out that his total payments would exceed his loan 
by more than £13,000   which in turn should  have raised questions  about the interest rate. 
I would only agree with this fifth point, if I also agreed that it had not mis-sold the agreement  
to Mr L. But that again  takes  me back to my finely balanced mis-selling  decision.  
sixth point above
Kitchen Plus questioned how Mr L could not have become aware  of the relevant  interest  
rate, in the course  of his complaint to the financial services business. In the findings section 
of my provisional decision,  I wrote the following:
Mr L was clearly aware that he had entered into a loan agreement  he complained to 
the business when the monthly payments started  but it is clearly  possible as well that 
he was unaware  of the actual interest rate. 
I made  the above  finding because Mr Ls complaint was about the timing of his payments, 
and not about their size or duration.  Describing his unawareness  as possible reflects  once 
more the finely  balanced nature of my decision. And Kitchen Plus is again restating its 
version of events in this point.
conclusions 
Kitchen Plus put forward arguments (summarised in the six points  above)  in its response to 
my provisional decision, but it did not provide any new evidence.  
I disagree with the third point, for the reasons given above.
The remaining  points rely on accepting the Kitchen Plus version  of events, rather than Mr Ls 
version. In my provisional  decision,  on the balance of probabilities, I accepted Mr Ls version.  
And, in the absence  of further  evidence,  and given my disagreement with the third point,  I 
have no reason to change  my previous findings.
Kitchen Plus has said that it was not responsible for communications  sent (or not sent) by 
the financial services  business  to Mr L. It then argues that, in fairness,  the whole impact of 
any consequential failings  should not fall on it. 
Ref: DRN01540704But I have found  it is more likely than not that Kitchen Plus (rather than the financial 
business) mis-sold a loan agreement to Mr L. So, I see no reason to change  my previously 
recommended settlement,  which required Kitchen  Plus to return Mr L to the position he was 
in, immediately before the mis-selling took place.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and 
final settlement of it, I order Kitchens Plus Limited  to allow  Mr L to complete the purchase of 
his fixtures in cash, by paying  back to him £1,027.79.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 July 2020.
Roy Mawford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN01540705COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
17 March 2020
complaint
Mr L acquired household fixtures, supplied by Kitchens Plus Limited, by means of a fixed  sum loan 
agreement made in January  2018 with a financial  services business. He complains that he had 
intended to pay cash for the fixtures  but Kitchen Pluss salesperson persuaded  him, by mis-
representing the agreement,  to acquire them by means of a fixed  sum loan. He wants  (a) his 
agreement to be rescinded,  and (b) to be enabled  to pay cash for the fixtures.
.
background
Mr L said:
Kitchen Pluss salesperson told him that the agreements interest rate was just under 1%  
but it was actually  just under 10%
The salesperson did not go through the agreement with him, but he was told that no 
payments would be taken until installation  of the fixtures had been  completed 
He did not recall signing the agreement, and he was not given a copy  of it by Kitchen  Plus, at 
the time his contract with Kitchen  Plus to supply the fixtures was agreed
He also received  no correspondence from the financial services  business at that time, by post 
or email  although  he did later receive  a welcome  letter from the business
Mr L complained  to the financial services business when, in his view, monthly payments  began  to be 
taken before installation of the fixtures  had been completed.  This complaint was referred to us. The 
business delayed  the start of payments  by three months, and the complaint was settled  in September  
2018.
Mr L told us that, arising from the above complaint, he obtained a copy  of his agreement from the 
financial services business  this was when he became  aware of the actual interest rate. 
Mr L complained  to us that Kitchens Plus had mis-sold his agreement. He provided  us with a copy  of 
the financial services providers welcome letter:  
Which referred  to a monthly payment of just under  £180  and a full balance of £17,000 to be 
repaid
Which also asked  Mr L to check the details of his direct debit,  and gave a contact phone  
number for any questions about the letter
But did not mention any interest rate 
Kitchen Plus provided us with documentation relating to Mr Ls acquisition of the fixtures:
Kitchen Plus Schedule of fixtures to supply  and fit, at a total cost of £22,000 comprising a 
deposit of £5,000 and a balance of £17,000 to pay, signed  by Mr L in mid January 2018  this 
schedule indicated the payment methods as cheque/card and finance plan
Kitchen Plus Choice of Funding schedule, indicating  that 180 monthly payments at an interest 
rate of just under 10% had been chosen  this schedule was dated in mid January 2018, but 
was not signed by Mr L.
Kitchen Plus Customer Satisfaction Note (for one part of the acquisition), signed by Mr L in 
August 2018
Kitchen Plus Customer Satisfaction Note (for other parts of the acquisition),  signed by Mr L in 
mid February 2018
Kitchen Plus Remedial  Satisfaction Note (for other parts of the acquisition), signed  by Mr L in 
July 2018
Financial Services  Business Satisfaction Note, signed by Mr L in mid February  2018
Ref: DRN01540706Kitchen Plus told us that Mr L had chosen a monthly payments option, rather than the other funding 
options available  (cash or self-finance,  buy now pay later, deferred and preferred, interest free credit). 
We were also provided with a copy of:
Mr Ls loan agreement, indicating that he had electronically signed it in mid January  2018
The financial services businesss customer system notes for Mr L, showing that a welcome 
email was sent to him in mid January, and that a welcome letter was sent to him in late 
February 2018
The financial  services business told us: 
The welcome  email  sent to Mr L in mid January 2018 would have included information  about  
his agreements interest  rate and monthly payments
But the business would  not have sent a copy of the loan agreement  to Mr L, because  it was 
electronically signed  although Kitchen Plus should have provided a hard copy of the 
agreement to Mr L when it was signed
Our adjudicator said he could not confirm what Mr L and Kitchen Pluss  salesperson  discussed, which  
meant that he would need to consider other information about Mr Ls funding  choice. And Kitchen 
Pluss funding  schedule clearly indicated  that Mr L had chosen a loan with an interest rate of just 
under 10%, repayable in 180 monthly instalments.
Our adjudicator noted  that Mr L had said the salesperson did not go through the agreement  with him. 
But our adjudicator pointed out that it was Mr Ls responsibility in these circumstances, before signing,  
to ensure that he understood the agreements  terms and conditions.
Our adjudicator concluded  that, based on the available  information, Mr Ls loan agreement was not 
misrepresented to him. And so he did not think the complaint should  be upheld.   
Mr L disagreed  with our adjudicator. And so this complaint  against Kitchens Plus about  mis-selling  
was referred for review by an ombudsman.
Mr L complained  to us as well about the quality of goods supplied. Our adjudicator told him that we 
would need to deal with this separately from the above complaint. At Mr Ls request, our adjudicator 
arranged for a new complaint to be set up, against the financial services business, about  the quality of 
goods supplied.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Where evidence  is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory (as 
some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities   in other words,  what I 
consider most  likely to have happened in light of the available  evidence and wider  circumstances.
I am considering in this decision only Mr Ls complaint against  Kitchens Plus about mis-selling. I 
cannot consider here either of his complaints  against the financial services business.
I issued a Provisional Decision  on 14 November 2019, in which I set out my provisional  findings, my 
conclusion (on the balance of probabilities) that the complaint should be upheld,  and my provisional 
settlement recommendations (see below)  
After this decision was issued, I became  aware  of further information about the complaint.  That 
information did not alter my provisional findings or my conclusion. But it has caused me to change my 
settlement recommendations (see further below).
Ref: DRN01540707my initial findings
Mr L said that he received no correspondence  from the financial services business  in mid January  
2018, while the businesss  system notes indicated that a welcome email had been sent to him at that 
time. We asked the business to clarify the system entries in mid January  2018. It did so, telling  us that 
a welcome email was requested, then attempted, and then failed to deliver.  
The business  provided further information to us, showing  the address to which the email was sent.  In 
parallel, Mr L provided to us his email  address  in January 2018. And we were able to see that there 
was a typographical  error in the address  used by the business, thereby explaining the delivery failure.
So, Mr L did not receive the welcome email, and the subsequent welcome letter  gave him no reason 
to suspect the agreement interest  rate was much higher than he thought. And it is also possible that:
Inadvertently or deliberately, Mr L had come away from his discussion with Kitchen Pluss 
salesperson believing  the interest rate was less than 1%
For whatever  reason,  Mr L was not given a copy of his agreement  (or the required pre-
contract documents) by Kitchen Plus
Mr L was clearly aware that he had entered into a loan agreement  he complained  to the business 
when the monthly payments  started   but it is clearly possible as well that he was unaware of the 
actual interest  rate. 
Mr L may have been  unwise  not to have insisted  on being talked through  the agreement, before he 
signed it  but he would hardly be the first customer not to have so insisted. 
Mr L signed  several  documents  relating to his acquisition of goods from Kitchen Plus.  But he did not 
sign Kitchen  Pluss Choice of Funding schedule. 
So there is no strong evidence, one way or the other, about whether  or not:
Kitchen Pluss salesperson mis-sold the agreement to Mr L (which is what  Mr L says 
happened)
Alternatively, the salesperson  correctly sold the agreement, and Mr L simply chose a loan 
with an interest  rate of just under 10%, repayable  in 180 monthly  instalments (which is what  
Kitchen Plus says happened) 
And Kitchen Plus gave  Mr L a copy of his loan agreement (Mr L says that it did not) 
my initial conclusions
Mr L has consistently put forward his understanding of events and  regarding  the welcome email  
has been proved correct, when  evidence  apparently to the contrary  was clarified. And the case he 
makes is entirely  plausible. 
But the case  made  by Kitchen Plus is also entirely  plausible. And so my decision is finely balanced. 
On balance, I have come  down in favour of Mr L. I find that it is slightly more  likely  than not that 
Kitchen Plus failed to give Mr L a copy of his loan agreement,  and that he was mis-sold this 
agreement. This means  I have  come to a different conclusion to that reached by our adjudicator. 
my initial settlement recommendations
In mis-selling circumstances, we try to return customers to the position they were  in, immediately 
before the mis-selling took place. In this case, Mr L wanted to purchase goods for cash, but was 
inappropriately persuaded to acquire  them by means of a loan agreement.
Ref: DRN01540708And so, in order to complete the purchase of the fixtures, and to settle this complaint:
Mr L needs to pay to Kitchen Plus the cash value  of the fixtures,  less his deposit (already 
paid), and less the monthly payments he has already  made
Kitchen Plus then needs to make the payment  necessary  to the financial services business, in 
order to repay early and terminate Mr Ls loan agreement
Any references which may have been made to this agreement  on Mr Ls credit file also need 
to be removed
further information and my revised settlement  recommendations
When our adjudicator was investigating this complaint, Mr L initially told him that he was continuing to 
make the monthly payments  required under his loan agreement. We were subsequently informed that 
the agreement had been settled in April 2019.  
By this time, Mr L had made monthly payments totalling  just under £2,000.  He made  a further (final) 
payment to the financial services business in April 2019 of a little over £16,000, making  an overall 
total of £18,027.79.
If Mr L had been paying Kitchens Plus in cash for his fixtures, he would  have owed it £17,000  (having 
already paid a £5,000 deposit). And so, in order to complete his purchase of the fixtures  in cash, and 
to settle  this complaint, Kitchen Plus needs to refund his overpayment (to the financial services 
business) of £1,027.79.  
 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  explained above, but subject to any further  comments  or evidence I receive  from Mr L 
or Kitchens  Plus Limited by 17 April 2020, my (revised) provisional decision is that I uphold this 
complaint. 
My (revised)  provisional  settlement recommendation  is that Kitchen Plus should allow Mr L to 
complete the purchase  of his fixture  in cash, by paying back to him £1,027.79.
Roy Mawford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0154070