K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains Tesco Personal  Finance PLC is holding him liable for a credit card debt 
which he says was opened and used by fraudsters.
background
Mr R complained to Tesco about  a credit  card which had been opened in his name.   He said 
he had not made the application   and neither had he made the transactions  on the account.   
He told Tesco his identity  had been stolen.
In November 2017, Tesco issued its final response  to Mr Rs complaint.  It said it was not 
upholding it and asked  that Mr R make a payment towards the balance  or they would have  
to enter  a default  onto his account.
Mr R then asked this service to look into matters for him  but our investigator did not think 
he could ask Tesco to do anymore so the matter was passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  but based on what I have seen, I will not 
be upholding Mr Rs complaint.
My reasons  are very much  the same as the investigator and in fact, Im not sure there  is 
much more that I can helpfully add.
Mr R says he did not open this account,  did not use the balance  and that Tesco has been  
unfair in holding him liable.  But, for the following reasons I dont agree:
-the card was opened using Mr Rs genuine  details;
-a card was then posted to the address on the account  Mr Rs address;
-this card was needed to set up online banking, along with a code  which had been 
sent to the mobile  number on the account  Mr Rs mobile number;
-balance transfers  from two credit cards  in Mr Rs name were then made onto the 
Tesco credit  card. I fail to see how a fraudster would  benefit  from doing this;
In the circumstances, I think it is more likely than not that Mr R also made the two further 
transactions on the account which went to an online gambling website.
I know Mr R submits that his identity had been  compromised because  he had returned  a 
used old phone.  He says fraudsters were able to gain details about him from that.  But Im 
afraid I just dont find those submissions  to be credible. Firstly, there  is no evidence in 
support of Mr Rs submissions and secondly, as already mentioned,  there would be no 
benefit to a fraudster  to use the account  in the way that it has been  used.
For those reasons, I cant see that Tesco has done anything wrong by holding  Mr R liable  for 
this debt.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN07210052Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0721005