K820x#14complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the settlement hes received from AIG Europe Limited following  a claim 
he made on his personal accident insurance policy. 
background
Mr B made a claim on his personal accident insurance policy following a diagnosis  of non-
freezing cold injuries (NFCI) to both his hands  and feet. He says he first experienced these 
symptoms in September 2016 when he was in Canada. 
AIG offered Mr B a total settlement  of £12 000 on the basis  that some of the injuries were 
pre-existing. Mr B wants AIG to settle the claim in full by paying him the maximum settlement 
of £30 000. 
AIG says its relied on two expert  reports.  One of the experts reviewed Mr Bs medical  
records and noted  that he had seen  a Doctor in February  and December 2015  and reported  
experiencing symptoms  of NFCI in his hands  and feet. Mr B says theres no evidence he had 
NFCI until February 2016. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened. He thought AIG had taken a reasonable 
approach as the Mr Bs medical notes indicated hed experienced symptoms  of NFCI in 
2015. He also noted that AIG had relied on two expert  reports to determine  to whether 
Mr Bs current symptoms  were solely based on his activities in Canada, or whether they 
were pre-existing. So the investigator didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Mr B didnt agree  he says there is no evidence that he had NFCI until he went  to Canada.  
He provided evidence from his medical records and explained his employer wouldnt have 
allowed him to carry out his job if hed been  diagnosed with NFCI in 2015. He also provided  
a letter  explaining why hed left the job he was working in before the diagnosis  of NFCI. So I 
need to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy terms and conditions say: 
If you have an existing  physical or medical  condition we will ask an independent 
medical consultant  to: 
(i) Assess whether  your existing physical or medical condition has contributed  to 
your post accident disability and, if so
(ii) Assess the difference  between your physical or medical  condition  before and 
your disability  after the accident. 
Any payment will be based on the difference, expressed as a percentage and applied 
to the appropriate item in the table of benefits.  
Ref: DRN04671972The relevant  rules and industry guidance  say that AIG has a responsibility  to handle  claims  
promptly and fairly.  And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. I think that AIG has 
offered Mr B a fair and reasonable  settlement. I say that because: 
Mr B saw a Doctor on at least  3 occasions in 2015. He reported symptoms  including  
stiffness, numbness and coldness in his fingers  and toes. During one of the visits, in 
February 2015, the Doctor recorded  Mr B had mild NFCI. He also attended  with 
similar symptoms  in December 2015.  So this wasnt long before Mr B started 
experiencing symptoms  in September 2016.  I appreciate that Mr B disputes the 
Doctors record  and diagnosis. But the information  appears in his records  and the 
records go into detail about  his symptoms. So, I dont think its unreasonable for AIG 
to rely on those records as evidence Mr B was experiencing  symptoms  of NFCI 
before September 2016
AIG instructed two medical  experts to review  Mr Bs case.  One of the experts 
examined Mr B in person. Both concluded Mr B had pre-existing symptoms of NFCI 
before September 2016. One of the experts  attributed 70% of the disability  to the 
previous incident  of NFCI. The other  expert attributed 50% of the disability to it. AIG 
has reflected the difference in opinion by taking the approach that the previous 
symptoms attributed  to 40% of the Mr Bs current level of disability. I think thats  
reasonable as I think it fairly reflects the evidence provided  by the experts
Mr B has said he wouldnt  have been  allowed to work if hed been diagnosed with 
NFCI in 2015. Mr B hasnt provided  evidence confirming this from his employer but 
hes pointed out that after the diagnosis in 2016  his employer made a number of 
adjustments. However, based  on the information I have it seems the symptoms he 
experienced in 2016  were much more  severe  and were  prolonged. I dont  think  it 
automatically follows, because different approaches were  taken  by Mr Bs employer 
at different points  in time, that Mr B wasnt experiencing symptoms of NFCI  in 2015
Ive reviewed the letter Mr B provided  which explains why he left his job after the 
diagnosis. I note that the report also details  that Mr Bs symptoms  started  in 2015 
and summarises the medical  records Ive already  referred  to. So this doesnt change 
my thoughts about the outcome of this complaint.   
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, 
Im required  to ask Mr B to accept or reject  my decision before 21 April 2019.
Anna Wilshaw 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0467197