K821x#15complaint
Mr P has complained that Swinton  Group  Ltd didnt tell him it had cancelled his car
insurance policy. The police discovered  his car wasnt  insured when Mr P approached them 
to discuss another  matter.  
background
In October  2017 Mr P bought  a car insurance  policy online through  a comparison website.
The broker  who sold the policy to Mr P was Swinton.
Swinton asked for proof  of Mr Ps NCB. It didnt receive a reply from him, so in December
2017 it cancelled  his car insurance policy on behalf of the insurer.
In August  2018  Mr Ps car was impounded by police as there  was no record of it being
insured on the Motor  Insurers Bureau  (MIB).
Mr P complained to Swinton as he believed he was insured. He didnt  know  it had cancelled
his policy.
In September  2018 Swinton upheld Mr Ps complaint  as it said it didnt write to him to confirm
the cancellation. It paid Mr P £100  compensation for the trouble and upset it caused, £50
toward the contribution of future car insurance  and £250 for the impound release fee.
Mr P asked us to look at his complaint.  He told the investigator the matter  went  to court.  He
said he received  six points on his licence and a fine for £170. Mr P said the experience in
court was horrendous  and the matter  caused him significant distress  and upset. Mr P feels
Swintons actions contributed to his poor health  while waiting for the court  hearing.
Our investigator recommended Swinton pay Mr P a further £400 compensation for the
distress and inconvenience Swinton had caused. And she asked it to provide a letter  to Mr P
confirming the background  as to the cancellation so that Mr P could show  it to future  insurers
and third parties.
Swinton accepted the investigators  recommendation.
Mr P said he would accept £1,000  compensation as fair to reflect the distress  Swinton 
caused him. 
I issued a provisional decision on 28 November 2019. I agreed with the investigators 
recommendations. But in addition l thought Swinton should also reimburse Mr P for the fine 
of £170 he said he received in court  subject to proof.  I also thought Swinton should provide 
a letter  confirming the background to the complaint for Mr P. 
Swinton accepted my recommendation of reimbursement. But it said its response to Mr Ps 
complaint from September 2018 already set out the background to the cancellation. 
I asked our investigator to let Mr P know that I intended to remove this recommendation from 
my final decision  as I agreed  with Swinton.  
Mr P asked for this change to be confirmed in writing which Ive done here. He didnt agree 
with my provisional decision.  Ive addressed his comments in my findings below.  
Ref: DRN06500842my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Swinton accepts that it didnt do enough to let Mr P know that it had cancelled his policy. So
the remaining  issue for me to decide  is whether Swinton  has done enough to put things right.
I understand the inconvenience of having  his car impounded and the shock  of finding out he
wasnt insured must have  been upsetting for Mr P. And I appreciate that having the worry of
attending court  and the outcome as Mr P described  only added to his distress.
Mr P is unhappy that I didnt mention  the impact Swintons  actions had on his health in my 
provisional decision. I know Mr P was very unwell and in hospital for some time before the 
court hearing. I cant safely conclude  that Swinton is directly responsible for Mr Ps ill health. 
But I acknowledged in my provisional  decision that Mr P felt Swintons actions had 
contributed toward  his ill health.
In my provisional decision I said it wasnt clear as to what Mr P had done to mitigate matters. 
He told us he sent a copy  of the letter from Swinton dated September  2018 to the court 
before the hearing. I understand the hearing was between March and May 2019. Swintons  
letter confirmed that it had upheld his complaint and confirmed that it hadnt  done enough to 
tell him he wasnt insured.  However   from what Mr P has told us  the letter  didnt appear to 
have been taken into account by the court. 
Mr P said he had out of pocket expenses as a result  of the court hearing. He said he tried to 
get an adjournment. Our adjudicator explained  that we cant consider any issues  Mr P may 
have had with the courts in terms of adjourning the hearing date, the location and evidence it 
did or didnt  receive  from him.
We havent asked  Mr P to provide any proof of the outcome of the court  hearing.  But before I 
sent my provisional decision, he told us that he received six points on his licence  and a fine 
for £170.
In response to my provisional decision,  Mr P said there were  additional  costs  to the £170 
fine. He said he had to pay a court cost and victim surcharge. I cant  see that Mr P 
mentioned these costs  before. But I think its reasonable for Swinton to consider Mr Ps court 
costs subject to reasonable proof  of payment  in addition to the £170 fine. Weve let 
Swinton know before  issuing my final decision of my intention  here.
As the investigator  said, from the information  Mr P provided, there  doesnt  appear to be a
change in the premium  hes paid for cover following the conviction.
In my provisional decision I recommended Swinton provide Mr P with a letter  confirming the 
background which led to the cancellation of his policy. 
Swinton pointed out that their response  to Mr Ps complaint in September  2018 does this. On 
further review, I agree.  Our adjudicator explained  to Mr P by telephone on 12 December 
2019 that I intended to remove this requirement from my final decision. 
Ref: DRN06500843I know Mr P believes he should be awarded compensation of £1,000. But I remain of the 
view that a fair level of compensation  to reflect the distress and upset Swinton caused Mr P 
should be £500. This is in line with similar awards which we give and which examples can be 
seen on our website. Swinton has already  paid Mr P £100 compensation, £50 toward the 
cost of future  insurance and £250 to reimburse him for the impound release fee. This means 
I think Swinton should pay Mr P an additional  £400  compensation.
However, as detailed in my provisional decision, I also think Swinton should  reimburse  Mr P 
for the fine he received as a result  of the conviction  in court   subject to reasonable proof 
from Mr P. And as Mr P says there were additional court  costs,  I think its reasonable for 
Swinton to reimburse these too - subject to proof of payment by Mr P. 
I think this - in addition to the investigators recommendations - is a fairer outcome overall to 
put things right.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Swinton Group Limited  to do the 
following:
Pay Mr P a further £400  compensation for the distress and inconvenience it
caused him.
Reimburse Mr P for the fine and associated court costs he paid as a result  of 
his conviction  for driving uninsured subject to reasonable  proof.
Pay interest on the reimbursed fine payment and court  costs  at a rate of 8% 
simple interest a year from the date Mr P paid it to the date Swinton 
reimburses him.
Swinton Group Limited must pay the compensation within  28 days of the date on which  we 
tell it Mr P accepts my final decision.  If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple  rate of 
8% a year.
If Swinton Group Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr P how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr P a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HMRevenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2020.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0650084