K820x#14complaint
Mrs O has complained about a mortgage  payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy that 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited (FICL) sold her in 2001.
At the time I issued my provisional decision FICL, as the insurer, had agreed to take 
responsibility for this complaint. But AXA France IARD has now taken on that responsibility 
instead. To keep things  simple, Ill refer to AXA France  IARD  as the seller in the rest of my 
decision, where previously I would  have referred  to FICL, although neither actually sold the 
PPI.
background
I issued a provisional decision on 28th October  2019, where I concluded  that I was minded to 
not uphold Mrs Os complaint. I have  attached  this to the end of my findings as it forms part 
of my final decision.
In summary,  I found:
Mrs O applied for a store card in 2001. At the same time a PPI policy was added. The 
policy covered her against accidents,  sickness and unemployment.
I concluded the PPI policy was more  likely  than not presented as optional to Mrs O. I 
could see from the sales documentation provided that it was more  likely put across as an 
optional requirement  and Mrs O agreed  to have it during  a phone call.
There may have been shortcomings in the way AXA France  IARD sold the policy. But 
after careful consideration I could not conclude that these possible shortcomings would 
have affected  Mrs Os decision to take the policy. 
I was unable to conclude that Mrs O would have  necessarily  declined the policy  if the 
information she had received would  have been any clearer.
Mrs O had a medical condition but I didnt think this would have put her off from having 
the cover  as it didnt  impact on her day to day life at that time.
I concluded that I was minded to not uphold her complaint and invited comments  on this 
from both parties.  
my findings
I have again considered all the available evidence and arguments  to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties  have not provided  any further  information for me to consider.
As neither party has raised any further  points,  I see no reason to depart from my conclusion  
given within  the provisional decision.  So I conclude that the policy was not mis-sold and I do 
not uphold Mrs Os complaint.
Ref: DRN09032912my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Os complaint  and I do not make any award 
against AXA France IARD. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 January 2020.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Copy Provisional Decision
complaint
Mrs O says Financial  Insurance Company  Limited (FICL) mis-sold  her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
Its been  agreed in this case  that FICL, as the insurer,  should  take responsibility  for the complaint.  To 
keep things simple, Ill refer to FICL as the seller  in my decision although  it didnt  actually sell the PPI.
background
This complaint is about  a store card PPI policy Mrs O took out in August 2001.  It was added  to her 
account during a phone call. 
The adjudicator thought that Mrs Os complaint should  be upheld. FICL  disagrees, so Mrs Os 
complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken this into 
account when deciding this case.
Ive provisionally decided not to uphold Mrs Os complaint and Ill explain why.
FICL have said the sale took place during  a phone call but havent been able to provide a recording  of 
the phone call or any notes taken at the time  this isnt surprising considering  the sale took place 
many years ago. So I dont  know for sure how PPI was presented to Mrs O or what was said.
Ive thought carefully about  everything Mrs O has told us. But I also have to consider that because the 
sale took place so long ago, memories can fade over time.  Ive also taken  into account what we know 
about how FICL sold these policies around this time and everything weve  seen in the past. 
I think,  on balance, its likely FICL would  have  made it clear that the PPI was optional and Mrs O 
would have been asked  for her consent to the cover during the call. Ive not seen enough  to conclude 
otherwise.
FICL didnt recommend the PPI policy to Mrs O. So it didnt have to take steps to make sure the policy  
was suitable for her. But it had to give Mrs O good enough information about the policy for her to 
decide if she wanted it or not.
Ref: DRN09032913Its likely  the information FICL gave Mrs O about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been  
including the costs  and benefits of the policy. But based on what I know  about Mrs Os circumstances 
it looks like it could  have been useful to her. She was eligible for it. And I dont think  better  information  
wouldve stopped  her buying it. 
I say this because the PPI policy wouldve paid 15% of the outstanding  monthly balance for up to 12 
months for unemployment, accident or sickness. So it wouldve paid out in addition to any sick pay 
she had and potentially for longer, and on top of any redundancy pay if she lost her job. So I think  Mrs 
O couldve found this policy useful should she have become unable to work or unemployed.  Theres 
nothing to show  me Mrs O couldnt afford the policy. And if she no longer wanted it she couldve 
cancelled it at any time,  without further cost.
I also dont think shed have  been affected  by any of the main  things that mightve  made  it more 
difficult for her to make a successful claim. Mrs O says she had a medical  condition at the time of sale 
and so any terms  relating to this could  have been something she needed particularly clear  information  
about. Our service  has recently  contacted Mrs O to find out more about her condition to see whether  
the term given in the policy for pre existing medical  conditions was of significance to her or not. Mrs O 
has recently said her condition didnt affect  her ability  to work,  she took medication for it and she 
didnt have any time off by the date of sale because of this. So I think on balance, if she had received  
clearer information about the policy terms concerning pre-existing medical  conditions, I think she 
would have taken the policy anyway.  I dont  think they would have put her off from having the cover.
So I dont think better information wouldve stopped Mrs O from buying the policy and although  I know 
it will be a disappointment to Mrs O I dont think she was mis-sold PPI.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont currently intend to uphold Mrs Os complaint.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0903291