K820x#14complaint
Miss L complains that Nationwide Building  Society acted irresponsibly when it gave her an 
overdraft facility.
background
Miss L is represented in this complaint  by Mr C. Mr C contacted Nationwide  about  the letters 
itd been sending Miss L. She had an outstanding balance on her account. And the letters 
had been causing her a lot of distress. Mr C doesnt  feel Nationwide has treated Miss L 
sympathetically. She suffers from ill health.  And she should never have been given the 
overdraft facility. Her only income  was from state benefits, including  for her son. So Mr C 
would like the debt written off.
Nationwide said itd agreed a number of plans with Miss L to help her repay the debt. And it 
hadnt applied  any charges after June  2010. Nationwide  wrote  to Miss L in April 2018 about 
a new agreement. But it hadnt  heard back from her. So the account had been passed to its 
recoveries department. And the letters had been  generated  automatically. 
Nationwide said it was sorry  to hear of the difficulties Miss L was experiencing. Itd referred 
the account back to its specialist  team. And itd stopped any further  automated contact for 
three months. But if Miss L wasnt in touch during this period then Nationwide would have to 
refer the account  back  to its recoveries department.
Mr C wasnt satisfied with Nationwides response. So he contacted our service  and our 
investigator looked into the matter. He could see the first overdraft had been authorised 
some 18 years ago in January 2001. And the last overdraft had been  authorised  in 
September 2006. Although this was some time ago and outside  of our normal  jurisdiction, 
Nationwide had given  our service consent to look at the matter. 
The events had happened  a long time ago. So our investigator wasnt able to access 
Nationwides lending  criteria at the time of Miss Ls applications. He couldnt comment on 
what the business had used to assess Miss Ls suitability. But he felt Miss L had used the 
overdraft to manage her finances. Mr C said Miss L had mental health and alcohol issues 
and Nationwide  shouldve  taken that into account. But the building  societys records showed 
it only became aware of Miss Ls health situation  in 2015. With the limited information he had 
available our investigator couldnt  say Nationwide had acted in error or irresponsibly. So he 
didnt think Nationwide  could do anything more.
Mr C didnt agree. Hes unhappy there arent  more records available. And he felt Nationwide 
shouldnt have agreed an overdraft if Miss L was also receiving benefits for her son. So hes 
asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do appreciate how upsetting  this mustve been for Miss L. Mr C believes Nationwide  
shouldnt have authorised an overdraft facility  for Miss L. It is now chasing her for the 
outstanding debt. And its causing her a lot of distress.
Ref: DRN04036442As our investigator has explained our service  is governed by rules which limit which 
complaints we can look at. Although the initial events  took place many  years ago, 
Nationwide has given  us consent to look at the matter relating to Miss Ls overdraft facility.  
So Ive carefully  reviewed everything  Mr C and Nationwide  have said.
When banks and building societies make lending decisions  they have their own criteria to 
look at. Unfortunately the overdraft was granted nearly 20 years ago. So there is little 
information still available to see what questions Nationwide asked  and what information 
Miss L provided.
I would expect any bank  or building society to assess suitability based on a number of 
factors including how the account was being managed. And I would expect Nationwide to 
take into account Miss Ls mental  health  if it was aware of the situation. But Ive not seen 
anything to suggest Miss L made  Nationwide aware of any issues  when she applied for the 
overdraft facility, or during the applications to increase the amount. Nationwides  records 
suggest it only became  aware of Miss Ls mental health situation in 2015.
I know Mr C believes  Nationwide  knew before that time. But even if Nationwide had been 
aware that wouldnt necessarily mean the building  society shouldve denied  her an overdraft 
facility. The initial overdraft was for £100. And Miss L used it occasionally. But the account 
was often in credit during 2001  and 2002.  So she was still managing her finances. 
The overdraft only began  to increase  in 2003.  And Nationwide  approved  the last increase in 
in 2006. Based on the limited information  Nationwide still has available, I havent seen 
anything to suggest it made any mistakes or acted unreasonably in approving Miss Ls 
applications.
And I dont  think it wouldve been  fair to deny Miss L an overdraft  just because her sole 
income consisted of benefits for herself  and her son. It isnt unusual for a business to 
consider benefits  when  assessing an applicants income. Without access  to the lending  
criteria or the discussion  Nationwide held with Miss L in 2001  Im not able to say Nationwide 
acted irresponsibly.
I realise Mr C feels Nationwide  shouldve  provided more information.  But the initial  overdraft 
was granted nearly 20 years ago. And the increases  took place  in the following 5 years. I 
wouldnt expect any business  to maintain complete records  for such  a long period of time. 
And Ive not seen  anything to suggest  Nationwide has deliberately  withheld anything. So 
unfortunately I can only make a decision based upon whats available.
I know Mr C and Miss L will be disappointed with this outcome. And I understand its 
frustrating that information  from the period is limited. But Ive not seen anything to suggest  
Nationwide acted irresponsibly when it approved the overdraft  facility  to Miss L. 
I dont under-estimate the upset this has caused Miss L. Unfortunately, based on what Ive 
seen on Nationwides  remaining records and from studying Miss Ls bank statements, Ive 
not seen enough evidence to suggest  Nationwide shouldve acted differently.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN04036443Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 May 2019.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0403644