K821x#15complaint
Mr F complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited (trading  as Barclays Partner 
Finance) (CFS) says hes liable to repay  a car loan that it told him was settled years ago. 
background
Mr F took out this loan in 2004. He had trouble meeting the repayments and CFS defaulted 
the account in 2010.  The debt was placed  with debt collectors (that Ill call A) in the early  part 
of 2013. Mr F made some payments to A but the debt was returned  to CFS near the end of 
2013. Mr F contacted CFS then but it couldnt locate the debt. Mr F believes the loan was 
written off  or repaid  with some GAP insurance  he had at the time. He heard nothing more  
until 2017 when  another third party (that Ill call H) began to chase payment. Mr F thinks this 
is unfair and the debt should be written off.
CFS accepts it failed  to contact Mr F about  the loan between 2013 and 2015. It says this 
was due to a system  error  and the debt wasnt repaid  or written off. It apologised to Mr F, 
sent him some statements that should  have  been  provided previously and reduced  the loan 
balance by £250, as a goodwill gesture. The debt has been sold to H and CFS says the loan 
balance of over £13,000  remains outstanding. 
Our investigator thinks it is unlikely that GAP insurance would have paid out, in this situation.  
Hes not persuaded  the debt was written  off or repaid but hes satisfied Mr F experienced 
distress and inconvenience as a result  of mistakes CFS made. And he recommends CFS 
should pay Mr F another £100 compensation for that. 
CFS accepted  our investigators recommendations. Mr F doesnt agree. He says CFS has a 
duty of care not to make negligent misstatements  and there  are inconsistencies in its 
correspondence. He was told he was no longer liable for this debt in 2013 and relied on that. 
He heard nothing  more  until 2017 and thinks it is wrong that hes being  chased to pay back 
the money now. He asked  for an ombudsman to review the matter. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to disappoint Mr F but Ive 
reached broadly  the same  conclusions as our investigator for much the same reasons. 
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), 
I reach  my decision on the balance  of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Mr F doesnt dispute that he borrowed this money  but says he was told by CFS he didnt 
have to pay it back. He thinks  this was because the loan was settled  by insurance or written  
off. 
Like our investigator,  I am not persuaded its likely  that GAP insurance  would have  covered  
what happened here and repaid this loan. If the loan had been  settled  or written off for some  
reason, Id expect  there to see some  evidence of that  in CFSs records  or in the form of 
paperwork Mr F would have been  sent CFS and/or his insurers.  I appreciate Mr F thinks  he 
probably did receive some such correspondence  at the relevant time. But, hes been unable  
to supply that now  as this was some years  ago. 
Ref: DRN00280462Ive reviewed CFSs records very carefully.  I am satisfied these cover the relevant period and 
I think they seem to be reasonably detailed and consistent with events. I havent seen 
anything to indicate that CFS agreed with Mr F that it would  write  off this debt and theres 
nothing to suggest that the loan was paid back in some other way. 
 I cant be certain what Mr F was told when he contacted CFS in 2013. But, even if I accept  
he was led to believe the account balance  was nil, I think its more  likely than not that was a 
mistake. I can see CFS has written off this debt for its own internal purposes. I dont think  it 
is unusual for a lender to do that when an account  is in default. And I cant  rule out the fact 
that the person Mr F spoke to may have misinterpreted this as a nil balance. 
I accept CFS should  have given Mr F accurate information about his account.  But, I cant 
fairly find the fact that it didnt do so means this debt should  be written off. When  we look at 
complaints where  a financial business  has told a consumer something thats not right, our 
usual approach is to put the consumer  back in the position they would have been in if the 
false statement had not been made. 
We dont however require the business to put consumer in the position they would have 
been in if the misrepresentation  been  true. In this case  Im afraid that means  Mr F remains 
liable to repay the correct balance on his loan account. 
I have no doubt  it must  have come as something  of a shock  to Mr F to be contacted  by H 
earlier this year when  he hadnt heard from CFS about the debt for such a long time. CFS 
should have kept him up to date about the account. I think its entirely  understandable that 
Mr F feels frustrated. And I can see he has been distressed and inconvenienced  by whats 
happened. 
Taking everything into account,  I agree  with our investigator it is fair and reasonable for CFS 
to pay Mr F £100 compensation  on top of the £250  goodwill payment it has made already 
 for the distress and inconvenience caused by its actions. I realise this isnt the outcome 
Mr F wanted and hes likely  to feel let down by my decision. But, for the reasons Ive given, 
I cant fairly require CFS to write off this debt or do anything further. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my decision is I uphold  this complaint. In full and final 
settlement I require Clydesdale Financial Services  Limited  (trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance) to pay Mr F an additional £100 compensation for his distress  and inconvenience. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Claire Jackson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0028046