K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a secured loan payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  taken out 
in 2000 and a top up policy  sold in in 2004. Mr and Mrs P say Nationwide Building  Society  
(NBS) mis-sold them the policies.
background 
Mr and Mrs P took out PPI to cover a secured  loan in 2000 to cover  Mr P if he was unable  to 
work because of illness, injury or unemployment. This loan was repaid in 2004 when Mr and 
Mrs P borrowed some  extra  money.  They took out a further policy  at this time to cover  the 
new loan. Our adjudicator  didnt think we should  uphold  the complaint. Mr and Mrs P 
disagree, so the complaint has been passed  to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ps case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold and Ill explain why
The PPI was sold a long time ago now so there is limited information available from the time 
of sale  so I dont have a recording  of what was discussed for example.  Mr and Mrs P say 
the insurance was not discussed.  But where  I have limited information about the sale, I have  
to decide what  I think is likely to have happened  given the evidence I do have and the wider  
circumstances. 
While I dont know what was discussed,  Ive had a look at Mr and Mrs Ps credit agreements 
from 2000 and 2004 which were produced following a discussion about  the lending.  These  
had a separate section for PPI and both of these forms were the same. They  set out the cost 
and benefit of the policies,  said only Mr P was covered  and labelled  the insurance  as 
optional. Mr and Mrs P did sign these  agreements agreeing to take the PPI. Had they not 
wanted PPI, or had they been  led to believe that the PPI was compulsory, I think  they 
couldve questioned  this given the documents presented the PPI as optional. 
So, overall, based on everything  Ive seen, I think its more likely  NBS made it clear the PPI 
was optional and that Mr and Mrs P agreed to take the policies out to cover Mr P only. 
Based on everything  Ive seen, I dont think NBS advised Mr and Mrs P to take PPI on either 
occasion so it didnt have to check if the PPI was right for them. But it did have to make sure 
Mr and Mrs P got the information they needed  to decide if it was right for them. 
Its possible the information NBS gave Mr and Mrs P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But I think  they chose to take out the PPI - so it looks  like they wanted this 
type of cover. Mr P (as the sole policy holder) was eligible for the policy  in both 2000  and 
2004.  Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like Mr P was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  in either 2000 or 2004 - so the 
PPI would have  been useful if something  went wrong. I also think  Mr and Mrs P would have 
understood how much the policies were going to cost and what  theyd get back if Mr P 
needed to make a claim  this was set out on the credit agreements.  
Ref: DRN05414662Mr and Mrs P say they had good  sick pay provided  by their employers so they dont think  
they needed PPI. But as explained above, it was for Mr and Mrs P to decide if the PPI was 
right for them, bearing in mind the other  ways they had to make their loan repayments  if 
Mr P wasnt  working. 
I would add that the PPI wouldve paid out on top of Mr Ps sick pay for up to 24 months  if 
Mr P was unable to work because of illness or injury  so potentially much longer  than his 
full sick pay wouldve lasted. It also provided  up to 12 months of cover for unemployment. So 
I still think they couldve found the PPI useful. Overall, I dont think  better information about 
the PPI would have put them off taking out the cover.  
Which means NBS doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs P.
Ive thought about whether NBS needs to give Mr and Mrs P some of the commission  they 
paid back. The Supreme  Court ruling  and rules and guidance only apply to credit 
agreements taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements taken out before  then,  which 
were still running on 6 April 2008. NBS has given me information that shows Mr and Mrs Ps 
first secured  loan was taken out in 2000  and ended  in 2004. So, I dont think the unfair 
relationship provisions in the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment,  or the 
rules and guidance made by the FCA in relation  to the non-disclosure of commission  apply 
here.
But NBS will pay back some of the cost of the PPI sold with the 2004 loan to Mr and Mrs P 
because: 
NBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs P about that. Because NBS didnt tell Mr 
and Mrs P, that was unfair. 
To put that right, NBS has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ref: DRN05414663what the business needs  to do for the 2004 loan
NBS has to pay back to Mr and Mrs P any commission and profit  share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium. NBS should also pay back  to Mr and Mrs P any extra  interest 
they paid because of that.
NBS should pay back to Mr and Mrs P the extra they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. NBS should  also 
pay Mr and Mrs P 8%* simple interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs P can claim back the tax if they dont  pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policies werent mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs P.
But Nationwide Building Society does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs P any commission  
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium  for the 2004 loan.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 April 2019.
Asma Begum
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0541466