K821x#15Complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Society of Lloyds (SOL)  voided his marine  insurance  policy, and 
therefore didnt  progress a claim he made.
Background
In November 2017 Mr H needed to make  a claim under his marine insurance policy.  He
explained he had been sailing within UK waters when his boat hit something in the water,
causing damage to the rudder. Mr H noted  that the boats engine also ceased to function.
And after attracting  attention for help, he was eventually rescued. His boat later beached  on
a shore  abroad  and was salvaged by that government who charged him for the salvage
costs. So, Mr H was claiming  for the damage to his boat to be put right, and for payment of
the salvage costs he had been charged.
SOL, the insurers of Mr Hs policy, looked  into the claim. But it said it couldnt provide Mr H
with a settlement  for his loss. It said it had become aware that;
Mr H wasnt  a UK resident, with no UK address;
Mr H had been living on his boat during his time in the UK;
The boat wasnt of professional construction.
SOL said if it had known  about the above at the time Mr H purchased his insurance policy it
wouldnt have been able to offer cover to him. So, it explained it was voiding his insurance
policy back to when  it was first purchased. And therefore, there wasnt an insurance policy  
for Mr H to claim  from.  SOL returned the premiums Mr H had paid to it.
Mr H didnt feel this was fair. He accepted that when he purchased the policy,  he was asked
to confirm whether  he was a UK resident. But he said he did consider himself to be resident
in the country  at the time.  He had been  initially staying in a bed and breakfast, but then had
been residing  on his boat, which was moored,  for a number of months. He said he had paid
rent there. And that if SOL had in fact wanted to know whether he was permanently or
legally resident in the UK when he bought  the policy, he said it should have asked this
question.
Mr H also said;
His boat was of professional construction;
He provided a UK address  when taking out the policy. He used the previous boat
owners address.  This was because there was no address  for where  he was living on
his boat. And it was common for people to therefore use a friend/family address for
correspondence;
He wasnt going to be living on his boat permanently, just for a period of time. So,
when asked whether  he permanently lived on it, he correctly  said no.
SOL didnt think the above points made a difference to its decision to void the policy. It
confirmed it wouldnt have  offered cover  to Mr H if it had known the correct details of his
situation at the time. Because Mr H remained dissatisfied with this response, he referred  his
complaint to this service  for an independent  review.
Our investigator thought Mr Hs complaint  shouldnt be upheld. She said Mr H wasnt a UK
resident, and didnt  have  a permanent UK postcode.  And that if SOL had known this
Ref: DRN00023472information when  the policy was taken  out, she could see it wouldnt have offered cover.
Mr H disagreed. He reiterated that he did consider he was residing  in the UK at the time.
And he said SOL hadnt raised  any residency issues with him  even though he paid with a
card that clearly highlighted his residency  status  abroad.
Because Mr H disagreed  this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
I contacted both Mr H and SOL, detailing my initial thoughts on this case. Within this, I 
explained I didnt  think SOL had acted fairly in voiding Mr Hs policy.  I said;
When considering  complaints  at this service I must consider the relevant laws and
regulations  as well as what  is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  In this case, SOL
had voided Mr Hs policy back to its inception. So, the relevant law I must give regard to is
The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). Ive
considered Ms Hs complaint in line with this, as well as what I consider to be fair and
reasonable in the circumstances.
SOL has said Mr H misrepresented a number of different facts  when he completed his online
application for insurance. Ive considered each of these in turn.
UK residency and UK address requirements
As above, Mr H completed  his application  for insurance online. SOL has provided me with
screenshots of the application  form Mr H wouldve completed when taking out the policy.
Mr H was asked to confirm the following in relation to residency;
You agree
You and any named  person on this insurance  are UK residents.
Im aware Mr H answered yes to this question. So, Ive needed to consider whether this
was accurate based on the information provided  to me. In other words, did Mr H
misrepresent himself when being  asked about  his residency.
Based on what Ive seen,  I dont  think there  is enough evidence  to show  he did mispresent
himself on this issue. Or, that the question asked of him was sufficiently clear to let Mr H
know exactly what information SOL was requesting.
Mr H explained he considered himself a UK resident when  he took the policy out, which  is
why he said he was one. He explained  this to be the case  because he was living in the UK at
the time,  on his boat.  And that when he entered the country, he had done so legally,
explaining the purpose of his entrance to the country. I can understand why Mr H interpreted
the question in this way. And, I havent seen any evidence to say that anything  Mr H has
said in this respect is incorrect or untrue.
If SOL had a specific understanding of the term UK resident I think it should have defined
this during the sales process  so Mr H had the opportunity to take care to answer  the
question correctly. Because he didnt have this opportunity,  Im satisfied SOL cant
reasonably say Mr H misrepresented himself on this question, because its interpretation of
the question was different to Mr Hs.
In addition, because  the term UK resident wasnt defined, I asked SOL of evidence  of why it
considered Mr H wasnt resident in the UK. It provided information  on what it felt the term
resident meant. But as above,  this interpretation wasnt made clear. In any event, it seems
Ref: DRN00023473to me the UK government are likely  to detail who is defined  as a UK resident.  And SOL
hasnt provided  me with any evidence to show Mr H doesnt meet this definition.
SOL has also said Mr H gave an incorrect address when  completing his application. They
have explained  the address given was in fact the address for the previous owner of the boat.
And, it noted  that if it had known Mr H didnt have a permanent  address in the UK, it wouldnt
have been able to offer cover to him.
Ive looked at screen shots SOL has provided,  to see what it asked in terms of Mr Hs
address. And again, Im not satisfied the question asked  of him was clear.  The application
stated the following;
Please be careful  to enter  the following details accurately, as they will be used  to send your
policy documentation  and will also be required for assessing your account  online
()
House name/number
Postcode
From reviewing this I can see that Mr H wasnt asked for his own address or told that he
needed to have a UK postcode himself to be eligible for the policy.  Instead, he was asked to
detail an address  where his policy documentation would be sent to. Mr H provided
information so this function  could  be carried out. So, Im satisfied he didnt answer  the
question incorrectly. He provided the correspondence address he was using.  If SOL had
wanted to know  if the Mr H had his own UK address, it should have asked that question.
But I said I was satisfied  it was acting reasonably when saying Mr Hs claim wasnt covered.
So, I also think SOL acted unfairly  by noting  Mr H had misrepresented  his information in this
respect.
Use of the boat
SOL has said that during the sales process  it asked  Mr H whether he would be living
permanently on his boat.  And Mr H said no.
Ive again looked at the screen  shots  provided  to me of the sales  process. These  dont show
Mr H was asked about whether  he permanently lived on his boat.  Instead  he was asked  to
agree the below statement was correct;
The boat will be used for private  and pleasure  purposes only.
Mr H did agree this was the case.  And its accepted  Mr H was living  on the boat.  However, I
dont think this means he answered the question incorrectly. The above  doesnt make any
mention of living on the boat  either permanently or temporarily.  So, Im not satisfied  SOL
directed him to think about whether SOL wanted  to know whether the boat was being  lived in
or not.
In the absence of any other clarification provided during the sales process,  I do think private
and pleasure purposes includes  living on the boat. It just excludes  public/commercial use.
So, I dont think Mr H answered anything  correctly here, and therefore he couldnt have
mispresented the facts.
Ref: DRN00023474Professional construction
SOL has said during  the sales process  it did also ask Mr H to agree the below statement
was correct;
The boat will be maintained in a seaworthy condition and is of professional  construction.
SOL has said Mr H confirmed this was the case.  But, it doesnt think  the boat is of
professional construction. SOL has referenced a report Mr H provided, which discusses the
condition of the boat. It says this shouldnt be relied on as evidence, as it doesnt  feel the
condition survey provides  any confirmation  that the vessel  is professionally built,  and it
specifically and deliberately avoids any assurance that it is complaint with RCD standards.
I have seen this report  and do agree the reports says it hasnt looked to see whether the
boat was compliant  with any rules or codes  of practice. So, I accept this report  doesnt
provide a conclusion on whether it was seaworthy or professionally constructed.
But again,  I dont  think SOL has shown a misrepresentation applied  here. If SOL thought
Mr H had misrepresented  the condition of his boat in this respect,  it needs  to show this was
the case. And it hasnt. So, it cant fairly  say Mr H didnt correctly  agree to this statement,
when it has no evidence  to suggest Mr H was wrong.
Given the above, Im satisfied SOL has acted  unfairly in voiding Mr Hs policy  for
misrepresentation. So, Im intending to ask SOL to reinstate Mr Hs policy  and remove  any
details of a voidance from internal and external databases.
I let Mr H and SOL know my thoughts  on the claim Mr H made too. SOL had said it wouldnt 
be reconsidering Mr Hs claim  because  his policy required  two suitably experienced people 
being to be crewing  a boat over 26ft. And, at the time of Mr Hs loss, Mr Hs boat, which was 
40ft, was being crewed by Mr H alone.
I looked at Mr Hs policy documents and was satisfied these had been sent to him  and that 
the above condition was made clear. The information provided in respect of the claim, 
showed Mr H was sailing the boat on his own. So, I was satisfied Mr H was in breach of the 
terms and conditions of his policy. And therefore  I considered it reasonable SOL has acted in 
line with this condition  when declining to reconsider his claim. 
Mr H responded to this  and explained  that looking on a search engine - results appeared 
which show a vessel of 36 to 45 feet is best for single handed sailing. And he felt he was 
doing anything  illegal by sailing the boat on his own.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding
this complaint in part. Ive explained my reasoning for this below.
Ref: DRN00023475I havent seen  any evidence or comments  that change what Ive ultimately  said about the 
voidance of Mr Hs policy. So, my thoughts on the voidance  of Mr Hs policy  havent changed 
from those detailed above. Im satisfied  SOL acted  unfairly in voiding Mr Hs policy.
SOL has now responded to me and confirmed its agreement to reinstate Mr Hs policy  on 
receipt of the premium  charged for that policy year (£118.06). This was returned  to Mr H 
when SOL voided the policy. Im satisfied  it is fair for SOL to reinstate the policy, when it 
receives the premium  back. For the policy to have been in force  it needs to have been paid 
for. So, the premium  would be due to show the policy was live.
In terms of Mr Hs claim  my decision on this does remain the same as that mentioned 
above. I appreciate  Mr H feels it isnt illegal to be solo sailing his boat. And he has 
mentioned if you use a search  engine it notes his boat within the optimum  length for a solo 
sailor. However, the terms of Mr Hs policy are clear, in saying there needs to be two people  
sailing a boat over 26ft. Mr Hs boat was longer than this. And he was sailing alone when his 
loss occurred. So, Im satisfied its reasonable for SOL to highlight the terms of its policy 
were breached  and therefore the claim wont be settled. I dont require SOL to do anything  
further in respect  of the claim.  
my final decision
In light of the above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Society 
of Lloyds to;
Reinstate Mr Hs policy and remove any voidances from internal and external 
databases these  may show  on. Mr H would need to return  the premiums  due for this 
policy (£118.06),  before  the policy can be reinstated.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 June 2020
Rachel Woods
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0002347