K820x#14complaint
Mr W is unhappy with how Nationwide Building  Society handled an account switch to it. He 
says it set up additional direct debits,  which  had been cancelled.
background
Mr W completed a current account  switch from his existing bank to Nationwide.  Before the 
switch was initiated Mr W says he cancelled all unused or out of date direct  debits and other 
payment instructions. As a result, only nine regular payment instructions shouldve been 
transferred to Nationwide.
Nationwide sent Mr W a letter on 22 June  2018,  confirming the switch  had been  completed.  
The letter included a list of payment instructions that had been transferred to his account. 
This included the direct  debits and other payments that Mr W had previously cancelled. As a 
result, Mr W had to spend time cancelling these instructions again.
Mr W complained  to Nationwide  that it had made an error during the switching process and 
incorrectly set up payments on his new account. He thought it should compensate him for 
the inconvenience caused and review its processes to avoid this happening  again in the 
future.
Nationwide said it had acted on the instructions it had received from Mr Ws old bank when 
setting up the payments,  so it didnt think it had made an error. Unhappy  with Nationwides 
response, Mr W asked our service  to investigate.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld as he didnt feel that Nationwide  
had made  an error. He said hed looked  at the list of payments that were sent to Nationwide 
and thought that it had done  as it was instructed. Nationwide  had said that the instructions  
that were previously stopped had remained stopped on the new account and he also noted 
that no payments  had been made incorrectly from Mr Ws Nationwide  account  through the 
previously cancelled instructions.
Mr W disagreed  with our adjudicators findings.  Mr W said this was a banking  transfer  error  
between his previous bank  and Nationwide, which we hadnt investigated. He felt Nationwide 
shouldve been  aware or done more  to check that the payment instructions put in place were 
correct. He also said that the previously cancelled instructions had been  set up as live 
instructions on his account and payments couldve been  claimed incorrectly.
As Mr W didnt agree  with our adjudicators findings the complaint has been  passed to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr W indicated  that he thinks we should look at the actions  of both parties involved in the 
transfer of the account. But we can only consider the complaint that is brought to us, and 
only after the business involved has had the opportunity to respond. So my findings only 
concern the actions of Nationwide, as this is the business Mr W asked us to investigate  a 
complaint about.  I havent looked at the actions of the other bank. 
Ref: DRN03439602Looking at the information provided, I dont think Nationwide has made an error in setting up 
the payment instructions that it has. Mr W was transferring his bank account  to Nationwide. 
Nationwide was not involved in the running of his previous account, so wouldnt have had 
any knowledge of the payments going in or out of that account, or the details of the regular 
payment instructions. So I think the only way it could  reasonably  have obtained the details of 
the payments  that were set up on his new account,  is if it was provided this information  as 
part of the switching process.  
Ive seen the list of direct  debits provided to Nationwide as part of the switch process. And 
this included the details of more  than nine payments. There doesnt appear to be any 
indication that some of the payment details are purely for information and should not be put 
in place. And I dont  think Nationwide wouldve had any reason to question this further. 
Nationwide did send  Mr W a letter confirming the instructions that had been  put in place  
giving him the opportunity to let it know if any instructions should  not have been transferred. I 
think this is reasonable  and I dont think Nationwide needed to do any more before setting up 
the account. So based on what Ive seen I think its likely Nationwide  acted in line with the 
instructions it was given  and hasnt made  an error.
I know Mr W feels very strongly about  this as he says that payments couldve gone out that 
shouldnt have. But fortunately  this didnt happen  and so he hasnt incurred a loss. And 
although Mr W has said he had to take time to cancel these instructions again, as I dont  
think Nationwide has made an error,  I dont  think it would be reasonable to ask it to 
compensate him.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Ben Stoker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0343960