K820x#14complaint
Mr S has brought the complaint on behalf  of a limited company  (B). The complaint  is about 
the refusal of a claim made by B under the Legal  Protection section of a commercial  
insurance policy with Aviva Insurance Limited.
Aviva uses  agents to handle claims and complaints  on its behalf.  For ease,  whenever  I refer 
to Aviva in this decision it should be taken  as also including anything  done on its behalf by 
those agents;  and whenever  I refer to Mr S it should be taken  as including anything  done by 
him on behalf of B.
background
In October  2018, Mr S made  a claim under the policy.  He wants  to take action against  a 
customer of B, based in a foreign jurisdiction, for breach of contract. I understand  B provided 
a design to the customer. The contract  between them provided that any amendments  to the 
design be approved by Mr S and he would be entitled to royalties/fees from the sale of any 
amended design.  The customer apparently brought to market  an amendment  of the original 
design, without  Mr S approval and without paying the appropriate contractual fees.
Aviva refused to cover the claim on the basis that the policy doesnt provide cover for this 
dispute, as the contract was made outside  the United Kingdom, and also that it relates to 
intellectual property. Aviva later agreed that it didnt matter where the contract  was based as 
the policy covers worldwide contract disputes.  But it maintained that because  the issue  
relates to intellectual property, no cover  is available under the terms and conditions  of the 
policy.
One of our investigators  looked into the matter and did not recommend that it be upheld. He 
was satisfied that Aviva was entitled to reject  the claim, as he was satisfied that the breach 
of contract  was related to intellectual  property.
Mr S does not accept  the investigators  assessment, so the matter  has been  referred  to me. 
He says the lawyers  acting for B are pursuing  a claim for breach of contract  and not a claim 
in relation to intellectual property.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy does provide cover for various  legal  disputes including  contract disputes, as 
follows:
Contract Disputes
9.1 We will represent you in any Legal  Proceedings  for civil action relating to a contractual 
dispute arising from an agreement or alleged agreement which  has been entered  into by 
You or on Your behalf for the sale, provision, purchase or hire of goods or of services
There are some specific exclusions  listed  in relation to contract disputes. In addition,  at the 
end of the legal expenses  section  of cover there is a list of general  exclusions to all elements 
of the legal expenses cover. It says:
Ref: DRN04778062Exceptions
The following  outlines  what we will not make  payment for under this Section [i.e. the legal 
expenses section of cover].
We will not provide cover  in respect of any claim
1.5 relating to patents, copyrights, trademarks, merchandise  marks, registered designs, 
intellectual property, secrecy or confidentiality  agreements.
Mr S is claiming because the contract  stipulated that the customer  should have contacted 
him and asked him to help with any changes  to the original design. So this is a contract 
dispute. However, it is clear from the terms of the contract, and Mr S has also confirmed, if 
the contract  had not have been breached,  he would  have received additional remuneration 
for the use of his design template.
The contractual term requiring the customer to seek approval for any redesign, was to 
ensure that Mr S received  appropriate  credit and remuneration for his design; and thereby to 
protect Mr S original design. I am satisfied  that a design would be deemed  to be intellectual 
property.
Given this, it is my opinion that Aviva  was entitled to refuse cover for this claim.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint against Aviva Insurance Limited,  despite  my natural sympathy  
for Bs position.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.
Mr S has indicated  that B intends to pursue legal  action against Aviva  in relation to this 
claim. For the avoidance of doubt,  my decision does not affect Bs existing legal rights,  if 
any, against Aviva.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0477806