K821x#15complaint
Mr C has complained about advice he received from BlackStar Wealth Management  Ltd in 
2015. It recommended that he transfer existing  pension benefits and invest through a Self- 
Investment Personal Pension (SIPP).
background
Mr C was introduced to BlackStar  by a third party  introducer. He signed a client agreement 
as a retail client in 2014. Mr C completed a fact find which recorded that he was approaching 
55 years  of age and married with no financial  dependents. He was noted as being in good 
health and was in work.  He earned  around £28,000  per year and had an outstanding 
mortgage and a car loan. He had savings of around  £3,000.
Mr C was assessed as having an attitude  to risk of medium, six on a scale from one to ten.
It was noted that he hoped  to have an income  of £15,000 per annum in retirement  in todays 
value. His other recorded objectives included that he take tax free cash at 55 and combine 
his pensions and invest in a selection of alternative investments.
BlackStar advised Mr C in relation to four pension plans he held. This included deferred  
benefits in a defined benefit  scheme  with a former  employer. The fund value was just over 
£90,000 with a guaranteed final salary  of around  £8,000. The three other funds had a 
combined value  of around £90,000  but without any guaranteed final salary.
 . :
BlackStar completed a Financial Planning  Report  (FPR) in February 2015. The report 
recommended that Mr C transfer  the value of all four of these pensions to a SIPP.  Then after 
taking his Pension Commencement  Lump  Sum of just over £45,000 Mr C should  invest  
£30,000 each  into Colonial  Capital Corporate  Bonds and Dolphin Capital GmbH.  The 
balance was to be invested in a range  of collective funds.
The SIPP account  was opened in March 2015  and investment  made into Colonial Capital 
Corporate Bonds.  It seems that the Dolphin Capital investment wasnt made  and the money 
was left in cash.
An annual review  by BlackStar in June  2016 noted that the categorisation of medium risk 
was still appropriate.
Mr C complained about the advice. BlackStar didnt  uphold the complaint and so it was 
referred to this service.  Our adjudicator investigated  and decided  that the advice was 
unsuitable. She said, in summary;
Mr C was recorded as being moderately experienced because he had held ISA style 
investments in the past. She didnt think this would  have meant he was able to 
understand complex unregulated investments.
BlackStar was required to ensure that the recommended  investments were suitable. 
The unregulated  investments were not suitable for Mr C and it did not require a 
tightening of criteria  as it had suggested  in 2016 for it to recognise  the investments  
were unsuitable  for Mr C in his circumstances. These were  non-mainstream 
investments which the FCA had said were unlikely to be suitable for the vast majority  
of consumers.
Ref: DRN03881512Part of the advice  was to transfer away from his final salary  pension scheme and give 
up the guaranteed benefits. The transfer analysis said that this fund provided a 
guaranteed pension  of around  £8,000 at 65 or 66. The return required to match this 
with the transfer  value  was over 11 per cent. The likelihood of returns like that was 
very limited. BlackStar itself noted in the financial planning report that achieving a 
return of more than 6 per cent would require significant investment risk on a 
consistent basis. So that element of the transfer could not represent  good advice.
Once the transfer was complete the advice was to place around £60,000 into 
unregulated investments which was too high.  Colonial Capital went into 
administration in 2017 and the investment  was lost.
BlackStar didnt agree.  It responded  and said, in summary;
Mr C held an unencumbered  property  with a substantial pension  which  he had 
decided to invest in alternative investments.
The existing pension  projection showed  that he was forecast to be above his income 
needs.
Very specific risk warnings were given.
It referred to the FCA alert from January 2017  and noted  that a pension transfer 
should not be assessed by reference  to the critical yield alone.
Mr Cs objectives could not be met by remaining in the existing schemes.
As no agreement has been reached the case has been referred to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicator and with her reasoning. I uphold this complaint. Im not satisfied 
that the advice  BlackStar gave was suitable  for Mr C or in his best interest. He may have 
been referred to it with an established desire  or intention to invest  in a selection of 
alternative investments  but it was still the responsibility of BlackStar  to assess  the suitability 
of these investments  for him in his circumstances. Mr C does not seem to have had 
extensive investment  experience. And he doesnt  appear to have had significant capacity for 
loss. These  pensions represented  almost  all of his private pension  provision. He also had 
existing liabilities. He had a mortgage  (according to the fact find) and other debts including a 
car loan.  His cash savings were only around  £3,000.
Mr C was assessed as having a medium attitude to risk. Im not satisfied that the 
investments recommended were suitable  in light of that assessment. The Colonial Capital 
and Dolphin bonds were both categorised as being  high risk. 
Mr C held deferred benefits in a final salary  scheme  which would provide guaranteed future 
benefits including a final salary of around  £8,000. BlackStar says that Mr C had an income 
need of £15,000 in retirement and so its not clear to me why he would give up a guarantee 
which provided over half of his future requirement  and then speculate with the funds  in 
alternative investments.  
This was a very high risk strategy in my view and far too risky for Mr C given his 
circumstances. BlackStar  says that Mr C could  not achieve his objectives without 
transferring out of the existing schemes.  If that were true then part of the role of the adviser 
Ref: DRN03881513is to recognise that some  objectives may not be realistically achievable or in the best 
interest. The first recorded  objective  was to invest in the two unregulated bonds.  But that 
doesnt seem to be an objective  in itself. Investment would normally  be a means to achieve  
an objective rather than an objective in itself.  Another objective was recorded as achieving  a 
higher pension in retirement  yet BlackStar  recommended that the final salary  pension should 
be given up despite  the very high returns that would be necessary even to match the 
benefits it would provide.  
Overall, I am not satisfied  that BlackStar  gave suitable advice or acted in Mr Cs best interest 
when it recommended the pension transfer  and subsequent  investment.
putting things  right
The aim of redress  is to put Mr C in the position  he would have been in had BlackStar  not 
given unsuitable  advice.
BlackStar must calculate  any losses and pay redress to Mr C. It must calculate  the losses 
caused by transferring out of the defined benefit scheme and by transferring out of the three 
personal pensions.  Im not satisfied that Mr C would have transferred with suitable advice. 
BlackStar must;
1.In relation to the defined benefit scheme, undertake a redress  calculation  in line with 
the methodology issued by the Financial Conduct Authority in October 2017.
2.For the three remaining personal  pension plans, calculate the notional transfer value 
of those plans  at the date of calculation, assuming Mr C would have  remained in the 
same funds.  These notional values  should  then be compared with the actual current 
value of the SIPP proportionately.  
3.If the calculations  demonstrate a loss, the compensation amount should,  if possible, 
be paid into Mr Cs pension plan. The payment should allow  for the effect of charges 
and any available  tax relief. The compensation should not be paid into the pension 
plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
4.If the payment  into the pension is not possible or has protection or allowance 
implications, it should  be paid directly to Mr C as a lump  sum. The compensation can 
be reduced by 20%. The loss was to Mr Cs pension  and so would otherwise have 
been used to provide pension benefits,  25% of which would be tax free and the rest 
would have been taxed at the rate he paid income tax in retirement.
5.The valuation of the Colonial Capital investment may prove difficult, as there is no 
market for it. To calculate the compensation, BlackStar should  agree an amount with 
the SIPP provider  as a commercial value,  and then pay the sum agreed  plus any 
costs and take ownership of the investment. If BlackStar is unable to buy the 
investments, it should give it a nil value for the purposes of calculating compensation.
6.Pay five years worth of future fees payable by Mr C to the SIPP;  if the Colonial
Capital Corporate  Bonds cannot be purchased. Had BlackStar given suitable advice 
the SIPP would not exist.  It is not fair that Mr C continues to pay the annual SIPP  
fees if it cannot be closed. To provide certainty  to all parties, I think it is fair that 
BlackStar pays Mr C an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years  worth of SIPP 
Ref: DRN03881514fees (calculated using  the previous years fees). This should provide a reasonable 
period for the parties to arrange  for the SIPP  to be closed.  
7.Pay an amount into Mr Cs SIPP so that the transfer value is increased  to 
compensate for the loss, less the tax free cash Mr C has already received. This 
payment should  take account  of any available tax relief and the effect of charges. It 
should also take account of interest as set out below. If it is not possible to pay the 
compensation into the SIPP,  BlackStar  should  pay it as a cash sum to Mr C. Mr C 
may not be able to pay all of the redress into a pension plan. But had it been possible 
to pay the compensation into the plan,  it would have provided a taxable income. 
Therefore the total amount to be paid to Mr C should be reduced to notionally allow 
for any income tax that would otherwise have been  paid. The notional allowance  
should be calculated  using Mr Cs marginal rate of tax in retirement. Mr C is likely to 
be a basic rate taxpayer in retirement. The notional allowance will be a reduction in 
the total amount equivalent  to the current basic rate of tax.
8.Simple interest should be added at the rate of 8% a year from the date of calculation  
until the date of payment. Income  tax may be payable on this interest.
9.Pay Mr C £500 for the distress  and inconvenience caused.
10.BlackStar may ask Mr C to provide an undertaking to account  to it for the net amount 
of any payment the SIPP  may receive from the Colonial Capital investment. That 
undertaking should allow for the effect  of any tax and charges on the amount Mr C 
may receive from the investment and any eventual sums he would be able to access  
from the SIPP. BlackStar will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking. 
This only applies if BlackStar pays the loss in full. If BlackStar  pays the loss in full it 
may take an assignment from Mr C of any claim he may have against any third 
parties. This may only relate  to the pension transfer  and investment  in Colonial 
Capital. BlackStar must  provide a draft of the assignment to Mr C for him to consider 
and agree. The assignment  should be in place before compensation is paid. 
BlackStar must agree  to pay the compensation in full before using this option.
11.As Mr C has already  accessed a Pension  Commencement Lump  Sum this should be 
deducted from the final redress amount.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  about BlackStar Wealth Management Ltd. It must calculate and pay 
redress as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2019.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0388151