K820x#14complaint
Mr P says Paratus AMC Limited wont pay him the proceeds of a £130,000 endowment  
policy he says he held with it. Paratus says there isnt an endowment policy,  and the 
information Mr P has provided relates  to a repayment  mortgage he held.
background
Its very difficult  to set out the background to this complaint as we have two directly opposing 
views to what the payments Mr P was making  was for. Mr P says it was an endowment 
policy and he wants the maturity value, Paratus says it was a repayment  mortgage that was 
repaid when the house was repossessed and sold. Both sides  agree the financial product  in 
question started in December 2003  and was for a ten year term.
Our investigator was satisfied the payments were for a repayment  mortgage and found no 
evidence of any endowment policy. Mr P didnt agree and so its been  passed to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr P has said:
It appears that Paratus  is still insisting that I received a loan mortgage from them.  I can 
assure you I did not the evidence will proved that.
I will swear on the bible under oath in any court room that Paratus did not give me a 
re-mortgage on [security address]. This property I already owned for over 15 years when 
Paratus falsely claimed that I apply  to them for a mortgage to purchase it. If you do not 
believe me ask Paratus for a copy of the application  that they receive from me applying to 
them for a mortgage  in 2003. In my letter to you on the 25th September  2018 I told you 
that the valuation of my property was £42,000 in 2003. Can you see any company giving 
a re-mortgage  of £60,000 against a property they do not know what it valued?
Im satisfied that Mr P was sent a copy of the mortgage application  form on 21 March  2014 
as weve  got a copy of the covering letter  on file which states  Please find enclosed a copy  of 
your mortgage application  form.  If Mr P would like a further copy of it he can contact our 
investigator who will be able to send  another copy to him. The application form is under a 
predecessor name  of Paratus  GMAC - but its the same company that simply changed its 
name in January 2011. Any mention I make of Paratus  should be taken to mean  the 
previous trading name of GMAC as appropriate.
Mr P now says he didnt have a mortgage  with Paratus but thats  contrary  to what  he told us 
in previous complaints he made,  what he told the court in 2012, and various letters  hes sent 
to Paratus over the years. 
In 2009 an ombudsman colleague  issued a provisional decision in relation to Mr Ps 
complaint about  arrears  fees hed incurred  on his Paratus mortgage. That provisional 
decision was very clear that it was about  Mr Ps mortgage and Mr P accepted the basis of 
the provisional decision, albeit he made  some  more comments  about his mortgage. If Mr P 
Ref: DRN09983662didnt have a mortgage he wouldnt have had anything to complain  about  in the first place,  
and Id have expected him to have  pointed that out in response  to the provisional decision, 
rather than accepting the underlying basis of it. 
In 2013 an adjudicator dealt with another complaint from Mr P about  his Paratus mortgage. 
This time he was complaining that he hadnt  received  the full £60,000  mortgage  advance at 
completion in 2003. We couldnt look at that complaint because Mr P had brought  it too late 
as it was ten years after the event he was complaining  about,  but it shows  that in 2013 Mr P 
accepted that hed taken  a mortgage with Paratus in 2003.
In January 2009 Mr P wrote to Paratus saying:
Gmac valued my property and agreed to lend me a percentage of the collateral. At the 
time I was also offered  a discount to pay by direct debit. In my experience I dont know of 
anyone offering such a deal without  gain but I could  not see how it would affect me so I 
signed.
The Mortgage was in its second year when Gmac wrote  to me informing me that the 
collection date has been brought forward by fifteen days.
And in March 2014 Mr P wrote to us saying:
[Paratus] claim that I owed them a total of £481,643.60 it has been proven in court that 
the full amount of loan given to me by them  is £29,000 in total.
Mr P has said that the court doesnt have any record of a warrant (for possession)  issued  to 
Paratus in 2012 and the court  record shows that the case  was dismissed. I think Mr P might 
be confusing some of the many court proceedings there have been on this mortgage 
account. 
On 6 June 2007 an Order  for Possession for granted by the court,  suspended  upon Mr P 
paying Paratus  the mortgage contractual monthly  instalments  plus an additional £50 a 
month. As part of that court case Mr P  assisted by the Citizens  Advice Bureau  had 
disputed the level of arrears as hed said the arrears  included  fees and costs.
Mr P defaulted on the Order for Possession  and so in November 2011 Paratus sought  to 
enforce its right to possession and applied to the court for a warrant  of possession. Mr P 
applied to the court for suspension of the warrant on 24 November 2011 on the grounds he 
needed more  time to leave the property  as he was no longer able to pay the mortgage. At a 
hearing on 29 November  2011 Mr P again  disputed the level of arrears.
The court told Mr P to provide a statement  setting  out what  he thought was wrong with the 
figures, and he provided two witness statements  dated 17 February 2012. Within these Mr P 
said hed paid £1,209 to his mortgage account on 19 December 2011. He also said hed 
withheld payments  as he disputed the arrears charges. He said the purpose of the £60,000  
mortgage was to buy a number of vehicles for his business, and he only received £19,000 so 
wondered what  happened  to the remainder of the monies. Mr P claimed taking out the 
mortgage almost bankrupted his business, and GMAC went behind his back and transferred 
his mortgage to Paratus.
Ref: DRN09983663There followed a hearing on 17 April 2012  in which the court listened to Mr Ps various 
arguments, firstly that he didnt recall signing the mortgage and that it must have been  
forged, and then that he only received £19,000  rather than the £60,000  hed been  required 
to repay.  Having done so the court made an order that Mr Ps application to suspend  the 
warrant had been  refused,  and that Paratus  was entitled to reissue the warrant for 
possession.
This was followed with a formal court  document  entitled General Form of Judgment  or 
Order which  stated  The Defendants application  to suspend  the warrant is dismissed. With 
the Defendant noted as being Mr P. We also have on file another  court  document, this time 
entitled Notice of Appointment (with Bailiff)  and this one states Take  notice  that the 
undermentioned warrant will be executed by the bailiff of the court:  on 10th May 2012. 
This document is dated 24 April 2012.
Finally, Mr P has provided copies of his bank statements  to show  payments to Paratus that 
he says relate to the endowment policy he says he had. But the reference  number on his 
bank statements for the payments is the above mentioned mortgage account number, and 
the payments  out match exactly those showing as being received on his mortgage account  
on the corresponding dates. So these are undeniably his mortgage payments. If Mr P had an 
endowment policy then the payments  would  have been made to the policy  provider, which 
would have been a company authorised to provide investment policies like that. Paratus  
and previously GMAC  has never  been  an endowment policy  provider and so, quite simply, 
payments made to it could never have been for an endowment policy. It may be Mr P does 
have a separate endowment policy but its not with Paratus  and it doesnt  relate  to the 
payments that hes shown  us so I cant consider that here.
Having considered everything  Im satisfied Paratus was simply Mr Ps mortgage  provider, 
and all the information hes given us relates  to that mortgage. For that reason I make no 
order or award against Paratus.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  My final decision concludes  this services consideration of the 
complaint, which  means well not be engaging  in any further consideration or discussion of 
the merits of it. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2019.
Julia Chapman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0998366