K821x#15complaint
Miss B complains  that Starling Bank Limited (Starling)  took a standing order  payment  from 
her account  twice by mistake.  And its communication over this issue has been poor. She 
would like compensation for the seriousness of the mistake. And for her time and stress.
background
Miss B says she amended a standing order  from her account so that it would be paid on 22 
February 2019 rather than 25 February  2019. She says the payment correctly left her 
account on 22 February. However  the bank then made the payment again on 25 February. 
She says she contacted  Starling on 25 February when she realised the payment had been 
made twice.  She says Starling told her it would try to recover  the funds but this might  take 
twenty days and wasnt guaranteed.
Starling accepted it made a mistake and given  Miss B wrong  information.  It apologised and 
made a total payment of £140 to recognise the inconvenience caused. 
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She found  that Starling had not clearly explained the 
process of recovering the standing  order payment to Miss B. And the resulting confusion 
affected the relationship between Miss B and the recipient of the standing order. She 
acknowledged the compensation Starling had already paid. But felt an additional £60 should 
be paid.
Miss B accepted  this view but Starling didnt.  It accepted there had been some issues  but felt 
the compensation it had already paid was sufficient.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think there is any dispute that Starling wrongly took two standing  order payments from 
Miss Bs account.
As I understand it when Miss B changed her standing  order  payment two payments  instead 
of one went out of her account. One correctly on the new date she had given,  but one also 
went out on the old date. This left Miss B out of pocket by a considerable sum  over £700. 
Miss B agreed to Starling trying to recover the money. But then decided to try to resolve the 
situation herself by contacting the recipient  and telling  her to keep both payments to cover  
her February and March  payments. Miss B then didnt make another  March payment
But unfortunately Starling did recover the money leaving the recipient out of pocket for 
March since Miss Bs payment had been taken back and Miss B hadnt  made  the normal 
payment she would have made in March.
I have read transcripts of the web chats  between Miss B and Starling. And I have also 
listened to the phone calls Miss B made. Starling accepts it gave Miss B wrong information 
about the recovery process and has acknowledged this by paying £140 compensation.
Ref: DRN09669152I found all the communication  Miss B had with Starling confusing and lacking in clarity. On 
one web chat Starling are unaware the money had been credited back to Miss Bs account 
with an additional  £20.And it cant confirm  if this has been reclaimed from the recipient of the 
standing order or not.  
I dont think Starling made it clear how it would  recover the funds and what that would 
involve to allow Miss B to make an informed choice as to whether she tried to resolve the 
situation informally with the recipient or via the bank.  When Miss B asks for guidance  and I 
think she could reasonably have expected some clarity over the options and a steer as to 
what might  be the best option  it seems to just be left to her to decide.
When Miss B decides to cancel the recovery process and resolve the matter  herself  by 
contacting the recipient to tell her to keep both payments to cover  February and March  
Starling cant confirm  if the recovery process  has or can be halted.   The  third phone call I 
listened to was nearly a month  after the mistake happened and by this time the matter  still 
hadnt been resolved.
Miss B has told us the recipient is an elderly  lady and as a result of this confusion the 
relationship has been damaged and I can understand why. Its clear to me that Miss B was 
very concerned that the recipient wasnt contacted over this  I do appreciate here that 
Starling was dealing  with recovery from a different bank. So whilst  it could  request  this, it 
wasnt in its gift to tell the recipient bank  how to deal with the matter
As Starling  accepts some compensation  is appropriate for the wrong information it gave miss 
B about the recovery  process and the inconvenience the main issue for me to decide is the 
level of compensation.
Starling has already paid £140.  I might have felt that was appropriate for this sort of issue.
But in this case I am mindful  the standing order was for a large sum of money  so the impact  
of over £1,400  being taken from Miss Bs account  must have been very concerning and 
distressing, I felt there was continued  lack of clarity as to what  was going on  it didnt feel to 
me that at the end of any of the three calls that I listened to that Miss B was confident as to 
what would  happen  next and that the situation  would be resolved. It took several  weeks and 
a lot of contact from Miss B to resolve this. And finally I do accept that this mistake has 
impacted on Miss Bs relationship with the recipient. So on that basis  I feel £200 
compensation in total is appropriate.
.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement  Starling Bank  Limited  should pay Miss B £60 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 August 2019.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN09669153
Ref: DRN0966915