K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Erudio Student Loans  Limited  defaulted and terminated his student loan 
agreements, and about related issues.
background
Mr M had six student loans with Erudio.  He deferred  repayment  of these loans each year 
until 2016. The last deferment expired in July 2017, and after that arrears  began to accrue 
on the loans. In September 2018 the loans were  defaulted, and shortly afterwards the loan 
agreements were terminated. Mr M complains that he did not receive the default  notice, and 
he does not believe  that it was ever sent.  He also argues that if it really was sent,  then it was 
sent prematurely.  He says some other documents were sent to the wrong address, and that 
he did not receive those  either. But for that, he would have deferred the loans again in 2017.  
(He also alleges that the arrears figures  he was given in the arrears  letters he did receive 
were incorrect.) He would like the loans  reinstated and deferred retrospectively.
Erudio did not agree that it had done anything wrong. It said Mr M had confirmed that the 
address it had on file was the correct address in his last deferment notice in 2016, and it had 
sent all correspondence  to that address, including the default notice. The accounts had gone  
into arrears, and subsequently been terminated,  because he had failed to defer them in 
2017. Addressing  Mr Ms argument  that the default notice had been sent prematurely, it said 
that the remediation pack it had sent him shortly  before the default notice had nothing to do 
with the arrears, but just consisted of statutory notices sent to comply with provisions of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974  which Erudio had inadvertently failed  to comply with before. 
These hadnt had any bearing on the default notice, or on Mr Ms obligation to pay his 
arrears to avoid a default.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He accepted that the default notice had been 
sent to the address in the 2016  deferment  form, and that it had been sent after four months 
worth of arrears had accumulated. He agreed with Erudio that the remediation process did 
not need to interfere with the collection of arrears  and the service of the default notice. He 
said Mr M had had ample opportunity to correct his address if he was not satisfied that the 
address Erudio had on file was complete or accurate.
Mr M did not agree. He made detailed submissions  about the address point in particular, 
supported by evidence. He asked for an ombudsman to review this case.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
Mr M has (for quite  understandable  reasons) written a great deal about the difference  
between his actual  address and the address Erudio was using to correspond with him. Its 
not necessary  for me to set everything out again here, and I will summarise  the matter 
briefly. In short, it is not alleged that the address Erudio had on file was wrong, but rather 
that it was incomplete,  because it did not identify Mr Ms flat, only the number of the building  
in which  he lived.
To preserve  Mr Ms anonymity when this decision is published, I will make  up a fictitious  
example. If Mr M lived at number 10B, Erudio was writing  to him at number 10. Mr M has 
Ref: DRN04384342explained that this was not his fault, and that he would normally  write 10 (street  name) on 
the first line of his address, and then write  Flat 2 or Flat B on the second  line, so he didnt 
notice that the first line was incomplete.
Mr M has made other  points about  the way that Erudios website works in relation to 
confirming the address  during the deferment process, to explain why he didnt notice that 
this was a problem. And he has said that he emailed Erudio with his complete address in 
2014, and that it was Erudios responsibility  to update  its records at the time, and not for him 
to check and to prompt  Erudio.
I can see how this issue might have prevented some of Erudios letters, including  the default 
notice, from reaching him. (I dont think this means  they were  never  sent.) But although a 
great deal has been  written about this issue by the parties and by our investigator,  I actually 
think it is a red herring. It doesnt  change the undisputed fact that when Mr M did receive  
arrears letters, he ignored them, because (he says) they were inaccurate and were  only for 
very small  amounts. And it doesnt change the fact that the responsibility for applying for a 
deferment each  year was his.
Erudios contact notes  indicate that Mr M received the majority of the letters which  were  sent 
to the address Erudio had on file for him. On receiving the arrears  letters,  I think that it was 
Mrs As responsibility to challenge the figures  if he thought they were wrong. If he had done 
that, then either Erudio  would have put the process of collecting the arrears  on hold while it 
investigated, or else if Erudio had refused to do that then Mr M could have paid the arrears 
(as they were only small amounts, and he says he could have afforded to) and asked for a 
refund if he was vindicated in due course.
The fact that Mr M was receiving any arrears  letters at all should have been  a clear reminder 
that he had not deferred  the loans. Arrears  dont accrue on loans unless they havent been 
deferred. So although Mr M did not receive the default notice, he must  have  been  aware  that 
he still needed to defer  the loans, or else arrears would continue to accrue.  And whether he 
accepted the arrears  notices were accurate or not, they were a sign that a default would 
eventually follow if he took no action.
I dont accept that the default notice was served  too soon. The remediation pack was sent 
for reasons unrelated  to it, and so did not amount  to a reason to delay serving the notice. 
The accounts were  defaulted more than a year after the last deferral  expired.  During that 
period, Mr M was receiving arrears  notices  not all of them,  but most of them. It was his 
responsibility to apply for another deferral in 2017,  and to do so within  the time limit, but he 
didnt. So I cannot  fault Erudio for eventually defaulting the accounts  and terminating the 
loan agreements.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 October  2020.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0438434