K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out to protect a 
store card in 1998. Mrs M says Financial  Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her 
the PPI.
Mrs M took out the store card in a shop,  and was later sold PPI over the phone  but FICL 
has taken responsibility  for the sale, and for this complaint, so I will refer to FICL  in my 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mrs M says that she doesnt  recall  how she applied for the store card or if PPI was ever 
mentioned to her  but this isnt surprising for a sale that took place  so long ago. FICL 
has provided a copy  of Mrs Ms store card application  and I can see that Mrs M didnt  
take out PPI at this time,  it was added to her account about  three  months later during  a 
phone call. FICL has provided  a call script  that was in use at the time which  shows  that 
its representative would  be prompted  to point  out that the PPI was optional, and gain 
proper consent  for it to be added to an account.  While I cant  be certain how closely  this 
script was followed, I havent seen anything to suggest FICL did anything differently 
when it sold PPI to Mrs M. And as she already had her store card for a while,  I think  she 
wouldve known that she didnt have to have  PPI, and chose to take it out. 
FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs M so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
But it did have to make  sure Mrs M got the information she needed  to decide if it was 
right for her. 
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type 
of cover.  Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like 
she was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so it would have  
been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So 
I dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have put her off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mrs M has said, including what  shes said about being self-
employed at the time the policy was taken out. Some  PPI policies made  it more  difficult to 
claim if you were  self-employed. But looking at Mrs Ms policy, I can see that this isnt the 
case for this particular policy. So this point doesnt  change my decision, and for the reasons 
set out above,  I dont  think  the policy was mis-sold.
Ref: DRN04684362my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 July 2019.  
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0468436