K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about payment protection insurance (PPI) policies taken out in 1996 and 
2001 to protect  a mortgage and further  advance. Mr and Mrs S say Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-
sold them  the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ss case.
The policies covered Mr S only so I have mainly considered his circumstances at the time 
they were sold.
Ive decided the policies werent mis-sold  and Ill explain why.
Lloyds had to make Mr and Mrs S aware  that the PPI policies were  optional and gain their 
consent before adding  them to their mortgage. Mr and Mrs S say they wernt given the 
option to decline  the PPI. There  is limited  information available from the sale of the PPI in 
1996. But this isnt unusual as businesses arent  required to keep this type of information 
indefinitely. With the lack of information available from the sale in 1996 I am unable to say 
that Mr and Mrs S werent given  a choice in taking  the PPI. So I cant  uphold  their complaint 
for this reason.
Lloyds has sent us a copy of the paperwork available from the sale of the PPI policy  in 2001. 
An application form for the policy was completed  separately to the mortgage to take the 
policy and was signed by Mr and Mrs S. The application form doesnt suggest  the policy was 
compulsory.
With the above in mind  I think its likely  Lloyds made it clear that Mr and Mrs S didnt have to 
take out the PPI policies and that they chose  to take them  out  although I can understand 
why  they may not remember this.
Lloyds recommended the PPI policies to Mr S so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
him. Mr S has told us he would have  been entitled to good sick pay and had other insurance 
in place so he didnt need the PPI. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to Mr Ss sick 
pay, and for longer than he would  have received full pay. The PPI would also have  covered  
circumstances that his other insurance wouldnt have.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Ss circumstances at the time, he wasnt affected by any of 
the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  and they seem to have had a need for the cover.  
So if think  the PPI was right for Mr S.  
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs S about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But I think  Mr S chose to take out the policies - so it looks like he wanted  
this type of cover. And it seems like the policies would have been useful for Mr and Mrs S if 
something went wrong. It also looks like they were  affordable. So I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put Mr S off taking out the cover.  
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S.
Ref: DRN05163862But Lloyds will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs S about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs S, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs S have  said - including  what theyve said about  
finding it difficult to make their PPI payments. But the PPI covered an important asset, their 
home. I think  Mr and Mrs S would have benefitted from the comfort that knowing their 
repayments would have been  covered if something  went wrong and these points dont 
change my decision.
what the business needs  to do
Lloyds has to pay back to Mr and Mrs S any commission and profit share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Lloyds should also pay back to Mr and Mrs S any extra  
interest they paid because of that.
Lloyds should  pay back to Mr and Mrs S the extra they paid each month  because  the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Lloyds should also 
pay Mr and Mrs S 8%* simple interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs S can claim back the tax if they dont  pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs S any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 February  2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0516386