K821x#15complaint
Mr F, represented by a third party, complains  that Provident Personal Credit Limited (trading 
as Satsuma Loans)  lent money to him that he couldnt afford  to repay.
background
Based on the information provided, Satsuma  Loans provided Mr F with eight loans between 
March 2016 and March 2018. 
Loan Amount Date Repaid
1 £280 07-Mar-16 10-Jun-16
2 £180 12-Aug-16 11-Nov-16
3 £200 07-0ct-16 07-Jan-17
4 £100 17-Nov-16 17-Feb-17
5       £210 16-Mar-17 01-Jul-17
6 £330 27-Jul-17 18-Dec-17
7 £100 28-0ct-17 02-Feb-18
8 £300 23-Mar-18 05-Aug-18
Mr F says that he took out a small loan that then spiralled into a cycle of dependency. He 
says that proper checks werent carried  out to ensure he could afford the loans and had they 
been Satsuma  Loans would have  seen he had other debts. 
Satsuma Loans  says that at the time of the loans there was no indication  that the 
repayments werent affordable for Mr F. It gathered information about Mr Fs income  and 
expenses and carried out credit checks and says based on this information the loans were 
affordable.
Our adjudicator said that she hadnt seen  enough  to say that loans one to four shouldnt 
have been provided. However she thought that by the time the fifth loan was provided 
Satsuma Loans  should have carried out further  checks to ensure the lending was 
sustainable. Had this happened she said Satsuma Loans would have realised Mr F was 
having problems  managing his money. 
By the time the sixth loan was provided  our adjudicator thought  Mr Fs pattern of borrowing 
showed he had become  persistently reliant  on short-term loans. She recommended  that the 
interest and charges be refunded on loans  five to eight and that Mr Fs credit file was 
amended in regard to these loans.
Satsuma Loans  didnt accept our adjudicators  view and so this complaint has been  passed 
to me, an ombudsman, to issue  a decision. 
my findings
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  We've  set out our general approach to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Satsuma Loans  needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that Mr 
Ref: DRN05719202F could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's  income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Satsuma Loans should  fairly and reasonably  
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer.  These factors  
include:
the lower  a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Satsuma Loans was required to 
establish whether  Mr F could sustainably repay  his loans - not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict  pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Fs complaint.
Before the loans were  provided information  was gathered on Mr Fs income and expenses 
and credit checks were carried out. Our adjudicator said that she hadnt seen enough to say 
that the first four loans  shouldnt have been  provided. Based on the information I have seen I 
agree with this.
Our adjudicator upheld  loan five saying that further checks  should  have taken place before 
this loan was provided.  As this was the fifth loan I agree that Satsuma  Loans  should have 
carried out further checks to ensure that the loan was sustainably affordable. Had these 
taken place it would have realised that Mr F had other short term loans outstanding at the 
time. I think this, combined  with the timing  of Mr Fs previous loans  shows that he was 
struggling to manage  his money. Because of this I dont think  this loan should have been 
considered sustainably affordable. 
By the time loan six was provided, Mr F had been borrowing from Satsuma Loans over an 
extended period.  He had taken out six loans in around 16 months  and the amounts he was 
Ref: DRN05719203borrowing werent reducing. Mr F was taking  new loans out shortly after, or even before, 
repaying previous  loans.  Given  this I think that by loan six Mr Fs pattern of borrowing 
showed he was persistently  reliant on short term loans and I dont think  that Satsuma Loans 
should have considered loan six and subsequent loans  as being sustainably  affordable..  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in regard to loans  five to eight. Provident 
Personal Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma Loans) should:
refund  all interest and charges Mr F paid on loans  five to eight;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement*;
any adverse information regarding loan five should be removed from Mr Fs credit 
file;
the number  of loans taken from loan six means  any information recorded about  them  
is adverse. So all entries from loan six onwards should be removed from Mr Fs credit 
file.
*HMRC requires  Provident Personal Credit Limited  (trading as Satsuma  Loans)  to take off 
tax from this interest. If Mr F asks for a certificate  showing  how much tax has been taken off, 
this should be provided.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 November  2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0571920