K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) hasnt offered a fair settlement for a claim 
he made under his home contents  insurance.
background
Mr R had a home contents insurance policy with UKI. 
Whilst Mr R was on holiday, he lost his gold Albert watch chain. Mr R made a claim for the 
lost item on his insurance policy.
UKI valued the chain at £2,500 but said that its suppliers could replace the item for £1,250. 
So UKI offered  Mr R a choice of how he wished to settle the claim. They offered a £2,500 
voucher for a high street jeweller, £1,250 cash settlement minus the policies excess or it said 
it could replace the chain using its own personal  jewellery service.
Mr R was unhappy with the settlement valuation as he said the chain  was made  of antique 
gold and therefore worth  more. So, he complained to UKI. In response,  it said that Mr R had 
been unable  to evidence that the chain was made  from antique gold and so it couldnt  
change the cash  settlement  offer it had made.  But it did offer a further option of a different 
kind of jewellers voucher  worth £1666.67.
Mr R initially chose to use UKIs jewellers to replace  the chain. When  Mr R met with the 
jeweller, they said they would use new gold in replicating the chain and not antique  gold. 
Mr R was unhappy as he didnt feel the chain  would be a like for like replacement. 
UKI maintained that Mr R hadnt evidenced that his lost chain was made from antique gold.
Mr R remained  unhappy and so brought his complaint to us. Our investigator felt that UKI 
acted in line with the terms of the policy and were  fair in the settlement options they offered. 
Mr R disagreed and so his complaint has been  passed onto me.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having  done so, Im not upholding the complaint as I 
think what UKI have offered to settle  the claim is fair in the circumstances, Ill explain why.
The terms of Mr Rs policy say;
"For any item of contents that is lost or damaged we will choose  whether to:
 replace or repair the item or part
 pay the cost of replacing or repairing the item or part, up to the amount it would have
cost us to replace or repair using our own suppliers, or
 make a cash  payment
We won't pay more than the amount  it would  have cost us to replace or repair using our own
suppliers. If appropriate  parts or replacement items are not available,  we will pay the full cost 
of the item, provided the sum insured is adequate."
I think the terms clearly say that UKI can choose  how it settles claims. UKI gave Mr R a 
number of options on how they could  settle the claim, so Ive considered  if these options 
were fair. 
Ref: DRN09085542Its clear that Mr Rs preferred option would have been for UKI to replace the chain. UKI said 
that the only way I could  replace the chain is through its personal  jewellery  service  (PJS) 
However, following  an appointment, Mr R declined to use the PJS as he felt what they 
offered wasnt a like for like replacement. This was because the PJS were going  to use new 
gold to remake the chain instead  of antique gold. UKI have  said that this was because  Mr R 
hasnt evidenced  that the original chain was made of antique  gold.
Mr R has provided a valuation of the chain produced  by a jeweller in 1991. The valuation  
didnt describe the gold as antique or give any indication as to the age of the chain. 
UKI offered Mr R the chance to provide  any further  professional evidence  as to the age or 
type of gold used in his chain, which I think was reasonable. As Mr R didnt supply  any 
further evidence,  I think it was fair for UKI to say there wasnt sufficient evidence  that the 
chain was made of antique  gold.
Mr R feels that UKI werent able to replace the chain  using the PJS and he says it 
acknowledged that the gold was in fact antique. However, from the information Ive seen, Im 
satisfied the PJS were  able to replace the chain in new gold, they just werent able to replace 
the chain to Mr Rs specification, by using antique  gold.  Im also satisfied that PJS were clear  
that Mr R hadnt been  able to evidence that the gold was antique.  
UKIs agents valued the chain at £2,500  but said that the cost of replacing the chain through  
the PJS would be £1,250.  
UKI offered Mr R a cash settlement of £1,050.  I can appreciate why Mr R is unhappy with 
the cash settlement  offered to him, as its substantially lower than the valuation. But I think  
the cash settlement  offered to Mr R is fair. This is because the policy  terms say that UKI 
wont pay more than it would cost it to settle  the claim. UKI has shown it would cost it £1,250 
to replace the chain. So, after deducting the excess of £200, the cash settlement is £1,050.
UKI also offered  Mr R two different types  of vouchers to settle the claim. The vouchers have 
a higher value  than the cash settlement due to the discounts that UKI get. And so, I think this 
offer is also in line with the policy terms.  
I know that this will disappoint Mr R, but overall  I think the UKI acted fairly in the options it 
has offered to settle the claim. 
Mr R should contact UKI directly if he wishes to accept  any of the options offered to settle 
his claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 May 2020.
Tim Wilkes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0908554