K822xComplaint
Mr N complains that he was mis-sold  a finance agreement by Anglian Windows  Ltd (AW).
Background
Mr N says a sales representative  from AW visited him and his wife and told them the cash 
price for the work he wanted to have done  would be £4,537. But he says he was told he 
could save money if he took up an offer that was represented as interest free over a year. 
And he says he was assured he wouldnt be paying any other charges.
Mr N has explained that the sales representative  visited again  and as AW was unable to do 
the work  promised during the initial visit the price was amended  to £3,400.  He says it was 
agreed he would pay off this sum over the year, interest free without any additional 
payments. And he says he paid a deposit  of £99, leaving a balance  as agreed of £3,301,  
which was fully paid off over the 12 month  period.
Mr N says after the payments had been  completed  he received a statement from the finance  
company stating that the balance outstanding was £6,936. He says he contacted the finance 
company and was told it appeared thered been a mix up by AW of the Buy Now Pay Later 
12 months Settle Account (interest free) offer which he says he was told he was receiving 
and the Account Charged Interest Accelerated Payment which AWs  sales representative 
put him on. And which,  he says, was completely misrepresented  when he was asked to sign 
the contract.
AW says it doesnt offer interest  free loans and it says the sales  representative  has 
confirmed he didnt  advise  Mr N the loan was interest free. It says Mr N was provided  with 
repayment examples  to assist him with clearing the loan over a 15 month period to minimise  
the amount of interest  he would be charged.  And it says the documentation Mr N signed at 
the point of sale clearly  shows  it is an interest  bearing account.
AW also says the personal  illustration Mr N was given clearly  highlights how much he would  
pay, including interest,  over the term of the loan. It says the sales representative gave him 
an example showing  the total cost of the borrowing if he made increased payments over a 
15 month period.  And it says this document together with the credit agreement set out the 
full costs along with the terms and allowed Mr N to make an informed decision as to whether 
or not to take the finance. So, AW says,  taking these matters  into consideration, it doesnt  
consider the loan to have been mis-sold.
Our investigator thought Mr Ns complaint  should be upheld. He said he thought it was more  
likely than not that the AW sales representative  made a misrepresentation on the point about 
Mr N being able to pay the cash price within  12 months to make  the purchase  interest  free, 
which enticed him to sign the finance agreement.
The investigator said AW should  refund any overpayments Mr N had made above the 
discounted cash price;  ensure the account  is marked as settled  on the basis that the full 
cash price (with discount)  had been  paid;  and arrange for any negative markers  on Mr Ns 
credit file to be removed.
AW disagreed with the investigators conclusions.  It said this was never an interest  free loan 
as it didnt offer them at the time.
Ref: DRN02706672A provisional  decision which didnt uphold the complaint was issued  by a fellow ombudsman 
who is now indisposed and the matter was referred to me. My colleague said he wasnt  
minded to uphold  the complaint on the basis there had been a misunderstanding rather  than 
misrepresentation by the business.
In response Mr N said that when the interest payment was disputed  he was told that a Buy 
Now Pay Later agreement  could  be offered  but he had been  given an accelerated interest  
one. He therefore disagreed that an interest free loan wasnt available.
He also says that he wasnt given a personal  illustration showing the loan being cleared over 
15 months. He says he was given  assurances that the 12 month contract  wouldnt accrue 
any interest. The agreement wasnt signed until the total amount due was confirmed twice.
He confirmed that he could have paid cash as had been established previously and had only 
chosen the finance route on the basis it was interest free. He said the original contract price 
wasnt £4,537  as suggested  by my colleague.  This had been  cancelled as the business 
wasnt able to deliver what had been promised by the salesman. Finally,  the first time he was 
aware interest was being charged  was on receipt of a statement in early 2017  and interest  is 
continuing to accrue  despite the matter  being  contested. I issued provisional decision as 
follows:
I explained that I considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. For the avoidance of doubt I said I 
had put to one side my colleagues conclusions and reached my own decision based on the 
evidence and arguments.
I noted the original  contract was for £4,537 which  was subject to a finance  discount of £614 
leaving £3,923  payable. It turned out that after a survey was carried  out AW couldnt  deliver  
what had been  promised and the cash price was reduced to £3,400. Mr N signed  a finance 
agreement whereby he agreed to pay £7,035 over 96 months.  He said that he was told that 
this was formality  and if he cleared the balance within  12 months  no interest would be 
payable.
I referred to Mr Ns bank statements and it was clear  he could easily  have paid for the work 
without the need of any finance. I also noted that he supplemented the monthly agreed 
payments with additional payments so that he had paid off the capital in 12 months.  These 
facts pointed to him believing he had agreed  to a 12 month interest free deal.
Furthermore, I found it hard to believe that he would  agree to pay £3,635 interest  for work 
costing £3,400 when he had funds  to pay it immediately. In short  his actions supported  his 
claims that he was given to believe that he was entitled to an interest  free deal if he paid it 
off within 12 months.
I suspected the reduced price offered for taking finance was sufficient incentive to entice 
Mr N down this route.  AW provided  a personal illustration which it says was given to Mr N 
showing that the total payment would  have been  £4,493.25 if the loan was paid off over 
15 months. It said this was based  on the original price. My colleague noted this was less 
than the original cash price and thought  this had caused misunderstanding  rather than 
misrepresentation by the salesman. I noted  there was no similar illustration for the revised  
price and the variation of contract document simply says it is a reduction  in price only  from 
£3,923 to £3,400.
Ref: DRN02706673I was satisfied that Mr N, along with his wife, who was present at the meetings, believed  he 
had been offered 12 months interest free credit. His actions and his complaint made that 
obvious. His testimony was clear  and credible and I gained the impression that he is 
financially astute. That led me to question why he would have reached that conclusion.
Our adjudicator concluded the agreement  had been misrepresented  and my colleague 
thought there had been a misunderstanding. I reached a conclusion that while  there may not 
have been deliberate misrepresentation I didnt believe the position  was made sufficiently 
clear to Mr N and he was left believing he could avoid interest by paying  the loan off 
wiithnin12 months.
I took into account the fact that AW doesnt  offer 12 month interest free contracts, but I went 
on to say that didnt  mean that the explanation given by the sales representative wasnt 
sufficiently clear as to avoid being misleading.  I understood the sales  representative  said he 
didnt say Mr N could  have interest  free credit, but I believed  Mr N was left with a different 
impression. I added  that he said he was told the form he signed was required as part of the 
business processes  and this would not prevent him from benefitting from the 12 month deal.
In conclusion I considered that Mr N was misled, possibly inadvertently and as such  he is 
entitled to recompense.
My findings
Both parties  have accepted my provisional decision and AW said that it was making 
arrangements to settle the account  and no additional payment would be sought  from Mr N. 
All that remains is for this decision to make  my provisional one final.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Anglian Windows  Ltd to refund 
any overpayments made above the discounted  cash price of the windows and installation.  It 
should not remove the discount applied for Mr N taking finance. Bearing that in mind  I dont  
believe it necessary  for the business  to pay interest on the refund. It should also ensure that 
the account is marked as settled, on the basis that the full cash  price (with discount) has 
been settled and arrange for any negative markers  made against  Mr N to be removed, even 
if that means  getting in touch with any relevant other parties  to do that.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 November  2019.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0270667