K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R say that Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold them  a regular payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.  
background
During a meeting in 2002 Mr and Mrs R took out a mortgage with Lloyds. At the same  time 
they took out a PPI policy. The policy was in Mr Rs name only and covered their mortgage  
payments if Mr R was unable to work due to accident or sickness or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  think their complaint should be upheld.  He thought Mr and Mrs R 
wouldve understood they had a choice in taking  the policy  and it wouldve suited their needs 
at the time. 
Mr and Mrs R disagree,  they say they didnt know the policy was optional  and didnt  need  it. 
So their complaint has come to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Rs complaint.
The policy was sold during a meeting with a sales adviser.  Lloyds had to make it clear the 
PPI was optional  and not a condition of the lending. Mr and Mrs R say this wasnt done  but 
havent given  us much detail  about what was said during the meeting to make them think 
this. But I think thats understandable as the PPI was sold a while  ago. So Ive relied more 
on what the documents from the sale show.
Lloyds have given  us a copy of Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage and PPI application forms signed 
by them  both. I can see on the mortgage  application form that theres a separate  section that 
deals with PPI. It gives the option to either select to take PPI or decline it with a tick box next 
to both options. I can see that a tick has been  placed in the box to select PPI.
Given the importance of the financial commitment Mr and Mrs R were making I think its 
likely they read the application form before signing  it. And because Mr and Mrs R signed  the 
mortgage application form after the section  on PPI I think  its likely they wouldve  seen  the 
different options  available in relation to PPI and understood they had a choice in taking it.
And I think Mr and Mrs R chose to take the policy because I can see that Mr and Mrs R went  
on to complete and sign a separate application form and direct debit mandate  for PPI. If they 
didnt want the cover I dont think they wouldve completed an application for it.
Lloyds advised  Mr and Mrs R to take the policy. What this means is that Lloyds not only had 
to provide information about PPI in a clear, fair and not misleading way so that Mr and Mrs R 
could make an informed  choice about buying PPI. It also had to make sure that if it was to 
recommend PPI that the policy was suitable for their needs and circumstances.
Ref: DRN06712132I dont know if Lloyds  did take all the steps it shouldve.  But I think PPI was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr and Mrs R for the following  reasons:
Mr R was eligible for the policy and it doesnt look like he wouldve been  caught by any 
of the main exclusions  in the terms and conditions of the policy which  couldve made it 
difficult to make  a successful claim. 
At the time of the sale Mr R says he was entitled  to a good level of sick pay and had 
savings he could  use to make their mortgage  payments  if he was unable to work. But 
the policy  wouldve paid out on top of any work  benefits or savings and covered  him for 
up to 12 months if he was unable to work  due to accident  or sickness  or if he lost his 
job. 
So I think the policy wouldve provided  a useful benefit to Mr and Mrs R in their 
circumstances especially considering they were  taking  on a significant  and long term 
financial commitment. Given the implications  if they were unable to meet  their 
repayments I think they wouldve been interested in protecting them.  
There was nothing  to suggest  that the policy wasnt affordable  to Mr and Mrs R at the 
time. And if they decided they no longer wanted the policy  they couldve cancelled it.
I also need to consider  whether Lloyds  gave Mr and Mrs R information in a way which  was 
clear, fair and not misleading so that they could make a proper choice about whether or not 
they wanted to take the policy out. I dont know if Lloyds did give all the information  as it 
shouldve. But for the same reasons  that the policy  was suitable and based on what  Mr and 
Mrs R have told us about their circumstances at the time, I think they wouldve still taken out 
the policy if theyd  been given all the proper information.  
This means  Mr and Mrs R arent worse off as a result of any wrong doing by Lloyds.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint against 
Lloyds Bank  PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 April 2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0671213