K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that AXA France IARD, as the insurer, should  accept  
responsibility for the complaint.  To keep things  simple,  Ill refer to AXA as the seller in my 
decision.
Miss D says AXA mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  attached to a store card.  The store  card was taken out 
in October 2002  and the PPI added  in June 2003 during a telephone call. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Miss Ds complaint. Because  Miss D disagreed with the 
adjudicators findings,  the complaint has been  passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ds case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold because:
I think its likely AXA made it clear  that Miss D didnt have to take out the PPI and she 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant  remember  this. As the PPI 
was added some months after Miss D took out the store  card,  I think shell have  
understood it was optional.  And while she says she wouldnt have agreed  to take it out, 
based on what I know about how these policies were sold,  I think its unlikely AXA would 
have added it without  her agreement.
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Miss D so it didnt have to check  if it was right for her. 
But it did have to make  sure Miss D got the information  she needed to decide if it was 
right for her. 
Its possible the information AXA gave Miss D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type 
of cover,  despite  what shes  told us about  the benefits she would have received from her 
employer. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like 
she was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so it would have  
been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So 
I dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have put her off taking out the cover. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 September 2020.
Ref: DRN01272142Claire Allison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0127214