K820x#14complaint
Mr C has complained about Advantage Insurance Company Limiteds  handling of his van 
insurance policy.
background
Mr C took out van insurance with Advantage through an insurance broker. The policy was 
from September 2015 to September 2016 (the 2015  policy).
Mr Cs van was involved in an accident  in January 2016. The other driver said Mr C was at 
fault. That claim remained open  until it was closed in December 2017 as not being Mr Cs 
fault. But during  the time the claim remained open  Mr C took out two new policies: 
September 2016 to September 2017 (the 2016  policy); and September  2017  to 
September 2018 (the 2017 policy).
Mr C used the same insurance broker when  he took out all three policies. As mentioned 
above, the 2015 and 2017 policies were  with Advantage. The 2016 policy  was with a 
different insurer.
Mr Cs premium for his 2015 policy cost under  £600. But when  he took out his 2016 policy,  
from another insurer, while he had the open claim, his premium  almost doubled to around  
£1,200. And when he took out his 2017 policy with Advantage,  again while the claim was still 
open, he paid almost £900.  Mr C said he was led to believe that the premium increases in 
the two policies he took out after the accident  were as a result of the claim being open.  He 
said he was also led to believe that in the event the claim closed as not being  his fault, he 
would be given refunds which would mean the costs  of his 2016  and 2017 policies would be 
similar to the cost of his 2015  policy.  
After the claim was closed  as not being  Mr Cs fault in December 2017,  Mr C received two 
separate premium  refunds for his 2016  and 2017 policies. But Mr C wasnt happy  as he felt 
the refunds should have been much higher, so he complained. 
I should say that in this decision I am only considering  the refund Mr C was given by 
Advantage for the 2017  policy  year. The refund that was given by the other insurer for the 
2016 policy year has been dealt with under a different complaint reference. 
The refund given by Advantage for the 2017 policy year was £69.04. That was later adjusted  
by a further £2.23 bringing the total refund to £71.27. Advantage didnt uphold  Mr Cs 
complaint as they said the refund they gave  was correct. Although  I understand Mr C 
received £50 compensation via his broker as the refund  was delayed. 
Mr C brought his complaint to our service. One of our adjudicators looked into it. She felt that 
Advantage hadnt done anything wrong.  As Mr C didnt agree with our adjudicator, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision was issued on 9 January 2020. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im intending to 
uphold it in part. Ill explain  why. 
Ref: DRN02816532As Ive mentioned  above, Mr C took out his policy through a broker.  The broker has 
access to a number  of insurers on their panel of insurers. When a customer, like 
Mr C, approaches the broker and asks for insurance, the broker  finds  an insurer from 
their panel  they feel offer the cover needed. So, although the policy and 
documentation are in the brokers  name, the broker  doesnt underwrite the policy, the 
insurer does. I can understand why Mr C might  have thought the broker  was the 
insurer, but the policy documentation did say the insurer was Advantage. And when 
Mr C was due to renew his policy in 2016  and 2017,  the broker  would have asked for 
quotes from all the insurers  on their panel to see which was better  for Mr C. Thats 
why the broker  proposed  Advantage in 2015, a different insurer in 2016 and 
Advantage again in 2017, which Mr C accepted. This practice is usual  within the 
motor insurance industry. 
In September  2017, when Mr C took out a new policy  with Advantage he had the 
open claim relating  to the accident  in January 2016.  An open claim will eventually be 
concluded in one of two of ways. Either as a non-fault claim or a fault  claim. But 
its normal insurance industry practice to treat an open claim as a fault claim for the 
purposes of calculating premiums, which is what Advantage did in Mr Cs case. 
Thats because insurers work on a worst  case  scenario  basis.  So, they treat an open 
claim as though it will conclude as being the policyholders fault and they calculate 
the premium on that basis. Fault claims usually attract a higher premium  than non-
fault claims.  If the claim  later concludes as non-fault, the insurer will then recalculate 
the premium retrospectively  from the start of the policy on the basis of the claim 
being non-fault and give the policyholder a refund if one is due. So I think Advantage 
treating the open claim as a fault claim was reasonable.
When the open claim concluded  as non-fault in December 2017,  Advantage 
recalculated Mr Cs premium on the basis that he had a non-fault claim from 
September 2017, when the policy started. Advantage refunded  Mr C £69.04. And 
after Mr C brought his complaint to our service  Advantage paid Mr C a further £2.23, 
which meant his 2017 policy cost just under £800.  That was around  £250 higher than 
Mr Cs policy  with Advantage for the 2015  policy year. Mr Cs expectation was that 
once the claim closed as non-fault,  the refund should have brought  his 2017 premium  
down to an amount  similar to that of his 2015  policy. But, as Advantage explained, 
the cost of insurance changes regularly; the insurance premium tax (IPT)  increased  
in June 2017, which Advantage has no control  over;  and having a recent non-fault 
claim tends  to increase  the cost of insurance.
It might help if I explain that we're not the industry  regulator. That means it's not my 
role to tell an insurer how much they can charge  for their policies. And our service 
generally takes the view that, providing they treat people  fairly - that is they treat 
customers with similar circumstances  in the same way - insurers  are entitled to 
charge what they feel they need to in order to cover a risk. 
When calculating premiums, insurers take into consideration a very large  number of 
risk factors.  In other words,  they assess the level of risk each policyholder poses and 
the likelihood of them making a claim in the future  by looking at many different 
factors. It might help if I give just a few examples of the many factors insurers  
consider: the type of car insured; where the car is kept; the policyholders occupation; 
the policyholders  age; the type of licence the policyholder has; the length of time the 
car has been owned; the number of years the policyholder has been  driving;  and past 
driving incidents the policyholder has been involved in. But its not down to me to tell 
Ref: DRN02816533insurers what factors they should  take into account when assessing risk, nor how to 
go about those  assessments.  Different  insurers will have  different views on what  
presents a risk and the extent of those. Thats essentially  a matter of commercial 
judgement, balancing risk against the need  to compete with other policies on offer, 
and not something  we would usually think its fair to interfere with. 
And one of the reasons  why different insurers charge different premiums for the 
same risk is because insurers have different views on risk. So, different insurers give 
differing levels  of importance to different factors. For example, one insurer might 
consider the insured car to be a high risk car and therefore charge a higher premium 
to reflect  that risk. But another insurer might not consider that particular car to be 
high risk, so their premium might be lower. Insurers base their views on risks using 
statistics and other data.  In Mr Cs case,  the premium calculation for the 2017 policy 
included a non-fault claim. But that non-fault claim wasnt present and didnt form part 
of the risk assessment or premium calculation for the 2015 policy.  I understand that 
Advantage, like most insurers, consider recent non-fault claims increases the risk. As 
insurance is essentially an assessment of risk, I dont think  theres anything  wrong  
with insurers considering whether or not certain individuals  fall into higher risk 
groupings and so wish to charge a higher premium to cover that risk.
Advantage provided me with information to show how Mr Cs 2017 premium  was 
calculated. That information is commercially  sensitive so I can't share  it with Mr C. 
But having  looked at it carefully, Im satisfied that Advantage treated Mr C in the 
same way as they would other policyholders in similar circumstances. So I think they 
calculated his premium  reasonably.  I therefore dont intend to uphold  this part of the 
complaint.
Im only intending  to uphold this complaint in part because Advantage paid £2.23 of 
the refund  only after Mr C brought his complaint to our service. They should have 
paid that amount when they paid Mr C £69.04. I dont intend  to award compensation 
because the broker  has already taken  responsibility  for the delay in paying the refund 
and has paid Mr C £50 compensation. So, I think Mr C has already been 
compensated for the delay in receiving his refund. And even if the £2.23 was paid at 
the time Advantage paid the £69.04, I still think Mr C would have brought  his 
complaint to our service as he was expecting a bigger refund. 
Finally, Mr C said he was told that once the open  claim  closed as non-fault, he would 
be refunded the difference  between  the premium he paid for the 2015 policy and the 
premium he paid for the 2017 policy. But, as I understand  it, all of Mr Cs discussions 
were with the broker and not Advantage. If Mr C wants to pursue this aspect of his 
complaint against  the broker, he should  tell us so we can look into it.
The parties were invited to comment on my findings. Advantage didnt make any comments.  
Mr C did and he said:
He did complain about the actions  of the broker  as he feels  the policy was mis-sold. 
But he was told his complaint should  be directed  to the underwriter.
Ive partly explained the increase  in premium by saying the IPT went up. But IPT 
went up by 2% whereas his premium increased by 41%. But on average van 
insurance increased by 10-15% during the year. Therefore Advantage cant be 
justified in increasing his premium  by 20% for the non-fault  claim alone.
Ref: DRN02816534my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my decision remains  the 
same. I will respond to Mr Cs further  points,  below.
We have set up a separate case file to look into Mr Cs complaint  that the broker  mis-sold 
the policy. So, I wont comment on that any further  in this decision.
Mr C said that van insurance  premiums increased on average by 10-15%  during the year but 
his premium went up by 41%,  which means the increase wasnt  reasonable. But there is no 
process by which  insurers  decide  to increase their premiums  by a set percentage. As I 
explained in my provisional decision,  the pricing of premiums is a complex process  where 
insurers consider many  different factors. And they assess the risk posed by each individual  
policyholder and charge a premium to reflect that risk. IPT increasing was only one factor  
that led to the increase. Having a non-fault claim was another  factor.  Its also usual for some 
factors risk to change  from one year to the other. To give an example, a certain  model of car 
might be considered by an insurer to be a low risk car to insure.  But there might be a sudden 
increase in claims arising from a fault in that model of car that has led to accidents 
happening. So, the insurer might consider that model of car to be a higher risk and when  
renewing a policy they are likely  to charge  more  to reflect that risk. This is just one example 
to demonstrate how things can and do change  from one policy  year to the next.  Likewise, 
there might be factors that decrease in risk and lead to a reduction in premium.  But there are 
many factors  and many are interlinked,  which is why the process is complex. We dont 
expect insurers to publicise how they price premiums because that is commercially sensitive. 
Ultimately, when a policyholder is offered  a premium when taking out a new policy or when 
renewing an existing  one, if they arent happy with the price  they can go elsewhere.
As Ive mentioned  earlier, Ive seen the information as to how Advantage calculated  Mr Cs 
2017 premium. And Im satisfied they calculated it reasonably and that anyone  with the 
same circumstances would have been  treated the same.
Im therefore  only upholding the complaint in part because Advantage paid £2.23 of the 
refund only after Mr C brought his complaint to our service. They  should  have  paid that 
amount when they paid Mr C £69.04.  But I dont intend to award compensation because the 
broker has already  taken responsibility  for the delay in paying  the refund  and has paid Mr C 
£50 compensation.  So, I think Mr C has already been compensated for the delay in receiving  
his refund. And even if the £2.23 was paid at the time Advantage paid the £69.04, I still think 
Mr C would have brought  his complaint  to our service as he was expecting a bigger refund.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint in part. But Im not asking Advantage 
Insurance Company Limited  to do anything.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or
reject my decision  before 6 March 2020.
Ref: DRN02816535Mehmet Osman 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0281653