K820x#14complaint
Mrs O says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance  (PPI)  
policy. 
I cant consider this complaint against  the policy seller directly because  the sale took place 
before it, or its predecessor-in-title, was regulated by the then Financial Services Authority 
(FSA) for insurance intermediation activities, or otherwise covered by our jurisdiction.
The party that at the time of the sale was the policy insurer, has accepted that the seller  was 
acting as its agent at the time  so it accepted responsibility for the sale. Following a transfer 
of business, AXA has taken on that responsibility. To keep things simple, Ill only refer to 
AXA in this decision, rather than any other business.
background and summary to complaint
Mrs O bought the policy in 1999 at the same time as taking out a hire-purchase  agreement.  
Mrs Os recollection  is that she applied for the hire-purchase agreement and PPI policy  over 
the phone, but AXA has shown us a copy of the hire-purchase credit agreement  at the time 
of the sale which suggests it was most likely an in-store sale.  
The policy provided  cover  for accident, sickness unemployment and life  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  the monthly repayment of Mrs Os hire-
purchase agreement  in the event of Mrs O being unable to work due to accident, sickness  or 
unemployment. 
The policy cost £2.87 a month  and the premium  would  continue to have to be paid in the 
event of a successful claim. 
According to AXAs records  Mrs O paid a total of £31.57 for PPI during the policys  lifetime.
At the time,  Mrs O was employed  as a customer service representative. She has told us she 
was entitled to at least  three months  employee  sick pay if she was too unwell to work. Mrs O 
didnt have any other financial means such  as savings  of repaying her hire-purchase account 
should she be unable  to work.  Mrs O was entitled  to redundancy pay if she lost her job and 
death in service benefit. Mrs O has said she had a medical condition  in 1995 but hadnt 
taken any time off from work because of it.
Mrs Os representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mrs Os representative says:
AXA failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mrs O wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mrs Os 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
Ref: DRN08828062The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means AXA should have told 
Mrs O about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means AXA should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mrs O and the impact  
they would  have had on her chances  of making  a claim; and 
 
The information Mrs O received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint   both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mrs O disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant 
law and regulations;  relevant  regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Os. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Os complaint.
This sale took place  in 1999 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself was with a third-party  and not AXA. That means the unfair  
relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court  
judgment in Plevin  about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance  made by the FCA 
about the handling of complaints  about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the 
Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint: 
Ref: DRN08828063The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies) other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Among other  things, the code said that As a condition of membership of the Association  of 
British Insurers (ABI),  members undertake  to enforce this Code  and to use their best 
endeavors to ensure that all those involved in selling their policies observe its provisions. 
AXA was a member  of the ABI and the seller  its agent  was acting as an intermediary. 
The Finance  & Leasing  Association (FLA) Code of Practice
This code  was introduced in 1992,  and set out standards of good  practice  for the
finance and leasing  industry. Section 4 of the code covered  Credit  Protection
Insurance. 
As Ive explained, AXA was a member of the ABI, so it was subject to the ABI Code and its 
associated requirements.  The seller  but not AXA  was a member of the FLA and 
subscribed to the FLA Code, so I consider it reasonable to assume that the seller (as a 
member of the FLA)  should have complied  with its code when selling PPI, and this extends  
to when it was acting as an agent  of AXA. 
So I am satisfied it is right that I should take these codes into account when deciding  what  is, 
in my opinion, fair and reasonable  in the circumstances of Mrs Os case.  
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  I am also required to take into account what  
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Insurance  Ombudsman  Bureau 
 might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note that under 
the Insurance Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman was required  to decide 
complaints by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required  to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial  authority. 
I am also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first 
issued by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the 
sale of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated  activity,  so 
AXA was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  guidance  
when considering Mrs Os complaint. 
Ref: DRN08828064key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If AXA gave advice,  whether it advised  Mrs O with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether AXA gave  Mrs O sufficient, appropriate  and timely information  to enable  her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing to 
her attention and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs O, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs O suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs O and AXA, 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Os complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mrs O know she had a choice?
AXA had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  Mrs O has said it was included as 
part of the hire-purchase  agreement package.
But AXA has been able to give us a copy of Mrs Os hire-purchase  application and credit  
agreement. Its a pre-printed form which I think most  likely  came about as a result of a 
discussion with the store representative. And I can see on the agreement  that there  is a 
separate section  entitled PAYMENT PROTECTION INSURANCE APPLICATION followed 
be a brief description of the PPI. And Mrs O has signed this section, separate  from the hire- 
purchase agreement  itself, in order to take the PPI. If Mrs O hadnt wanted to take the PPI, 
she could have questioned its inclusion or just left this section unsigned  and taken the hire- 
purchase agreement  without the PPI. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mrs O knew the policy was 
optional and she agreed to take it out without undue  pressure. 
did AXA provide advice?
AXA says it didnt provide advice during this sale.  Mrs O hasnt told us either way whether 
advice was given.  Looking at what happened when  AXA sold Mrs O the PPI, Im not 
persuaded that it provided advice. I say this because of what we know  about how AXA sold 
these types of policies at the time and I havent  seen  any evidence of the type of information  
gathering by AXA about Mrs Os circumstances that I would expect to see for a tailored 
recommendation. And in the absence  of any testimony from Mrs O to the contrary  for me to 
consider, I dont think advice was given.
Ref: DRN08828065This means  AXA didnt  have to check if the PPI was suitable for Mrs O. Instead, it had to 
give her sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  Mrs O to make an informed 
choice about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to her attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mrs O was given a broad description of what the policy 
was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect her payments if Mrs O was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness and unemployment) and of the costs. Ive reached  
this conclusion because  I think  its unlikely Mrs O would have taken out the policy without 
any sense of what the policy was for and the cost was shown on the hire-purchase  
agreement. 
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  AXA gave sufficient 
information about the exclusions  or limitations before Mrs O agreed to take out the policy.  
So, I dont think AXA gave  Mrs O sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing her 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
I have considered how my findings interact with the FCAs list of significant  failings  in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Os representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Os. I have 
considered these carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mrs Os representative considers to be poor 
value. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mrs O about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Os representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cannot be certain what  a court would say  
I think it is unlikely that a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to disclose 
the claims ratio information  or explaining the significance of the limitations  and exclusions in 
the way Mrs O has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and 
standards of good industry practice  applicable to this complaint, I dont think  it would be fair 
or reasonable to impose such requirements on AXA. 
what effect did AXAs shortcomings have on Mrs O? To what extent did Mrs O suffer  
loss or damage as a result?
Ref: DRN08828066I have found that AXA did not do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mrs O. So, 
I have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mrs O 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mrs O 
would have still taken  out the policy, had AXA done  things properly. 
Mrs O says she would not have taken it out and believes that I should  presume  this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mrs O had to weigh up in her own mind  the cost of the 
policy against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if she didnt insure  
against the risk of being unable to work.  
As Ive found above, Mrs O chose to take this policy out. So, I consider that its reasonable 
to conclude she had some interest in the benefits  offered by this type of insurance.  But she 
made this decision  based  on incomplete information. So, what  Mrs O thought she was 
getting is not exactly what she got. The extent  to which this differed is a relevant 
consideration when determining if Mrs O has suffered  any loss or detriment.  
In addition, Im not persuaded  AXA made clear exactly  what Mrs O would  get back in return 
in the event she made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Mrs Os expectations about 
what the policy would pay in the event  of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet  her 
repayments under the hire-purchase agreement) were significantly different to what  the 
policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs O thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mrs O knew  about or 
ought to have known about,  or which she saw a doctor about  during the 12 months 
before the start date of the policy; 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mrs O 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mrs O be unable  to 
do her own job, a similar job or any paid work  which her experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified her to do.
I do accept that there is a possibility that the limitations and exclusions above might  well 
have caused Mrs O pause for thought   and may well have caused  her to conclude  that the 
policy was not as good as she thought,  and she might  have decided  not to proceed. The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs O from taking out 
the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mrs Os circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to her 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
she wouldve been caught by any of the significant  exclusions. 
Ref: DRN08828067Mrs O did tell us of a medical  condition  she suffered  from several years before the policy 
was taken. But Mrs O didnt tell us of her having to take any time off from work or that it 
recurred. So, I dont  think  its likely  that this was an ongoing condition for which Mrs O 
thought it would be more likely she would need  to make a claim over an above any other 
medical condition.  And Mrs O was in permanent employment. So, I still think  she had some  
good reasons  to take the policy  out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mrs O might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely she would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mrs O 
from taking out the policy,  Mrs O, in her circumstances, still had some good  reasons to take 
it out.
If Mrs O had known she could only claim for disability if she was not only unable  to do her 
job or any similar job but also unable  to do any work  which  in the insurers  view she might 
reasonably be qualified for, it might have played into her thinking about  what she would  do. 
And I accept  it may have  given her pause for thought  although given Mrs Os 
circumstances, on balance, I still think she would  have  been interested in taking out the 
cover. 
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Mrs O would  still have taken  out the policy. The policy was sufficiently close to 
what it is likely she thought she was getting and provided benefits that would help her 
manage the consequences  were  Mrs O made  redundant, or unable to work through the 
accident or disability.  In the circumstances I consider  it more  likely than not that Mrs O would 
have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations  on cover.
Mrs Os representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mrs O would not have  bought  the PPI she bought unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mrs Os 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mrs O 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Ref: DRN08828068Mrs O believes  the presumption may only be rebutted  when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs O in the position  she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that she would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, it is more  likely than not that she would still have 
taken out the PPI had she been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy she was buying. So, Im not persuaded it would  be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude AXA should  pay Mrs O compensation,  as that would put her in a 
better position than she would  have  been  in if everything had happened as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Mrs O thinks AXA misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
AXAs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why AXA failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  AXA gave Mrs O, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
1999 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Os representative  says a court might take if it 
were to find AXA negligently misrepresented the contract to Mrs O and about  the remedy  a 
court might award if it were to find that AXA had been in breach of its duty of utmost good 
faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mrs O in a better position  than if everything had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 June  2021.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN08828069
Ref: DRN0882806