K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain  that Lloyds Bank PLC sent them two letters outlining charges  to their 
bank account  that did not apply in their case.
Background
Mr and Mrs A have  a Lloyds Platinum Added Value Account (the account). This is a 
packaged bank  account that has a Monthly Account  Maintaining Fee (fee).  When 
Mr and Mrs A opened their account,  the terms they had waived the fee if the balance  of the 
account was over £4000.
In July 2018 Mr and Mrs A received a letter from Lloyds notifying them of a change to the 
fee. Mr and Mrs A always maintained a balance in excess of £4000  in their account  so by 
the terms of their account they had not been  paying  any fee. They  complained to Lloyds, 
who dealt with that complaint for Mr and Mrs A at that time. 
In January 2019 Mr and Mrs A received a letter from Lloyds regarding the account. The letter  
explained that it was sent as a reminder to review the insurance cover that was included  
within the account to ensure it was still suitable.  The letter said Your  Platinum Added Value 
Account has a monthly maintaining the account  fee of £19 and offers the following benefits , 
going on to list various  insurance benefits.  The letter suggested Mr and Mrs A checked that 
the cover  the account provided  was still suitable. It pointed out that other  accounts  were 
available to provide banking without  the additional  benefits that did not have a monthly fee.
Mr and Mrs A complained to Lloyds,  who responded in February 2019 explaining that they 
did not uphold  that complaint. They explained that the letter received in January was a letter 
that they had to send to all customers with a Lloyds Platinum Added  Value Account. It was a 
standard wording  to all customers.
Mr and Mrs A were  not happy  with Lloyds response and brought their complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and was of the view that Lloyds had not done 
anything that treated  Mr and Mrs A unfairly.
Mr and Mrs A didnt  agree. They believe that this complaint is identical to the complaint they 
made to Lloyds about another  letter that had a different outcome. They disagreed  with the 
reference to the fact the fee was waived, saying that the bank shouldnt have referred to the 
fee without also adding the terms and conditions in the letter.  The complaint has been  
passed to me for a decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered the type of account  that this case refers  to. It is a current account that has 
additional services  included with it. Accounts like this often  have a monthly  fee. In 
Mr and Mrs As case, the terms when  they took out their account meant that they would not 
have to pay the monthly charge if their account maintained  a balance above  £4000,  which it 
did. They  therefore  did not actually end up paying the fees.
Ref: DRN00207782I have looked  at the exact wording used  in the letter Lloyds sent. It said that the account had 
a monthly fee of £19. I do not think that was wrong.  That account did have a monthly fee and 
I think the inclusion  of that detail was important in the context of the letter.  I think that the 
intention of the letter was to remind Mr and Mrs A to check  that the insurance products were  
still suitable for them. It was not a letter notifying  Mr and Mrs A of a change  to fees on their 
account. For Mr and Mrs A to assess whether the combined services  on the account still 
represented value  for them, the cost of having the services was relevant. Mr and Mrs A did 
not pay the fee on their account whilst their balance  remained  over £4000. Should the 
account balance  have fallen below that at some point, then the charge would have applied.  
Lloyds have explained that the letter is a standard wording sent to all customers holding a 
Platinum Added value  account.
I do not think that I can fairly interpret the letter in January 2019 as saying that Mr and Mrs A 
will have to pay a fee. Mr and Mrs A demonstrated  in their earlier complaint to Lloyds after 
the first letter, that they understood the conditions on their account. I dont think it was 
reasonable to expect  Lloyds to have listed all possible terms and conditions relating to the 
fee in the letter, given  its intended purpose.
Mr and Mrs A have  been caused  upset at having received the letter in question from Lloyds. 
I dont think it is fair for me to say that Lloyds could  reasonably have foreseen  the impact this 
letter had though. It seems that it was intended  to be read as a reminder  to check that 
insurance cover was still appropriate.  In that respect  I think it was a reasonable thing to have 
done.
I have considered this complaint on its own and not as an extension  of Mr and Mrs As 
previous complaint that was dealt  with by Lloyds. I understand that Mr and Mrs A will be 
disappointed with my decision, but for the reasons above I do not uphold their complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 December  2019.
Gary Lane
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0020778