K821x#15complaint
Mrs J, whos  represented by her son, complains  Metro  Bank  PLC discriminated against her 
when it refused to open an account  for her. She also complains Metro  Bank  PLC tried to 
cover this up. Mrs J wants an apology and the position of the staff involved reconsidering.
background
This is a complaint  about Metro Banks refusal  to open an account for Mrs J because she 
doesnt speak  English.  I issued a Provisional Decision a while  ago upholding this complaint 
as I didnt think Metro  Bank had acted in a fair and reasonable way. In coming to that 
conclusion I took account, amongst other things, of the Equality Act given that I have to take 
account of, amongst other things, relevant law when reaching  a decision.
Both parties  were invited  to comment on my Provisional Decision  the text of which  can be 
found at the end of this decision  and both did. Mrs J was happy, Metro Bank wasnt.
Metro Bank  has made a number of submissions since  I issued my Provisional Decision 
which Ive summarised below along with what I said in return,  where appropriate.
Metro Banks responses to my Provisional Decision
Metro Bank  said that as a service we shouldnt  be looking at this complaint  as the question 
of whether or not there has been a breach  of the Equality  Act is a matter for the courts.  
Metro Bank  said that as a service we also should  stop considering the merits of this 
complaint under DISP 3.4 so that the complaint could be referred  to the Courts  as a test 
case. In any event, Metro  Bank said that it doesnt agree that discrimination based on 
language is caught by the Equality Act because  language isnt a protected  characteristic.
In my Provisional Decision I said that I thought there was a risk that customers would be 
treated inconsistently if the decision  to open an account or not depended on a subjective 
question such as whether or not someone  spoke good enough  English.  I said that I didnt 
think that was fair. Metro  Bank accepted that making a judgement about the level of 
someones English  is subjective but said it operates a policy  of one to say yes, two to say 
no when going back to customers with decisions.  Metro Bank said that this means a 
decision not to open an account for someone  because of their English would have to be 
escalated to a more senior member of staff, meaning  two people would have to agree  that 
the customers English  wasnt good enough. Metro Bank said that this means  the judgment 
about a customers  English  would be less subjective.
In my Provisional Decision I said that I thought offering a basic  account or translation  
services were both proportionate means of achieving the legitimate aim Metro Bank is 
concerned about  here  customer protection. Metro Bank said that it didnt agree, saying that 
the practicalities involved  in offering translation  services as well as the costs  were extensive. 
Metro Bank  said, for example, that it would need  to have translators on hand  to assist 
several areas of the bank, seven days a week, despite the low number of customers who 
might need  translation  services. In addition, Metro Bank said that offering translation  
services could give rise to data protection risks, and that the number of languages that would 
need to cover would  be extensive.
I asked Metro Bank to provide evidence showing that it had done  an analysis of the costs,  
for example, that would be involved if it was to offer translation services. I also asked 
Ref: DRN04285482Metro Bank  if it was willing to give an undertaking that it would pay Mrs Js reasonable costs 
and disbursements  of court  proceedings given that this is a requirement of the rules about 
test cases set out at DISP  3.4.
Metro Bank  hasnt sent any evidence to show that, for example, it has done an analysis of 
the costs that would be involved   despite me asking it to do so  nor has it given the 
required undertaking in DISP 3.4. Instead  Metro Bank said it didnt think Id sufficiently 
explained how a requirement that a customer has to speak English is:
likely to put people from particular ethnic backgrounds,  with particular nationalities  or 
races, at a particular  disadvantage when compared  to others who dont come from 
those groups
Metro Bank  asked me to say:
a)what racial  group  I thought Mrs J belongs to;
b)what pool for comparison should be used to test whether or not Mrs J and others  
from her racial group are put to a particular disadvantage; and
c)to provide statistics  to demonstrate that the racial group Mrs J belongs  to would in 
fact be put to a particular disadvantage.
Metro Bank  didnt agree with the reply I sent. Metro Bank also said that if I upheld this 
complaint I should  make  it clear that I havent done so on the basis that Metro Bank has 
breached the Equality Act or make  findings  as to what a Court would find on the facts of the 
case.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
how Ive approached this complaint
I explained in detail in my Provisional Decision  the approach that Im required to take when 
deciding complaints and the basis on which I must  decide complaints. I made it clear that its 
not our role to decide whether or not a business  has acted unlawfully  thats a matter for the 
Courts. I agree with Metro  Bank that its not for me to decide  whether or not it has breached 
the Equality Act. Instead, as I made  clear  in my Provisional Decision, my role is to decide  
this complaint based on what, in my opinion is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
the case. I also made it clear in my Provisional  Decision that I have to take into account  
relevant law (amongst  other  things)  including the Equality Act when deciding what is fair and 
reasonable. That means I should consider what a Court is likely to think, and given that I 
have to give reasons  for any decision I make, that means I should explain what  I believe a 
Court is likely to think. So thats what Ive done in this Final Decision.
Ref: DRN04285483has Metro Bank  discriminated against  Mrs J?
As I explained in my Provisional  Decision, I think the indirect discrimination provisions of 
the Equality Act are particularly relevant  to this complaint. Section 19 defines indirect 
discrimination as follows:
(1)A person (A) discriminates against another (B) if A applies to B a provision, criterion or 
practice which is discriminatory in relation to a relevant protected characteristic of Bs.
(2)For the purposes of subsection (1), a provision, criterion  or practice is discriminatory  in 
relation to a relevant protected characteristic  of Bs if
(a)A applies, or would  apply, it to persons with whom  B does not share the 
characteristic,
(b)it puts, or would  put, persons with whom B shares the characteristic at a particular  
disadvantage when  compared with persons with whom B does not share it,
(c)it puts, or would  put, B at that disadvantage, and
(d)A cannot show it to be a proportionate  means of achieving a legitimate aim.
One of the protected  characteristics is race, which  includes a persons nationality and ethnic 
or national  origins  (section 9(1)). In addition, a reference to persons who share  a protected  
characteristic is a reference to persons of the same racial group (section 9(2(b)). 
In my Provisional Decision, having  considered the indirect discrimination provisions in 
relation to Mrs Js circumstances at the time she attempted  to open the account, I said that I 
thought:
its likely that a Court  would decide  that a requirement that a customer has to speak 
English is likely to put people  from particular  ethnic backgrounds, with particular 
nationalities or races, at a particular  disadvantage  when compared  to others who dont 
come from those groups.  In other  words,  I think it is likely that a Court  would decide 
that this was indirect discrimination  unless Metro Bank could show that it was a 
proportionate means  of achieving a legitimate aim.
As Ive already  mentioned,  Metro Bank  asked  me to say what  group I thought  Mrs J 
belonged to  in other words to say what group of people Mrs J shares the protected 
characteristic with  and what group I thought would be used for comparison purposes when 
deciding the question of indirect discrimination. I told Metro Bank that in making the 
assessment about  the likely application of the Equality Act to this complaint I thought that:
a)Mrs J belonged to the group Asian (other)  a description Ive taken from the 2011 
census; and
b)the appropriate group for comparison should be people living in Britain.
I remain of the view  although there might be an argument for saying that the group Mrs J 
belongs to should be Asian  (other)  female.
I sent Metro Bank a link to the 2011  census data and explained how I was relying on that 
data to show the group to which Mrs J belongs would be put to a particular disadvantage  by 
Metro Banks policy. Ill explain my thinking  on this next.
Ref: DRN04285484Metro Bank  has at times said that potential customers  need  to speak fluent English. 
Metro Bank  has also said that it would  close  an account if a customer  had difficulty 
communicating in English and that customers need  to speak English to a level where they 
can understand the contract and the obligations  they are entering  into. Metro  Banks  
responses about whether or not its policy is too subjective suggests that a customer  who can 
speak a little bit of English, but not enough  to be able to communicate with Metro  Bank 
about, for example, problems with their account  would be refused an account.  
Given what Ive just said, I think its appropriate  to consider people in the group who cannot 
speak English at all as well as those who cannot speak it well when deciding whether or not 
the group  to which Mrs J belongs would be put to a particular  disadvantage.  The census  
data I sent Metro Bank shows that 90.3% of people who describe themselves as Asian 
(other) speak English  as their main language or speak  it well / very well. In comparison it 
shows that 98.4% of people living in Britain speak English as their main  language or speak it 
well / very well. If thats right, then a requirement that customers  speak good  English would 
in my view put the group  that Mrs J is in at a particular disadvantage  because 9.7% of them 
wouldnt be able to open a bank account  with Metro Bank compared to 1.6%  of the 
comparison group.  This gives a ratio of approximately  6:1. In case  Im wrong  about  
considering people in the group  who cannot speak English at all as well as those who cannot 
speak it well, Ive looked at what the comparison shows if I only include people  who cannot  
speak English at all. If I do that, 1.3% of people in Mrs Js group wouldnt  be able to open  a 
bank account  with Metro Bank compared to 0.3%  of people living  in Britain.  This gives a ratio 
of approximately  4:1. Whichever way I look at it, in other words, I think that Mrs Js group is 
at a particular  disadvantage by Metro  Banks  policy compared to the comparison group.
was the discrimination justified?
As I explained in my Provisional  Decision, indirect discrimination can be justified if its a 
proportionate means  of achieving a legitimate aim. Although I think Metro  Banks  aims  of 
customer protection are legitimate, it hasnt put forward  any detailed evidence  or information 
to show that its approach  is proportionate.  As a result,  although I cannot be certain  and I 
recognise that there are only a limited  number of court cases  about discrimination in relation 
to services  I still think its more likely than not that a Court would decide that Metro Bank 
has indirectly discriminated  against  Mrs J and I have taken that into account when deciding  
what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstance  of this complaint.
has Metro Bank  acted unfairly and, if so, how should it put things right?
As I explained in my provisional decision,  one of the other things I have to take into account 
when deciding what is fair and reasonable is what I consider  to be good  industry  practice. I 
consider it to be good industry practice,  given that Im aware that many  financial service 
providers offer translation support or translation services, to offer those services  in cases like 
this. Metro Bank has said that its in a different position to other  businesses  in the industry  
that its a challenger bank  so it shouldnt be expected to provide the same support others 
do. Metro Bank hasnt,  as I mentioned earlier, provided any analysis to show that it has done 
an analysis on the costs etc involved in providing this type of support. In the absence of this, 
I dont think its unfair  to take good  industry practice into account.  The good industry practice 
Ive mentioned, along with what Ive said about  the risk of inconsistent  decisions and the 
unfairness of this, is enough,  given what Ive already said about relevant law, for me to say I 
dont think Metro Bank acted in a fair and reasonable way when  it refused to open an 
account for Mrs J because of her English.
Ref: DRN04285485In my Provisional Decision I said that I thought this complaint  had had a significant impact on 
Mrs J. She visited the branch twice to get her account open and the upset  caused  by only 
being told when  she visited  the second  time was compounded  by Mrs J believing  Metro 
Bank tried to cover up the reason why it wouldnt open an account for her. I dont think  that 
was an unreasonable assumption  for Mrs J to make  given the inconsistent reasons the staff 
gave for not opening her account. I suggested an award of £500 in my Provisional Decision. 
I know that Metro Bank thinks an award of £500  is too high, but I remain of the view that its 
fair. So thats the amount  Im going  to require Metro Bank to pay by way of an apology.
my final decision
My Final  Decision is that Im upholding this complaint and requiring Metro Bank plc to pay 
Mrs J £500 in compensation for the trouble and upset it has caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Nicolas Atkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN04285486TEXT OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mrs J, whos  represented by her son, complains  Metro  Bank  PLC discriminated against her 
when it refused to open an account  for her. She also complains Metro  Bank  PLC tried to 
cover this up. Mrs J wants an apology and the position of the staff involved reconsidering.
background
Mrs J wanted to open an account  with Metro Bank. She says she went  to her local branch to 
apply for an account  and was told a couple  of days later that her application  had been 
approved. Mrs J says she was also told to go back into branch with proof of address. She 
says that she was told that she couldnt have an account because she couldnt speak 
English when she went back into branch with proof of address. Mrs J says she complained 
about this in the branch  at the time. She says she was then told that Metro  Bank  wasnt  able 
to open an account for her because she hadnt provided evidence  of her address. Mrs J says 
that this wasnt true. So she not only complained that Metro Bank was discriminating against  
her but also that the branch had tried to cover this up. Mrs J said she wanted an apology and 
the position of the staff involved reconsidering.
Metro Bank  investigated  Mrs Js complaint but didnt  uphold  it. Metro Bank said it had done 
nothing wrong  because its terms and conditions say it will only communicate  with its 
customers in English. Metro Bank said it was sorry if Mrs J felt that shed been discriminated 
against, but that was never  its intention. Mrs J complained to us.
One of our adjudicators looked  into Mrs Js complaint. Having  done  so, he felt that Metro 
Bank had acted unfairly. He recommended Metro Bank pay Mrs J £100  in compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience  shed  been  caused.  Mrs J had by then opened an account 
elsewhere. Metro Bank said that our adjudicator shouldnt have considered  this complaint 
and that only the Courts  can say whether or not a business has acted unlawfully. Metro  Bank  
also disagreed  with our adjudicators findings.  Finally Metro Bank said that it doesnt  offer 
accounts to non-English speaking customers because this would expose both parties to an 
unreasonable level of risk.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
how Ive approached this complaint
Before I make any findings about whats  happened in this case, it makes sense to explain 
why I believe I can look into this complaint and on what  basis  I can do so. I say this because 
Metro Bank  has said:
a)that we dont have jurisdiction over the question  of who it offers accounts to;
b)that the question of whether or not a business has acted lawfully is a matter  for the 
Courts not us; and
c)that the policies of other businesses arent relevant to this complaint.
Ref: DRN04285487I agree  with Metro  Bank that its not our role to say whether  a business has acted  unlawfully  
or not  thats a matter  for the Courts. Our role is to decide whats fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances. In order to decide that, however, I have to take a number of things  into 
account including relevant  law and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time.  So although its for the Courts to say whether or not Metro  Bank  has breached  the 
Equality Act 2010, Im required  to take into account relevant law when deciding  what  is fair 
and reasonable.  That includes thinking  about what a Court would likely decide  if Mrs J were 
to make a discrimination  claim under the Equality Act  the relevant provisions of which  Ive 
set out below. Thats not the only relevant law I have  to take into account.  In this case, 
I agree  that contract law is also relevant law and is something I should  also take into 
account, given  that the relationship between a bank and its customers is a contractual  one. 
That means taking  into account, for example, the fact that, as a matter of contract law, Metro  
Bank has the right to choose who it contracts with (subject to legal  restrictions such as the 
Equality Act). I also need to take into account,  however, that in this particular case  it looks  
like Metro Bank didnt ultimately open an account for Mrs J  meaning the terms of Metro  
Banks own contract may be less relevant.
what happened  in this complaint?
Both Metro  Bank and Mrs Js son have  given evidence about what  happened when Mrs J 
tried to open a bank  account. Metro Banks  staff have said that they have a limited 
recollection of what happened. That isnt unusual given that they come  into contact with a 
large number of customers on a daily basis.
Mrs J visited her local branch to open  an account  with Metro Bank  she did so twice. The 
branch took a photocopy of Mrs Js documents during  her first visit and told her that shed 
have to wait for a call back as its head  office needed to OK the decision to open her account. 
Two days later Metro Bank called Mrs J to say that its head office had given the OK. Metro 
Bank told Mrs J she needed to come into branch again with identification to continue  the 
account opening process. She did so the following day.
It wasnt until her second visit that Mrs J was told that she might not get the account she 
wanted. She was initially  told shed only be allowed a basic  bank account. This was after the 
member of staff who wanted to speak to Mrs J about  opening her account  became 
concerned that Mrs J couldnt speak English. The member of staff has said that Mrs Js son 
was speaking to Mrs J in her native tongue explaining what was going on. When  Mrs Js son 
asked why his mother was only allowed a basic account, the member of staff showed him 
Metro Banks terms and conditions. At that stage  Mrs Js son pointed  out that there was 
nothing in Metro  Banks  terms and conditions that said non English speaking  customers  are 
only allowed a basic account.  The member  of staff then told Mrs J that she couldnt have an 
account at all. Mrs Js son complained   whilst  still in branch  and a more  senior  member  of 
staff got involved.  That member  of staff also said Mrs J couldnt have an account.  He, 
however, said that this was because Mrs J hadnt  provided evidence of her address rather  
than because of her English. In fact Mrs J had provided evidence of her address. Mrs Js son 
has told us that Metro Bank was trying to cover up the fact that Metro Bank was 
discriminating against his mother. I can understand why he feels  this way and can imagine 
how hurtful this was.
Ref: DRN04285488what Metro Bank told Mrs J and what it has told us
When Mrs J complained to Metro Bank to say that it had discriminated against her, Metro  
Bank said that its terms and conditions  make it clear that it will only communicate in English 
so it had done nothing wrong.  Metro Bank has provided us with a copy of the terms and 
conditions it says Mrs J would have  had to agree to, and those terms and conditions say:
We can refuse to open an account  for an existing or potential  customer.
We will only correspond  and communicate with you in English. This agreement  is 
available in English. We will only accept communications and instructions from you in 
English.
Metro Bank  has explained  its position  in more detail to us which is helpful given that these 
terms and conditions would only have applied if Metro Bank had actually opened an account 
for Mrs J. For a start,  Metro Bank  has said that it has a duty to ensure its customers:
a)understand the terms and conditions of their accounts; and
b)will be able to manage their accounts.
Metro Bank  has told us that it requires its customers to be able to communicate with it in 
English and to understand its communications  because of these duties. It has, however, also 
told us that if a potential customer asks for a translation service at account opening then it 
will consider  whether theyd be able to manage the account effectively before continuing the 
account opening process. Its unclear  whether these two statements are consistent  so Im 
going to ask Metro Bank to send me its internal guidance on opening accounts which  Id 
anticipate it will want to do on a confidential basis as its likely to be commercially sensitive. 
That will hopefully clear up other  potential  inconsistencies   for example, Metro  Bank has at 
times said that its terms and conditions  not only allow it to refuse to open an account for 
existing or potential customers if they dont speak English, but has at times also said that this 
applies to customers who dont speak  fluent English.
the Equality Act
The Equality  Act says that people with protected characteristics mustnt  be discriminated 
against. The protected characteristics include race which includes a group of people  
defined by their race,  colour and nationality  (including citizenship) ethnic or national origins.
The Equality  Act defines direct discrimination and indirect discrimination and goes  on to 
say what each are.
Section 13 defines  direct  discrimination as follows:
1.A person (A) discriminates against another (B) if, because  of a protected 
characteristic, A treats B less favourably  than A treats or would treat others.
Section 19 defines  indirect  discrimination as follows:
(3)A person (A) discriminates against another (B) if A applies to B a provision, criterion or 
practice which is discriminatory in relation to a relevant protected characteristic of Bs.
Ref: DRN04285489(4)For the purposes of subsection (1), a provision, criterion  or practice is discriminatory  in 
relation to a relevant protected characteristic  of Bs if
(e)A applies, or would  apply, it to persons with whom  B does not share the 
characteristic,
(f)it puts, or would  put, persons with whom B shares the characteristic at a particular  
disadvantage when  compared with persons with whom B does not share it,
(g)it puts, or would  put, B at that disadvantage, and
(h)A cannot show it to be a proportionate  means of achieving a legitimate aim.
has Metro Bank  discriminated against  Mrs J?
Had Mrs J brought a claim of discrimination against  Metro Bank, I think  its unlikely that a 
Court would decide Metro Bank had directly discriminated against her. I do, however, think 
its likely  that a Court would decide that a requirement that a customer  has to speak  English  
is likely  to put people  from particular ethnic backgrounds, with particular nationalities or 
races, at a particular  disadvantage when compared  to others who dont come from those 
groups. In other  words, I think it is likely that a Court would decide  that this was indirect 
discrimination unless Metro Bank could show that it was a proportionate means of achieving  
a legitimate aim.
Metro Bank  has told us that it needs  to be able to speak to its customers   once their 
accounts have  been opened  in the event, for example, that it believes its customer has 
been the victim of fraud.  Metro Bank  has told us that it needs to know its customers can 
speak English so that it can make important time-bound calls like this. Its told us that it 
doesnt offer accounts to non-English speaking customers because  it believes it would be 
putting those customers  as well as Metro Bank  at an unreasonable level of risk. I agree 
that a Court  would likely decide this could be a legitimate aim, but the means  have to be 
proportionate.
I think its unlikely a Court would say preventing customers who cant  speak  English  or fluent 
English from opening  an account  is proportionate. I think  its likely a Court would say offering 
a basic account  or an account with assistance  is a proportionate response to the risk of fraud  
rather than precluding Mrs J altogether. In other  words, I think its likely a Court would say 
Metro Bank  indirectly  discriminated against Mrs J. I have  reached this view on the 
information which has been provided to me to date, but Metro  Bank  and / or Mrs J can 
provide further  information, if they think it would  be relevant.
As Ive already  mentioned,  even if I think its likely  a Court would say Metro Bank has 
discriminated against Mrs J, that doesnt automatically mean I have to uphold  Mrs Js 
complaint. I have to decide what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances taking relevant 
law, amongst other things, into account. One of the other things I have to take into account is 
what I consider to be good  industry  practice. So Ive thought about that too. Im aware that 
many financial  service  providers offer translation  support  or translation services and it seems 
to me to be good  industry practice to consider whether that would help here. Theres no 
evidence that Metro Bank did this in Mrs Js case. Ive also taken into account the fact that 
the approach  Metro  Bank has in place  isnt particularly objective  either   to the extent that 
the test its applying is whether or not a consumer can speak fluent English  and, given that 
its possible to open an account online,  it feels inconsistent  too. Both are relevant to fairness 
in my opinion.
Ref: DRN042854810has Metro Bank  acted unfairly and, if so, how should it put things right?
Based on everything  Ive said,  I dont think Metro Bank acted fairly in this case  when it 
refused to open  an account for Mrs J. This clearly was upsetting for her, and she has since 
gone through the trouble of applying to another bank. That bank  was happy to open  an 
account for her. In the circumstances, I agree with our adjudicator  that it would be 
appropriate to award  Mrs J some compensation for her trouble and upset. The adjudicator  
awarded £100 but I dont feel that fully reflects  the trouble and upset caused to Mrs J.
Mrs J made  two visits to the branch and was told after the first visit that her application had 
been approved.  It wasnt until the second visit that Metro Bank said she couldnt have an 
account. She was obviously  upset about  that  sufficiently so to complain and apply to 
another bank   and was put to unnecessary trouble. That was made  considerably worse by 
Mrs Js feeling that Metro Bank initially tried to cover up what  it had done  claiming that it 
wasnt opening an account for her because she hadnt provided evidence of her identification 
when she had. So Im minded  to require Metro Bank to pay Mrs J £500 in compensation.
I know Mrs J has asked for an apology and also said that the position of the staff involved 
should be reconsidered. I can understand why shes asked for these things. In this particular 
case, however,  I feel an apology in the form of compensation  is more appropriate.
my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I require  Metro Bank  PLC to pay Mrs J £500 for the trouble 
and upset it caused her.
Nicolas Atkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0428548