K820x#14complaint
Mr M brings  this complaint as administrator of the estate of Mrs R, his late wife. His 
complaint is that Lloyds  Bank PLC acted irresponsibly when it granted  a mortgage  and 
further advances  to Mrs R in relation to a property  she owned between 6 November 1998 
and 18 June 2004. Mr M is asking the bank to pay compensation to the estate for all 
mortgage and loan payments, interest and charges  relating to the mortgage. He is also 
asking for substantial damages  for breach of duty of care, psychological pain and distress,  
and a letter  of apology from Lloyds to himself  and his two children.
Mr M also complained to Lloyds about Payment Protection Insurance  sold to Mrs R, which 
Lloyds upheld. Im not considering the PPI in this complaint,  only the mortgage and two 
further advances.
background
In November 1998 Mrs R took out a mortgage  with Lloyds  (then  known as Cheltenham & 
Gloucester) for £68,000. In November 1999  she took out a further  advance  of £29,052. In 
June 2002 she took out another  further  advance  of £18,500. The property was sold on 18 
June 2004.
I am very sorry  to note Mrs R passed  away in November 2007,  leaving two young children. 
Mr M, her husband, is administrator of her estate.  He has complained to Lloyds that the 
mortgage and further advances were  mis-sold.  
Initially Lloyds told Mr M that the complaint had been brought  out of time, as the mortgage 
account had been closed  in 2004. Mr M complained to us. Lloyds agreed that we could 
consider the complaint. But it didnt think it had done anything wrong. Lloyds said that Mrs R 
had met its lending criteria for the mortgage and further advances.
An investigator looked at the complaint, but she didnt think it should be upheld. She was 
satisfied that Lloyds had fairly assessed the applications and that they hadnt been mis-sold. 
Mr M didnt  accept this and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. Hes made 
detailed points in response to the investigators findings.
In summary,  Mr M says that Lloyds breached the Mortgage Code  when it agreed  to lend to 
Mrs R. He also said that Lloyds incorrectly assumed  that Mrs R intended  to repay  existing 
borrowing from the mortgage and further  advances.  Mr M also questions  the information  
Lloyds used to assess the applications. He considers Lloyds was abusing Mrs R in order  to 
sell financial  products.  Mr M has also raised  concerns about information Lloyds put into court 
papers and says this was false.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents.  Ive 
read everything, and its apparent that some  parts of the evidence  are less relevant  to the 
underlying case  than others.  There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition  of 
arguments. In what  follows,  I have, by necessity, summarised  events in rather less detail 
than has been  presented.
Ref: DRN03950102No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection  of the informal service  we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think  it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint.  This approach is consistent with what  our 
enabling legislation requires of me.
It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be 
side-tracked by matters which, although  presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral 
or, in some instances,  have little or no impact on the broader outcome.
I will begin by explaining  that, where  a complaint is brought by the personal representative of 
a deceased customers  estate, I can only consider the complaint in the context  of how any 
acts or omissions on the part of Lloyds might  have caused actual financial loss or detriment 
to the estate. Awards of compensation can only be made to an estate in relation to any 
distress or inconvenience suffered by the customer during their lifetime, not by the 
representative or any other third parties. 
Furthermore, we dont award  damages in the same way as a court. So although  I appreciate 
Mr M feels very strongly  about this matter, he isnt entitled to compensation in his own right.  
My role is to review  the complaint. Im not required  to answer  each and every point made by 
Mr M or to re-investigate the case. Because our decisions are published, Im deliberately  
omitting any information which might identify  Mrs R or Mr M. So I wont  be setting out all the 
details of Mrs R and Mr Ms financial  and family  circumstances.  
In any event, the history  of the borrowing taken out by Mrs R between 1998 and 2002 is set 
out in detail in the investigators  letter. Both parties  have a copy of this, and so its not 
necessary for me to repeat all the details  here.  
I should perhaps explain from the outset  that in general, we would not usually consider a 
complaint about  a banks use of its legitimate commercial judgment when making the 
decision whether  to lend to a customer. We do, however, look into whether a bank  in this 
case Lloyds  properly  and appropriately  considered the lending in compliance with its own 
criteria and credit  assessments,  and with the relevant codes  of practice   in this case the 
Mortgage Code.
I can see from the application forms for the mortgage and further  advances  that these were  
on a non-advised  basis.  Information  was given to Mrs R about available Lloyds  products  
and she selected  the one she wanted. There is nothing untoward about this, Lloyds was 
under no obligation to give advice  under  the Mortgage Code.
Lloyds was required to take steps to ensure that Mrs R could afford to repay the money 
borrowed; to do this, Lloyds could use a variety of tools available  to it. Such tools could 
include credit  checks (information supplied by credit  reference agencies),  account conduct 
and both income and financial  commitments. Importantly though,  Lloyds wasnt  obliged to 
use all or even any of these tools  it simply had to be satisfied that Mrs R had the ability  to 
repay. 
Ive looked at the documentation for the mortgage  and two further  advances. The mortgage  
was assessed  on a multiplier of less than 4 x income, which  is within the levels  of acceptable 
multipliers. Mrs R also confirmed shed be clearing some existing debts before the mortgage 
completed. For the further advances, Mrs R confirmed shed be using these to pay off other 
Ref: DRN03950103debts. So her overall indebtedness wasnt increasing. Instead the further  advances  
rescheduled the borrowing onto lower repayments.
Mr M says that Lloyds incorrectly assumed Mrs R would  repay  her other  debts from the 
further advances. If Mrs R misled Lloyds  then I cant hold Lloyds responsible for that. Its 
also important to note that the mortgage  was with Cheltenham & Gloucester, which, 
although part of the Lloyds group of companies, was a discrete  business  in its own right,  and 
was run completely  separately from Lloyds retail banking  business. 
I can see that Mrs R took out unsecured credit through  Lloyds, some of which  she repaid 
with the further  advances  from Cheltenham  & Gloucester. When the loans were  cleared out 
of the further advances, Mrs R later applied for new loans with Lloyds. So although Mrs R 
was taking on unsecured debt through  Lloyds, this wasnt  within the control  of the separate 
mortgage lending  business  Cheltenham & Gloucester. 
In the circumstances, Im not persuaded Lloyds lending decisions were irresponsible.  I can 
see that in March 2003 Mrs R was in arrears with the mortgage. A field agent visited  the 
home and spoke to Mr M, as Mrs R was out of the country. I see from the information  
compiled at the time that Mrs R had a secured loan from another lender, as well as other 
debt commitments. 
The field agent  recorded that Mr M had had some health issues, but, with new family 
arrangements in place,  he and Mrs R would be able to increase their income and clear the 
arrears. But he also said that other  debts  were being  prioritised ahead  of the mortgage. I 
know Mr M has taken  exception  to Lloyds mentioning the field agents visit in court  papers 
and believes  this was false information.  But, that would  be a matter for the courts,  not for us.
I dont underestimate  Mr Ms strength of feeling about this matter.  I appreciate  this isnt the 
outcome he wants.  But overall Im satisfied that Lloyds didnt act irresponsibly when it 
agreed to lend to Mrs R between 1998 and 2002.  The loans were assessed according  to 
criteria acceptable at the time, on the basis of information provided by Mrs R about her 
commitment and intentions. In the circumstances, Im not persuaded the loans were mis-
sold.
Mr M has said he will pursue this matter through the courts  if the complaint isnt upheld. If he 
rejects my decision, Mr M is free to pursue a complaint on behalf of the estate in court. I 
would suggest  Mr M takes legal  advice before doing  so.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M, on behalf of 
the estate of the late Mrs R, to accept or reject  my decision before  27 April 2019.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0395010