K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Aviva Life & Pensions  UK Limited failed  to extend his Capital
Accumulator plan as it had in previous years and this has resulted in him being  liable to pay 
income tax.
background
In February 2018  Mr Ss plan reached  its maturity date and he decided to extend it for a 
further 10 years as well as putting  it in trust.  Aviva  said he needed  to sign a qualifying  
interest statement  and return it by May. It sent two reminders before  this deadline. As Aviva 
did not receive such signed confirmation it moved  the policy into a non-qualifying status in 
June.
Mr S complained that he had spoken to Aviva twice on the phone  and on both occasions an 
advisor had confirmed it had the necessary documentation  to process the extension. Aviva 
said it had no record of these alleged calls.
An investigator at this service did not feel there  was sufficient  evidence to warrant  upholding 
the complaint.  She noted that Aviva had repeatedly  requested a signed  declaration  and 
didnt feel she could  reach a view about  whether the alleged  calls had occurred  or what 
might have been said in them.
She also noted that Aviva had told Mr S, in a phone call in July 2018, that he had three 
months to send in a separate document which would satisfy HMRC that his qualifying  status  
could be preserved.  But she said Mr S had not done this.
She recognised that Avivas letter of April 2018  was potentially misleading  but was satisfied 
that any confusion  was dealt with in subsequent  correspondence, particularly the letter  of 3 
May 2018. Given this, she felt Avivas offer of £125  for this one error was sufficient.
Mr S did not agree,  and said:
He did return the form within  the required timescale
One of Avivas call handlers admitted that the building was undergoing major works  
at the time of his calls and described  the place as chaos
One the day he received the reminder he rang Aviva and was told the Qualifying 
Status was in place; Aviva says it records  all call but appears to have lost the ones 
relating to this case
The form was solely to retain the Qualifying  status, the extension had been  done 
earlier
The £125  compensation had nothing to do with this complaint
Avivas letter of 28 February 2019  confirms that the phone system was not working 
properly  and that staff were dealing with his letter
The reference to the policy being  worth £1,375 is laughable
 Its letter of 9 January  2018 stated that is policy was a qualifying  one and the letter of 
26 April 2018 that it will stay as such
He has other emails where  Aviva confirmed the policy was now a qualifying  one
Ref: DRN03093442my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In this case I agree with the investigator 
and for the same  reasons.
I completely accept several  of Mr Ss points.  Aviva did write saying the policy was a 
qualifying one and confirmed, after he had requested an extension, that the policy would 
remain qualifying. But this was obviously  on the basis that any other necessary 
documentation was completed satisfactorily.  I also agree that its letter of 26 April was 
misleading, something Aviva acknowledged. But when  considered  along with the rest of the 
correspondence, I think Aviva did inform Mr S that there was an outstanding issue  which  he 
needed to address in order to ensure the policy remained qualifying. Ive seen no persuasive 
evidence to indicate he did provide the necessary signed documentation.
I also share the adjudicators view about the inconclusive nature of the evidence  about the 
alleged phone calls.  While  Mr S is adamant that he made certain  calls,  and was given 
certain guarantees, but in the absence of any Aviva  records to this effect I cannot safely  
conclude that such conversations  took place (although  I do not doubt Mr Ss word). 
In my view there is simply not enough  persuasive  evidence to fairly conclude that Aviva did 
anything wrong.
Finally, I am satisfied that Aviva explained  that its payment of £125  was solely due to the 
delays in providing a full response to Mr Ss complaint.
my final decision
I do not uphold  the complaint or make any financial award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 January 2020.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0309344