K820x#14complaint
Mr C complained that MBNA Limited (MBNA) mis-sold him payment protection insurance 
(PPI) in 2001 with a credit card. 
background
Our adjudicator who looked at this case said the complaint about the PPI being mis-sold 
shouldnt be upheld. 
Mr C has already been offered some money  for the commission MBNA received from selling 
him the PPI. However Mr C still thinks he was mis-sold the PPI in the first place and has 
asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Cs case.
Having done this, Im afraid Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint about  the mis-sale.
These events obviously  took place some  considerable time ago and Mr C says he cant  
remember much about the sale or ever agreeing to PPI. Given it was over 17 years ago, I 
sympathise and understand how difficult it is to recall what  happened.
However, we know from MBNA  records that Mr C didnt  get the PPI on his credit  card 
straightaway. It was added a few weeks later, during a telephone  call. Theres no longer any 
recording of that call but MBNA says Mr C would have been asked by its call-handlers 
whether or not he wanted to add PPI. MBNA showed me a copy  of the script the call- 
handlers were told to use when selling PPI at this time. This corresponds  with my knowledge 
and experience of how these types of policies were  normally sold by MBNA in 2001.
I also think Mr C would  have been  able to see from his monthly credit card statements that 
he was paying  regularly for the PPI. So I think these things make it more  likely Mr C agreed 
to the PPI and would have been  able see it was set up on his account. It looks like he used 
his card a lot and incurred  PPI charges regularly. I think if hed never asked for the PPI, he 
would have wanted to know what the charges  were  for. 
So I think MBNA got his consent for the PPI although I accept Mr C might not remember  this.
Its not entirely clear  if this was an advised sale but I dont think  this really matters  in this 
particular case.  This is because I can see from what  Mr C told us that he was eligible for the 
cover and not caught by any of the major  exclusions  we tend to see in these policies. 
He also said didnt have  much sick pay with his job and I think  thats  right because it looks  
like hed only been in the job for 3 months.  So I think  the cover  wouldve been of some  use.
The PPI wouldve paid 3% of Mr Cs outstanding  monthly balance on the card,  for up to 12 
months, if hed needed to claim. Although this was only a moderate benefit,  I think  it would 
have provided  some  protection in the event of something unexpected  happening. In Mr Cs 
Ref: DRN06715552situation  and given the specifics  of this case  I therefore think  the cover was probably  
suitable for him.
MBNA also needed make sure the information it provided was clear, fair and not misleading 
so Mr C could decide whether  or not he should buy the policy.  I cant  say he was told 
everything he should have been told and I can certainly think of ways in which MBNA could 
have made  things clearer for him. But theres  as much to say he was given enough 
information during  the call  as there is to say he wasnt. 
On that basis I dont have enough to say this policy  was mis-sold. Which  means  MBNA  
doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI. 
But MBNA has already  agreed to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr C because  
when the policy was sold, it expected to get a high level of commission and profit share 
(more than 50% of the PPI premium)   it should have told Mr C about that. Because  MBNA  
didnt tell him, that was unfair.  To put that right, MBNA has already paid back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium   and in this case 
I think that offer is fair.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so MBNA Limited does  not have to pay back all of the cost 
of the PPI to Mr C.
But my understanding  is that MBNA  Limited  has already paid him for the commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0671555