K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains about a default  placed  on his account by Bank of Scotland plc (trading as 
Halifax).
background
Mr O had a credit card account with Halifax. He began to experience  some  financial 
difficulties in 2018. But he thought he had until early January 2019 to sort things out. Mr O 
said Halifax placed a default on his account in December 2018  before he could agree a 
repayment plan.  So he wants  the default  removing so it doesnt affect his credit  file.
Halifax said Mr Os account had been in arrears since  April 2018.  Itd written to him a 
number of times. And because Mr O hadnt  made the required payments a default  notice  
had been sent in November 2018.  But Halifax hadnt received any further payments from 
Mr O. So the account had been  placed  in default in December 2018  and passed to its 
recoveries team.
Mr O wasnt satisfied with Halifaxs response. So he contacted our service  and our 
investigator looked into the matter. Mr O had begun to experience financial difficulty earlier  in 
2018. She could  see Halifax had tried to make contact to discuss the situation  on a number 
of occasions.  And she felt itd applied the default correctly. The account had been in arrears 
since April 2018. And Halifax had told Mr O what would  happen  if the payments werent 
received. So she felt the bank had acted fairly in defaulting the account some  six months  
after itd gone  into arrears.
Mr O didnt agree. Hed tried to call Halifax a number of times during September 2018. And 
he didnt receive  any letters  or post from Halifax during that period.  When  he did receive the 
notification in December  he asked to arrange  a payment plan. But the default  was still put in 
place. So hes asked  for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr O is unhappy Halifax placed a default on his credit card account.  He says it affected  his 
business dealings  and credit rating. And I sympathise  with the situation  he found  himself in. 
Mr O says Halifax didnt tell him what it was going to do. And it applied the default before he 
could agree a repayment plan. So Ive looked  carefully at whats happened  to see if Halifax 
has done anything  wrong. And if so what it needs  to do to put things right.
Looking at Mr Os account statements for 2018 I can see he was making payments towards 
his outstanding balance until March. But hed begun  to incur over-limit charges for exceeding  
his credit limit during the month.
Under the heading important information the March statement informs  Mr O he is currently  
over his credit limit. I can see a payment  was received on 19 February  but Mr O didnt make 
any further monthly payments. The statements from April onwards continue to display the 
message marked important information. It highlights that Mr Os payment is overdue and 
the account is over the credit limit. And each month a figure is stated  that Mr O must pay to 
bring his account  back into line.
Ref: DRN02886082Halifax wrote  to Mr O in May 2018  because hed missed the monthly payments. And the 
letter asked Mr O to get in touch if he would like help with any financial difficulties he may be 
experiencing. A further letter followed when more payments were missed.  The July 
statement said Mr Os account was now some  £271 in arrears.  The message said Mr O 
should contact  Halifax immediately if he was unable to pay. So I think Halifax  took 
reasonable steps to try and get in touch with Mr O and to offer support if it was needed.
As well as the monthly statements  Halifax sent a number of letters to Mr O explaining  his 
account was in arrears  and payments  hadnt  been received. When Mr O didnt respond 
Halifax issued a default notice on 10 November and a formal  demand  letter  on 1 December.
I realise Mr O says he did try and talk to Halifax during September. And if hed been able to 
make contact he couldve avoided the default being  placed on his account in December. 
Halifax said itd checked but couldnt  find any record of receiving  a call from Mr O during that 
month. There is a record of a call in October about  the arrears on the account. Mr O asked 
for more time to pay but it seems the line was unclear  and the call ended  without  any 
agreement. And there doesnt  appear  to have been any further  calls from Mr O about the 
matter. 
Mr O says he didnt receive any post from Halifax in September,  October  and November. But 
he responded when he received the letter  in December.  But Ive not seen anything to 
suggest Halifax didnt  send the monthly statements. And the letters highlighting the missed 
payments were also sent to the correct  address. The first letter  from Halifax was sent in May 
2018 when Mr O started to miss his payments. So I think Mr O shouldve been aware he 
wasnt fulfilling the terms of his credit  card account and that he needed to get in touch with 
the bank and try to resolve things.
I do recognise the impact  this has had on Mr O. Im pleased to see hes now agreed a 
repayment plan with Halifax. And I hope hes able to resolve  his financial difficulties and 
move forwards again.
But based  on what Ive seen I cant say Halifax has made any mistakes.  It has a 
responsibility to report  how the account  has been  managed to the credit reference  agencies. 
Mr O stopped making his monthly payments. And Halifax  sent statements and reminder 
letters for six months before issuing a default notice. So I dont think  it acted unfairly  towards 
Mr O. And I wont be asking Halifax to remove the default from Mr Os credit  record.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 January 2020.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0288608