K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains that PDL Finance Ltd, trading as Mr Lender,  was wrong to give him a loan 
that he couldnt afford to repay.
background
Mr N took a single loan from Mr Lender  in March 2013. The loan was for £250  and was due 
to be repaid in two monthly instalments of £87.50 and £337.50 in April and May 2013 
respectively. Mr N doesnt think that Mr Lender should have given him the loan because it 
didnt ask him about his monthly outgoings  or establish the amount of disposable income he 
had, at the time. He wasnt able to repay the loan on time so Mr Lender  sold the debt to a 
debt collection agency. He eventually repaid it about  two years later.
The adjudicator didnt think this complaint should  be upheld. She thought that the checks Mr 
Lender did before it lent were sufficient and there wasnt anything in the information it 
gathered to suggest that the loan wasnt affordable for Mr N.
Mr N disagreed. He said, in summary,  that he was in a debt management plan before he 
borrowed from Mr Lender and, as it failed to look at or ask about the plan, Mr Lender  wasnt  
aware of his true financial position.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Lender was required to lend responsibly. Before  agreeing to lend to Mr N, it had to check 
that he could afford  to make the repayments  without it adversely impacting  on his financial  
situation. It had to gather enough  information  so that it could make an informed decision on 
the lending. These checks could take into account a number of different things, such  as how 
much was being lent, the repayment  amounts  and Mr Ns income and expenditure. With this 
in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  relationship,  I think  less thorough  checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
Mr N was given a loan where there was an expectation hed repay what hed borrowed plus 
the interest due in two instalments. As a result, the checks  Mr Lender carried  out had to 
provide enough for it to be able to understand whether Mr N could afford  to make these 
repayments when  they fell due.
Mr Lender has given  us evidence showing it asked Mr N about his net monthly income  when 
he applied  for the loan.  Its recorded this as £1,300.  It has said it also did an employment 
and credit check before agreeing the loan. From what  I have seen, the credit check  results 
that Mr Lender received  didnt show any problems with Mr Ns finances such as delinquent 
accounts, county  court judgements or bankruptcy. So I dont think  the credit check  results  
should have caused Mr Lender  to think it needed to dig deeper into Mr Ns circumstances.
I appreciate that Mr N had difficulties  in repaying  the loan and so he thinks  the loan wasnt 
affordable. He says that he was already in a debt payment plan before he asked to borrow  
from Mr Lender  so he doesnt think that Mr Lender carried  out enough checks  to assess  his 
financial situation. 
Ref: DRN01183242As Ive explained, Mr Lenders checks needed  to be proportionate to things like the amount it 
was lending. This was relatively small and the average monthly amount Mr N needed to 
repay for this loan was a small proportion of what hed declared as his monthly income.  
Given this, what was apparent about  his circumstances at the time, and his history  with the 
lender, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for Mr Lender to ask Mr N for the amount 
of information  that would be needed  to show the lending  was unsustainable. This was Mr Ns 
first loan from Mr Lender so I dont think it had any reason to disbelieve  or doubt what  Mr N 
declared and I dont consider its checks needed  to go any further.
Based on the information it had at the time,  I think Mr Lenders decision to lend to Mr N was 
reasonable.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
Karen Wharton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0118324