K822xcomplaint
Mr S complains that Liberty Mutual Insurance Europe  SE has unfairly declined  to consider 
his commercial property insurance claim on the grounds that he failed  to disclose material 
information to it when applying for cover. 
background 
In January 2017 Mr S took out a commercial  landlords property insurance policy for a 
property he let out to tenants. In early October  2017 the tenants  moved  out. On undertaking 
a routine check of the property in mid-October 2017  Mr S discovered that thieves had 
smashed through the flat roof of the kitchen  and stolen radiators and possibly some piping. 
They had exited  through the back door located in the kitchen. Mr S reported the matter to the 
police and submitted  a claim to Liberty.  
Liberty appointed  a loss adjuster to validate  the claim and he visited the property in late 
October 2017. Liberty also appointed  a special investigator in November 2017. Having 
obtained a copy  of the police report,  the loss adjuster wrote to Mr S in June 2018  to state it 
had concerns he had told the police he didnt require them,  nor Crime Scene Investigation 
(CSI), to attend. 
The loss adjuster said to Mr S that the property was also in a poor condition  and that there 
wasnt a lock on the back door both of which amounted to serious issues  of non-disclosure. 
He said underwriters had been induced to offer a policy based on incorrect information  and 
they had said they wouldnt have done so if they had known the true nature of the risk. The 
loss adjuster said underwriters were  entitled  to void the policy from inception and decline the 
claim. He said on this occasion underwriters had said they wouldnt void Mr Ss policy  but 
nor would they pay the claim. 
Mr S appointed a loss assessor to represent him and he wrote to the loss adjuster  in mid-
July 2018. He said Mr S had advised  the police that he didnt require immediate assistance 
and had not discouraged CSI from attending.  The loss assessor also said the questions 
about the lock and condition of the property  asked at proposal and recorded in the statement 
of fact had also been  reviewed. He noted that there was no disclosure conflict  between the 
questions asked and the answers  given about the condition of the property. And he said the 
back door was fitted with a fiver lever lock as required (and a heavy gauge  sliding bolt in 
addition) so thered been no non-disclosure  issue in that respect either.  
The loss assessor  said that the departing tenant  had failed to return the back-door key which 
Mr S had told the loss adjuster and, as such,  there wasnt an operative five lever lock 
securing the door at the time of the theft.  But, he said, the tenants failure to return the key 
didnt amount to a non-disclosure or a situation  where the policy  could be avoided. The loss 
assessor said the absence of the back-door  key was immaterial  to the loss because  the bolt 
had been enough to prevent the thieves entering by the back door. The loss assessor asked 
Liberty to settle  Mr Ss claim.  
On receiving no response, the loss assessor complained in October 2018 to the loss 
adjuster about  the delay. A conversation between Libertys appointed special investigator 
and the loss assessor appeared  to resolve the matter but on hearing nothing  thereafter, the 
loss assessor complained  to Liberty.
Ref: DRN03518732Liberty issued its final response  letter at the start of February 2019. It said itd asked its 
claims team to respond  to the loss assessor  directly  and it was awarding Mr S compensation 
of £300 for the delays associated with the claim so far. 
Liberty continued to decline to consider the claim on the grounds  that Mr S had non-
disclosed in respect  of the back-door  lock and the condition of the property, so Mr S, through 
his loss assessor, complained to this service.  
Our investigator looked into Mr Ss complaint but didnt recommend that it was upheld. He 
thought that Liberty had acted reasonably by voiding the policy, returning the premium and 
declining the claim.  He thought that the compensation paid by Liberty of £300 was 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr Ss loss assessor replied to say that the back door was fitted  with a lock as required by 
Liberty at the point  of sale. So, he said it met the policy requirements in that respect. He also 
said that there had been no non-disclosure  either in respect of the propertys condition  at 
proposal. He said all proper disclosures were made at proposal.  But he said that 10 months 
later (by the time the loss adjuster attended) it did appear a small leak had developed in the 
roof as had a localised  patch of damp to some floorboards which had been hidden under 
carpet. 
Liberty replied to say for cover to be in place there needed to be a 5-lever  mortice  deadlock 
in operation on each door and the failure  to do so wouldve led to cover being declined.  It 
said the tenant had taken  the key and Mr S didnt have another so the lock wasnt in 
operation at the time of the theft.  It said this was material alteration  in risk that had not been 
disclosed. It said as a result of the lock not being  in operation the theft was able to occur  
because the thieves were able to exit the building with the radiators etc. which  they wouldnt 
have been able to do if the door lock had been engaged. It said there  was water ingress at 
the property particularly on the flat felt roof and that thered been flooding in the kitchen.  It 
said the damp on the chimney indicated an unresolved  damp issue. Liberty  also referred to a 
hole in the ceiling that was unaccounted for (and separate from the one the thieves used to 
gain access) and said its attempts to contact the tenants had been hampered by Mr Ss 
failure to obtain  the appropriate references and background checks  as hed warranted at 
proposal. 
The complaint was passed  to me and I issued my provisional decision recommending it was 
upheld in August  2020. I made  the following provisional findings:
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Whilst the policy at the centre of this complaint is a commercial  one, I note that Mr S, as the 
owner of just the one tenanted property,  cant be considered to be a sophisticated  investor. 
So, its only fair and reasonable that hes treated as a normal  consumer.  
This complaint is about Libertys decision  to decline to consider Mr Ss claim on the grounds 
that he failed to disclose (at proposal/point  of sale) certain material information about the 
property he was asking  it to insure.  In other  words,  that he misrepresented to Liberty the risk 
he was asking it to take on. It is up to each individual insurer what  risks it is willing  to take on 
and what premium it wishes  to charge to do so. To assess the risk it is being asked to take 
Ref: DRN03518733on, insurers will ask consumers to provide  answers  to numerous questions. It is the 
consumers duty to provide honest,  accurate answers to those questions.
Where an insurer alleges  that there  has been  a misrepresentation of the risk, or a failure to 
disclose relevant information,  it is the insurers duty to prove  the information provided  was 
incorrect or incomplete. When looking to see if it has managed  to do this, we want to see 
evidence of the question asked and the answer given. 
Liberty has declined  to consider Mr Ss claim on the basis  he non-disclosed on two grounds.  
The first is that he incorrectly answered  a question about the locks  on the house and the 
second that he incorrectly answered  a question about the condition of the property.  Liberty 
has provided a copy  of the statement  of fact which was produced after the sale and sent to 
Mr S. It asks Mr S to review the facts  shown below. It says this was the information  he 
provided when  requesting  his insurance.  It warns  that if any of the facts provided  are 
incorrect he may not be covered in the event of a claim.  
the lock
It says on the statement  of fact: Question: All main exit doors have either: a key operated 
mortice lock, so that when  you turn the key, the bolt fits into a metal plate attached to the 
door frame  [or] a multi-point locking system, where  a number of bolts  around  the door fit into 
the door frame  when  you use the lock. Under  the Answer provided column Mr S has 
answered I agree.
I understand from Liberty that when applying  for cover Mr S wouldve been shown three 
pictures of acceptable  types of locks. 
Ive seen a picture  of the metal back door. I can see that a red 5-lever  mortice lock was 
present. I can see that it matches one of the pictures Mr S was shown at the point of sale. It 
is a key operated  mortice  lock. There is no evidence that on turning the key the lock didnt fit 
into the steel keeper  attached to the door frame.  A key operated mortice lock was clearly 
present. So, it seems Mr S answered the security question at the proposal stage correctly. 
He did not misrepresent the fact to Liberty. It follows that Liberty have unfairly  concluded that 
Mr S non-disclosed about the lock at the proposal  stage. 
I know that Liberty has said that at the time of the burglary the lock was un-operative. That 
may well be the case. But this complaint  is about  Libertys decision to decline to consider   
Mr Ss claim on the grounds  he non-disclosed. This provisional decision is confined  to 
deciding whether or not that was a fair conclusion for it to have reached in all the 
circumstances. In terms of the lock warranty, for the reasons Ive given,  Im unable  to 
reasonably conclude that Liberty fairly decided Mr S had non-disclosed at the proposal 
stage. 
If Liberty required  Mr S to warrant that the lock was operative at all times  then it should  have 
asked him a question  to ensure he did. But it didnt. It merely asked if all main doors had one 
of three  specific locks. And they did. And they were  all operative when Mr S took the policy 
out. I cant fairly say hes incorrectly answered Libertys question about the presence of the 
locks. It was a narrow question and the correct answer was given.
Ref: DRN03518734the condition of the property
In the section on the statement of fact relating to the property it says: Question: My property 
is in a good state of repair. This means:  it is structurally sound; there is no evidence  of rot, 
damp or infestation; there is no faulty  wiring or plumbing; there is no damage  to the roof or 
chimney. Under the Answer provided  column  Mr S has answered I agree.
Taking each of the four categories in turn, Ive seen  no suggestion, or evidence,  that the 
property wasnt structurally sound. Nor have I seen any evidence of faulty wiring  or 
plumbing. 
Ive seen no evidence  that at the proposal stage there was any damage to the roof or 
chimney. There does appear  to now be a leak in the roof area around the chimney allowing 
damp to travel down  the chimney  breast.  But the critical question is whether this was present 
or evident at proposal such that it shouldve  been disclosed. Ive seen  no evidence that it 
was. Indeed, the special  investigator comments that there is damp present  that may be 
indicative of an issue with the chimney/lead flashing.  But theres no evidence  about the 
condition of the main  roof. 
As regards  the flat roof over the kitchen  (through which  the thieves gained  access), Liberty 
say this was worn. Having  viewed the internal photographs showing the kitchen ceiling, I 
cant see any evidence of damp penetration. Mr S says the flat roof was watertight up until 
the thieves broke in. Whilst  it is possible the felt on the flat roof was worn  that doesnt  mean  
it wasnt in a good state of repair and could be considered to be damaged. I understand the 
felt had been replaced a few years previously  but remained in a good state of repair  
(adequately doing its job of preventing water ingress).  Having  reviewed the photographs of 
the flat roof I cant say it exhibits signs of damage  that required disclosing. I can see that 
there theres  been a patch repair but that I understand that is to the area the thieves broke in 
through. 
So, Im not persuaded its reasonable of Liberty to say there was damage to the roof and 
chimney at proposal  stage such that Mr S shouldve answered I disagree to the question  it 
asked. In summary I say this because theres  no evidence at all about the condition of the 
main roof; because Im not persuaded from the evidence Ive reviewed that the damp  on the 
chimney breast was there at proposal stage; because the special investigator wasnt 
convinced either  that the damp  on the chimney  breast was definitely  the result  of an issue  
with the chimney  or lead flashing; and because, finally, the flat roof over the kitchen wasnt 
allowing water to penetrate and seems to have been in fair state  of repair  to me. It appears 
to be worn only in that it was no longer  new.
Turning now to whether  there was any evidence of any damp  or rot of which Mr S shouldve  
been aware and disclosed  to Liberty, I have to say that I dont think  there  was. The only area 
of damp  Liberty  has referred to when  stating Mr S had non-disclosed was that in the spare 
bedroom where there is a small area of it on the floor timbers directly where the radiator had 
been situated and on an outside  wall The damp/rot that has been photographed appears to 
be isolated, isnt extensive and, as I understand it, was concealed beneath a carpet until the 
theft. 
Consumers are only expected to answer  questions to the best of their knowledge and belief. 
They have to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation.  The damp Liberty 
has identified was concealed under the bedroom carpet. There  is no evidence that the 
Ref: DRN03518735carpet itself was exhibiting damage due to the damp  below such  that Mr S shouldve been 
aware and shouldve disclosed the same  to Liberty. As I understand it, the only way that 
Mr S might have discovered  the rot is if hed gone  round  lifting all the carpets to check. I 
dont think that wouldve  been reasonable. This damage  such  as it was  was hidden  from 
view at the time of the proposal. Mr S had no reason to suspect it was there  so there  was 
nothing to disclose.  So, it follows  that I dont think he failed to take reasonable care not to 
misrepresent the risk to Liberty.   
I note that Liberty  said the kitchen had flooded  but the only evidence I have seen is a text 
comment from the tenant which refers to the washing machine leaking on more  than one 
occasion. And there is no evidence either  about  the extent of these  leaks or that they caused 
any damp such that warranted  disclosing.  
Whilst the property  itself  as seen from the photographs  is clearly in need of redecoration, 
the fact is this isnt something Liberty thought it needed to know about at the point of sale. 
The question Liberty seeks to rely on as being incorrectly answered  is that which Ive quoted 
above. For the reasons Ive given, I think Mr S answered it with reasonable care. I dont think 
Liberty can fairly rely on the poor decorative order of the property in support of its contention 
that Mr S has non-disclosed. It cant reasonably be said to be relevant.
other concerns
Liberty said in its final response  letter that it had other concerns. For example, that there 
were used needles  under the bathroom  floorboards suggesting the house had been used by 
drug users at some point. And that the loss adjuster expected the detached  radiators to have 
leaked water  and create a flood as they were removed but that there was no evidence of 
such. Liberty has said that it was these concerns that led it to appoint  a special investigator 
in the first place. It was following  the special investigators involvement and review  that 
Liberty took its final position in relation to the claim. It was this decision that it communicated 
to Mr S as the reason  it wasnt going to consider his claim and it is this decision that is the 
subject of this complaint.  
Insofar as Liberty, during  the course  of validating the claim, had other concerns (and I 
include in that, any concerns  it had about Mr Ss failure to carry out the required background 
checks on his tenants) they are not now relevant to this provisional decision because it didnt 
rely on them when  declining  to consider Mr Ss claim. 
Ive thought too about Libertys  concern  that Mr S told the police  he didnt require their 
attendance, nor that of CSI. Ive seen the police report and note that it states:  Immediate 
Police Response  is Not Required and No CSI Action Required. I can see he said he had 
secured the address and left it after tidying. Mr S reported the claim and Im not sure what 
Liberty thought  would be gained  and had therefore  been lost  by the failure  of the police 
and CSI to attend.  The thieves having  departed would seem to negate  the need for an 
immediate response.  And, as Ive said, this concern isnt material to Libertys reasons  for 
saying Mr S has non-disclosed. I comment on it here merely for the sake of completeness. 
the claim and redress
I can see that Liberty hasnt considered the theft claim in any detail because  it has focussed 
its attention on the non-disclosure. For that reason, Im not going to require it to pay the 
claim. I intend to require  it to now consider the claim in line with the remaining policy terms 
Ref: DRN03518736and conditions. Mr S should  be aware  that when  it does so, Liberty is free to rely on any of 
the policy exclusions it thinks may be relevant to defeat his claim. 
Liberty never  voided Mr Ss policy nor returned  his premiums so I understand his policy 
remains in force. It should now consider  his claim for theft. 
I think that Liberty did cause delays  in the way it handled  its decision  to decline to consider 
the claim and I think there was poor communication. I can see that Liberty has 
acknowledged as much and has paid Mr S compensation of £300.  I think this is a fair and 
reasonable amount given the circumstances of the trouble and upset it un-necessarily  
caused Mr S. 
Mr Ss loss assessor replied to my provisional decision on his behalf and made the following 
comments:
With regard to my provisional  decision that Liberty wasnt  required to pay the claim at 
this stage, rather it was to consider the claim in line with the remaining policy terms and 
conditions, he thought that Liberty had already considered 99% of the issues relating to 
its liability under the policy. If there had been  other issues then he wouldve expected it 
to have used them as part of its basis for repudiation of the claim;
That Mr S has incurred  3 years worth of lost rent as a consequence of Libertys incorrect 
repudiation of the claim but the policy only provided cover for 24 months lost rent. As the 
additional loss is a result of Libertys actions it should be required to meet the additional 
12 months rent hes lost.
That if I require Liberty to pay for all the rent Mr S has now lost, and it is made  clear  that 
it will be liable for ongoing lost rent, then it will help focus  its attention on considering  the 
claim and prevent further delay.
Liberty replied to say it accepted my provisional decision. 
The complaint was returned  to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst Ive noted, with interest,  Mr Ss loss assessors opinion that Liberty  has already 
considered 99% of the issues associated with this claim (and thus I should  require it to now 
pay the claim) its not persuaded me I should  reasonably change mind  and make Liberty pay 
the claim.  Having reviewed the evidence, I remain of the view that Libertys focus thus far 
has been on the alleged non-disclosure  and not its liability for the theft claim itself. Where  an 
insurer hasnt considered a claim because it believed it wouldnt need to on the grounds it 
thought the policyholder had non-disclosed, this service  doesnt typically  require it to pay the 
claim without  it first considering its liability against the remaining policy  terms. In most 
situations, this being  one of them, that wouldnt be fair. So, I remain  of the view that the 
Liberty should now reconsider the claim in line with the remaining policy terms and 
conditions.  
The loss of rent cover  is dependent  on a successful claim  for damage having been made. I 
dont know now whether Liberty  will accept liability for Mr Ss theft claim so it would be 
premature of me to require it not only to meet 24 months rent but any lost rent that stretched 
Ref: DRN03518737beyond that period. I can only look here at things  that have happened  not things that may or 
may not happen.  Any consideration of lost rent will need to be taken into account by Liberty 
when it considers Mr Ss theft claim. 
If Mr S is unhappy with the decision Liberty  takes in respect of all, or any part, of his claim, 
then he is of course, free to bring another complaint. Whilst I appreciate  Mr Ss desire to 
prevent yet further  delay from occurring, I cant fairly make Liberty pay for something  it has 
yet to assess its liability for.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Liberty Mutual  Insurance  Europe 
SE to consider  Mr Ss claim for theft in line with the remaining policy  terms and conditions. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 November 2020.
Claire Woollerson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0351873