K821x#15complaint
Mrs H complains about UK Insurance Limiteds (UKI)  handling  of a claim on her home 
insurance policy. Shes represented by her daughter, Mrs S.
background
Mrs Hs house was seriously damaged due to a fire caused by arson and she made a claim 
on home insurance policy provided by UKI. It appointed a loss adjuster and contractor  to 
carry out the repairs to the house.
After she moved back into her house, Mrs S made a complaint on her mothers behalf  to UKI 
and this service. She was unhappy about  the quality of some of the work, said that some of 
the necessary  work hadnt been  completed before Mrs H moved back in and that the loss 
adjuster and contractors  actions  had meant  the repairs took longer than they should have.
Our investigator reviewed  the complaint. He thought that some of the issues identified by 
Mrs S were  unavoidable due to the nature of Mrs Hs claim. But he did think there  were  
some things UKI could  have done  better. He said UKI should  pay Mrs H £300 compensation 
to recognise the distress  caused. UKI accepted this, but Mrs H didnt. On her behalf, Mrs S 
said she didnt want more  compensation to be paid, but did want  UKI to pay the cost of 
having an independent surveyor confirm the property was safe. Mrs H has asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to recognise in the first instance how traumatic and upsetting this matter 
has been for Mrs H. She had to escape from her home during a fire and spent more  than six 
months living away from it. But that in itself cant  be a reason for me to consider awarding 
her compensation. Its inevitable that a claim like this will lead to a fairly large amount of 
inconvenience and upset. I need  to consider  whether UKIs actions were reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Mrs S has raised a number of concerns about UKIs handling of the claim. Shes not happy 
about delays to repairs being  started.  And shes also unhappy about the amount of issues 
which hadnt been fully rectified before Mrs H moved  back  home.
Delays to repairs
Insurers have a duty to handle  claims promptly  and fairly. I can see that there  was a period 
of several months  between the fire and the repairs  starting. But in that time the property  had 
to be made  safe,  including  the removal of asbestos.  The scope of works  also needed to be 
agreed, and quotes had to be obtained from contractors, including  Mrs Hs own contractor  
who gave a quote for the works to UKI. After that, Mrs H was given the option  of a cash  
settlement or for UKIs  contractors to carry out the repairs. She elected to have the 
contractors carry out the work. I cant agree there  was an unreasonable delay in the works 
being started.
Mrs S also says a hole in the roof wasnt properly covered for several months after the fire, 
and says that this meant further damage was caused to the property. UKI dispute this, and 
Ref: DRN01079292say that, even if this was the case, it would have carried out any additional repair  work as 
part of the repairs  it was carrying out. Based on the evidence  available  to me, I cant  be 
certain that the roof wasnt properly covered. I understand Mrs S position but I havent seen 
anything from a roofer or any other contractor to support what shes  said. And I havent seen 
anything to show that significant  additional work,  unrelated to the original fire damage, 
needed to be carried out as part of the repairs.
Snagging issues
Mrs S suggests the house wasnt suitable to be lived in when Mrs H moved back home. I 
understand her view on this but Im not convinced that the identified  issues,  either 
individually or collectively, meant Mrs H couldnt live at the property. She also says that a 
professional clean, which was included in the original scope of works, wasnt  carried  out 
before Mrs H moved back into the property. UKI doesnt seem  to dispute this.
I can see that there was an urgent need  for Mrs H to move back into the property as the rent 
on her alternative accommodation was ending, so rather  than extend  this, she moved  back  
into her house. It seems logical to me therefore that some snagging issues  and the clean 
could potentially have  been completed  if she hadnt  moved in when  she did. I completely  
understand why she moved in when she did, but make this observation solely  to potentially 
explain why some issues werent resolved before she moved  back  in. 
An element  of disruption and inconvenience  will always occur when this work  is carried  out, 
and its also to be expected that issues will need to be rectified after its finished.  And, while 
Ive suggested  a reason why certain  matters were probably not resolved before  she moved 
in, I do think that other issues  identified  probably should have been rectified before Mrs H 
moved back in. As an example, there were offcuts of carpet left at the property, and Mrs S 
had to remove these  and vacuum throughout the house on the day before Mrs H moved  
back in. I understand  this would have been  stressful given the need  to resolve this before 
Mrs H moved  back in. The contractor  who fitted the carpets said he hadnt  been paid by 
UKIs agents to take the offcuts away. So its clear this had nothing to do with Mrs H moving 
back in soon after the carpets were  fitted. 
There have been  also delays in fixing issues after Mrs H moved  back in. One half of a 
double oven didnt  work, and there was mould inside other kitchen appliances.  A side gate 
and fire alarm hadnt been fitted,  and it seems  to me there was a lack of urgency on the part 
of UKI and its agents to resolve those matters. UKIs duty to resolve claims promptly doesnt  
end, in this situation, when Mrs H moves  back in to her property. It continues  to exist until 
any issues at the property resulting from the insured repairs  and works  are completed.  I 
recognise that living in the house with these unresolved issues  would have been upsetting. 
And given  that the house had been  damaged by a fire caused by arson,  it would have been 
particularly stressful to have been in the house  without fire alarms  and a side gate fitted. 
Mrs S wants  the cost of a surveyor  to inspect and confirm the safety of the property to be 
paid by UKI. I can understand why shed  want this but Ive seen nothing to suggest the 
property isnt safe. I understand that the relevant gas and electrical certificates  have been 
issued after work was carried out and provided  to Mrs H. I cant agree that UKI should cover 
these costs.
In all, I do think that UKI and its appointed agents could have provided a better service to 
Mrs H. As Ive said, theres always an element of disruption and inconvenience which is 
caused in situations such as this. But I think the level of inconvenience caused to Mrs H was 
Ref: DRN01079293increased because  of poor service provided  by UKI and its agents. And to recognise this, 
UKI should pay £300 compensation to Mrs H.
my final decision
Its my final decision to uphold this complaint in part. I order  UKI to pay £300 compensation 
to Mrs H.
UK Insurance Limited  must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which  we tell 
it Mrs H accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2020.
Ben Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0107929