K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that TSB Bank plc will not refund £9,000 they lost after falling 
victims to a scam.
background
I issued my provisional decision on 15 December 2020. A copy  of my provisional decision is
attached and forms part of my final decision. 
My provisional decision sets out the background to this complaint and explains why I
provisionally decided  the complaint should be upheld. I asked both parties to send  me 
anything else they wanted me to consider before I made my final decision. 
Mr and Mrs W responded to my provisional decision and said they didnt have anything  
further to add. TSB confirmed receipt of my provisional decision, but didnt respond with any 
further information it wanted  me to consider. 
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided anything new for me to consider, I see no reason to depart
from the conclusions  I indicated in my provisional decision. I remain of the view that this
complaint should  be upheld  for the reasons  set out in my provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I uphold  Mr and Mrs Ws complaint  
and TSB Bank plc should;
-refund  Mr and Mrs W the £9,000 they lost through the scam
-as this money originated from Mrs Ws ISA account and would more likely than not 
have stayed in that account for some  time,  TSB should pay interest  on the funds at 
the rate that applied to that account at the time from the date of transfer to the date of 
settlement
-pay Mr and Mrs W £400 for the distress and inconvenience they have experienced
If TSB considers it is required  to deduct tax from the interest element of my proposed award,  
it should provide  Mr and Mrs W with a tax deduction certificate. They  can then use that to 
reclaim that amount from TSB if they are entitled  to do so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 February  2021.
Stephen Wise
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN01569242COPY OF MY PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that TSB Bank plc will not refund £9,000 they lost after falling 
victims to a scam.
background
In November 2017 Mr and Mrs W were  the victims  of a scam. It is not in dispute that what  
happened was a scam, so I have used the term fraudster throughout to refer to the third 
party involved.
Ref: DRN01569243Based on the submissions made  by both parties I understand the scam occurred as follows:
On 18 November 2017 Mrs W received a telephone  call from a man impersonating a 
member of staff from the fraud team at TSB  the caller was actually the fraudster. The 
fraudster told Mrs W that someone was trying to commit  fraud  on their bank account and 
trying to transfer funds  to Nigeria, the fraudster also said the money  was going to be used for 
terrorism.
Earlier in the day, Mr and Mrs W had spoken with their internet/tv provider about arranging a 
new package - during  that call Mr and Mrs W had provided their bank account details.      
Mrs W was asked by the fraudster if they had been  contacted recently and Mr and Mrs W 
mentioned theyd spoken to their internet/tv provider. The fraudster suggested to Mrs W the 
call from their internet/tv provider was probably the fraudsters and thats  why the attacks 
were happening.  Mr and Mrs W now believe the call from their internet/tv provider to have 
been genuine and just a coincidence. 
The fraudster told Mrs W that she had to move quickly,  as attempts were being made to 
move money even while they were on the phone.
Mrs W was convinced by what the fraudster was telling her. According  to Mr and Mrs W, 
they didnt know  exactly how to move their money online, so Mrs W was coached  by the 
fraudster in how to do this. Following the fraudsters instructions, Mrs W transferred £18,000 
from her sole Cash ISA Saver account  (ISA), which was also held with TSB, into the Classic 
Enhance Current Account  (current account) that she held as a joint account with Mr W  she 
then set up two new payees and made payments to these.
Following the first new payee being  set up, a payment for £9,000 was made to an account 
held with who Ill refer to as receiving bank  A. A second new payee was then set up, and a 
further payment  of £9,000  was made  to a different bank,  Ill refer to them as receiving bank 
B.
For both payments Mrs W was contacted by TSB through an automated  verification call, 
which I can see from TSBs records, was made  directly to Mr and Mrs Ws registered 
landline. Mrs W entered  the four-digit codes provided within  this automated  call to authorise 
the payments.
TSB has told us the automated call would have said;
This is an automated  call from TSB to confirm you are setting up a new online  payment. 
Youre currently setting  up a new online  payment  to an account ending XXXX for the amount 
of [x pounds] [and]  [x pence]. Using the keys on your phone please enter or say the 4 digit 
code displayed on your internet  banking screen  now. If youre not expecting  this call, or the 
account details  are incorrect please  press  or say star now.
*consumer enters code*
Thank you, the 4 digit code has been  accepted,  you can now hang up and follow  the 
instructions on your internet banking screen. Goodbye
The first payment for £9,000, to receiving bank A, went through  successfully. The second 
payment of £9,000, to receiving bank  B, didnt go through, although Mr and Mrs W didnt 
know this at the time. TSB has told us this payment bounced back immediately  its told us 
Ref: DRN01569244the reason for this was the account  number, sort code (or both)  were  incorrect - or the 
receiving bank account had been blocked.  
A further  payment of £2,000, to receiving  bank A, was also attempted,  but this was declined 
due to insufficient funds. And another online transaction of £800  was also attempted but 
blocked due to authentication not being passed  successfully. Mr and Mrs W have said they 
were unaware of these  further transactions. TSB think  that at some stage the fraudster had 
gained access to Mr and Mrs Ws online banking and the fraudster had attempted  to make 
these additional  payments   but they were declined due to insufficient funds and failed 
authentication.
Later that evening, Mrs W commented  to her husband imagine if that hadnt  been TSB. At 
this point they became suspicious and called the telephone number on the back  of their TSB 
card. It was during this call that TSB told Mr and Mrs W that it hadnt  called and Mr and Mrs 
W then knew they had been the victims of a scam.  
TSB logged  the fraud case following Mr and Mrs Ws call. The scam took place on a 
Saturday and feeling anxious  Mr and Mrs W visited their local TSB branch on Monday 20 
November 2017   here they were told that the first payment for £9,000 had gone through, 
but the second payment  for £9,000 had been blocked. Mr and Mrs W then spoke with TSBs 
fraud team on 21st November 2017,  when a complaint handler explained to Mr and Mrs W 
they had been in contact  with receiving bank A and that some funds remained  but 
unfortunately it later transpired this was not the case and the fraudster had already moved  
the money on. 
Mr and Mrs W raised a complaint with TSB. TSB issued  its final response and said while  it 
recognised Mr and Mrs W had fallen victim to a sophisticated scam,  Mr and Mrs W had 
provided authorisation for the payments via the automated call and by allowing the fraudster 
access to their account, who they failed to sufficiently identify. 
TSB has also explained that receiving bank A led it to believe some funds remained when it 
first flagged the scam with it, but this information from receiving bank A proved to be wrong.  
TSB said it was sorry Mr and Mrs W were  given incorrect information and false hope. But 
overall it didnt think  it had made an error.
Mr and Mrs W didnt  agree  with TSBs  response,  so they asked this service to investigate.
One of our investigators  looked into things and upheld  Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. In 
summary, he felt TSB ought to have  been concerned with the unusual activity that was 
taking place on Mr and Mrs Ws account.  And that it didnt  go far enough in proactively  
contacting Mr and Mrs W to warn them that they were at risk of financial harm.
TSB didnt  agree with our investigators view. It said there are occasions when customers 
complete payments higher  than the usual usage on their account. It said it cannot be 
expected to block or delay payments whenever this occurs, as this would  be 
disproportionate and would prevent a huge number  of transactions that customers intended. 
It also said there is a balance to be struck between identifying payments that could 
potentially be fraudulent and ensuring  minimal  disruption to legitimate payments.  Overall, it 
did not feel it could  reasonably have  been  expected to have prevented this payment.
As a result of TSBs objections, the complaint has passed to me for a decision. 
Ref: DRN01569245my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I intend  to uphold Mr and 
Mrs Ws complaint  and Ill explain  why.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules,  guidance  and standards;  
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry  
practice at the time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank  is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment  
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account. 
But Ive also taken into account the law, regulators  rules and guidance,  relevant  codes  of 
practice and what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  And, with that 
in mind, I consider  TSB should fairly  and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made  or received  to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.  
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other  signs that 
might indicate that its customers were  at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given  the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  And is 
something recognised  by the British Standards Institutes (BSIs) October 2017  
Protecting Customers from Financial  harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse   
Code of Practice 
In some circumstances,  irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks,  before  processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make  a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.  
Identify and assist  vulnerable consumers and consumers in vulnerable  
circumstances, including  those at risk of financial  exploitation.
Taking all these things  into account,  I consider that at the time of the payment in November 
2017, TSB should  fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made  or received  to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place  including in branch  to look out for unusual  
transactions or other  signs that might indicate that its customers were  at risk of fraud 
(among other things). This was particularly so given the increase in sophisticated 
fraud and scams in recent years  to November 2017, which  banks were (and remain) 
generally more familiar  with than the average customer. Those  scams  include 
common scams centred around consumers being persuaded their funds are at risk 
and being deceived into moving their money to what they believe are safe accounts.
Ref: DRN01569246In some circumstances,  irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks,  before  processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make  a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.  
In this case I need to decide whether TSB acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings  with Mr 
and Mrs W when it processed the first payment of £9,000, which  went  to the fraudster, or 
whether it should  have  done more than it did
Did TSB act fairly and reasonably in this case?
As Ive explained, as a matter of good practice TSB should have been on the lookout for 
unusual and out of character transactions  at the time Mr and Mrs W fell victim to this scam.
There is no disputing in this case that Mr and Mrs W have been victims of a highly 
sophisticated scam, resulting in them losing £9,000. My provisional  decision focuses  on the 
money that Mr and Mrs W lost, the specifics of that transaction  and whether TSB did 
anything wrong. Although  I do acknowledge there  were a number  of other transactions,  
within the body  of this scam, they didnt  result in any direct loss to Mr and Mrs W.
In the circumstances of this particular case,  I think its clear Mr and Mrs W authorised the 
payment of £9,000 to receiving bank  A. I say this as the evidence  from TSB shows the 
transaction was requested through Mr and Mrs Ws usual  IP address, they entered a four-
digit security code  to authenticate the payment and of course Mr and Mrs W have told us 
that they made the payment. So, Im satisfied  that Mr and Mrs W authorised  the transaction 
for £9000,  albeit  this was done  under  deception.
Ive thought carefully about what TSB has said; that it cant be expected to block  or delay 
payments, each time a customer makes a higher  than usual transaction,  as this would 
prevent a large number of genuine transactions. I accept  these  issues  can be finely  
balanced. I agree there is a balance to be struck  between identifying payments that could 
potentially be fraudulent and ensuring  minimal  disruption to legitimate payments.  
But this shouldnt distract  TSB from its role in detecting and preventing fraud regardless of 
the method or channel of the payment. The question I need to consider here is: based on all 
the circumstances of this complaint, whether TSB ought fairly and reasonably to have done 
more in Mr and Mrs Ws case  whether its fraud prevention systems detected the payment 
or not.
From what  Ive seen, I think where Mr and Mrs W have virtually  emptied there ISA account 
and then gone on to make a payment of £9,000, it was out of character for them and not 
typical of how they usually ran their accounts. Ill explain why. 
The £18,000  Mrs W transferred from her ISA account depleted  almost  all of the balance in 
her ISA account. From looking at the statements for this ISA account, for the 18 months  
leading up to the scam, I can see this transfer  was considerably higher in value than any 
other withdrawal made. Indeed, during that period  there  is only one other withdrawal,  for 
£850, with all of the other  transactions being  made up of regular monthly  credits  (each for 
£300) and occasional credits  of interest. 
Ive also looked  at Mr and Mrs Ws current account statements for the ten months  leading  up 
to the scam. From these Ive seen  that Mr and Mrs W typically  use the account  for regular 
Ref: DRN01569247direct debits, standing orders and for day to day spending using their debit  cards. From what 
Ive seen, during  this period, other than the payments to the fraudsters, there is no evidence  
of Mr and Mrs W setting up new payees  or making any other  faster payments.
The transfer to the current account, from Mrs Ws ISA account, meant the balance  within  the 
ISA account was almost  completely drained.  That coupled  with the current  account then 
having a balance exceeding £20,000  and Mr and Mrs W setting up a new payee and 
requesting a bank  transfer for £9,000, was a significant change  to how Mr and Mrs W usually 
ran these accounts. So I think it fair and reasonable to say this could be indicative that Mr 
and Mrs W could be at risk of financial harm.
I say this because  Ive seen there are two larger transactions from their current  account in 
the months leading up to the scam, for £1,300 and £1,661.50  respectively  (for what appear 
to be a holiday and some furniture). Mr and Mrs W have made these  occasional  larger  
transactions, without  transferring in from their savings accounts and they made both of these 
payments by debit  card,  not by faster payments. And customer notes, that TSB has 
provided, indicate historically Mr and Mrs W prefer to protect their savings, with notes from 
2015 showing Mrs W not wanting to use all of her savings for a larger  transaction they were  
intending to make at the time.
So, overall, I think the combination of Mr and Mrs W virtually  emptying their savings account 
and going on to make a large payment from their current account  was out of character and 
unusual, for the reasons Ive explained.  Ive also considered the payment for £9,000, was 
more than five times more  than any other  payment that Mr and Mrs W had made,  during  
2017, from their current account.  
Alongside this, Ive considered the Internet Log TSB has sent to us, showing the online 
activity on Mr and Mrs Ws account. The log shows in the lead up to the scam, six minutes 
before the payment for £9,000 was made,  its fraud systems detected  a concurrent session. 
TSB explained this indicates an attempt to log into Mr and Mrs Ws account from two 
devices, however TSB told us its systems detected  this and prevented it being allowed.  
This feature adds  to the already unusual  activity that was taking place on Mr and Mrs Ws 
accounts - Im satisfied  TSB is aware  that fraudsters will often try and gain access and take 
control of their victims  account. So coupled with the unusual activity on Mr and Mrs Ws 
accounts that I have  mentioned above,  I think TSB ought fairly and reasonably  to have had 
concerns about  the payment of £9000. In all the circumstances,  I consider TSB ought fairly 
and reasonably to have  asked further  questions about the payment Mr and Mrs W were 
intending to make before processing it.
Had TSB taken those steps, I am satisfied  Mr and Mrs W wouldve confirmed what  the 
payment was for. After all, while Mr and Mrs W were being coached  through  making the 
payments online,  they hadnt  been  given a cover  story and they werent trying to hide 
anything. Therefore, I think it more likely than not they would have spoken freely and the 
scam would have come to light. It follows that I dont think  they would  have then gone on to 
make the first payment for £9,000.
Ive considered the possibility that if TSB had contacted Mr and Mrs W they may have still 
been on the phone to the fraudsters, which would have given the fraudsters the opportunity 
to provide Mr and Mrs W a cover story in the moment. However, if this had happened, I think  
it more likely than not it would have been clear that Mr and Mrs W were interacting  with 
somebody else while talking to TSB. Which I dont think would have done  anything to reduce 
Ref: DRN01569248the suspicions I think TSB ought  to have had that Mr and Mrs L may be at risk of financial 
harm.
Ive also considered that if TSB had tried to contact Mr and Mrs W, it may not have been  
able to get through to them as they were talking  to the fraudsters. But should that have 
happened, given the concerns  I think TSB ought to have had about  the payment  I wouldnt 
expect it to have  then gone  ahead  and processed the payment, without  having  a 
conversation.
TSB has said it provided warnings on its website  about social  engineering  scams. But from 
the information TSB has provided about the process  required to set up a new payment 
online, I cant see these  warnings are prominent  at the stage where  the payment is being 
made. And in any event,  in the circumstances  of this case, Mr and Mrs W were  on the phone 
being coached  by a manipulative fraudster using sophisticated social  engineering techniques 
to make them move their money  quickly. So I think a greater  intervention than an online 
warning was required here. 
I have also considered whether Mr and Mrs W were  themselves blameworthy in some way. 
But I am not persuaded they are. All things considered,  I am satisfied  they were  simply  the 
unwitting and blameless victims of clever fraudsters, who have convinced them they needed  
to act quickly in order  to protect their money.
In the circumstances I am satisfied TSB should  fairly and reasonably  compensate Mr and 
Mrs W for the full loss they have suffered.
recovery of funds 
Mr and Mrs W were unhappy to be told by TSB that funds remained in receiving bank A, 
only to then be told that there were no funds remaining.  
In light of my conclusions above,  it is not necessary in this case  to consider whether the 
bank also exercised enough  care and urgency in trying to recover  the stolen funds from the 
payee bank before they were irretrievably removed by the fraudsters. But for completeness,  I 
will say that, from what  Ive seen,  even if TSB had acted sooner  than it did it wouldnt have 
made a difference, as the funds had been  moved  from the receiving bank account within a 
few minutes of the payment  being  made. 
It was most unfortunate that Mr and Mrs W were told that funds  remained  but Ive no 
reason to doubt that TSB was genuinely relaying  what it had been told by receiving bank A.  
Impact on Mr and Mrs W.
Mr and Mrs W have  told us they were  left devastated by the scam and that their marriage 
was put in jeopardy by what happened. The anxiety and undoubted  strain this has caused 
them couldve been prevented had TSB acted as it ought to have.
In view of this I also think it is appropriate to make  an award of £400  for the distress  and 
inconvenience Mr and Mrs W have suffered. In reaching that conclusion  I am mindful that 
this loss was ultimately caused by the callous act of fraudsters and it was an authorised 
transaction, but TSB could ultimately have prevented  the payment. 
Ref: DRN01569249my provisional decision
For the reasons  set out above, I intend  to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. My provisional 
decision is that TSB Bank plc should;
-refund  Mr and Mrs W the £9,000 they lost through the scam
-as this money originated from Mrs Ws ISA account and would more likely than not 
have stayed in that account for some  time,  TSB should pay interest  on the funds at 
the rate that applied to that account at the time from the date of transfer to the date of 
settlement
-pay Mr and Mrs W £400 for the distress and inconvenience they have experienced
If TSB considers it is required  to deduct tax from the interest element of my proposed award,  
it should provide  Mr and Mrs W with a tax deduction certificate. They  can then use that to 
reclaim that amount from TSB if they are entitled  to do so.
Ill give both parties until 5 January 2021  to respond to provide any further comments or 
evidence before reviewing  the matter again.
Stephen Wise
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0156924