K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F say Santander UK Plc (then trading as Alliance  and Leicester, but Ill just refer 
to Santander from now on) mis-sold  them a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
The complaint Im looking at is about the sale of a PPI policy taken out in 2001 alongside a 
mortgage to protect  Mr and Mrs Fs mortgage  monthly repayments. The policy covered Mr F 
for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs F disagreed  with the adjudicators  
opinion. 
Mr and Mrs F mainly  said that the policy wasnt discussed and they didnt know they had 
PPI. They  told us they wouldve claimed  on the policy if theyd known about it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Fs case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Fs complaint.  Ill explain why.
Theres only limited paperwork available now to show how PPI was sold to Mr and Mrs F. 
But as this happened a long time ago, I wouldnt expect Mr and Mrs F or Santander to have 
kept this. 
But I can see on the mortgage application Mr and Mrs F completed that they ticked  next to 
where it says: I would like to consider Mortgage  PaymentCover. Please send me an 
explanatory leaflet and quotation.
So it looks  like they were  interested  in the PPI that Santander was offering.  
And it appears they mustve decided they wanted  the PPI for Mr F. I say this because 
Santander sent him a welcome letter  shortly afterwards setting out details of the cover. 
Mr and Mrs F couldve queried the PPI then if this wasnt something they wanted. But, from 
what Ive seen, it doesnt look as if that happened.
Its completely understandable that Mr and Mrs F mightve forgotten some of the details of 
this sale as it was so long ago. 
Where theres only limited information and its unclear what happened I have to look at 
everything Ive been told and sent and decide what I think  is most likely. I cant  reasonably 
uphold this complaint just based on what Mr and Mrs F say.
On balance, I think it wouldve been  clear to Mr and Mrs F that it was up to them to say if 
they wanted to take out PPI and it was added to the account when they chose the cover  they 
wanted to have. 
Ref: DRN08716712Santander says it recommended the PPI and it looks like it was suitable based on what Ive 
seen of Mr and Mrs Fs circumstances at the time.  Ill explain why.
Only Mr F was eligible  for the policy given his circumstances and the PPI terms and 
conditions that applied. 
The PPI couldve  paid out for up to 12 months  per claim and Mr F couldve made repeated 
claims. So the policy wouldve provided  long term cover  for the mortgage.  Their mortgage 
was a major  financial commitment and Mr and Mrs Fs home wouldve been at risk if the 
mortgage payments  werent kept up to date. I think its likely that losing Mr Fs income 
wouldve had a significant impact on their joint finances. So, I can see why they mightve felt 
it was useful having PPI to protect Mr Fs income in the event he was unable to work. 
Mr and Mrs F told us their family  would  have helped them meet mortgage payments. But 
relying on other people  to help out in the event of money problems isnt as dependable as 
taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly.  
And, although they had life insurance  set up, as well as an endowment policy  which covered 
them for death and critical illness, PPI provided a different  sort of cover and paid out in 
different circumstances.
So I think PPI couldve provided  a useful benefit at a difficult  time  especially if 
Mr and Mrs F mightve had extra costs if Mr F had an illness or disability. So I think  PPI was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs F looking at their circumstances.
Its possible some of the information  Mr and Mrs F were given about the PPI wasnt  as clear 
as it shouldve been. There were some  things the policy  didnt cover. But it doesnt  look as if 
those applied in Mr Fs case. So, I dont think having more information  about things the 
policy didnt cover wouldve affected their decision to take out the policy.
I dont know if the PPI cost was made  clear to Mr and Mrs F at the time they bought  the 
policy. But they wouldve  signed an instruction form to their bank to cover the monthly  cost.  
So it seems  Mr and Mrs F were  happy  at the time to pay for it and the policy appears to have 
been affordable.  As they were paying  for the PPI monthly, they could cancel it without further  
cost if their situation changed  or they no longer  wanted  it.
Mr and Mrs F told us that although  Mr F wasnt always able to work they didnt make a claim 
on the insurance at the time.  This information doesnt affect my decision. But our adjudicator 
has explained that he may wish to approach  the insurer to see if it would be prepared  to 
accept and consider  a retrospective claim. 
Overall its possible there  may have  been  some failings  in the way this policy  was sold.  But 
I think Mr and Mrs F still wouldve decided to buy the policy  even if theyd been given clearer  
information as it gave useful protection in Mr and Mrs Fs particular situation. And, on 
balance, I dont find it was mis-sold.
Ref: DRN08716713But Santander will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs F because:  
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs F about that. Because Santander didnt 
tell Mr and Mrs F, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Santander has basically offered to pay back  the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think 
that offer is fair in this case.
what the business needs  to do
Santander UK Plc has to pay back to Mr and Mrs F any commission  and profit share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium.  Santander UK Plc should also 
pay back to Mr and Mrs F any extra interest they paid because of that. 
Santander UK Plc should pay back to Mr and Mrs F the extra they paid each month  
because the commission  and profit share  it got was more than 50% of the cost of 
PPI. Santander  UK Plc should also pay Mr and Mrs F 8%* simple  interest  on each 
payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr F can claim back the tax if 
he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander  UK Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs F.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs F any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 July 2019.  
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0871671