K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2001. Mr and Mrs S say Santander  UK Plc, trading as Alliance  & Leicester at the time, mis-
sold them  the PPI. 
background
In March 2001, Mr and Mrs S took out a mortgage.  A few months later they arranged a 
further advance  and at this point  they took out a PPI policy.  They paid a monthly amount for 
the cover.
Even though  this was a joint mortgage, only Mr S was covered by the policy.  In the event of 
a successful claim for accident,  sickness or unemployment, the policy  offered to repay the 
monthly benefit for up to 12 months.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs S disagreed so the complaint has 
been passed to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ss case.  Ive decided the policy  wasnt  
mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr and Mrs S have  said that it was not made  clear  that the PPI was optional but I think  
Santander made it clear  that Mr and Mrs S didnt have  to take out the PPI and they chose to 
take it out  although I can understand why they cant remember this after all this time.
Ive been given a copy of the application  for the further advance and this includes a section 
about PPI. In the section there  are options to accept or decline to take out the cover.  On 
Mr and Mrs Ss form I can see that the box asking  for more  information about the cover has 
been ticked. If Mr and Mrs S didnt  want to take out the cover  they could have ticked the no 
box. Mr and Mrs S have both signed the application  form which  suggests they agreed with 
everything that had been entered. 
In addition, from what I have seen it appears  Mr and Mrs S didnt  take out PPI when 
arranging their mortgage a few months  earlier and so I think they would have known that 
they didnt have to take out the cover in order to get the lending.
So based  on everything Ive seen and been told, I think Santander made it clear that the 
policy was optional and that Mr and Mrs S agreed  to take it out, knowing they could refuse it 
if they didnt want  it.
Santander recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs S so it had to check that the PPI was right 
for them  and based on what  Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
Mr S appears to have  been eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of the 
exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover, such as unusual working arrangements or a medical  
condition of which he was already  aware. 
Ref: DRN04309382Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr and Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as clear  as 
it shouldve been.  But they chose to take it out - so it looks  like they wanted  this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful  for them  if something  went  wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the PPI would have put 
them off taking out the cover. 
Which means Santander doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S. 
But Santander has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S because: 
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs S about that. Because Santander didnt  tell 
Mr and Mrs S, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Santander has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs S have  said - including  what they have said about 
not needing the policy as Mr S was entitled  to sick pay from his employer and they had some  
savings. But this policy would have paid out the monthly benefit for up to a year and this 
would be in addition  to, and potentially for longer than, Mr Ss sick pay. And by having this 
policy it would mean that they could protect their savings for another purpose or use them to 
help pay for other living expenses. As this was a large financial  commitment  secured against 
their home, I think by having this policy it could have given them  some  reassurance if Mr S 
wasnt working. So this point doesnt  change  my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander  UK Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs M any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 July 2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0430938