K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2008. Miss C says Northern Bank Limited mis-sold  her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Northern Banks records  show that PPI was discussed with Miss C and that she agreed  
to take it. She has also said she was asked if she wanted  it. So I think  Northern Bank 
made it clear  that Miss C didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out.
Northern Bank recommended the PPI to Miss C so it had to check that the PPI was right 
for her  and based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time, I think that it 
was. For example she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI 
cover and she seems  to have had a need  for the cover. Shed just started  her job so 
wasnt entitled to any sick pay, and she only had a small  amount of savings. So without 
the PPI shed have quickly fallen into arrears  if shed  been unable  to work. 
Its possible  the information Northern Bank gave Miss C about the PPI wasnt as clear  
as it shouldve been.  But she chose to take it out having understood it would help out if 
she was off work  on sick leave  so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. And it 
seems like it would have been useful for her if something went  wrong.  It also looks  like it 
was affordable. So I dont think better information  about the PPI would have put her off 
taking out the cover. 
Which means Northern Bank  doesnt  have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to 
Miss C.
But Northern Bank has offered  to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss C because:  
Northern Bank got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Miss C about that. Because Northern  Bank didnt 
tell Miss C, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Northern Bank  has offered to pay back  the amount  of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Miss C has said - including about how she says she wouldve 
cancelled the PPI after six months once  shed become eligible for sick pay through her work. 
But these  points dont  change my decision.  The PPI wouldve made  payments to her credit 
card for up to 12 months  if shed needed  to claim.  And thats  longer than her sick pay and 
savings wouldve lasted.  So Im not persuaded that better information  wouldve made  any 
difference to her decision. 
Ref: DRN08293812what the business needs  to do
Northern Bank has to pay back to Miss C any commission  and profit  share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Northern Bank  should also pay back to Miss C any 
extra interest she paid because of that.
Northern Bank should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Miss C the difference 
between what Miss C owes  and what she wouldve owed if the commission  and profit share 
it got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Northern Bank should also pay Miss C 
8%* simple interest if she paid off their credit card at some point.
I understand Northern  Bank has already made  some  refund, so it can take this into account 
when calculating what it still owes Miss C. 
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Northern Bank  Limited does not have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Miss C.
But Northern Bank Limited does  have to pay back to Miss C any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 December  2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0829381