K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) refused to make  a claim 
under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  (CCA) for the cost of a car engine.  He 
would like the cost refunded.
background
Mr B says in May 2017 he bought a car for his granddaughter under an informal 
arrangement whereby  the car was legally his until his granddaughter had repaid the cost of 
the car to him. He says he pays for all repairs.
He says the car broke down  in May 2017. He ordered a new engine on his Nationwide  credit  
card. Unfortunately  the first engine sent didnt  work.   The  supplier said that engine needed to 
be collected and inspected before it could be replaced. So the fitting garage went  ahead and 
ordered a second engine  straight away on the basis there would be a refund once things 
were sorted out 
Unfortunately the second engine didnt work either.   Eventually the supplier sent a third one 
that did work. But it refused to refund the cost of the first engine.  It felt the problems were 
down to the fitting garage.
At that point Mr B says he contacted NatWest to get a refund under Section 75 but NatWest  
turned this down.
NatWest said it didnt  believe Mr B had a valid claim. It said although Mr B bought  the car 
and was the legal owner  he had passed  ownership  to his grand daughter under a private 
arrangement. So Nationwides  view was that the engine replacement was for Mr Bs grand 
daughter not for himself.  It felt that it was Mr Bs granddaughter who arranged  for the 
replacement engine with Mr B simply supplying the funding. In its view this introduced  a 
further party into the agreement breaking the debtor, creditor, supplier link necessary for a 
Section 75 claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. She found that in order to pursue a claim under 
Section 75 of the CCA there needed  to be a link between the debtor (D) (Mr B), creditor  (C) 
(Nationwide) and supplier  (S). But in this case the supplier sent the invoice for the engine  to 
a family  member not to Mr B. So she felt the Debtor-Creditor-Supplier link had been broken
As Mr B wasnt the recipient of the engine she felt that Nationwide was therefore  within its 
rights not to pursue a claim on Mr Bs behalf.
Mr B didnt accept this. He said he only put the invoice into a family members  name  as he 
Was going into hospital so he didnt want to have to deal with any issues.  He said the car 
was, and still is, his. And that he arranged and bought the engine  with his own funds but 
gifted the engine to his grand daughter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that Nationwide turned down Mr Bs claim for a refund under Section 75.
Ref: DRN03408812In order for a Section 75 claim to be considered there needs to be a direct link between  the 
debtor (Mr B), creditor (Nationwide) and the supplier of the engine 
Mr B feels  strongly about this. He says the car is legally his as he paid for it. But I think the 
main issue  here isnt the ownership of the car its more  the purchase  of the engine. And if 
that purchase can be considered for a Section 75 claim  or not.
Mr B has told us he arranged for the replacement engine not his granddaughter. But 
unfortunately he chose  to put the invoice into his granddaughters name.  I can understand 
his reasons why given  what he has told us of his personal circumstances at the time. But in 
my view that does impact on a Section 75 claim.
Although Mr B paid for the engine which makes him the creditor, the fact the invoice is in his 
granddaughters name means the engine was supplied to his granddaughter  which in my 
view makes the contract with the supplier with his grand daughter  not with Mr B. 
But as Mr B paid for the engine he has the relationship with Nationwide (the credit provider)
That means that neither Mr B nor his grand daughter hold all of the elements of a debtor- 
creditor-supplier agreement needed  to pursue a Section 75 claim.
So on that basis I dont  believe Nationwide were wrong not to pursue a claim. And I cant 
therefore reasonably  ask Nationwide  to refund the cost of the engine  as Mr B would like.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 May 2019.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0340881