K821x#15complaint
Miss S has complained  about  short-term loans granted to her by CashEuroNet UK LLC 
trading as Quick  Quid (Quick  Quid  or the lender). Miss S says the loans were not 
affordable for her and were irresponsibly lent. 
background
I set out the circumstances  leading to this complaint and my initial  conclusions  in a 
provisional decision to both parties in June. I have included a copy of my provisional 
decision at the end of this document and so I wont repeat its content here. For convenience, 
Id set out some of the information Quick Quid provided about  Miss Ss loans  in a table in my 
provisional decision. 
Quick Quid didnt agree with my provisional  decision so the complaint  has come to me to 
reconsider and issue a final decision on the matter. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As before, I have also taken into account 
the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good  industry practice at the time. And Ive 
considered what  Quick Quid has said in response  to my provisional decision. 
In its response to my provisional decision,  Quick  Quid reiterated some  of its previous 
arguments about its lending process  since March 2015, which  I will not revisit. It provided 
some more explanation of how it calculated its disposable income figures  but hasnt 
provided copies  of its credit check results. So altogether, its not enough for me to be able to 
say that its assessments  for loan 2 onwards were proportionate, given the circumstances. 
Quick Quid also explained that Miss Ss loans were  multi-period loans and that she would 
have been aware  that she might need  to save to meet  final, large, loan repayments. This 
doesnt absolve Quick Quid of its responsibility to assess the risk to Miss S of her not 
managing to meet her repayments sustainably. And, as Quick Quid can see from my 
provisional decision, I took this type of loan structure  into account when forming  my 
conclusions. 
Finally, Quick Quid says it wasnt wrong to lend to Miss S on the basis that she spent money 
on gambling. It explained that such  spend isnt a matter of public record so it wouldnt find 
this out through an affordability  assessment. It also mentioned  that Miss Ss loan 
repayments would take precedence over such spending.  And that it wasnt required to 
assess Miss Ss bank statements as part of its lending procedures.  
Id provisionally  concluded  that, given everything, Miss Ss spend  on gambling  would likely  
have come to light by the time Miss S had asked  for her third loan. As I explained in my 
provisional decision, Miss S then went on to ask for three top-ups within about five days. And 
when she applied for a second  top-up, Quick Quid ought to have asked itself whether it was 
responsible to continue to agree  credit  for Miss S, given the pattern of lending  it was seeing. 
And I upheld  Miss Ss complaint from here onwards on the basis that it wasnt responsible to 
have done so.
Ref: DRN00408782Firstly, the regulations are not prescriptive about what  Quick Quid needed  to do to carry out 
a proportionate check. So I am not suggesting  it ought to have checked Miss Ss bank 
statements. But I do think a proportionate check for loan 3 ought to have involved some level 
of verification of the information Miss S provided about her income  and her expenditure as it 
had gone beyond the point where her credit applications could reasonable be seen as 
having a short-term purpose. And a proportionate  assessment would likely have shown large  
amounts of unaccounted-for regular spending.  Irrespective  of what level of importance  or 
priority Quick Quid felt ought  to be placed on its customers loan repayments, I dont think  it 
should have lent under such  circumstances.  And so it was irresponsible to have done  so.    
I appreciate that this is going to be disappointing for Quick Quid but having carefully 
considered what  it has said in response to my provisional decision, I am still of the view that 
it should not have agreed  to lend to Miss S from June  2016 onwards, in other words loans 
2 to 5 as set out in my table. 
what Quick Quid should  do to put things right
Ive concluded  that Quick  Quid was irresponsible to have agreed loans 2 to 5 for Miss S. In 
order to put her back in the position she would have  been in, had it not agreed  to these, 
Quick Quid should:  
-refund all interest  and charges (including  late fees and default interest charges) Miss S 
paid for loans 2, 3, 4 and all associated top-ups;
-pay interest on these refunds at 8% simple* per year from the dates of payment to the 
dates of settlement;
-remove any adverse information about loan 2 from Miss Ss credit  file;
-remove all information about loan 3 onwards from Miss Ss credit file; 
I understand that there was a £356  balance outstanding on Miss Ss last loan of £350 when 
she brought her complaint to us. The records I have (up to 1 April 2018) show that Miss S 
paid £344 in interest and capital payments for this loan,  almost the full original capital 
amount borrowed.  All the repayments Miss S made should  be counted as payments towards 
the capital amount of the loan and any outstanding  interest and charges should be written 
off. 
If Miss S has made any payments beyond  this, they should be refunded as above, along  
with interest at 8% simple *per annum.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires  Quick Quid to take off tax from this interest. Quick Quid  must give 
Miss S a certificate  showing  how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN00408783my final decision
I uphold Miss Ss complaint about CashEuroNet UK LLC trading as Quick  Quid  in part and 
require it to put things right for her as Ive set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 August 2019.
Michelle Boundy
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN00408784COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Miss S has complained  about short-term  loans  granted to her by CashEuroNet  UK LLC trading as 
Quick Quid  (Quick Quid or the lender). Miss S says the loans were  not affordable for her and were  
irresponsibly lent.
background
Quick Quid  agreed five loans for Miss S in the period March 2016 to February  2017.  The loan terms 
varied with Miss S making between  two and three repayments to clear  the loan. Some  of the 
information Quick Quid provided  about these  loans  is shown in the table below. Miss S asked for 
additional credit advances or top-ups when she borrowed loans 3, 4 and 5 and these are shown in 
the table as 3a, 4a etc. Ive rounded all amounts to the nearest pound.
No. Date  agreed Date repaidPrincipal 
(£)Payment 
1 (£)Payment 
2 (£)Payment 
3 (£)
1 07/03/2016 01/06/2016 200 38 46 251
2 01/06/2016 25/08/2016 500 92 140 612
3 10/10/2016 50 7 61 -
3a 12/10/2016 50 14 122 -
3b 14/10/2016 50 19 184 -
3c 15/10/201630/11/2016
100 30 306 -
4 08/12/2016 200 32 251 -
4a 12/12/2016 50 38 314 -
4b 14/12/2016 100 50 440 -
4c 24/12/201631/01/2017
100 54 565 -
5 15/02/2017 200 22 245 -
5a 16/02/2017outstanding
150 37 428 -
Our adjudicator partially upheld Miss Ss complaint and recommended that Quick Quid refund  the 
interest and charges that she paid for her first loan and from when Miss S requested a second top-up 
on her third loan i.e. the 14 October  2016 onward (shown as 3b in the loan table). Quick Quid  didnt 
agree with this recommendation and so the case has come  to me, as an ombudsman,  for review and 
final decision.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. I have also taken into account the law, any relevant  regulatory  rules 
and good industry practice at the time.
Our adjudicator, having  looked  at everything, found that Quick Quid didnt  carry out proportionate 
checks when Miss S applied for any of her loans, except  her first. But the adjudicator recommended  
that Miss Ss first loan be upheld  because  the information  Quick  Quid had gathered about her income  
and expenses  showed that the highest  loan repayment would be unaffordable  for her. 
Our adjudicator also upheld  Miss Ss complaint about all advances  from the 14 October 2016 
onwards. This was because, had Quick Quid carried out proportionate checks when  Miss S asked  to 
borrow on these occasions,  it was likely to have understood that these loans were not sustainably 
affordable for Miss S due to her existing  commitments to other short term lenders and because  of the 
Ref: DRN00408785amount of money she was spending on gambling. These findings were set out in some detail in a 
view letter to the lender.
I am not planning  to uphold Miss Ss complaint about her first loan but I am planning to uphold her 
complaint about her other loans. I appreciate  this will be disappointing for 
Quick Quid  and I hope  my explanation makes  clear my reasons for doing  so.
Quick Quid  didnt comment  on our adjudicators findings about the proportionality of its checks or the 
affordability of the loans,  nor did it provide any new information for me to consider. It responded  to our 
adjudication to say:
In response to FOS assessment which recommends  CashEuroNet UK uphold  loans which  were 
funded after March 2015, we regret to inform you that we cannot agree  to FOS recommendations. 
Please note that in CashEuroNet UKs  initial  response to FOS we provided  detailed information 
indicating why the loans  were responsibly lent to Miss [S]. Furthermore, we would  like to advise that 
we are currently in talks with senior management  at FOS to amicably  resolve this outstanding  issue, 
therefore we kindly ask that you move  this case for ombudsman queue for a final decision.
As Quick  Quid  is no doubt aware  now because of previous decisions responding to this point, this 
Service is required to take into account wider considerations in making  determinations on complaints.  
As the Financial Conduct  Authoritys (FCA) handbook sets out in the rules and guidance relevant to 
dispute handing (DISP  3.6.1R): The Ombudsman will determine  a complaint by reference to what is, 
in his opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of the case.  
And DISP 3.6.4R goes on to explain that
In considering what  is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case, the Ombudsman will 
take into account:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) (where appropriate) what he considers to have been good industry practice  at the relevant 
time.
So, I am required to consider more  than the rules  and guidance set out by the regulators  in making 
my determination on a complaint. And I would  not be acting in accordance  with my statutory  role if I 
only considered the extent to which Quick  Quid complied  with rules and guidance set out by the FCA 
in my determination. So I cant reject Miss Ss complaint on this basis alone and Ive gone  on to 
consider the merits  of it.
The FCA was the regulator  at the time when  Miss S borrowed the loans in question. Its rules  and 
guidance say that Quick  Quid needed  to check that she could afford to meet the repayments for her 
loans in a sustainable  manner. This means being able to meet her repayments out of her normal 
income without having to go without or borrow further.  
The regulations arent prescriptive about what checks Quick Quid needed to carry out. But the checks  
needed to be proportionate to the circumstances. In general, Id expect  a lender to require more 
assurance the greater the potential risk to the consumer  of not being able to repay  the credit in a 
sustainable way. 
Ref: DRN00408786So, for example, Id expect a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more detailed  checks
-the higher the loan amount,
-the lower the consumers income; or
-the longer the lending relationship.
So, as our adjudicator did, Ive first thought about whether or not the checks  Quick Quid carried  out 
were proportionate and, if not, what  proportionate checks might have shown. 
In addition, Ive thought about  whether  or not the number of high cost short term loans 
Quick Quid  provided  to Miss S in itself was unsustainable or otherwise harmful. The purpose of short 
term credit is to provide a solution to a short term cash flow problem and using this type of credit to 
meet ongoing financial need is likely  to be unsustainable.  
 
CONC 6.7.21G says:
A firm should not refinance high-cost short-term  credit  where to do so is unsustainable  or 
otherwise harmful.
[Note: paragraph 6.25 of ILG]
CONC 6.7.22G says:
A firm should not allow a customer to enter  into consecutive agreements with the firm for 
high-cost short-term credit if the cumulative  effect  of the agreements would be that the total 
amount payable  by the customer is unsustainable.
[Note: paragraph 6.25 (box)  of ILG]
And paragraph 6.25 of ILG1states that it would be a deceptive and/or unfair  practice where  a lender 
is:
Repeatedly refinancing (or rolling over) a borrowers  existing credit commitment for a 
short-term credit product  in a way that is unsustainable or otherwise harmful.
Section 6.25 then goes  on to say:
The OFT considers that this would include  a creditor allowing a borrower  to sequentially enter 
into a number  of separate agreements for short-term loan products, one after another, where  
the overall effect is to increase the borrowers  indebtedness in an unsustainable  manner.
The general  purpose of short-term loans, such as payday loans, is to provide borrowers with 
a cash advance  until their next pay day and they are usually about 30 days, or just over, in 
duration. However, in certain circumstances, the borrower  can elect to renew  the loan for a 
fee and delay  payment for a further agreed period of time.
The purpose  of payday loans is to act as a short-term solution to temporary cash flow 
problems experienced by consumers. They are not appropriate for supporting sustained 
borrowing over longer periods, for which other products are likely  to be more suitable.
loan 1
As mentioned,  our adjudicator upheld Miss Ss complaint about her first loan. Miss S had told the 
lender that her monthly income was £900 and her usual monthly expenses came to £650. As per the 
loan table, this loan was to be repaid  in three payments of £38, £46 and £251.  And so our adjudicator  
1 The Office of Fair Trading  was the previous regulator of high cost short  term credit providers  and its guidance 
was set out in its Irresponsible Lending Guidance document or ILG.
Ref: DRN00408787found that the final repayment was not unaffordable for Miss S based on the information shed 
provided.
However, in reviewing this complaint I have  borne  in mind that this loan was to be repaid  in three lots. 
Given it was Miss Ss first loan I can accept that it wasnt unreasonable  of 
Quick Quid  at this point  to think that she could be in a position to meet her loan repayments when  
they fell due, potentially  by spreading her repayments across the term.  
I understand Quick Quid carried out a credit  file check at this point. I dont know what  it saw as it 
hasnt provided the results  of its check. But, from a look though a recent copy  of 
Miss Ss credit file (provided by her), I cant see anything from the time that ought  to have prompted  
Quick Quid  to do more.
And so I dont think Quick  Quid  was wrong  to have lent on this occasion  on the basis  of the 
information it had available and I dont plan to uphold Miss Ss complaint about this loan.
It seems from Quick  Quids account records that Miss S missed her first repayment on this loan by a 
day and was charged £15 in late fees.  I note from the customer contact records that she then emailed 
Quick Quid  in late May 2016 to ask if she could pay the final amount of £251 in two instalments over 
two months. Quick Quid seems to have sent a standard response  asking for further information about 
her financial circumstances  but I dont know what happened beyond this. Miss S then paid the full 
amount of £251. 
loan 2 
Miss S applied for a second loan the day she repaid her first. This second loan was for more than 
double the amount shed  previously borrowed at £500. She told Quick  Quid that her income had 
increased to £1,500 and her expenses had decreased to £275, resulting in a jump  in her monthly  
disposable (net of expenses) income  from £250 to £1,225 inside of three months. This is quite a 
significant increase and I agree with our adjudicator that the lender ought  to have done more here 
before agreeing to lend again, given the circumstances. 
Our adjudicator explained that a proportionate check for Miss Ss second loan would have included  
not only asking Miss S about her usual expenses but also asking about any other payments, such as 
other short  term loan commitments, that might have impacted on her ability to meet her repayments 
for this loan when they fell due. I agree and furthermore,  given Miss Ss difficulties in repaying her first 
loan and the increase in her reported disposable income when her circumstances dont seem to have 
changed, I dont think it was fair of Quick Quid to continue  to rely on the information Miss S provided 
without taking  steps  to verify it.
Quick Quid  says that it used credit reference agency data to sense-check Miss Ss declared  income 
and used some of the information gathered to calculate an estimated disposable  income. It gave an 
estimated figure of £4,871 for Miss Ss disposable  income over the term of this loan (86 days) which  
exceeds Miss Ss declared disposable income over the loan term by a considerable margin  and 
contrasts with its estimated  disposable income figure of £720 for Miss Ss first loan of similar term. As 
mentioned, it hasnt provided the results of its credit checks and it hasnt explained what  information it 
used or how it incorporated this into its disposable income estimations. So, altogether,  I cant say it 
carried out a proportionate check  here.
Miss S has provided her bank statements  and I can see from these  that her income wasnt quite at 
the level she told Quick  Quid as it was around £1,050 in early 2016. Some of her identifiable 
expenses include  car insurance and mobile phone costs, rent and food. These generally come to 
about £500. So, without  considering any further expenses,  I dont think the repayments for this loan 
would have been affordable for Miss S as they fell due. And 
Quick Quid  would likely have understood this had it looked further into her financial circumstances at 
this point. And, as a responsible lender,  it wouldnt  have agreed  to this loan. So I plan to uphold Miss 
Ss complaint  about it. 
Ref: DRN00408788As before  I have considered  that this loan was to be repaid in three lots but unlike the circumstances 
of her first loan, I dont  think  it could have been reasonable of Quick  Quid to lend to Miss S on the 
basis of her being able to manage  the loan repayments across the term of this loan. She seems to 
have had difficulty  repaying  her first loan and Quick Quid agreed to a second loan of a much higher 
amount the day shed repaid her first. This suggests to me that Miss S was borrowing again to 
manage the gap in her income that the first loan repayment left and that she didnt have the means  to 
carry money forward from month to month. So I think it was no longer reasonable of Quick Quid  to 
lend on this basis.
I can see from the customer contact records that Miss S seems to have had trouble  with this loan also 
 she asked for it to be cancelled the day after taking  it out and asked for a lower amount to be 
agreed, which  doesnt appear to have  happened. Miss S then asked for the date of the first payment 
to be changed to match her pay date. This was agreed, but then the account  records dont show a 
payment on this new agreed date and she was charged a late fee. Miss S did make three repayments 
for this loan and it was repaid just before the original end date.
loan 3 onwards
Miss S didnt ask for further credit for about a month and a half after repaying her second loan.  She 
then asked for a much  lower amount of £50. Two days later she asked for another  £50. She then 
asked for another  £50 another  two days after that, and £100 a day later. 
Our adjudicator explained that, given  this pattern  of borrowing, Quick  Quid ought to have carried out a 
comprehensive check when  Miss S asked for her second and third top-ups on this loan (labelled 3b 
and 3c in the loan table ). And I agree, but furthermore  because  of the problems Miss S appears to 
have had managing her repayments for her first two loans, I think  Quick Quid ought to have carried  
out a comprehensive  check when Miss S came to ask for the initial borrowing on loan 3 and when she 
asked for her first top-up two days later.
I have considered that there was a short gap between Miss S repaying  her second loan and asking  
for a third, smaller, loan. But within five days shed asked for another three advances  so Quick Quid  
ought to have  gathered a full picture of her finances,  if not initially, at the latest when Miss S asked for 
her second  top-up (on the 14 October) as it could see a pattern of borrowing  emerging by then.
Our adjudicator explained that had Quick Quid looked further into Miss Ss finances at this stage it 
was likely  to have  found  out about her gambling spend. I can see from Miss Ss bank statements that 
shed been spending  significant amounts on gambling  relative to her income before she first borrowed  
from Quick Quid and this continued throughout her borrowing. I dont think Quick  Quid would 
necessarily have found out about  this when  
Miss S asked  for her second loan, had it looked to verify  her income and expenditure.  But I think  this 
would have come to light when  it looked again into her finances around the time of her third loan. And 
given the risk to Miss S of her not being able to meet her repayments in a sustainable manner, Quick 
Quid wouldnt  have agreed to her third loan or its top-ups.
Reading through the customer contact  notes, Miss S seems to have  attempted to cancel this loan, or 
part of it, towards the end of October before  her first repayment. Im not sure what  happened here but 
Miss S was charged  a late fee for missing her first repayment and sent a default notice. She was then 
charged some default  interest before  clearing the loan about a week after the due date. 
I want  to note at this point that I understand  Miss S had considerable savings that were from an 
inheritance payment and to which she gained access in August 2016, after her second loan had been 
agreed but before  she took out her third loan. These were not available to her to meet repayments for 
her third loan however, because she had spent them on gambling in the intervening time. All 
advances for Miss Ss third loan were  immediately  spent on gambling, as indeed  was every advance  
from Quick Quid from the beginning.
Ref: DRN00408789There is another consideration here beyond what proportionate  checks  would or would not have 
revealed. Miss S had borrowed two loans  in about six months  and had had some difficulties repaying 
these. And, after a short  gap, shed  returned to borrow another £250 (in total)  over several advances  
within a short space of time. 
Given Miss Ss borrowing history, it should have been clear to Quick Quid  when Miss S asked for her 
second top-up (3b) that she wasnt  asking  for credit to meet  unexpected expenses but to support her 
finances in the longer term. The pattern of lending itself up to this point showed that this was likely to 
be the case. And Quick Quid should have considered that meeting her ongoing need through short 
term high cost credit  wasnt the purpose for which it was intended, was likely to be unsustainable for 
Miss S and was potentially harmful, given the high interest she needed  to pay and the record that 
repeat borrowing would leave on her credit file. 
I dont think Quick  Quid considered this and it agreed top-ups 3b and 3c, and further top-ups and 
loans for Miss S that prolonged  her indebtedness to it. So I think it was also irresponsible of Quick  
Quid to agree any further credit for Miss S beyond her third loan and its first top-up.
what Quick Quid  should do to put things  right
Ive provisionally concluded that Quick  Quid was irresponsible to have agreed loans 2 to 5 for Miss S. 
In order  to put her back in the position she would  have been in, had it not agreed to these, Quick Quid  
should: 
-refund all interest  and charges (including late fees and default interest charges) Miss S paid for 
loans 2, 3, 4 and all associated top-ups;
-pay interest on these  refunds at 8% simple* per year from the dates of payment to the dates of 
settlement;
-remove  any adverse information about loan 2 from Miss Ss credit file;
-remove  all information about  loans  3 onwards from Miss Ss credit  file; 
I understand that there was a £356 balance  outstanding on Miss Ss last loan of £350 when she 
brought her complaint to us. The records I have (up to 1 April 2018)  show that Miss S paid £344 in 
interest and capital payments for this loan, almost the full original  capital amount borrowed. All the 
repayments Miss S made should be counted as payments towards  the capital amount of the loan and 
any outstanding interest and charges should be written off. 
If Miss S has made any payments beyond this, they should be refunded as above, along with interest 
at 8% simple  *per annum.
*HM Revenue & Customs  requires Quick Quid to take off tax from this interest.  Quick Quid  must give Miss S a 
certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my provisional  decision
I intend  to uphold  Miss Ss complaint for the reasons given above and require 
CashEuroNet UK LLC Limited (trading  as Quick Quid) to put things right as Ive set out. 
Ill wait two weeks to see if either party  has anything further to add  before considering my decision 
on this complaint once more.
Ref: DRN0040878