K820x#14complaint
Mrs S says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
I cant consider this complaint against  the policy seller directly because  the sale took place 
before it, or its predecessor-in-title, was regulated by the then Financial Services Authority 
(FSA) for insurance intermediation activities, or otherwise covered by our jurisdiction.
The party that at the time of the sale was the policy insurer, has accepted that the seller  was 
acting as its agent at the time - so it accepted responsibility for the sale.  Following a transfer 
of business, AXA France IARD (AXA)  has taken on that responsibility.  To keep things 
simple, Ill only refer to AXA in this decision, rather than any other business.
background and summary to complaint
Mrs S was sold the policy by phone  in 1999,  around  six months  after taking a store card.  
She was employed  at the time as an accounts  clerk  and had been there more than 10 years. 
Shes told us she was entitled  to redundancy pay and didnt have anything  else,  like savings, 
to pay her card with if she couldnt  work.  I think it likely she was also entitled to statutory  sick 
pay. Mrs S has told us she saw a doctor  for a health  issue  around 12 years before the sale 
and received treatment.  Shes told us she didnt have any time off work as a result.  She 
hasnt told us of having had any other health issues.
AXA has told us Mrs S paid just over £26 in PPI premiums in total over the life of the policy. 
The PPI provided  cover for accident, sickness and unemployment, and life cover, subject to 
its exclusions and limitations.  For a successful disability or unemployment claim, it offered to 
pay 15% of Mrs Ss card balance. It cost at the time £1 per £100 of the monthly outstanding 
balance. The premium  still had to be paid during a successful claim and attracted interest. 
The life cover, subject to its terms, would clear the balance on death. 
The policy also provided purchase protection and price protection . Mrs S hasnt complained  
about this element of the insurance policy so I will not consider  it further  in this decision. 
 
Mrs Ss representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on her behalf.  Ill 
not restate  them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all carefully. In summary,  
Mrs Ss representative says:
AXA failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mrs S wouldnt have taken the 
policy and the complaint  should  be upheld. Mrs Ss representatives believe there to be 
no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  AXA should have told Mrs S about the 
poor value; 
Ref: DRN04172502The common law duty of utmost good faith also means AXA should have explained the 
significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mrs S and the impact they would 
have had on her chances of making a claim; and
The information Mrs S received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion for several  reasons and has also said she wouldnt have signed  any agreements had 
she been made aware of the interest rates in advance. As the complaint  couldnt be resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ss. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ss complaint.
This sale took place  in 1999 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself was with a third-party  and not AXA. That means the unfair  
relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court  
judgment in Plevin  about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance  made by the FCA 
about the handling of complaints  about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the 
Plevin judgment, arent  applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint: 
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies) other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
Ref: DRN04172503The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Among other  things, the code said that As a condition of membership of the Association  of 
British Insurers (ABI),  members undertake  to enforce this Code  and to use their best 
endeavors to ensure that all those involved in selling their policies observe its provisions. 
The insurer  was a member of the ABI and the seller  its agent  was acting as an 
intermediary. 
The Finance  & Leasing  Association (FLA) Code of Practice
This code  was introduced in 1992  and set out standards of good  practice  for the finance  and 
leasing industry. Section  4 of the code  covered  Credit  Protection Insurance. 
As Ive explained, the insurer was a member  of the ABI, so it was subject to the ABI Code 
and its associated requirements. The seller  but not the insurer  was a member of the FLA 
and subscribed  to the FLA Code, so I consider it reasonable to assume that the seller  (as a 
member of the FLA)  should have complied  with its code when selling PPI, and this extends  
to when it was acting as an agent  of the insurer.  
So Im satisfied it is right that I should  take these  codes into account when deciding what is, 
in my opinion, fair and reasonable  in the circumstances of Mrs Ss case. Ive also taken 
account of relevant law in reaching my decision,  including: the law relating to negligence, 
misrepresentation and contract (including the express and implied duty on professional 
advisers to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law relating to the duty 
of utmost good  faith; and the law relating  to causation  and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Insurance  Ombudsman  Bureau 
 might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note that under 
the Insurance Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman was required  to decide 
complaints by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required  to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial  authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so AXA 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mrs Ss complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If AXA gave advice,  whether it advised  Mrs S with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs and 
circumstances. 
Ref: DRN04172504-Whether AXA gave  Mrs S sufficient, appropriate  and timely  information to enable  her to 
make an informed choice  about whether to take the policy,  including drawing to her 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions 
of the policy  and significant limitations  and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs S, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs S suffered loss or damage 
and what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs S and AXA, 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ss complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mrs S know  she had a choice?
AXA had to make  it clear the PPI was optional. Mrs S has said she had no interest in PPI 
and has said it was just included as part of the package  with her card. But the application 
form she signed for the card shows she took the card around six months before the date on 
which AXA and Mrs S agree the PPI was sold  and the application form for the card also 
indicates Mrs S didnt take PPI when she first took the card.  So, based on what I have, the 
PPI wasnt included as part of the package  when Mrs S took her card.
AXA says it sold the PPI by phone. From what Ive seen, where AXA sold PPI like this after a 
card started, the sale was usually by phone.  So, while Ive considered what Mrs S has said 
about buying the PPI during a meeting in a shop (which I think is likely how and where she 
took the card itself) I think it likely the PPI here was sold by AXA to Mrs S by phone.
AXA hasnt been  able to provide a recording of the call or a call script.  This isnt surprising 
given the time that passed between  the sale and Mrs Ss complaint. Given  the time that has 
passed, it would also be understandable if Mrs S didnt recall the sales call or the details of 
it. But as Mrs S already  had her card when  the PPI was sold, I think  it likely she was aware  
at that time that she didnt have to have the PPI in order to have the card.  So, overall,  what I 
have doesnt make me think it likely  Mrs S wouldnt have known the PPI was optional   and 
she hasnt said she was pressured into it. Taking  everything into account, I think  its more 
likely Mrs S knew the PPI was optional and agreed  to take it without  undue  pressure.
did AXA provide advice?
AXA says it didnt provide advice during this sale.  Taking  into account also what  Mrs S has 
said, Im persuaded  AXA didnt provide  advice.  This means AXA didnt have to check if the 
PPI was suitable for Mrs S. 
Instead, AXA had to give Mrs S sufficient,  appropriate and timely information to enable her to 
make an informed choice  about whether to take the policy,  including drawing to her attention 
and highlighting   in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy 
and significant  limitations and exclusions.
the information
Ive seen policy terms and conditions which I accept - on a balance  of probabilities - applied  
to policies like Mrs Ss. But AXA hasnt  been  able to provide a call script  to show what  
information Mrs S mightve been given during the call before she agreed to the PPI. So, 
Ref: DRN04172505based on what I have,  Im not persuaded AXA gave Mrs S the information she fairly  and 
reasonably needed to make an informed decision about whether or not to take the PPI.
While I dont know exactly what AXA told Mrs S about the PPI, I think  it unlikely she wouldve 
agreed to take it without  having at least a broad  understanding  of the cover  it provided  i.e. 
life, accident,  sickness  and unemployment cover. And I think  its unlikely  she wouldve 
thought it was free.
Ive also considered what Mrs S has said about not signing an agreement  had she been 
made aware  of the interest rate. The credit  agreement Mrs S signed did have information 
about the interest rates that might apply  but - as noted above  - the PPI was sold by phone 
some months after Mrs S had signed  this agreement for the card itself. Id mention that the 
complaint brought to us, and what Im considering, is a complaint  about the sale of the PPI 
on Mrs Ss card (and not about  the card itself), so Im considering  Mrs Ss decision to take 
PPI for the card and the information provided  to her at the time she made that decision.
It was AXAs  responsibility to draw to Mrs Ss attention the important information   i.e. the 
key information  about the nature  of the PPI cover and any significant exclusions and 
limitations which might be relevant to her decision. I dont think its likely AXA did enough to 
do this. For example, I think it unlikely AXA adequately drew to Mrs Ss attention  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
Also, I dont think it likely  the true cost of the policy was made  clear  to Mrs S, including the 
need to maintain premiums during a claim or that payments  would attract interest.
So I dont  think AXA gave Mrs S sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take the policy,  including  drawing to her 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case. 
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Ss representative has raised a number  
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Ss. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mrs Ss representative considers  to be poor  value. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mrs S about the limitations and exclusions,  it should have gone further and explained the 
significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Ss representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely that a court would find that this extended to the insurer  having to disclose 
the claims ratio information  or explaining the significance of the limitations  and exclusions in 
the way Mrs S has suggested. And, taking into account the law, industry  codes and 
Ref: DRN04172506standards of good industry practice  applicable to this complaint, I dont think  it would be fair 
or reasonable to impose such requirements on AXA. 
what effect did AXAs shortcomings have on Mrs S? To what extent did Mrs S suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found AXA did not do all it should  have  done  when it sold this policy to Mrs S. So Ive 
gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude  she suffered loss 
and damage as a result.  To answer  this, I must  decide whether or not she would still have  
taken the policy,  had AXA done things  properly. Mrs S says she would not have taken it and 
believes I should presume  this to be the case given the significant  failings identified  above. 
As this was a non-advised sale, Mrs S had to weigh  up in her own mind  the cost of the policy 
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if she didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, Mrs S chose to take this policy. So I consider it reasonable to conclude 
she had some interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But she made this 
decision based on incomplete information.  So what Mrs S thought she was getting is not 
exactly what she got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mrs S has suffered any loss or detriment.
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mrs S ought  reasonably to have known  she would have 
to pay something for the PPI and that it would cover  a portion of her outstanding balance.  
But I accept AXA didnt  make clear the on-going  cost information. So while Mrs S didnt 
know some  things, the ultimate position  in the event of a successful claim was not dissimilar 
to what she would reasonably have thought from the information she based her decision to 
take the policy on and found  acceptable.  
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs S thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to health issues  Mrs S knew  or should have known 
about, or for which  she had been advised or treated by a medical practitioner in the 
12 months before the policy start;
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health conditions 
placing more onerous evidential requirements  to support a claim on those  grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations  excluded, unemployment  cover  if Mrs S wasnt  
a permanent employee; and
The requirement that, to be eligible for a disability claim, Mrs S be stopped from doing 
her own or any similar job - and be stopped from doing  any paid work  her experience,  
education or training reasonably qualified her to do. 
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mrs S pause  for thought   and may well have caused her to conclude  the policy was not as 
good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs S from taking  the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mrs Ss circumstances  at the time of sale shows the policy wasnt  
fundamentally wrong for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it provided cover that, 
Ref: DRN04172507despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proven valuable  to her should  the insured 
risks have become  a reality. 
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mrs S might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely she would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mrs S 
from taking the policy,  Mrs S, in her circumstances, still had some  good reasons to take it.
Mrs S couldnt have claimed  for work absences if related to the health issue shed gone  to 
the doctor for 12 years  before the sale. Ive considered all shes  told us about  this health 
issue, including that shed never  been  off work as a result of it  either when  it happened  or 
in the years that had passed  since then at the time of this sale.  With this in mind, and having 
taken into account  all the responses weve received from Mrs S or on her behalf, on balance 
what I have doesnt  make me think Mrs S wouldve thought at the sale that work  absences 
caused by this health issue were  so likely in future that cover  that excluded  such absences  
would no longer be worth taking.
Mrs S hasnt told us of having had any other  health  issues. So, in light of this and all Ive said 
above, what I have  doesnt make  me think Mrs Ss decision to take the policy  wouldve been 
changed by knowing  more about the policy health  exclusions. Also,  I havent seen any 
evidence to suggest she wouldve been caught by any of the other significant exclusions  
she was in permanent  employment for example. So, taking everything into account,  I think  
she still had some good reasons to take the policy.
If Mrs S had known she could only claim for disability  if she were stopped from doing her 
own or any similar job and stopped from doing  any paid work her experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified her to do, it might have played into her thinking about what  to 
do. And I accept it may have given her pause for thought  although, given her 
circumstances, on balance I think Mrs S wouldve still been interested  in taking the cover.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Mrs S would still have  taken the PPI. It was sufficiently  close to what she thought she 
was getting and I think it couldve provided  a useful benefit at a difficult time, notwithstanding  
Mrs Ss work benefits. And, in those  circumstances, I consider it more  likely than not she 
wouldve taken the policy in any event.
Mrs Ss representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
Ref: DRN04172508should be presumed Mrs S would not have bought the PPI she bought  unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mrs Ss 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mrs S 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mrs S believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments.  
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs S in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible Mrs S would not have taken the policy, I am 
satisfied that, of the two possibilities, its more likely than not she would still have taken  the 
PPI had she been given clear,  fair and not misleading information  about the policy  she was 
buying. So Im not persuaded  it would  be fair and reasonable, in those circumstances, to 
conclude that AXA should pay her compensation, as that would put her in a better  position  
than she would have  been in if everything had happened as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mrs S thinks AXA misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of AXAs  
statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why AXA failed to act 
fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  AXA gave Mrs S, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
1999 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Ss representative says a court might take if it were 
to find AXA negligently  misrepresented the contract  to Mrs S and about  the remedy  a court 
might award if it were  to find that AXA had been  in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. 
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont think  it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mrs S in a better position  than if everything  had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 July 2021.
Ref: DRN04172509Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0417250