K822xcomplaint
Mr M complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS)  failed to follow his 
instructions when he made an early repayment  under  a hire purchase agreement, took too 
long to resolve the problem, and mishandled his complaint.
background
Mr M had a hire purchase agreement with VWFS. In February 2019 he asked to make an 
early repayment of £2,150, and to keep  his monthly payments at the same rate, so as to 
bring his agreement to an end earlier. But two mistakes were made. Firstly, the wrong 
amount was entered in VWFSs system: £1,250,  the 1 and the 2 being entered  the wrong 
way round. This meant  that the difference  of £900 was recorded  as a credit  balance on the 
account, instead of being  applied as an early repayment as intended. Secondly, the monthly 
payments were reduced,  and the term of the agreement remained as it was, which  was the 
opposite of what Mr M had asked for. It is not in dispute that these actions were errors made 
by VWFS.
Mr M complained about those mistakes when they came to light. But he also complains 
about how long it took VWFS  to correct them, and about how it was done.  VWFS told him it 
would have to reload the agreement; that is, to set up a new hire purchase  agreement from 
scratch, including carrying out a new credit search which would appear on his credit file, 
although VWFS said it would remove the search once it was done. The new agreement was 
not put in place until 1 April, and in the meantime VWFS repeatedly  asked Mr M what  he 
wanted to be done with the £900, even  though  he had made  it clear  what he wanted. He 
says that his time was wasted with long and unnecessary phone calls during his working  
hours, and that VWFS did not return his calls or call him back when it promised it would. He 
also complains that VWFS tried to fob him off when he complained, with offers of £50 and 
then £80, which he considered derisory, and that it prematurely closed his complaint without 
it ever being considered by the complaint handling department. So he brought this complaint 
to our Service.
VWFS then offered to pay Mr M £150.  Our adjudicator thought that was fair, but she did not 
explain why, so Mr M asked for an ombudsman  to review his case. He also said that £150 
was not enough, and said that a minimum of £500 would be sufficient.
I wrote  a provisional decision which read as follows.
my provisional findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think that £150 is fair compensation  for the original mistakes, because they were simple  
mistakes which  could  have been quickly and easily rectified, and they did not cause financial 
loss to Mr M. So £150 is in line with what our Service  would typically  award. But I am 
currently minded to award additional  compensation for the subsequent  handling  of this 
matter.
Firstly, when Mr M pointed out what had gone wrong,  it should  not have been  necessary for 
him to tell VWFS what he wanted more than once.  His wishes  were recorded in VWFSs  
system notes in entries dated 15, 16 and 18 February, yet entries dated 25 February  state 
Ref: DRN09182022that he was to be asked again  how the £900 was to be used. On the same  day, Mr M 
confirmed that he wanted the £900  to reduce the term of his agreement, but he was asked  
yet again on 7 March. These repeated questions were unnecessary,  wasted  time,  and 
diminished Mr Ms confidence in VWFS. He says he felt that VWFS was trying  to get him to 
change his mind.
It is not clear  that it was ever necessary to reload the agreement.  The entry  in the system 
notes dated 4 March says this is not a reload and states that all that needs to happen is for 
the £900 to be allocated.  Then on 7 March  it says that VWFS called Mr M to clarify if he 
wanted to reload the agreement or would rather we apply the 900 credit  on his account 
which will reduce his term by 12 months.  This is not a question that he should  have  been  
asked, given that he had already explained what he wanted to happen, and had already 
consented to the agreement  being  reloaded. But it also suggests that reloading the 
agreement was not a necessary step to resolve the problem. Even if it was, after VWFS 
received the signed reload documents from Mr M on 13 March, it took another 19 days  for it 
to complete the process. That was nearly  two months after the early repayment was first 
processed. I dont think it needed to take as long as that.
I think another £150, making a total of £300,  is fair compensation for this whole affair. 
I appreciate that its less than Mr M has asked for, but I think it is proportionate.
I dont know if the credit  search has been removed from Mr Ms credit  file, so in case  it has 
not, I will order that this is to be done.
So my provisional decision is that I intend  to uphold this complaint. Subject to any further 
representations I receive  from the parties  by the date below, I intend to order Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited to pay Mr M £300,  and to remove  the search from his credit 
file (if that has not already  been  done).
responses to my provisional  decision
Both parties  have agreed to accept my provisional conclusions. So theres  no reason for me 
to depart from them, and I confirm  them  here.
Ref: DRN09182023my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Volkswagen Financial Services  (UK) 
Limited to pay Mr M £300, and to remove the search  from his credit file (if that has not 
already been done).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 May 2020.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0918202