K821x#15Complaint
Mr and Mrs Bs complaint is about  UIA (Insurance) Limiteds handling  of a subsidence claim
made under their home insurance policy.
All references to UIA include their appointed agents.
Background
The background to Mr and Mrs Bs subsidence claim and the subsequent development is
extensive. So I will set out below the key events which are relevant  to my decision. However,
I want to reassure both parties that I have read and carefully considered everything thats
been provided.
In May 2017, Mr and Mrs B noticing  cracking in their property. They  appointed a surveyor
(P), and in August  2017 they notified UIA of the damage. UIA then also appointed a
surveyor (G) to investigate the cause  of the damage.
Ps report concluded the cause of the damage  was subsidence caused by ongoing
settlement in a corner of the property. It said the raft foundation of the property didnt have
the capacity to accommodate any further  settlement, and that ongoing further settlement of
the property could be expected. In addition it said the tilt of the property was considered to
have reached or exceeded the maximum acceptable.
Ps report recommended Mr and Mrs B check the existing drainage  arrangements  to ensure
leaks werent occurring  near the affected area. And it said that In theory,  works  are
necessary to either relevel the building or introduce  ties as a temporary  measure to maintain
stability".
Gs report also concluded the cause of the damage was subsidence. It recommended  UIA
accept liability for the crack damage to the property.  In October 2017, UIA proposed a repair
which would strengthen the superstructure  and act as a monitor for future movement.  But it
said the pre-purchase survey (from 2011) showed  evidence of previous settlement in the
property. G said that based  on its investigations,  the raft foundation didnt appear to be of
adequate design, which meant the property appeared  to have  suffered  from significant
consolidation subsidence. So UIA declined to cover any damage linked to the historic
distortion of the property. UIA also recommended Mr and Mrs B install  a new soakaway to
ensure rainwater didnt leak near the affected foundations, and to remove some trees on the
left side of the property.
Mr and Mrs B disagreed with UlAs conclusions.  They said the pre-purchase  survey stated
the movement  in the corner  of the property  was slight, and within  acceptable tolerances.
They also said the movement wasnt considered  progressive at the time and so didnt
indicate any problems  with subsidence. They asked UIA for a copy  of Gs findings. UIA said
its October 2017 letter contained  all the detail of Gs report.
UIA requested a site meeting in November 2017. Mr and Mrs B asked for this to be delayed
until January 2018. Works  to the property  were then scheduled to start around April 2018.
In June 2018, following further  attempts  by UIA to start the repair work, Mr and Mrs B raised
further concerns  about the claim. In summary  they said:
Ref: DRN02905262They didnt believe the subsidence was pre-existing  and that it is a new issue,
separate from the movement of the raft foundation that had occurred previously;
That the movement  now occurring is beyond the original  tolerance for the raft
foundation, so work should be carried out to rectify  the issue;
They were concerned there was no further work proposed to prevent further
subsidence;
That further monitoring  wasnt part of the repair scope and;
That the proposed repairs relating to the removal of trees and installation of a
soakaway werent included in the repair scope.
UIA responded to Mr and Mrs Bs concerns and in summary it said:
The property had suffered from significant  consolidation  settlement, and the 
recent cracking is slight. It reiterated its position  to accept repairs  for the recent 
damage but declined liability for the historic  distortion of the property;
That the new movement is slight, and the works proposed are designed to 
strengthen the superstructure so the raft foundation can function as it was 
originally intended to;
The raft foundation is inadequate as it doesnt have the capacity to support 
further movement, and it hadnt found any external influence  which had changed 
the ground conditions. So the proposed  repairs will strengthen the wall and 
support the raft function by adding a deep  load bearing masonry beam;
The repair should be effective and lasting, but if further damage is apparent then 
it will be assessed on merits at the time.  And a certificate of structural adequacy 
would be provided upon completion of the repair  work;
It wasnt responsible for the removal of trees or soakaway installation as these 
arent causing the current damage  and are to mitigate future  ground  movement.
Mr and Mrs B then appointed their own loss assessor and UIA attempted  to engage with
them to move the claim forward. It appears  that some months  later the loss assessor was
dis-instructed due to a lack of action.
In December 2018, Mr and Mrs B formally complained to UIA about the scope of the repair
work and that it hadnt accepted liability for the cause of subsidence. UIA responded, and
after reviewing Gs report again maintained  its position on the claim.  It said it couldnt be
shown that the remaining damage  was as a single  and direct result of an identified insured
event.
Mr and Mrs B disagreed with UlAs response  and referred the complaint to our service in
February 2019. To settle the complaint they requested that UIA:
Correct the unsafe  degree of slant in the property by jacking it level;
Undertake works to prevent further  subsidence  from occurring;
Carry out the minor crack repairs and redecorate as agreed;
Monitor the area for subsidence for the next 10 years;
Undertake the replacement of the soakaway and tree removal;
Compensate them  for the cost of their own investigations and reports;
Pay the reinstatement value of the property if the above works are deemed  too 
expensive.
Ref: DRN02905263In October  2019, Mr and Mrs B provided our service with an update on the property. They
said that due to the length of time that had passed the damage had gotten worse and the
property was crumbling.  They  said a surveyor had come out and advised the best course  of
action was to demolish and rebuild  the property given the cost to repair may escalate above
the rebuild cost. Mr and Mrs B advised  they had put a planning application in for a
replacement dwelling.
Our investigator requested a copy of this surveyors report and Mr and Mrs B responded in
January 2020.  They  referred  to Ps report as the most relevant. They added that the
surveyors whod visited since had provided  options verbally. So any prepared reports  were
on the potential  to rebuild the property, as opposed  to providing information  for UIA. Mr and
Mrs B said they would be happy  to provide access for an independent surveyor  to assess
the property in its current condition.
In May 2020, UIA reviewed its position and said it wasnt in total agreement  with how the
claim had been  handled.  It said there wasnt any evidence  in the pre-purchase survey  that
would have put Mr and Mrs B on notice  that subsidence was an issue.  And it didnt feel the
investigations done to date were  extensive enough.  UIA wrote to Mr and Mrs B to say it had
instructed a new subsidence specialist  (S) to undertake all necessary investigations.
Our investigator asked  UIA to clarify its current position on the claim. UIA responded and
said it wasnt in a position to decide  on the claim owing to a lack of appropriate engineering
advice and site investigations. It acknowledged there had been some delays in getting to this
position but wanted to ensure  the matter had been investigated correctly so the terms of the
policy were applied correctly. Our investigator told Mr and Mrs B they thought  further site
investigations would be needed to determine  UlAs liability under the claim.
Mr and Mrs B asked  if an independent specialist could be appointed to oversee the
investigations but were  told S was the only option  now that the previous  specialists  had been
removed from the claim. In June 2020,  Mr and Mrs B rejected UlAs offer to do more site
investigations and asked our Service to make  a finding based on the available evidence.
They added they were now living in a property  which  wasnt safe as it had continued to move
- this was following Ps report  which said the foundations didnt have capacity to
accommodate any further settlement.  And they were concerned there were no guarantees
about the type or duration of the investigations carried  out by S.
Our investigator continued to mediate between the parties  and explained to Mr and Mrs B
that our Service would require an up-to-date report on the cause of the damage  in order to
see if UIA was liable for it under  the policy. In July 2020, Mr and Mrs B agreed to S attending
the property but said that plans had already begun to strip out and demolish it ahead of a
rebuild. UIA were informed of Mr and Mrs Bs intentions  and said that S had been instructed
since May 2020 but hadnt been able to inspect the property yet.
In August  2020  our investigator again  set out their position that further site investigations
were necessary as the position had changed  substantially since  the complaint was first
brought to our Service. They  recommended  Mr and Mrs B contact S as soon  as possible to
arrange the investigations.
Mr and Mrs B responded to say the property  had already been demolished.  They said they
had proceeded  with the work in order to close this chapter  of their lives and move forward.
They said the alternative would have been to continue paying money on a rental  property
while the investigations took place  with no guarantee  the repairs would be covered.
Ref: DRN02905264Mr and Mrs B added they didnt think the position had changed substantially since  they had
originally complained, as Ps report had already concluded the property had exceeded the
safe levels of tilt and it had continued to move.
UIA then asked to review  its position a second  time. It now concluded the original outcome
reached in Gs report was fair. It said the pre-purchase survey  clearly showed there was
historic damage and issues with the property which arent covered by the policy.  It said it had
been fair in offering S to inspect the property which hadnt been taken up. It said that any
future claim  would be declined now the property  had been demolished.
Our investigator then reviewed matters and issued their findings. They  recommended the
complaint be upheld and that UIA pay Mr and Mrs B £700 compensation for the delays it
caused in recommending  further site investigations. But they said they were unable to
comment on UlAs liability for the cause of the damage now the property had been
demolished.
UIA accepted our investigators findings,  Mr and Mrs B disagreed. They  provided a
substantial response  to our investigator  and Ive summarised the key points below.
Mr and Mrs B said:
How could UIA accept liability for the cracking,  if they didnt accept liability for the
cause of the cracking?;
They were concerned UIA didnt provide a copy of Gs report when asked;
They felt UlAs decision on the claim was pre-determined, and were  sceptical  that
any new investigations would change the outcome;
UIA werent interested  in doing an impartial investigation as they planned to use its
own loss adjuster to carry out further investigations;
The property was shown to be unsafe in Ps report;
The cracking identified in the pre-purchase survey was in a different area of the
property and the surveyor stated there was no evidence to suggest any progressive
structural movement. Theyve never  made a claim for this cracking as it never got
worse and was a superficial issue;
In their opinion UIA had closed the case when  it sent its final response  letter,  and
they were unhappy  with the proposal to appoint S for further investigations;
That if they were obligated  to accept  S appointment, then what  was the function  of
our Service  in this dispute?;
They eventually accepted S appointment but by then the house  was already being
prepared for demolition;
They were under the impression the final response letter meant  that, as far as they
were aware, the claim was rejected and effectively closed;
Ultimately,  other forms of repair such as jacking  up the property werent viable  or cost
effective based  on the advice of surveyors. The most cost-effective option was to
build a property  with materials imported from the EU, and this was time sensitive due
to potential customs levies from January 2021;
They wouldnt expect UIA to have reached the same decision to demolish  and
rebuild, but they would have expected them to re-level  the house - at least  to the
levels it was at when  purchased - and do a lasting  and effective repair to prevent 
further subsidence from occurring.
Ref: DRN02905265The complaint was passed  to me and on 26 February 2021  I set out my provisional findings. 
Ive included an extract below:
When making a decision on a complaint I usually consider  matters  as they stood at the time
the financial business issued its final response  to the complaint. However, occasionally its
impractical to do so - for instance because the situation has moved on or further
evidence/information has come to light. On these  occasions I need to consider things as
they currently stand.  In this case I will be considering Mr and Mrs Bs original  complaint  and
include the developments since  our investigator made their recommendations to UIA, in
order to arrive at a relevant and fair answer.
Our investigator has explained  the role and remit of our Service to Mr and Mrs B, so I wont
go into detail about this again here. And whilst  both parties have a responsibility to work
together to progress  a claim promptly, the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook
(ICOBS) also sets out the rules which insurers must  follow  when handling a claim.  The
relevant sections of ICOBS 8.1 state an insurer must:
1)handle claims promptly and fairly;
2)provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate
information on its progress;
3)not unreasonably  reject a claim (including by terminating or avoiding a policy).
Having looked  at all the information  provided I dont think UIA has acted fairly in this respect.
I say this because  there  was a delay of some  three  years before UIA decided  that further  site
investigations would be needed to further determine  the cause of damage.  And this was only
following intervention  from our service. Whilst UIA has now reverted  back to its original
stance, this ultimately means  Mr and Mrs B werent  provided with reasonable guidance on
the scope of their claim. I will consider as part of my decision  whether this lack of information
and/or investigations  led to UIA unreasonably rejecting part of the claim. And if I think  it did, I
will set out what I am minded to require UIA to do to put things right.
There are some issues here where it wont be possible now for me to reconcile the
difference between  the two parties.  Usually our Service would request a further expert report
(as was attempted here) to be commissioned in order  to flush  out any outstanding  issues.
Mr and Mrs B were  aware  of our Services position and that UIA wanted to do more
investigations in May 2020. But this was 3 years  after they made their claim and I
acknowledge Mr and Mrs Bs wider  circumstances had changed significantly in the
meantime. But in an attempt to bring  some  closure  to both parties  in this complaint, I will
attempt to address  as many of the issues as I can with the evidence I have.
Given that Mr and Mrs Bs property is now demolished, it wont be possible to get any further
evidence on the issues or underlying causes relating to the foundation of the original
property. So if required I will make my decision on the balance of probabilities, and what I
think most likely  happened.  And if I find UIA should have done more.  Ill consider what it
should do to settle the complaint.
The cause of damage
Both parties  accept there was subsidence damage  to the property. But the main cause of
dispute is about what damage  UIA is liable for. In order to consider this, I must first look at
the expert reports provided and determine  which I find most  persuasive.
Ref: DRN02905266Gs report summarised that the raft foundation wasnt adequately designed  for the underlying
soil conditions. And it also concluded  the distortion in the property was apparent  before the
policy inception.
Having looked  at everything, I find Gs report lacking in explanation for each of these points.
Ive not seen anything to show  how G has determined the raft foundation was inadequate. I
dont think the fact it has simply failed due to an underlying cause of subsidence is sufficient.
In addition, UlAs underwriting notes state Given  the age of the property, we do not consider
that exclusions 4 and 5 (relating to settlement) or 7 (relating to defective  design) can be 
relied on to decline  liability for the recent  cracking". Whilst this comment  relates to the
cracking in the superstructure,  I think  it also fairly applies to the foundation itself, given the
property appears to have  stood for a number  of decades without issue.
Gs conclusion that the property was clearly subsiding is based on the 2011  pre-purchase
survey which  Ive also read. Ive considered that this was a general survey  and as such  the
report wasnt focused on one particular area of the property. I can see UIA referred this
survey to their underwriters who concluded there  werent any issues  which  would have put
Mr and Mrs B on notice  for subsidence.  I think this is important.  The survey notes the slope
in the floor but states the movement is slight and the extent of this is not of particular
concern". And it also concludes there  is no evidence to suggest  any progressive structural
movement.
On balance, given  the length  of time since the pre-purchase survey was done, and the lack
of detail around the suspected area of damage, I dont think  it was reasonable for UIA to rely
on this alone to decline this part of the claim.  And I dont agree that it shows the property had
clear historic  damage. Based on this survey alone,  I think its likely some  up-to-date  site
investigations of the foundations and monitoring of the site to measure the level of ground
movement would have  given a clearer picture to both parties. But I cant see that this was
done.
Ive next considered Ps report which explains there are differing degrees of slope within  the
property, supported by measurements taken. So I think this shows  the cause of the
movement may not have  been limited to the one area of the property.
Ps report suggests that ongoing long-term settlement of the property can be expected. It
states the raft foundation  does not have the capacity to accommodate  any further
differential settlement  and recommends  works are necessary to either relevel  the building
or introduce  ties as a temporary measure to maintain stability.
I think this means Ps report  suggests  that super  structure repairs alone wouldnt  have  been
sufficient as an effective  and lasting repair, because relevelling the property would involve
work to its foundations.  On balance I am persuaded by Ps conclusions  here.  And this lends
weight to the opinion that further technical investigations were needed at the property.
In conclusion, I think that UIA placed  too much weight on the pre-purchase survey  when  it
decided to decline part of the claim. I dont agree that the survey shows the damage was
clearly historic. And I think further  investigations  were necessary in order to determine the
extent of UlAs liability - particularly as its own underwriters stated, we have no doubt that
there has been foundation  movement during the policy period. So I think  it was
unreasonable for UIA to decline  part of the claim on the information it had.
Ref: DRN02905267I dont think UlAs  change  in position  has helped its cause here either. It had an opportunity
to review things as far back  as December 2018 (when Mr and Mrs B first complained) but
chose to maintain  its position. It then agreed  further  investigations were  needed  but reverted
back to its original position on another review. This has created a level of uncertainty  on the
claim for all parties concerned.
So, as I think UlAs decision to decline part of the claim  was unreasonable.  Ill next consider
whether it should  be liable for any costs under the policy.
The damage UIA is liable  for
There is now no way of knowing  whether further site investigations  would have validated
Mr and Mrs Bs decision  to demolish and rebuild the property. But I understand the position
Mr and Mrs B found themselves in and based on their wider circumstances I can see why
UlAs stance  left them with little to no alternative  options.
UIA has argued its position is now prejudiced  as the property has been demolished. And I
agree up to a point.  But on the balance of probabilities,  had UIA done  further  investigations
earlier (without prompting from our Service)  and allowed either Mr and Mrs B or our Service
to consider the results, I think its more likely  than not this would have led to a different
outcome for the claim. So, I find that a reasonable settlement  here would be to require UIA
to pay what it thought the damage was likely to cost to fix prior to the property being
demolished.
Mr and Mrs B have  provided further evidence from the rebuild which shows  the foundations
needed to be piled  down to a depth  of 6 to 7 meters, and up to 9 meters  in the corner  which
previously showed  subsidence damage. They said the ground at this point was very
unstable.
My role here isnt to suggest what repairs would have been sufficient as that would be the
role of the appointed engineers. But I think all of the evidence as a whole suggests that the
superstructure repairs originally proposed wouldnt have been  sufficient to form an effective
and lasting repair to the original property.  This is supported by the knowledge of the depth of
the unstable soil now and means the property would have possibly continued to move had
UlAs proposed repairs been  done.
UlAs initial estimate of the claim costs  presented a worst-case scenario to mitigate  the
damage by stabilising the raft foundation. The loss adjuster set this estimate at £60,000.
Based on everything  Ive seen, had the claim progressed as I think it shouldve, then its
likely the costs for repair would have been closer to this figure than the proposed
superstructure repairs.
I say this because  in order to provide an effective and lasting repair,  its possible UIA would
have needed to undertake  repairs for uninsured work in order to ensure it was lasting. And
from what Ive seen  its more likely  than not this would have included additional work to the
property foundations. So in the circumstances of this case, I think  UIA should pay the
£60,000 to Mr and Mrs B to settle  the claim, subject to any policy excess.
As Ps report has had some influence on my decision  here, I find it reasonable that UIA also
compensates Mr and Mrs B for the cost of this report. And it would be reasonable for UIA to
compensate Mr and Mrs B for any other  site investigations they commissioned which were
linked to the cause of, or damage  caused by subsidence.
Ref: DRN02905268Compensation
Ive considered that subsidence claims can be complex and will often incur delays whilst the
parties determine the best way to proceed  with the claim. On this occasion  I acknowledge
that not all of the delays were caused by UIA. But I do need to consider  if compensation is
due for any avoidable delays it was responsible  for.
UIA has provided evidence S attempted to contact  Mr and B to carry out further
investigations from May 2020. But it says Mr and Mrs B refused  to engage with S so it
couldnt get the investigations done.
Mr and Mrs B say that S wasnt truly independent of UIA and so they had concerns about  the
scope of its remit. They added they felt the outcome was pre-determined as UIA had
maintained its position  over the years. And they said that works to demolish and rebuild the
property were already  at an advanced stage due to cost and safety concerns. They needed
to get the rebuild done within a certain  time limit and simply couldnt  afford  to wait for further
investigations. So based on this I accept that any further investigations to the original
property and its foundations would have  been limited at this point.
I dont find it reasonable  for me to hold UIA responsible for any delays after the point it
agreed to do further site investigations in May 2020. I have some sympathy with Mr and Mrs
Bs position, as UIA held them to a position  on the claim for a period of time which  meant
they felt they had no other option than to proceed  with a demolish and rebuild. But ultimately
Mr and Mrs B made a decision to stop engaging with UIA, so I cant consider compensating
them for this period.
I also cant consider the period of delay  linked to when Mr and Mrs B appointed a loss
assessor, or their request  to defer  the initial site meeting. However, I do think UIA caused
some delay by not identifying  the need for further  site investigations. And it didnt take into
account the worsening condition of the property when  it reviewed  the position of the claim.
This has undoubtedly caused  Mr and Mrs B a great deal of stress and upset.
Taking into account all of the above, I think the £700  payment  recommended by our
investigator fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience caused  to Mr and Mrs B. This
payment covers the period  from when the claim was made in May 2017,  to the point S was
appointed in May 2020.
In summary,  I proposed  that to put things right UKI should:
Settle the claim and pay £60,000  towards  Mr and Mrs Bs rebuild  costs,  less the
policy excess;
Reimburse Mr and Mrs B for Ps report,  and any other reports or site investigations
they can evidence  which relate either to the cause of, or damage caused  by
subsidence;
Pay 8% simple interest on the amount Mr and Mrs B paid for the reports, from the
date the reports  were paid for to the date of settlement;
Pay Mr and Mrs B £700 compensation for the distress and inconvenience  caused.
Ref: DRN02905269Developments
Mr and Mrs B accepted my provisional findings  and said they had nothing  further  to add. UIA 
accepted it needed to make a payment to Mr and Mrs B but said that the amount I proposed 
to award was unfair. 
UIA provided  a substantial response  to my provisional decision which  Ive carefully  
considered. In summary, UIA said:
That for me to say it was still concerned about the pre-purchase  survey  in May 2020 
mischaracterised the difficulties it had experienced with the claim. It said the main  
dispute was its liability for the pre-existing issues and that Mr and Mrs Bs refusal  to 
engage with it made  further investigation  and rectification  impossible.
It didnt agree that it had acknowledged that it had caused  any delays in the claim 
and as such, the predominant reason for the current situation was due to the fact 
Mr and Mrs B stopped communicating with it.
It disputed the date it was told that Mr and Mrs B were preparing  the property for 
demolition. And it said it had made efforts to attend the property since May 2020  but 
were unable  to due to a lack of response  from Mr and Mrs B. As such it felt this 
showed a lack of co-operation from Mr and Mrs B with UIA and with the 
recommendations of our service  for further investigations.
It said the delay  of three years was not related to UIAs decision that further site 
investigations were  necessary  but rather the time it took Mr and Mrs B and our 
service to respond and engage  with UIA. And in any event, UIA said that the situation 
with Mr and Mrs Bs property was materially different to that in 2017 so further  
inspections would  have been  needed  for new and materially different damage.
Following on from the above  point, UIA has asked me to specifically comment on the 
responsibilities of Mr and Mrs B as set out in the policy  terms with regard to their 
duties as the insured party, and the right of UIA to survey the building. UIA has asked 
if I can confirm  the extent to which these  rights extend and secondly whether I 
believe it possible for an insured party to remove these  rights  from the insurer. 
It felt that it could have offered more at the final response stage but said that my 
award was grossly weighted in Mr and Mrs Bs favour, based upon  flawed data and 
on a subjective  conclusion as to the condition of the property.  UIA argued that it had 
a plan in place to repair the property and that this repair would  have acted as a 
permanent monitor against future  movement.
That had it been granted access to complete further investigations such  as a 
distortion survey and to validate the state  of the property, this wouldnt have impacted 
Mr and Mrs Bs plans  to demolish the property and would have provided important 
evidence to avoid  the situation  it is now in.
That had Mr and Mrs B engaged  with it when  they needed alternative 
accommodation (AA), it could  have provided for this under  the policy terms. So UIA 
didnt accept Mr and Mrs Bs AA costs as a valid reason for Mrs and Mrs B 
demolishing the property quickly.
Ref: DRN029052610That it had not failed in its responsibilities in relation to clause 8.1 of ICOBS as it felt 
it wasnt responsible  for the majority of the delay,  it had provided guidance via the 
loss adjuster, and that its approach to partially  accept  the claim was reasonable in 
the circumstances.
UIA accepted that it must make a payment to Mrs and Mrs B and made an offer to try and 
find an amicable resolution to the matter. UIA therefore proposed a payment of £15,968.15  
in full and final settlement  of Mr and Mrs Bs claim. UIA said this payment included  the 
previously agreed repair costs, theoretical AA costs, costs it would have incurred for a period  
of level monitoring had the property not been  demolished, and my £700 compensation 
award.
UIA felt this award took into account that the repair works may not have been at the worst  
possible scenario  set out by the loss adjuster,  recognised  its efforts to engage with 
Mr and Mrs B during the claim and shows that where there are disputes in a claim, the best 
course of action is for parties to engage with each  other. Therefore taking everything into 
account, UIA felt its offer was the best compromise in the circumstances.
UIA didnt  agree it should cover the costs of Mr and Mrs Bs expert  reports  as it felt I had not 
demonstrated there was a clear fault in its original report, rather  that I had found  
Mr and Mrs Bs report more compelling.  So it felt the policy terms covered its position here.
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst UIAs response is substantial, it hasnt provided me with any new evidence which 
wasnt available to me when I set out my provisional  decision. So for me to change my mind  
I would need to be persuaded that I initially  reached  an outcome that is unreasonable and 
unfair on the same evidence. Having carefully  reconsidered everything,  Im not persuaded 
that I did. However, I do acknowledge UIAs strength of feeling on the matter here. And I will 
respond to all the concerns it has raised in its response.
 
It is clear this has been a complex matter, where  the right answer  isnt precise.  And I 
acknowledge UIAs position in wanting to find a compromise in the payment it accepts it 
must make. I will now set out below why I find my original  award  to be fair in the 
circumstances.
UIA has made a number  of comments about areas of the background which  it says place too 
much emphasis, or the wrong emphasis on certain  stages in the claim.  I will respond  to the 
concerns which  I think are relevant in explaining  how Ive arrived  at my outcome. But as I 
mentioned in my provisional decision,  the background is a summary  of events and I have 
carefully considered  all of the evidence provided.
UIA has said that my provisional decision places too much weight on the delays in the claim 
and on the comments  it made about  the pre-purchase survey in May 2020 that it initially 
considered in August 2017.  However, I dont think my statement here mischaracterises the 
difficulties UIA has had with the claim.  I say this because it was UIAs case  handler who 
referenced the pre-purchase survey  in their email.  My background was what  I believe to be a 
relevant summary  of the issues. So as UIA mentioned the pre-purchase  survey again  in May 
Ref: DRN0290526112020 it was included for context. Moreover, I later explained the main  cause of dispute is 
about what damage UIA is liable for, and Im satisfied this remains the crux of the complaint.
UIA has asked for evidence that it had acknowledged there had been delays in the claim. I 
based this statement on an email which UIA sent to Mr and Mrs B by the new claims handler 
which stated they would  like to have a fresh appropriate to the claim and I wish to proceed  
in this way to avoid any further  unnecessary delays. This statement by inference 
acknowledges that there were delays in getting to this point. And I think  it would be helpful  to 
reiterate that the delays  I am referring to are the realisation that further  investigations were 
necessary in order to validate UIAs  position on the claim. 
I covered this point  in some detail in my provisional  findings above, and I find myself coming 
to the same  conclusion and for the same reasons again here. One brief example to illustrate  
this is that UIA didnt  explain to Mr and Mrs B what it had relied on to say the raft foundation 
was defective  or that the previous movement was historic. And I still cant  see what it has 
relied on to show what  movement fell under the policy cover  and what was pre-inception 
damage. Our services usual position on claims such as this is that if movement  has 
occurred during the term of the policy then the insurer  should  deal with the damage caused, 
unless it can show the movement started and finished before the policy came into force.  My 
findings are that this wasnt shown before the decision was made to partially cover the 
repairs.
I therefore remain unpersuaded  that UIAs reasons  for not covering all the damage were  
fairly communicated  to Mr and Mrs B in 2017. The same evidence that UIA has referred  to in 
its response states that further investigation may be needed.  And so it follows  that the 
conclusions in my provisional decision were  not that the repair works werent agreed to, but 
that the investigations which led to those works being recommended  werent  in my view 
sufficient to ensure  the recommendation was appropriate. This is also supported by Mr and 
Mrs Bs testimony in which they state, No start date was agreed  for any works  and the way 
the works  were explained verbally was inconsistent with what UIA proposed  in writing. UIA 
hasnt provided  me with anything further to consider  on this point, and overall there  remains 
a lack of detail on the scope of the original investigations and an explanation as to why 
further investigations werent offered  earlier when  the planned repairs  were challenged by 
Mr and Mrs B. 
UIA has disputed the date it was told the property  was being prepared for demolition.  Ive 
reconsidered the evidence here, and maintain the findings reached in my provisional 
decision for the same reasons. UIA said it had attempted  to arrange a visit to the property up 
to September  2020, when it said it found  out the property had been demolished. But the 
evidence on file shows our Service provided this information in July 2020  where  our 
investigator stated in an email to UIA the policyholders informed me that they moved  into 
rented accommodation  at the start of July and the house is currently  being  stripped for 
demolition. I think you need to speak to the policyholders about what this means for 
the claim going  forward . (Bold for emphasis).  
Ultimately, this shows UIA was given  notice of the demolition before it happened. And it is 
not for this Service to suggest what actions it might  have taken to enforce its rights  of 
inspection under the policy. UIA has asked me to comment  on the extent of its rights of 
inspection and asserted that Mr and Mrs B breached the terms of their policy by refusing 
inspection.
Ref: DRN029052612UIAs position is that under the policy terms Mr and Mrs B were not able to act separately 
without considering the rights of UIA, and that it has a continuing  right of inspection that 
applies when it is claimed there is a material  change in the nature or extent of damage.
Ive considered UIAs actions in attempting to arrange  the site visit and what  is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ultimately, the relationship  between  UIA 
and Mr and Mrs B had completely broken  down  by this point, and UIAs desperate  efforts  to 
arrange a new site visit appear to have consisted  of a handful of emails and voicemails.          
I cant see that UIA acted  further in this respect once it was clear  the Mr and Mrs B werent  
responding, nor can I see that UIA made  it clear to Mr and Mrs B at the time that they were 
in breach of the policy term and any potential consequences  or in other words put its cards 
on the table. So it doesnt seem fair to hold Mr and Mrs B to this term now.
Mr and Mrs B had engaged with UIA previously and granted access to carry out the 
investigations. But their actions here were as a direct result of UIAs  position, and as Ive set 
out above were  due to their belief that it was unlikely to make  a difference  to the overall 
outcome. Had UIA responded  to the concerns raised in 2018, I think that Mr and Mrs B 
would likely  have been more receptive to further site investigations. 
So in the circumstances I dont find it is fair to conclude additional prejudice has been  
caused by the asserted breach of the policy terms. As such I dont find this point  has any 
further bearing on my decision  or award.
I think it would be useful  to now recap  the key points that I have relied on so far in making 
my decision.  
Mr and Mrs B were  clearly concerned about the extent of the movement  and the 
repairs proposed  in June 2018,  yet UIA didnt engage with their concerns around the 
repairs until around two years  later;
Whilst UIA can say that these  two years are delays  that it didnt cause, it hasnt 
explained why it didnt take steps  to fully consider  things  in 2018. It was seemingly 
reliant on Gs report only which  I didnt  find persuasive;
The reasonable action would have  been  for UIA to take further steps  by the time of 
its final response in December 2018) at the latest, and this may well have  helped  to 
avoid the later breakdown in the relationship  between the parties.
So I now return to the position I set out in my provisional decision:  UIA has argued its 
position is now prejudiced as the property has been demolished. And I agree  up to a point. 
But on the balance  of probabilities, had UIA done  further investigations earlier (without  
prompting from our Service) and allowed either Mr and Mrs B or our Service  to consider the 
results, I think its more likely than not this would have led to a different outcome for the 
claim. So, I find that a reasonable  settlement here would be to require UIA to pay what  it 
thought the damage was likely to cost to fix prior to the property being  demolished.
UIA has asked why it wasnt allowed access to confirm the property  had deteriorated to the 
point that AA was necessary and a demolish and rebuild required.  I again refer to my 
provisional findings: Mr and Mrs B say that S wasnt truly independent  of UIA and so they 
had concerns about the scope of its remit. They  added they felt the outcome was pre-
determined as UIA had maintained its position  over the years.  And they said that works to 
demolish and rebuild the property were already at an advanced  stage due to cost and safety  
concerns. They needed  to get the rebuild done  within a certain time limit and simply couldnt 
afford to wait for further investigations. 
Ref: DRN029052613Mr and Mrs B proceeded to demolish and rebuild the property within  the timescales they 
originally advised.  And it is true that UIAs  position  on the damage it was liable for remained  
unchanged. The further investigations requested were  in fact linked to the original dispute of 
UIAs liability under the policy, because our Service had already concluded it wasnt  possible 
to determine this with the evidence available. They werent requested because the situation 
itself was materially different. So I find that UIAs  arguments around further investigations  
being required due to the condition of the property  being materially different in 2020 arent 
relevant here.
UIAs offer includes its liability  for the repairs  as originally set out, but Ive already found  that 
on balance this wouldnt have likely  been  sufficient. If I were  to make  an award in line with 
this lower amount,  then UIA would  only be liable  for the repair  costs it had already accepted 
liability for. And as Ive previously concluded, I think it is more  likely than not that had further 
investigation been proposed around the time of the final response, then ultimately  this would 
have led to higher  repair  costs.
UIA has said that the condition of the property was subjective and not based  on any expert  
findings or reports, and its said that its proposed repair  would have acted as a monitor 
against further damage. I have considered the planning application Mr and Mrs B submitted 
to the local council for the demolish and rebuild which included commentary from a surveyor.  
The surveyor stated, The applicant  is proposing  to demolish  their existing dwellingwhich 
is deemed unsafe due to irreparable structural problems. So, whilst I dont have access to a 
specific report which deems  the property unsafe, on the balance  of all the evidence I do 
have, I am persuaded that it was. And I dont  think Mr and Mrs B would  have taken such a 
costly course of action  (with no guarantee of reimbursement) unless it was the only option 
left to them.
The crux of UIAs response is that the majority of issues were driven by Mr and Mrs Bs 
decision to stop engaging  with it, and as such,  it shouldnt be held liable for any costs other 
that what was already  agreed and some  compensation for AA and monitoring. I take the 
view that for the problem  started with UIA not investigating the issue thoroughly  and that     
Mr and Mrs B then felt they had no other  option  but to take matters  into their own hands. 
They were  aware of the risks of proceeding with a demolish and rebuild and the significant 
shortfall in costs this would bring  but chose to do so because they felt UIAs final response  
was the end of the claim process and acted accordingly when its position remained 
unchanged.
I understand UIA feels it is being punished  here for Mr and Mrs Bs lack of engagement 
following its final response, and that my award assumes it has performed poorly throughout 
the claim and contributed  to all the issues here, but this isnt the case. I have  already  set out 
in my provisional decision that Mr and Mrs Bs position was prejudiced, and as such  
regardless of this award they will still have a significant shortfall  on the demolish  and rebuild 
costs of the property.  
Therefore I maintain  my position as set out in my provisional findings that in order to provide 
an effective and lasting  repair,  its possible UIA would have needed  to undertake  repairs for 
uninsured work in order to ensure it was lasting. And from what Ive seen its more likely than 
not this would have included additional work  to the property foundations. So in the 
circumstances of this case,  I think UIA should  pay the £60,000  to Mr and Mrs B to settle the 
claim, subject to any policy excess. 
Ref: DRN029052614So my decision is actually  based  on the costs  UIA itself presented  as being necessary to 
stabilise the raft foundation. I accept that my method isnt perfect  here but having considered 
everything I find this a more balanced  compromise  than the reasons put forward by UIA.        
I also accept that this was an initial estimate  of the potential costs and that sometimes  these  
initial reserves can go up as well as down, but in this case  I am not giving one party the 
benefit of the doubt over the other  by relying  on costs that have been presented in the 
course of the claim. I will not be breaking  this cost down further, but for clarity this award is 
for overall  claim  costs  including  such items  as AA and I believe to be a fairer  reflection of the 
work that would have  been likely required.  
In my provisional decision I set out other areas  of the claim which I havent considered  due 
to the current position,  and that my compensation award therefore reflected a portion of the 
overall delays. I see no reason to change my position here and have reached the same 
conclusions as set out in my provisional  decision and for the same  reasons.
UIA has said it shouldnt reimburse  the cost of Ps report because  there hasnt  been  a clear 
demonstration of fault which would require  it to override the policy terms. But I did find Ps 
report more persuasive  and still do. And I have explained exactly  why I found Gs report 
lacking in detail  in my provisional decision. UIA hasnt provided me with anything further to 
consider on this point.  So as I have  relied  on Ps report  to help inform my recommendations, 
I think UIA should be liable for reimbursing the costs to Mr and Mrs B.
How UIA should  put things right
To put things right, UIA must:
Settle the claim and pay £60,000  towards  Mr and Mrs Bs rebuild  costs,  less the
policy excess;
Reimburse Mr and Mrs B for Ps report,  and any other reports or site investigations
they can evidence  which relate either to the cause of, or damage caused  by
subsidence;
Pay 8% simple interest on the amount Mr and Mrs B paid for the reports, from the
date the reports  were paid for to the date of settlement*;
Pay Mr and Mrs B £700 compensation for the distress and inconvenience  caused.
*If UIA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Mr and Mrs B how much  its taken off. It should  also give Mr and 
Mrs B a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN029052615My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. UIA (Insurance) Limited must put things right 
by doing what  Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 July 2021.
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0290526