K820x#14complaint
Mrs W, represented by her son Mr W, complains about National Westminster Bank Plc 
(NatWest) refusing to reinstate her credit  card. She also wants the interest thats being 
charged on the card to be stopped  and previous  interest charges to be refunded.
background
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 30 April 2019- a copy of which is attached  and forms part of this final 
decision.
In my provisional decision I explained  why I thought this complaint shouldnt be upheld and 
invited both parties to send any additional comments  or evidence they wished to make. 
NatWest didnt want to provide  any further  information for me to consider  and said it 
accepted the provisional decision. But Mr W, on Mrs Ws behalf,  disagreed.  In summary he 
said that:
The default that was applied to one of the cards was because  the credit limit was 
exceeded by a very small amount.  In any case the default has been challenged and 
ultimately withdrawn.
He found NatWests card centre difficult to deal with. He said it wouldnt allow the 
use of funds on the card at one point and also took a long time to make  a refund that 
was due, to the card.
He says there are no longer any financial issues with payments towards the card 
accounts. He has an arrangement to pay  which hes kept to  on one card, and 
maintains at least minimum payments on the other card.
He would like his mothers  credit  facility re-instated. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted Mr Ws submissions  which Ive considered very carefully. But although I 
understand his position here,  Ive not seen any reason to change  the conclusions  I came to 
in my provisional decision.
Mr W has referred to the small amount that the one of the cards exceeded its credit limit by, 
which led to it being defaulted. And I take Mr Ws point that the default  was eventually  
removed.
But as I said in my provisional decision, the matter  of the default  recorded against one of the 
cards has already been addressed elsewhere by this service  so I didnt make any 
comments on that complaint point.
What I did consider was the withdrawal of Mrs Ws credit facility and whether interest and 
charges should  have  continued to be applied to the other card. I know Mr W has said that 
any previous issues  with the cards have now stopped and hes paying them both off. And I 
can see that Mr W has kept to the arrangement to pay on one of the cards  and is 
maintaining minimum payments on the other. So as I said previously I would expect NatWest 
to continue to treat Mrs Ws situation positively and sympathetically. 
Ref: DRN01387462But that doesnt mean that NatWest has to re instate her credit facility.  As I previously 
explained I think NatWest  has applied any charges and interest fairly to the account because  
that contract  hasnt been broken. So it doesnt  have to suspend or stop the charges. I think 
NatWest is entitled  to make its own commercial  decisions about who it lends to and  in this 
case, its decided  not to lend further to Mr W. So I dont think NatWest  has done  anything 
wrong here.  
  
my final decision
For the reasons  that Ive already given in my provisional decision,  I dont  uphold  Mrs Ws 
complaint against  National  Westminster Bank Plc. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2019.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN01387463copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mrs W, represented by her son Mr W, complains about National  Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) 
refusing to reinstate  her credit card. She also wants the interest thats being charged on the card to be 
stopped and previous interest charges to be refunded.
background
Mrs W holds  two credit cards with NatWest. One account began  to fall into arrears  in 2014.  
Subsequently Mr W agreed an arrangement  to pay on the card but the terms of the agreement  were  
broken and a default was registered.  Since December 2017  Mr W has made  regular  payments of £30 
per month  and no further interest has been added to the account. Mr W has made a separate 
complaint about the default being recorded. However,  NatWest has since removed the default.
Mrs Ws other card had a credit limit of £1,300 and was in general use until the credit  limit was 
exceeded in March 2018. The following month the credit facility on the account  was stopped.  NatWest 
has said this was because the other account was in default. 
Mr W contacted NatWest in April 2018 because the card couldnt be used. He said hed spoken to 
someone previously  and agreed to bring  the balance  on the card down below  the credit limit and they 
had confirmed  the card would then be able to be used. He said it wasnt fair that the credit facility had 
been stopped and he wanted it reinstated.
NatWest said it had taken the decision  not to allow any further credit on the card because of 
Mrs Ws overall position, particularly as the other card had defaulted. But it did accept  it had given 
incorrect information about  the card being available  for use and credited the account with £20 for the 
inconvenience caused.
One of our adjudicators  looked  into the complaint and said it shouldnt be upheld.  He said that 
NatWest had a duty to lend responsibly and had acted reasonably in restricting further credit.  Another  
adjudicator confirmed  that interest continued to be added to the account because  minimum payments 
were being  made  and the account was up to date.
Mr W didnt  agree. He said NatWest should stop the interest on the account and refund what it had 
charged for the time that the card hadnt been used. He then said NatWest should  reinstate the card 
so it could  be used again.
As Mr W didnt agree, the case has been passed to me for a final decision.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. I know Mr W has strong feelings  about  this matter and wants  the 
issue resolved  for his mother,  and Ive some sympathy for his position as Mrs W no longer has any 
line of credit available to her with NatWest. 
But, overall,  I dont think NatWest had done anything wrong here  which  I know will disappoint Mrs 
W, so Ill explain  why.
Card 1- defaulted
Mr W has previously complained about the default that was recorded  against one of Mrs Ws credit 
cards. That complaint has already been  dealt  with by this service, so Im only considering here 
whether NatWest should reinstate the other credit  card as requested by 
Mr W, and also whether it should have stopped charging  interest on the same card.
Ref: DRN01387464Card 2- withdrawal of credit facility 
NatWests credit card terms and conditions  state that it can end an agreement if we have good 
reason including  if, you break this agreementyour  financial circumstances giving us reasonable 
grounds to believe you may have difficulty meeting  your commitments 
NatWest has said that because  one of Mrs Ws cards  already has an arrangement  to pay on it, and 
the other has exceeded  the credit limit and only has minimum payments being paid, it has withdrawn 
any further credit  facility  to Mrs W. 
This service wouldnt normally  interfere with NatWests  process of deciding who to give credit to. 
Thats for NatWest to decide based on its knowledge and experience of its own customers using an 
application and underwriting process. But I would expect NatWest to give a reason for not allowing 
any further credit.  In this case Im satisfied it has explained why it wont  allow further borrowing on Mrs 
Ws credit card  which  its terms  and conditions  allow  it to do  so I dont think NatWest had done 
anything wrong there. 
Ive seen that Mrs W does have one card with an arrangement  to pay and I can see that the other 
card has, on occasion, exceeded the credit limit. So I think its reasonable  for NatWest  when 
considering its duty to lend responsibly to Mrs W- to have  decided  not extend her any further credit 
facility. 
Application of interest and charges on card 2
Mr W says he thinks its unfair that NatWest has continued to add interest and charges to the second 
credit card. He says if Mrs W cant use the card then it shouldnt accrue  further charges. But Ive 
considered the situation  with that card and Ive seen how there  is no arrangement to pay on that 
account currently and that minimum payments are being  met. 
Mr W has said hes already asked NatWest about a repayment plan for the account. But 
he hasnt been able to provide any evidence  to substantiate his request and NatWest says it hasnt 
any record of having discussed the matter with Mr W. 
I know Mr W wants the interest on the card to be suspended, but I cant safely tell NatWest  to do that 
at this time. This is because  the contract hasnt been broken, so I dont  think it should  have  to stop 
interest accruing or repay interest from previous months. But I would encourage  Mr W to speak to 
NatWest, now that his mother is no longer able to use the card, to see if he can agree a resolution of 
how best to pay it off. 
Financial difficulties
Ive also gone on to consider whether NatWest could have taken a different approach to this account  
as a result of a default  initially being applied on the other account. I can see there have been some 
issues with the management  of this card over the years. There have been a number of over-limit  and 
late payment  fees as well as numerous cash advances, which could  be seen as indicators  of Mrs W 
experiencing financial difficulties.
So Ive looked at whether NatWest ought to have taken  a view on Mrs Ws financial situation.  But I 
cant see that Mrs W contacted NatWest about any financial difficulties and I do think  that its acted  
positively and sympathetically towards Mrs Ws accounts. Its sent out the required notices within 
statements regarding making  minimum payments and has explained the fees its charged. And its 
encouraged Mrs W to contact it to discuss the situation.
I think  this was demonstrated when  it agreed to Mr Ws proposal to enter an arrangement  to pay on 
one of the cards. 
Ref: DRN01387465Also, theres  no reason  why NatWest should have  automatically  stopped the interest charges on one 
card when it defaulted the other. The agreement on this card hadnt been broken  when the other was 
defaulted and I think it was reasonable for NatWest to continue to allow Mr W, on his mothers behalf,  
to make payments as one alternative to resolving the situation. I can see that Mr W wanted to avoid  
the account being defaulted  because  hes complained when that happened  on the other account. 
Ultimately here,  I think NatWest has applied  any charges and interest to the cards correctly  and 
doesnt have any obligation to suspend  or stop them. And its entitled  to make  legitimate commercial 
decisions about how and to who it lends money  which, in Mrs Ws case, has led to it deciding not to 
allow her any further credit facility.  
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given,  Im not minded  to uphold Mrs Ws complaint against National Westminster  
Bank Plc. But moving forward Id expect it to continue to treat her positively and sympathetically in 
regard to arrangements for her to repay her outstanding debt.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN0138746