K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy  taken 
out with a credit card in 2006. Mr C says Northern  Bank Limited (Northern Bank)  mis-sold 
him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Northern Bank  made  it clear  that Mr C didnt have to take out the PPI and he 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why he cant  remember  this. I appreciate  
Mr C says it wasnt made clear to him that PPI was optional and that it was added to his 
account without  his knowledge.  However, Ive seen documents  from the time of the sale. 
These show that PPI was discussed and it appears Mr C chose to take it out. The 
customer declaration  refers to PPI as optional and the box to take PPI has been 
selected. Mr C has signed this document. It also appears that Mr C called  the insurers  
twice to request  an unemployment claim form, this also supports my finding that its more 
likely Mr C was aware he had been  sold PPI.
Northern Bank recommended the PPI to Mr C so it had to check that the PPI was right 
for him  and based  on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time, I think  that it 
was. For example, he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI 
cover and he seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Northern Bank gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  
And it seems like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  
like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put 
him off taking out the cover. 
Which means Northern Bank doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Northern Bank will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr C because: 
When the policy was sold, Northern Bank got a high level of commission and profit  share  
(more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr C about  that. Because 
Northern Bank didnt tell Mr C, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Northern Bank  has basically offered to pay back the amount of 
commission and profit share  that was above  50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that 
offer is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr C has said - including  what he has said about  his 
employment, statutory  sick pay and savings. But these points dont change my decision. The 
PPI would have  paid out in addition to the sick pay and for a longer period of time than the 
Ref: DRN05009312sick pay. It would  also have paid out if he lost his job. I havent  seen evidence of Mr Cs 
savings but even if he did have savings, the policy would also have paid out in addition to 
these. And Mr C could have used his savings for other living expenses while  the PPI took 
care of the credit card repayments.
what the Northern Bank Limited  needs to do
Northern Bank has to pay back to Mr C any commission  and profit share it got that was more  
than 50% of the PPI premium. Northern Bank should also pay back  to Mr C any extra 
interest he paid because of that.
Northern Bank should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Mr C the difference 
between what he owes and what he wouldve owed if the commission  and profit share  it got 
hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Northern Bank should also pay Mr C 8%* 
simple interest if Mr C paid off his credit  card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr C can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Northern Bank  Limited does not have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Northern Bank Limited does  have to pay back to Mr C any commission and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 November  2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0500931