K821x#15complaint
Mrs C complains, on behalf of Mr and Mrs M, that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has unfairly 
declined their claim for a cancelled holiday.
background
Mr and Mrs M have  travel  insurance through their bank. This insurance is underwritten  by 
UKI.
In March 2018 their son booked  a holiday for a total of 8 family members, including Mr and 
Mrs M, to celebrate Mr Ms birthday. 
Mr and Mrs M have  explained that the family  agreed  their son would make  all of the initial  
bookings and payments for flights and accommodation on his credit card. But that once they 
returned from the holiday they would  split the total cost of the holiday  including any 
expenditure incurred on the trip  equally between the adult members of the party.
On the 22 September 2018  Mrs M was sadly diagnosed with cancer. And this was confirmed 
on 1 October 2018 following further  scans and tests. Mr and Mrs M were  advised by Mrs Ms 
medical consultant  to cancel their holiday so that Mrs M could  start treatment  as soon as 
possible. So on the 2 October 2018  their son cancelled  the bookings  hed made.
He submitted an insurance claim to UKI on behalf  of Mr and Mrs M. And was advised that 
payment would be made around the 24 December 2018. But the money didnt arrive. He 
contacted UKI again in January, but it said that the claim had been declined  because there 
was no evidence Mr and Mrs M had paid any money  for the holiday. And so it didnt feel that 
theyd suffered any financial loss.
Mr and Mrs Ms son challenged this decision on their behalf. And UKI paid £100 
compensation as an apology  for the service it had provided. But maintained that their claim 
wasnt covered.
Mr and Mrs M feel this is unfair. They say other family members  due to go on the holiday 
have successfully submitted claims for their proportion of the holiday costs and not 
experienced any problems. And they dont  think the arrangement theyd  made with their son 
to settle the cost of the holiday  at a later date was unusual. 
Our investigator said she could understand why UKI had declined the claim. But she felt that 
in the circumstances this wasnt a reasonable stance for it to take.  She thought 
Mr and Mrs M had given  a reasonable explanation  as to why they hadnt made any 
payments to their son for the holiday before  the claim was made. So she asked UKI to pay 
the claim.  
UKI strongly  disagree with our investigators view. It says theres  no evidence that 
Mr and Mrs M intended to pay their son back. And that its not unusual  for an adult 
dependent to treat their parents to a trip. It feels Mr and Mrs M havent substantiated  the 
claim, or shown they have a financial interest here.
So the case has been passed to me to review.
Ref: DRN03755042my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Firstly let me start by saying that Im very sorry to hear of Mrs Ms illness, and I appreciate  
this must have been a very difficult  time for Mr and Mrs M and their family. 
Its my role to consider whether UKI has treated Mr and Mrs M fairly  here.  And having looked 
at all of the information Ive been  provided,  I dont think it has. Ive reached largely the same 
conclusions as our investigator  did when they looked at this case. Ill explain why.
I do understand UKIs explanation as to why it declined this claim. Its relied on the following 
policy terms which state;
A  Cancellation
What you are covered  for
We will cover you up to £5,000 per insured person for your:
a)Unused deposits;
b)Accommodation and travel costs  (including  car hire, excursions and activities); and
c)Unused kennel, cattery, professional pet sitter or car parking charges
That you have paid or legally have to pay if you unavoidably need to cancel your journey for 
one of the following reasons:
1.Death or serious  injury or illness to: 
a)you;
b)a travelling companion
Claims conditions
In addition to anything mentioned in the General Conditions, we will only pay:
1.For expenses which you have pre-paid or contracted to pay, at the time you realise a 
claim may be made.  
What you are not covered for (exclusions)
In addition to anything mentioned in the General exclusions, we will not pay for claims which 
are a result of:
18.The unused  expenses of a person who is not insured under this policy. If you are 
travelling with someone who is not insured  under this policy,  we will only pay your 
proportion of costs  not theirs, regardless of who has paid for the booking. 
Ref: DRN03755043Mr and Mrs M hadnt made any payments towards the holiday prior to their cancellation 
claim arising. UKI are of the view that they werent  legally  contracted to make  future  
payments for it either. So it feels that their costs dont meet the terms of the cancellation  
clause in its policy. And as it excludes cover for unused expenses incurred by a person who 
isnt insured under the policy, it says it cant cover costs incurred by Mr and Mrs Ms son on 
their behalf.
Ive thought carefully about what UKI has said here.  And Ive also given regard to the 
Insurance Conduct of Business rules which state that an insurer must not unreasonably  
reject a claim (ICOBS  8.1.1R). Whilst the terms and conditions  of the policy  set out the rules 
about when an insurer should make a payment, those rules should  also be applied fairly and 
reasonably. 
I dont think UKI has given sufficient consideration to Mr and Mrs Ms situation here. Or the 
explanation theyve given as to what their payment arrangements for this holiday were. And I 
dont think its interpreted  its policy wording  in a way that is fair to them  in these  individual 
circumstances.
Like our investigator,  Im persuaded that Mr and Mrs M did have an arrangement  in place 
with their son to reimburse  him for their share of the cost of the holiday.  And that it had been 
agreed this payment would be made  after the holiday had taken place, when the total cost of 
it would  be known. Ive found the testimony  Ive been presented with on this point to be 
credible. 
I appreciate UKI doesnt feel that this has been  substantiated. But this was a verbal 
agreement with a family  member. So I wouldnt  reasonably expect Mr and Mrs M to be able 
to provide UKI with paperwork to this effect.  However other family members have verified 
what theyve told us here. And Mrs C has provided evidence on their behalf  to show that 
other family members maintained this arrangement  (following claims made  to their own 
insurers) by making payments to Mr and Mrs Ms son towards the holiday costs after the trip 
was cancelled. Ive also seen that Mr and Mrs M have since  paid money  to their son towards 
the costs of the trip, as they said they intended  to do. 
Taking all of this into account,  and considering  Mr and Mrs Ms explanation as to how and 
why the family came  to this arrangement, I do think they were committed to make future 
payments for this holiday.  And I dont feel its unreasonable that they hadnt paid this money 
to their son before submitting their claim to UKI. 
I also understand that Mr and Mrs Ms son has made a travel  insurance claim under his own 
policy with UKI for the same holiday cancellation. To be clear, Im not considering  a 
complaint from Mr and Mrs Ms son. But from the evidence Ive been given here I understand 
that his claim has already  been settled. And that the settlement didnt include the costs hed 
initially incurred on Mr and Mrs Ms behalf. Given what UKI has told us, I also think its 
unlikely hed be able to successfully claim for these costs as they werent for his proportion  
of the holiday. And it is common for travel  insurance  policies to exclude costs related to 
travelling companions who arent named  on the insurance policy.  So Im satisfied that there  
is a low risk of Mr and Mrs M, or their son, effectively being reimbursed twice for these costs.  
On this basis I think it would be fair and reasonable for UKI to treat Mr and Mrs Ms costs  as 
if they were legally contracted to make  them, and therefore meet  the policy conditions set 
out above. And to settle this claim,  subject  to the remaining  policy terms. 
Ref: DRN03755044my final decision
My final decision is that U K Insurance  Limited  should settle  this claim in line with the other 
terms and conditions of its policy. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C, on behalf  of 
Mr and Mrs M to accept  or reject  my decision before 13 December 2019.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0375504