K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs V have  complained that Advantage Insurance Company Limited unfairly  
cancelled Mr Vs policy as it if didnt exist. Mr V made a claim when his car was stolen. 
All reference to Advantage includes its agents.
background
Mr V bought a car insurance policy  in August 2018  and the underwriter for the policy  was 
Advantage. In January 2019  Mr Vs car was stolen and so he contacted  Advantage to make 
a claim.  
Advantage discovered that Mrs V  a named driver under the policy   had a motoring 
conviction from June  2015 which Mr V didnt tell it about when he bought  the policy. 
Advantage said if it had known  about  the conviction,  it wouldnt  have  offered  Mr V a policy. 
So it rejected Mr Vs claim and it cancelled  his policy as it if didnt exist (also  known  as 
avoidance).
Mr V said he thought he didnt need to tell Advantage about Mrs Vs motoring conviction 
because he understood it only remained on her licence for three years. 
Our investigator saw that Advantage had asked  Mr V if he or the named  drivers had any 
motoring convictions  for the previous five years. So he felt Advantage  had asked a clear 
question which Mr V hadnt answered correctly. And Advantage had shown it wouldnt have 
offered a policy if it had known about the conviction. So the investigator  thought Advantage 
had avoided Mr Vs policy  correctly. 
Mr V said that Mrs V was able to obtain insurance elsewhere  so he doesnt  agree that 
Advantage wouldnt have offered a policy if it had known  about the conviction. 
So Mr V would like an ombudsman to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why. 
The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) sets out the 
duty of the insurer  to ask a clear question   and the consumers duty to answer the question 
honestly and to the best of their knowledge  when entering into an insurance contract.
So where a complaint arises from non-disclosure of information important to an insurer, we 
look to see that the insurer  asked a clear question when the policy was taken out. We check  
that the information given  would affect  whether a policy was offered or its terms. And we 
check whether the policyholder has taken reasonable care to provide accurate information. If 
not, we consider whether  they did so deliberately, recklessly or carelessly. 
Advantage has provided a screenshot of the online journey Mr V saw when he applied  for 
his policy. The key question he was asked about  his and the named drivers  history  said:
Ref: DRN04689702Have you had any driving related convictions,  endorsements, penalties,  
disqualifications or bans in the past five years?
Mr V answered no for Mrs V. When Advantage asked Mr V about this, he said he believed 
he didnt need  to disclose it as he thought the motoring conviction was removed from her 
licence after three years. But Advantage asked Mr V if Mrs V had any convictions in the past 
five years.  I think the question was clear. But I think Mr V didnt take enough care when he 
answered this question.  And this means Advantage offered a policy based on incorrect 
information provided by Mr V. 
Each underwriter has its own criteria as to what it will and will not accept in order  to provide 
insurance cover. This information is commercially  sensitive   so while we cant share  it with 
Mr V  we can ask an underwriter to provide  us with a copy  so that we can decide if it has 
acted fairly.
Advantage has provided a copy of its underwriting criteria which  shows  it wouldnt have 
offered an insurance  policy if Mr V had told it about Mrs Vs motoring  conviction.  
Mr V said that Mrs V was able to obtain insurance elsewhere. But this doesnt mean that 
Advantage has acted  unfairly  as it applied  its own criteria correctly in this case.
In line with CIDRA, an insurer should provide a refund of premiums if it finds that the 
misrepresentation wasnt deliberate or reckless.  Advantage  provided Mr V with a full refund 
of the premium he paid for the cancelled  policy. So I think Advantage acted fairly. 
I understand Mr V will be disappointed with my decision. But I think Advantage reached its 
decision to cancel his policy  as if it didnt exist in a fair and reasonable way. Advantage 
highlighted in the policy that there was a risk that Mr Vs policy may be cancelled  and any 
claim might not be met if the information  he provided  wasnt  correct. As Mr V wasnt  insured 
when the theft took place, this unfortunately means his claim isnt covered. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs V to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 September 2019. 
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0468970