K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains about the level of service  provided by Aviva  Insurance  Limited when he 
made a claim on his motor insurance  policy following an accident. Mr R wants  an apology 
and compensation  for his trouble and stress. Mr R is represented in this matter by his wife, 
Mrs R. 
background
Mr and Mrs R were involved in an accident  and Mrs R called that day to report it and the car 
was recovered.  But when Mrs R called Aviva the next day, it had no record of the call. It took 
Mrs R 40 calls and a further  four days to locate their car. She was unhappy with the service 
on the phone and being given conflicting information. This caused  them  stress. Aviva  said it 
had no record of the call from Mrs R on the day of the accident. It also said it didnt use the 
recovery company that took the car.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  He saw that Aviva  didnt  
have a record of Mrs Rs call on the day of the accident. He thought it most likely that Mrs R 
had called his broker and it, acting as Avivas  agent,  had organised the recovery.  He thought  
Aviva had given Mr and Mrs R conflicting  and confusing information. He thought this had 
caused Mr R stress  on top of his worry about  Mrs Rs injury. So he thought Aviva should  pay 
Mr R £150 compensation.
Aviva replied that it thought responsibility for the complaint lay with the broker  which  had 
appointed an accident management  company  to deal with the claim. It said the broker  wasnt  
appointed by Aviva as its agent in this instance.  
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Aviva handled the claim directly from five days after the accident. But 
Mr and Mrs R were dissatisfied with what happened in the previous four days.  They were left 
confused and given mis-leading information. Aviva said it wasnt responsible for this. Mrs R 
recalled that she called both Aviva  and the broker on the day of the accident. But neither 
Aviva nor the broker has any record of this call. 
Aviva thought Mrs R had appointed an accident  management company to deal with the 
claim. But Ive not seen  any evidence of this. I think if she had, then the company would 
have been in contact with them.
Aviva said it didnt use the recovery company which had recovered Mr Rs car. But Aviva told 
us that the accident management company whod arranged this did take instructions from 
brokers. 
Mrs R said shed been given a number for Aviva that she called the day after the accident. 
But the line was closed. This was when she called the broker.  
Ref: DRN05398132Ive listened to this call Mrs R made  to the broker the day after the accident. The agent is 
clear that it has no record of the claim or recovery. Mrs R is clear that shed called the 
broker. He explained  that it wouldnt be involved in the recovery  and she had been passed 
through to Aviva  who had arranged this. Mrs R was able to provide a claim reference 
number that he recognised as Avivas. Mr and Mrs R then had to go through  the accident  
details again.  
So Mrs R said she had been  given Avivas  number and was awaiting a call back the day 
after the accident. She was able to provide what the broker recognised  as a claim number 
for Aviva. I think, on balance, that Aviva or its agent was made aware of the accident on the 
day it was first reported. Aviva is responsible for handling claims on the policy. So I think it 
should be responsible for the level of service Mr R received.
I can also see that when  Mr R was trying to locate  his car Aviva  gave him incorrect 
information. It directed  him to the company dealing with Mrs Rs personal injury  claim only.  I 
think this added to the confusion and caused further  upset.  
I think Mr R was caused trouble and upset in trying to locate his car. Aviva had told him it 
had no record of recovering  it or the claim.  This must have been very worrying  following the 
accident. It also gave  him conflicting and confusing information. The investigator 
recommended that Aviva  should pay Mr R £150  compensation for this. I think thats fair and 
reasonable as its in keeping with what Id require in similar circumstances. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Aviva Insurance  Limited  to pay 
Mr R £150 compensation  for the distress  and inconvenience caused  by its handling of his 
claim. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 April 2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0539813