K820x#14complaint
Miss R complains that Capital One (Europe) plc didnt treat her fairly when she was in 
financial difficulty.
background
Miss R fell behind on her credit card repayments.  She phoned Capital One and it agreed  a 
payment plan to help her get her account up to date.
Miss R complained to Capital One because she didnt think  the charges  applied to her 
account were fair. She asked Capital One to repay all charges applied  to her account  for the 
last six years as these had left her in financial hardship.
Capital One said the fees it had charged  were for returned  direct debits and late payments. 
They were  applied in line with the accounts  terms and conditions  and so was the interest. It 
said charges wouldnt  be applied while Miss R was making payments on her plan, but 
interest would  continue to be applied.
Our investigator didnt  think Miss Rs complaint should be upheld. She didnt think  Capital 
One needed to refund the charges  because  they were in line with its terms and conditions.  
She also didnt think  Capital One had done  anything wrong by continuing to charge interest 
while the payment  plan was in place. 
Miss R disagreed with our investigators  view.  She said shed entered the payment plan to 
clear the arrears on her account, but because interest had still been  charged, shed been left 
in the same position, if not worse.
As Miss R has disagreed, her complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Miss Rs complaint. Ill explain why. 
Capital One had a duty to treat Miss R positively and sympathetically, if it was aware  she 
was experiencing financial  difficulties.
Ive listened to a recording  of Miss Rs conversation with Capital  One when she agreed the 
payment plan. At this point she was four months  behind on her repayments. Miss R told 
Capital One there hadnt been any changes to her income or expenditure. Shed fallen 
behind because shed  missed the first payment and didnt have the funds to bring the 
account up to date. She said she could afford  to pay £100 a month. 
The Capital One advisor agreed for her to pay £99 a month  for four months. He explained 
that any fees (such as late payment,  over limit charges) would be stopped  while the plan 
was in place, but she would still be charged  interest. She also wouldnt be allowed to use her 
credit card. He told her that when  the plan ended her account would be up to date but she 
would still be over her credit limit. 
Ref: DRN05249472Capital One says it would only have stopped interest  if Miss R was put on a long-term plan 
and this would have resulted in a default on Miss Rs credit  file. 
I think Capital One acted reasonably by agreeing a short-term plan with Miss R. Registering  
a default on her credit file would likely have had a negative impact on Miss R if shed wanted  
to get credit  in the future. Miss R said the arrangement was affordable for her and from what  
Ive seen, shed  been paying  a similar amount for her credit  card repayments in the past.
I can see Capital One charged Miss R fees for late payments, being over her credit limit and 
direct debits not going through  on several occasions before the arrangement was made. But 
these were done in line with the terms and conditions of her account.  So, I dont think Capital 
One was wrong  to do so.
Ive also thought about whether her previous  late payments should have alerted Capital One 
that Miss R might  have  been in financial difficulty. Although there  were  occasions when 
shed paid late, she was usually able to bring  her account up to date. So, I dont think it 
would be fair to say Capital One should have been  aware of any difficulties she might  have 
experienced before she agreed the plan.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Miss Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 January 2020.  
Anne Muscroft
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0524947