K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Acromas Insurance Company Limited (Acromas)  wont pay for water 
charges he claimed  for after discovering  a leak. He made a claim under the contents  section 
of his home insurance policy. Mr W wants Acromas to pay for the water (£633), some  
plumbing work (£84) and for his time and effort bringing the complaint.
background
Mr W has both building  and contents insurance  which he bought through  an intermediary. 
Only the contents  insurance is provided by Acromas. 
Mr W contacted  Acromas  in March 2018 to say hed noticed lowered water pressure and 
then discovered a burst pipe. He asked  Acromas to open a claim  for the water  that had been  
lost as a result of this. It was more than £600.
Acromas accepted the claim, but after considering  what Mr W said,  decided it wouldnt  pay 
the claim.  It said the policy  Mr W had only covered payment  for metered water after 
accidental damage  to pipes  and as Mr W didnt  know why the pipe had burst it probably 
wasnt accidental, but rather wear and tear.
Mr W complained  but Acromas didnt change  its mind.  So he brought his complaint  to us.
Our investigator agreed with Acromas. She too thought there  wasnt  enough evidence to say 
there was accidental damage, so Acromas  neednt pay for the water.
Mr W remains unhappy so Ive been  asked to decide this complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive reached the same 
conclusions as the investigator did, for much the same reasons.
I realise this will disappoint Mr W so Ill explain how I reached this decision.
The policy Mr W has covers charges for metered water lost from pipes that have suffered 
accidental damage.  And as our investigator  explained, the policy defines that as damage 
that is unexpected and unintentional  and caused  by sudden and external means. 
If Mr W accidentally  put a nail through  a pipe that would  meet  the terms of the policy. But we 
dont know what caused the problem here. 
From what  Mr W said, he discovered the burst pipe in March.  But I think it may have been 
leaking for some time before that. I say that because Mr W shared some  correspondence 
from his water company   which says his use of water increased significantly in October  
and continued  at a higher than normal rate for several months. That suggests the pipe failed 
some time before Mr W noticed. I understand why that was  it seems the pipe was running 
along the outside of a garage and the water  may just have soaked away  in the early weeks. 
And I can understand why Mr W might  not realise  his water usage  was up if he didnt get a 
statement during  that period, or check his meter.
Ref: DRN00619372I did think about whether  there was an outside cause of the damage in March  and there 
had been some very cold weather just before Mr Ws claim, which could have  been  the final 
straw. But although that may have made things more obvious,  I remain  persuaded the leak 
was present months before  this, and the result of gradual wear and tear.
I think Acromas  has applied  the terms and conditions of the policy  fairly,  so I wouldnt ask it 
to do more.
Mr W wants Acromas to meet the cost of a plumber  who fixed the pipe. But thats not 
something covered  by his contents  insurance,  so its not Acromas responsibility. And I dont 
think its appropriate ask Acromas to pay Mr W any compensation  for bringing a complaint, 
especially when Im not upholding it because I dont  think Acromas  did anything wrong. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0061937