K821x#15complaint
Mrs P complains that Legal  & General Assurance Society Limited gave  her unsuitable 
pensions advice in 1995. In particular,  she says it advised her take out a personal pension 
but did not check whether she was eligible to join her employers defined benefits pension  
scheme.
background
It appears Mrs P had three meetings with her Legal  & General adviser in late 1994  and early 
1995.
At the time,  the adviser noted that Mrs P was not eligible  to join her employers pension 
scheme as she was only part time and accruing 16 hours  per week
The adviser also noted:
Mrs P has no pension  provision and has wanted to start a pension for some  years,  working 
part time for the [name  of employer], she does not achieve the correct amount of hours  per 
week to become part of the superann scheme, furthermore, because of her two children her 
current weekly hours of 16, shall be reduced to assist in their upbringing.
.Therefore the need for a pension provision is urgent
I have made [Mrs P] fully aware  that should  she become eligible for any company pension 
scheme or should  her hours increase  for the superann scheme to become applicable it is our 
company policy  that she shall be advised to join the scheme  and the personal plan should  
be suspended.  However as previously  mentioned, the hours are more prone to reduce than 
increase due to family commitments.
It appears that to cover the cost of the £45 per month net personal  pension contributions,  the 
adviser recommended that Mrs P should cancel a whole of life assurance policy she held. 
The whole of life plan had been set up five years earlier.
Mrs P contributed to the personal  pension until 2004 when she was advised to join her 
employers pension scheme by her financial  adviser  at that time. After joining her employers 
scheme, she transferred  the value of the Legal  & General plan into her employers scheme 
and bought additional years.
In 2018 Mrs P complained to Legal  & General. She said she had recently  become aware 
that her personal pension  pot had only bought 14 months of benefits in her employers 
defined benefits  scheme.  Mrs P explained that, as a result, she would be unable to retire 
early.
Legal & General didnt uphold Mrs Ps complaint. It said the information recorded  at the time 
Mrs P had taken out the personal  pension  showed she wasnt eligible to join her employers 
scheme. It also noted that its adviser had told Mrs P that if she became eligible to join her 
employers pension scheme she should do so.
Mrs P wasnt  satisfied  with Legal & Generals response and brought  her complaint to this 
service.
Ref: DRN06430912Our adjudicator recommended  that Mrs Ps complaint should be upheld. He said he felt 
Legal & Generals adviser should  have taken steps to check whether Mrs P could join her 
employers scheme. He said he didnt think it should  have relied  on Mrs P to know whether  
she was eligible to join the scheme.  He noted that the adviser had a long standing  
relationship with Mrs P and had advised her on various issues for over five years before the 
pension recommendation. 
He also noted  that the adviser  had three  meetings with Mrs P over a three and half month 
period. He said he felt there had been  ample  time for the adviser  to ask Mrs P to check  with 
her employer whether  she could  join its pension scheme. Had this been  done, he said the 
adviser would  been  able to advise Mrs P based on her actual circumstances.
He noted Mrs P said she had been  a member of her employers pension scheme when she 
was training. Once she had qualified, Mrs P said she was invited to re-join the scheme  but 
had declined  to do so at the time due to the cost.  He noted that under the scheme rules, 
prior to 1991 employees who worked less than 50% of the full time hours (FTE)  werent 
eligible to join the scheme. But since 1991  part-time staff were  eligible to join the scheme  
even if they worked  less than 50% of the FTE. 
As Mrs P paid about  10% of her gross salary  into the personal  pension in 1995  he said he 
felt Mrs P would have been able to afford the contributions to her employers scheme. It 
appears Mrs Ps current level of contribution is 12.5% of salary.
In order to resolve this matter he said Legal & General should,  as far as possible,  put Mrs P 
in the position she would  now be in, had she been advised to join her employers pension  
scheme in 1995.  He also said it should pay Mrs P £250 for the trouble and upset this matter 
had caused her.
Legal & General didnt accept our adjudicators  view and asked for an ombudsman to 
determine this complaint.  It said, in summary that its adviser wouldnt have had cause to 
question what he was told by Mrs P. It said Mrs P would have been best placed to explain 
the details of her employers pension scheme.  
It also said it felt Mrs Ps employer was responsible for making her aware that the scheme 
rules had changed. It referred  to a court ruling  from 1991 that said employers should 
properly inform their employees about their rights.
Mrs P also responded  with comments on Legal & Generals response.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
The crux of this complaint is whether the adviser should have looked  into whether Mrs P 
could join her employers  pension scheme, before he advised  her to go ahead with the 
personal pension.
Ref: DRN06430913At the time the advice  was given Mrs P was a young mother, working  part-time  for a well-
known employer. There is nothing  on file to suggest Mrs P had any particular knowledge or 
expertise in financial planning.
Legal & General has said:
I think that on the balance of probabilities it would have been Mrs P, rather than [the 
adviser], who knew the workings of the [name of employer] Pension Scheme, and whether 
she would  have been eligible to join in 1995. [The adviser] would have been an expert on 
Legal & General products, but not on the [name of employer] Pension Scheme
I dont believe it likely  that [the adviser] would have been able to quote the intricacies  of the 
[name of employer] Pension Scheme and I believe it more likely  that Mrs P told him of her 
ineligibility Indeed, the Personal  Financial Review notes that she had wanted to start a 
pension for some years, but had not done so due to her ineligibility to join the [name  of 
employer] Pension  Scheme.
I dont agree that it was incumbent  on [the adviser] to check what  he was told by Mrs P 
about her ineligibility to join the [name of employer]  Pension Scheme. He would have no 
reason to doubt what she says she has believed for many years.
I dont think it was reasonable  for the adviser  to have  expected  Mrs P to be familiar with the 
detailed eligibility criteria  of her employers pension scheme.
Having carefully reviewed all the information  available from the time the advice was given, I 
think it is likely that Mrs P did tell the adviser  that she didnt think she was eligible to join her 
employers pension scheme as she worked  less than 50% FTE.
But I think the adviser should  at the very least have advised Mrs P to check  that her 
understanding was correct. Or, preferably  to have asked Mrs P to bring  a copy of the 
scheme booklet to her next meeting so that the adviser could check that Mrs Ps belief that 
she wasnt eligible to join the scheme  was correct.
I agree  that the adviser wouldnt  have  been  expected to quote  the intricacies of Mrs Ps 
employers scheme. But as a professional financial adviser I would have expected him to 
have taken reasonable steps to ensure that Mrs Ps understanding was correct.  I think  this 
was particularly important  as, due to the nature of Mrs Ps profession she was likely to 
remain with the same employer throughout her career. I am also mindful that there is nothing  
in the records  from 1995  that suggests Mrs P had any financial expertise. I therefore dont 
think it was reasonable  for the adviser  to have  relied  on Mrs P to have up-to-date knowledge  
about the eligibility criteria  for her employers scheme.
In its responses to this service Legal & General has referred to a court ruling  that set out 
employers should  make their employees aware of their rights . I accept that Mrs Ps 
employer should  have made  its employees aware  of changes to the eligibility  criteria for its 
pension scheme. But I dont agree that this meant  Mrs Ps financial adviser didnt also need  
to take reasonable steps to check that Mrs Ps understanding that she couldnt join the 
scheme was correct.
Legal & Generals adviser was required to gather sufficient information about  Mrs Ps 
personal and financial  circumstances in order to ensure  that he was able to give suitable 
advice. The adviser failed to make  any checks, or to ask Mrs P to check  that her 
Ref: DRN06430914understanding that she couldnt join her employers pension scheme was correct,  before he 
advised Mrs P to go ahead with a personal  pension.  
I dont think this was reasonable given Mrs Ps personal and financial circumstances at the 
time the advice was given. This was particularly the case given the potentially  very 
significant financial loss Mrs P could suffer if her understanding of the eligibility criteria for 
her employers pension  scheme was incorrect.  
I dont think Mrs P would  have understood the long term implications  of not joining her 
employers scheme if she was eligible to do so  but the adviser  would have known the very 
significant impact this could have on Mrs Ps pension in retirement. In view of this I think the 
adviser should have taken  steps  to check whether Mrs Ps understanding  of the eligibility 
criteria was correct before he recommended a personal pension.
Having carefully considered all that has been said and provided,  my decision is that I uphold  
Mrs Ps complaint.
what the business must  do to put things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would  be for the business to put Mrs P, as far as possible, 
into the position she would now be in but for the unsuitable advice.
Legal & General must undertake a redress calculation  in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance  as updated  by the Financial Conduct  Authority  in October  2017.
This calculation should  be carried out as at the date of this decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions published at the date of that decision. In accordance with the 
regulators expectations, this should  be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider 
promptly following receipt of notification of Mrs Ps acceptance of the decision. 
If the redress calculation  demonstrates a loss, the compensation should, if possible be paid 
into Mrs Ps pension plan.  The payment  should  allow for the effect of charges (if any) and 
any available tax relief.  The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension  plan if it would  
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
Legal & General may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP)  to 
obtain Mrs Ps contribution history to the State Earnings Related  Pension Scheme (SERPS 
or S2P). These details  should then be used to include a SERPS  adjustment in the 
calculation, which will take into account the impact of not joining the occupational scheme on 
Mrs Ps SERPS/S2P entitlement. 
If a payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mrs P as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow  for 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid.  25% of the loss would be tax-free and 
75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax rate in retirement   presumed 
to be 20%.  So making a notional deduction  of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects  
this.
Where I consider that total fair compensation requires payment of an amount that might 
exceed £150,000, I may recommend that the business pays the balance.
determination and money award: I require Legal  & General to pay Mrs P compensation as 
Ref: DRN06430915set out above,  up to a maximum of £150,000. 
The compensation resulting from the loss assessment must where possible be paid to Mrs P 
within 90 days of the date Legal & General receives notification of her acceptance of my final 
decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per 
year simple  from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in 
excess of 90 days, that it takes Legal & General to pay Mrs P this compensation.
Its possible that data gathering  for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes  beyond  the 90 day period allowed for settlement above   and so any 
period of time where  the only outstanding  item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. 
recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation  of fair compensation exceeds 
£150,000, I also recommend  that Legal  & General pays  Mrs P the balance. I further 
recommend interest  to be added to this balance  at the rate of 8% per year simple  for any 
time, in excess of 90 days,  that it takes Legal  & General to pay Mrs P from the date it 
receives notification  of her acceptance  of the decision, as set out above.
If Mrs P accepts  my determination,  the money  award is binding  on Legal  & General. My 
recommendation is not binding on Legal & General. Further, its unlikely that Mrs P can 
accept my determination and go to court  to ask for the balance  of the compensation owing to 
her after the money  award has been paid.  Mrs P may want to consider getting independent 
legal advice before  deciding  whether to accept this decision.
For the upset caused  by missing out on pensionable  service in her employers pension  
scheme, Legal & General  should also pay Mrs P £250.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019.
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. In order to resolve  this matter Legal & General 
Assurance Society Limited  should calculate and pay any redress  due as set out above.
Suzannah Stuart
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0643091