K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Specialised Training  Services Limited (STSL) misrepresented  a 
course he enrolled on.
background
Mr G enrolled  on a HGV training course  with STSL in March 2018  but in July 2018 he asked 
to withdraw from the agreement as he said he hadnt been  told he could get points on his 
license and fines during random spot checks that were conducted  on HGV drivers.
STSL didnt think it was reasonable  to allow Mr G to withdraw from his agreement  on this 
basis. They  didnt think they had to tell him about  the potential for spot checks before he 
signed up for the course as they said if Mr G followed the road rules he could avoid charges 
and points on his license. They went on to explain that the terms of the contract Mr G signed  
with them  said that cancellations werent  allowed  after the initial 14 day cooling off period if 
training had been booked  or undertaken. And they explained as Mr G had completed four of 
his five days of training  he was liable for the full cost of the training.
Mr G was disappointed  by STSLs response. He said if hed been  told about the risk of spot 
checks he wouldnt have signed up for the course  as he already had six points on his 
license. He said hed told STSL about this in the call he had with them and had asked them  
about hidden costs or factors that would make  him decline the course  but they hadnt told 
him about the spot checks that were conducted.  So he referred his complaint  to this service.
Our adjudicator provided her view in February.  She agreed  that the information provided to 
Mr G before he started his course, didnt contain any details about spot checks but she didnt 
think it needed to. The call records were  no longer  available to her so she couldnt check  
whether Mr G had specifically asked about  this sort of issue in the call he had with STSL. 
She explained that, as penalty points  were part of the Highway Code, Mr G could always  get 
them through normal driving. She reviewed the terms of Mr Gs contract  and she noted that 
his request to cancel  the training had been  made  outside of the cooling off period and after 
training had been booked. So she didnt think the terms allowed him to cancel the agreement  
and therefore  didnt think STSL needed to take any further action.
But Mr G disagreed. He was disappointed that the call recording was no longer available  and 
he asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr G but I agree with the adjudicators view and for similar reasons. 
Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
Ref: DRN03838572board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
I can see that Mr G was given a cooling off period within which he could have walked away 
from the agreement  but he didnt do so. Thereafter, as hed already  booked or attended 
some of the course,  the terms of his agreement with STSL said that he could no longer 
cancel without incurring  the full cost.  But if STSL didnt explain something to Mr G that would 
have led him to rethink his decision to sign up for the course and if the business should 
reasonably have told him, I would think still think it fair to ask STSL to take some further 
action.
But here I am not persuaded that it was essential  for them  to tell Mr G about the possibility  of 
Driver and Vehicle Standards Agency, or police, spot checks.  I think it would be 
unreasonable to expect  STSL to go into that much  detail.  They  wouldnt expect Mr G to think 
he could drive an un-roadworthy vehicle and theyd expect him to have an appreciation of 
the rules of the road as he already had a driving license.
Penalty points and fines are applicable to those  in breach of the requisite standards. I 
wouldnt expect the business to discuss what happens if a consumer breaks the law and it 
follows that I think it would be unreasonable to expect STSL  to have discussed the 
implications of spot checks with Mr G.
Mr G is disappointed that STSL  no longer  have  the call recording of his conversation with 
them prior to signing up. He says he asked if there were any hidden costs or factors  that 
would make him decline the course. Its unfortunate that STSL  no longer have the call 
recordings and I understand Mr Gs frustration. But businesses cant keep calls forever  and 
will set their own time limits for retention. However,  if Mr G asked them  about  factors  that 
would lead him to decline  the course I dont  think it would be fair to expect them to have 
raised the issue of spot checks with him. I think, as Ive explained  above,  they would have 
reasonably expected Mr G to understand that there were implications to road users if laws 
werent followed. So I dont think it would be fair to ask STSL to take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0383857