K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance  (PPI) that started in 2001.  
Ms B and Mr B say Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms B and Mr Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Ms B signed an application form to take out the PPI. This form was separate from any forms 
she mightve filled in for the mortgage  itself.  And Ms B signed  a separate  direct  debit to pay 
for the cover. So it looks like it was clear the PPI had a cost that was paid separately from 
the mortgage. And the separate paperwork makes it look like Lloyds presented  the PPI as 
something that was separate from the mortgage. Its also clear  Ms B agreed to pay for it.
Ms B has told us she was told the PPI was part of the mortgage. But bearing in mind  what  
Ive said above  - and without anything else to support what her  on its own what  Ms B 
recalls isnt enough to make me think Lloyds didnt  present the PPI as a separate product 
that she had a choice about  taking. I say this taking into account also that the sale was more 
than fifteen years ago  so I wouldnt expect Ms B to remember all the details vividly.
Overall I havent seen enough  to make me think Lloyds  misled Ms B about having to take the 
cover as part of the mortgage. Based on what I have,  I think Lloyds made Ms B aware  that 
the PPI was something separate from the mortgage and she agreed to take it, and agreed to 
make payments for it. And there isnt enough to make me think Lloyds didnt make  it clear 
that Ms B had a choice  about taking the cover.
Lloyds recommended the PPI, so it had to check the PPI was right for Ms B and Mr B. And 
based on what Ive seen, I think that it was. The policy covered Ms B only.  And from what 
Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the cover. And she seems  to have had a need for the cover.  It was cover in case of 
accident, sickness or unemployment. And from what shes  told us, Ms B wouldve received 
only statutory benefits if she lost her job or was too sick to work. And the cover helped Ms B 
to protect  her mortgage - a significant long term liability  secured on her home.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. 
Ms B has told us she believes she wouldnt have wanted to extend what  she was paying at 
the time,  so she believes Lloyds cant  have explained the cover because she wouldnt have 
taken it if shed really known about  it. I dont doubt  this is Ms Bs honest belief, based on her 
best recollections. But, for the reasons Ive given above already, it seems the cover wouldve  
been useful for Ms B if something went wrong. And I cant  say she didnt want  this sort of 
cover  because I havent seen  enough to make  me think she didnt choose to take it. So, 
having taken everything into account, I dont think better information about  the PPI would 
have changed  Ms Bs decision  about taking the cover.
Ref: DRN08220252What Ive said above means Lloyds doesnt  have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to 
Ms B and Mr B. But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI because:
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Ms B and Mr B about  that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell 
Ms B and Mr B, that was unfair.
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about all Ms B and Mr Bs points. But, for reasons Ive given above, these points 
dont change my decision.
my final decision
The PPI wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds  Bank  PLC does not have to pay back all of the cost of 
the PPI to Ms B and Mr B.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Ms B and Mr B any commission and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 April 2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0822025