K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P say Lloyds Bank  PLC (LLOYDS) mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs P bought the policy  in 2005 at the same time as taking out a mortgage. They 
applied for the mortgage and PPI policy over the phone. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mr and Mrs P for accident, sickness, and unemployment  
subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay £567.05 a month towards Mr and 
Mrs Ps mortgage balance in the event of a successful claim by either Mr P or Mrs P. At the 
time, it cost £20 a month. 
At the time,  Mr P was self-employed  as a plasterer and not entitled to any sick pay. Mrs P 
was employed as a practice manager  and entitled  to at least six months  worth  of sick pay 
and redundancy  pay. Mrs P says she was in good  health at the time of the sale.  Mr P says 
he suffered back pain in around 1979 but he hasnt said whether this caused him any 
ongoing problems.  
LLOYDS has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account started in 2005 and 
was a regulated  mortgage. 
Mr and Mrs Ps representative has made  lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Ps representative  says:
LLOYDS failed  to meet  the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs P 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs 
Ps representatives believe there to be no evidence  to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means LLOYDS should have 
told Mr and Mrs P about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means LLOYDS should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs P 
and the impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
Ref: DRN08545572The information Mr and Mrs P received was misleading. These policies  were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs P disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ps. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ps complaint.
The mortgage was arranged after mortgage  lending became regulated in October 2004  as 
such this was a regulated  mortgage  contract. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140A of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable.
This sale took place  in 2005 after the sale of general  insurance  products like this became 
regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005. So the FSAs and the 
FCAs overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOB)  are 
applicable to this complaint.
Its also relevant to note that there  have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
a result it is appropriate for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOB rules 
and the other relevant considerations.
In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
Ref: DRN08545573General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
LLOYDS, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
The sale took place  after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So 
the mortgage conduct of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance-
related commitments.  
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so LLOYDS was required to take into account the provisions  in DISP App 3 when 
considering Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If LLOYDS  gave  advice, whether it advised Mr and Mrs P with reasonable care and 
skill  in particular,  whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given 
their needs and circumstances. 
-Whether LLOYDS gave Mr and Mrs P sufficient,  appropriate and timely  information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
Ref: DRN08545574-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs P, I must then go on to consider  whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs P 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs P 
and LLOYDS, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. Ive set out my 
reasoning below. 
did Mr and Mrs P know they had a choice?
Mr and Mrs P were  sold the policy over the phone. LLOYDS had to make  it clear the policy  
was optional and that Mr and Mrs P chose to take it. Ive seen a copy  of the fact find and 
demands and needs  statement which records that PPI was recommended and that Mr and 
Mrs P had accepted  the recommendation and asked for a quote.  I can also see that Mr and 
Mrs P went  on to complete a separate PPI proposal  form and that the mortgage agreement  
lists under  section 9 that PPI is optional along with the monthly cost.
So taking everything into account, I think its more likely  Mr and Mrs P knew  the policy was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did LLOYDS provide  advice?
I can see from the sales documents  that LLOYDS made a PPI recommendation so Im 
treating the sale as advised.
This means  LLOYDS had to advise Mr and Mrs P with reasonable care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given their needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps LLOYDS took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr and Mrs P. It seems Mr and Mrs P cant remember clearly what 
happened and there is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. This 
is unsurprising in respect of a sale during a meeting.  The adviser had some  limited 
information about Mr and Mrs Ps financial circumstances, but there  is no specific evidence  
to show the adviser  took steps to establish  whether Mr and Mrs P would have been caught 
by the significant exclusions and limitations which might have meant  the policy did not fully 
meet their needs.  For example,  there  is nothing to suggest LLOYDS considered  whether  Mr 
and Mrs P had any pre-existing medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded LLOYDS did all it should have 
done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs P given their 
circumstances. So Im not persuaded LLOYDS advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded LLOYDS did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs P, I do think  its more  likely  than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr and Mrs P met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
Ref: DRN08545575-Mr and Mrs P had a need for the policy   it seems likely that Mr and Mrs Ps ability to 
continue to meet their mortgage repayments would have been put under strain if Mr 
and Mrs P were not working for an extended period of time  even allowing for the 
redundancy benefits and sick pay benefits they say they would have been entitled to.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr and Mrs P.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs P. 
There was nothing  about Mr and Mrs Ps employment or occupation which would 
have made it difficult for them  to claim.  And they havent told us about any pre-
existing medical conditions that could  affect  their ability to claim. Regarding  pre-
existing medical conditions, Mr P has told us about suffering from back  pain but he 
hasnt said this was ongoing and I think it unlikely that Mr P wouldve thought  this 
would be the main reason for needing  to claim on the policy.  
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for accident, sickness or unemployment it still provided useful cover given Mr and 
Mrs Ps circumstances.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  LLOYDS  gave Mr and Mrs P sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what 
LLOYDS was recommending to them  and make an informed decision about  whether to 
follow that advice  and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs P were given a broad  description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr and Mrs P were  unable to work through accident,  sickness  or unemployment)  and of the 
approximate costs. I have  reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely  Mr and Mrs P 
would have taken  out the policy  without any sense of what the policy  was for and of how 
much the premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  LLOYDS  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit or about the exclusions or limitations  before Mr 
and Mrs P agreed to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs P Im not persuaded 
LLOYDS did enough to present information about the policy  it was recommending in a way 
that was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded  LLOYDS  gave Mr and Mrs P all of 
the information they needed about the policy to make an informed decision about whether  to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ps representative  has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs 
Ps. Ive considered  these carefully and summarised  them as:
Ref: DRN08545576-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ps representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs P about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ps representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good 
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs P have  suggested.  And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that LLOYDS ought to have  done  either.  
what effect did LLOYDSs shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs P? To what extent did Mr 
and Mrs P suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that LLOYDS  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mr and 
Mrs P. So I have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mr 
and Mrs P suffered  loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must decide whether or 
not Mr and Mrs P would have still taken  out the policy, had LLOYDS  done  things properly. 
While Im not persuaded LLOYDS took the steps it should have done to establish whether 
the policy it recommended was suitable  for Mr and Mrs P, I have found that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs P have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if LLOYDS had explained things  
properly, Mr and Mrs P would have acted differently, or whether they would have taken out 
the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs P say they wouldnt have taken  it out and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs P had some  interest  in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when LLOYDS advised them that there was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  they 
were unable to work because of accident,  sickness and unemployment, they concluded they 
wanted that product. But they made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning 
what they thought they were getting is not exactly what they got. 
Ref: DRN08545577As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Ps circumstances at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for them.
Im not persuaded LLOYDS made clear exactly what Mr and Mrs P would get back in return 
in the event they made a successful claim.  But I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs Ps 
expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to 
meet their mortgage  payment) were significantly different  to what  the policy actually did.  
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs P thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions or symptoms  that Mr and 
Mrs P knew  about  or ought to have known  about  during  the 12 months  before  the 
start date of the policy; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr and 
Mrs P werent permanent employees;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr and Mrs P be 
unable to do their own job, a similar job or any paid work which their experience, 
education or training reasonably qualified them to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr and Mrs P pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs P from taking out the 
policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ps circumstances  at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mr and Mrs P were eligible for its 
benefits and it provided cover that, despite  its limitations and exclusions,  couldve proved 
valuable to them should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent  seen any 
evidence to suggest Mr and Mrs P wouldve been  caught by any of the significant exclusions 
 Mr and Mrs P didnt have any ongoing pre-existing medical conditions and were in 
permanent employment.  So, I still think they had some good reasons to take the policy  out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs P would 
have expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some evidence  
to support that claim.
If Mr and Mrs P had known they could  only claim for disability if they were unable  to do both 
their job and any similar gainful  occupation which in the insurers  view they might  
reasonably become qualified for, it might  have played into their thinking about what they 
would have done. And I accept it may have  given them pause for thought   although  its 
possible they may not have been overly  concerned  given that if Mr and Mrs P were unable 
(through disability) to carry  on their own occupation  the chances  that they would be able to 
take up a similar occupation would also, in all probability, be limited.
Ref: DRN08545578LLOYDS may not have  told Mr and Mrs P that any claim they made would be limited to a 12-
month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped for  
but12 months was a longer period than Mr and Mrs P would have received full sick pay for 
and their statutory  redundancy entitlement was also significantly less than 12 months 
income.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs P would still have  thought a policy that 
paid up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would 
help them manage the consequences  should Mr and Mrs P be unable to work in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it 
could help reduce their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and might  potentially help 
preserve Mr and Mrs Ps sick pay or redundancy money for other  use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs P would still have  taken out the policy.  The policy was suitable for them,  
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  they thought they were getting  and provided  benefits 
that would  help them manage  the consequences  if Mr and Mrs P were made redundant, or 
unable to work through accident  or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs P would have  taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding  the 
limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Ps representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs P would not have bought  the PPI they bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Ps 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr and 
Mrs P found  themselves  in as a result of the sale was the same  position they would have  
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs P believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs P in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
Ref: DRN08545579That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude LLOYDS should pay Mr and Mrs P compensation, as that would 
put them in a better position than they would have been in if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs P think LLOYDS misrepresented the terms of the policy  in 
how it described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude some  
of LLOYDSs statements  misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion the reason why 
LLOYDS failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information LLOYDS gave Mr and Mrs P, in 
the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 2005 when providing information about  an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ps representative says a court might  take 
if it were to find LLOYDS negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs P and about  
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find that LLOYDS had been in breach of its duty 
of utmost good  faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs P in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 May 2021.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0854557