K821x#15complaint
Mr W says Provident Personal Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma Loans) irresponsibly lent 
to him.
background
This complaint is about seven instalment loans Satsuma provided  to Mr W between  
February 2015 and August 2017. Mr W borrowed amounts between £300 and £1,100 to be 
repaid in weekly or monthly instalments over three to twelve months. There  were no 
significant breaks in the borrowing so they can be treated  as one loan chain. The 
repayments for loans  six and seven overlapped. There  are amounts still outstanding for the 
last two loans.  
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Ws complaint in part and thought the loans from loan four 
onwards shouldnt have been  given. Satsuma disagreed and so the complaint was passed  to 
me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr W 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Satsuma was required to establish 
whether Mr W could  sustainably repay  his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Ref: DRN03426932Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ws complaint.
Satsuma asked Mr W for information about  his income and expenditure and it carried out 
credit checks. Mr W said he earned  about £1,200 a month for loans one and two and £1,900  
for the rest of his loans.  He said his monthly  expenditure  was between £70 and £600. Mr W 
provided his credit report and I cant see anything untoward that should have alerted 
Satsuma to make further checks. 
So for loans one to three, I think Satsuma carried out proportionate affordability  checks.  
From these, it looked as though Mr W could afford  his loan repayments. Given  the loan 
amounts, what was apparent about Mr Ws circumstances at the time and his history  with 
Satsuma, I dont think it wouldve been  proportionate  to ask him for the amount of 
information needed to show the lending was unsustainable. There  wasnt  anything in the 
information Mr W provided or the information Satsuma shouldve been  aware  of, which  
meant it wouldve  been proportionate to start verifying what  Mr W was saying.  So I cant say 
Satsuma was wrong to approve loans one to three.
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Satsumas lending history with Mr W, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Satsuma should  reasonably  have seen that further  
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Satsuma should have realised that 
it shouldnt have provided any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ws case,  I think  that this point was reached by 
loan four. I say this because the pattern of Mr Ws borrowing by loan four showed that he 
was persistently reliant on short-term loans:
By loan four, Mr W had been borrowing from Satsuma for 23 months  without any 
significant breaks. 
From  loan four onwards Mr W was provided with a new loan within days or weeks  of 
settling a previous  one. So Satsuma  ought to have realised that it was more  likely  than 
not Mr W had to borrow further  to cover  the hole repaying his previous  loan was leaving 
in his finances and that Mr Ws indebtedness was increasing  unsustainably.
Mr W wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Satsuma. Loan seven was 
taken out over two years  after Mr Ws first. And it was for a much larger amount. Mr W 
had paid large amounts of interest  to, in effect, service a debt to Satsuma over an 
extended period.
Ref: DRN03426933I think the pattern  of lending showed  that that the loans were  unsustainable for Mr W. And I 
think Satsuma was wrong to approve further lending  from loan four onwards. And I think  that 
Mr W lost out because  Satsuma continued  to provide borrowing from loan four onwards 
because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ws indebtedness  by allowing him to 
take expensive  credit intended  for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the sheer number  of loans and deferrals was likely to have had negative implications on 
Mr Ws ability to access mainstream  credit  and so kept him in the market for these  high-
cost loans.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans four to seven and I think  Satsuma should  put 
things right.
putting things right  what Satsuma needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr W paid on loans four to seven, and waive any still 
outstanding; offset this refund  against  the principal still owed for loans six and seven and 
pay Mr W the remainder; or, if a balance remains outstanding, agree an affordable  
repayment plan to clear the balance;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
the number  of loans taken from loan four onwards means any information recorded 
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loans four to seven should  be removed from 
Mr Ws credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Satsuma to take off tax from this interest. Satsuma must 
give Mr W a certificate  showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I partially uphold Mr Ws complaint.  I 
require Provident  Personal Credit Limited  (trading as Satsuma Loans) to pay Mr W 
compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 December  2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0342693