K822xcomplaint
Miss B complains  that Legal & General Insurance Limited (L&G) handled her claim for 
damage poorly. She made  a claim after a pipe burst in her home.
background 
Miss B contacted L&G in mid July 2018  about  a leak that had caused extensive  damage to 
her home. She had the leak fixed.  L&G sent a contractor out to look at the property on the 
next working day and the claim was accepted. The house needed drying before any repairs  
could be carried out. The contractor thought there  might be asbestos  in the ceilings, so took 
a sample for testing.  Miss B and her family moved to alternative accommodation until the 
test came back  negative.
A week later the drying specialist visited, and agreed to strip out part of the house so drying  
could start.  That took place just under a week later  and the specialist thought  there might 
be asbestos in the floors. That meant further  testing. There  was some  confusion  about who 
was supposed  to take samples and carry out any remedial work, and the work was actually 
carried out twice   in early  and late August.
The property was deemed dry in mid October   about six weeks after drying started in late August.
The repairs  were eventually completed in late January 2019. 
Miss B says she was left in a house  with no cooking facilities  or furniture downstairs  so she 
and her family had live upstairs for most of this time.  She did get a disturbance allowance 
during this time but had to chase for it regularly.
She says she was left unsure about  whether the asbestos might cause health problems  
but checked herself with the Environment Agency when L&G didnt  respond  to her questions  
about this. Fortunately she was re-assured by the agency that no harm  was being done.
Miss B says shes had to struggle  to get a fair settlement from L&G and communication has 
been poor throughout. She told us shes been  very stressed by the whole thing and had to 
have time off work.
Miss B asked this service what she should do, and both parties agreed that Miss B would 
wait until her claim was settled before making a complaint about the way it had been 
handed. She did that and L&G said it would pay Miss B £200 for the way it had dealt  with the 
claim. Miss B wasnt happy about that so we looked at it for her.
Our investigator thought Miss Bs complaint should  be upheld. She thought that although not 
all of the delays  were something  L&G could control, she didnt think  it had done enough to 
keep Miss B up to date about what was happening. During our review of the complaint L&G 
offered to increase the compensation to £400.
Miss B doesnt think thats enough   she thinks nearer  £1,000  would be appropriate.
Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
Ref: DRN03693932my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see it took about six months  to get Miss Bs home  back  to the way it was before the 
leak. Thats  a long time, but its often the case that remedial work takes much longer than 
first thought.  Thats particularly so if a property has to be dried out  as happened here, 
because its difficult to say how long that might  take. That in itself isnt something L&G could 
control. Nor is it responsible for the inevitable stress and inconvenience that having your 
home damaged and the need to make a claim causes. But L&G is responsible for any 
additional inconvenience  it causes by the way it (or its contractors) meets a claim.  
From what  Ive seen, things progressed reasonably quickly at the start of Miss Bs claim. 
L&G sent a surveyor  out to look at the damage on the next working day after Miss B first 
contacted L&G. Its unfortunate that the surveyor thought there  might  be asbestos  in the 
ceiling  but once he did, it was tested  promptly and found not to be a problem. The drying 
team arrived  to assess how the drying should be done less than a week  later. They  started 
to strip out items from the property and found signs  of more asbestos   which was, 
according to L&G, made  safe (by encapsulating  it) three days  later.  However, it appears 
L&G arranged for this to be done  again about three  weeks  later and it was only after this that 
the drying started.  I think there was an unnecessary delay of about  three  weeks here.  
I can also see from L&Gs notes that Miss B was very concerned about the potential health  
hazards associated with the asbestos and L&G didnt respond to her questions  about this. I dont 
think thats a fair way for L&G to treat Miss B, especially as Miss B told L&G her son has asthma.
I can see that L&G provided alternative  accommodation  (AA) whilst there  was a possibility of 
asbestos dust being in the air from the ceiling.  Thats the right thing for it do. Miss B and her 
family returned home once it was discovered  there  was no asbestos in the ceiling, and L&G  
paid Miss B a daily allowance for each member  of the family to make  up for the 
inconvenience they suffered whilst  the house  was being dried and repaired. Miss B tells us 
she had to keep  chasing to get this paid. Thats not very good customer  service, but the 
money was paid reasonably promptly.
Miss B says she had to ask L&G to get a loss adjuster involved in her claim, because the 
surveyor handling the claim wasnt being helpful about which items should be covered. I think 
its for L&G to decide how it handles a claim,  so I cant say L&G was wrong to use the 
surveyor it did in the first place. But I cant see it did much if anything  to resolve the queries  
that came  up about (for instance) the kitchen cabinets. Thats  especially so when the damage  
was typical of that caused by a leak like this. I think L&G could have been more helpful  here.  
Finally Miss B explained  that she had to keep chasing L&G for updates  (including how long the 
dryers would be in situ) and it often didnt respond. L&Gs own notes  show  thats what happened.  
As our investigator said, L&G did appear  to be communicating with the surveyor about  what  was 
going on, so the drying and repairs did progress.  But I think it could have  done  more to put 
Miss Bs mind  at rest by keeping her updated, especially when she was asking  for this.
Overall I dont think this claim was handled well. Having taken everything into account, I 
think the £400 offered by L&G during our review of the complaint is a fair way to compensate  
Miss B for the additional worry  and inconvenience L&G has caused. 
Ref: DRN03693933my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. Legal  & General Insurance Limited should now 
pay Miss B the £400 its offered. If its paid the £200  it originally offered it can deduct that 
from this amount.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 January 2020.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0369393