K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy One Insurance Limited  declined his claim for the theft of his car under his 
motor insurance policy.
background
Mr S was selling his car and placed an advert online. A potential  buyer, who Ill call P, called 
to arrange a viewing one evening. While  viewing the car Mr S said hed agreed  to drive P to 
a local service station where he could  view the car in a well-lit area. Just before he did so, he 
said P told him there  was a problem with the back light on the car. Mr S said he got out of 
the car to check and P took that opportunity to steal the car. Mr S contacted One Insurance  
to make a claim.
One Insurance declined the claim saying  it wasnt covered under the policy. It said Mr S had 
left the keys in the car and acted carelessly  and recklessly in offering the car to a third party.  
And it relied  on an exclusion in the policy relating to this.
Mr S complained to One Insurance. He was unhappy it turned  down  his claim and also with 
the service it had provided while looking  into things.  One Insurance looked  at his complaint 
and, maintained the claim should  be declined, but offered Mr S £50 in recognition of the poor 
level of service hed received during  the claims process.
Mr S remained unhappy  and brought his complaint to our service. In doing so, he made the 
following key points,
He didnt believe One Insurance had highlighted the keys in car exclusion in the 
Insurance Product  Information Document (IPID) and therefore  it couldnt rely on that 
term to decline his claim 
He didnt believe the test for carelessly  and recklessly  had been  met. Hed 
advertised a car with a reputable car trading site and didnt perceive there  to be a 
risk. This was based  on the fact his property is on a quiet  residential  road and has a 
long driveway, which  is covered by CCTV.
Mr S said he didnt  offer P an opportunity to drive the car and he was physically 
touching the car when  it was stolen. Hes quoted  several court cases  and information 
from our website. He argues based on these he didnt leave the car unattended  and 
therefore the keys in car exclusion quoted by the business  cant  be relied upon.
He points out there was no offer, in this case for P to drive the car, so 
One Insurance cant rely on the term he acted carelessly or recklessly  by offering his 
car to a third party. 
The car was stolen outright so the reference  in the exclusion clause to deception, 
fraud or trickery doesnt apply. 
He disputes  he left the keys in the car, although  he admits  there  may be a remote 
possibility this happened. Hes said it goes against his normal behaviour.  He believes 
he placed the keys in the pocket of his hoody and P took them  from there as they 
passed each other.
One Insurance mentioned to him it thought the keys were in the car, as the cars 
headlights and an indicator were  on when P got in the car. Mr S says the car has 
automatic headlights, which remain on for a period of time after the key is removed 
from the ignition. The CCTV footage also shows an indicator wasnt  on when he 
exited the car. So, Mr S doesnt  believe the keys were  left in the car.
Ref: DRN05517252He provided a statement to the police as to how the theft happened and doesnt 
believe One Insurance has taken this into account.
The whole incident left him very shaken  and anxious. He and his wife felt unable  to 
stay at their home that night in case  their other  car was stolen,
He wasnt provided with a courtesy  car, which  has made  travelling to work difficult  for 
him.
He feels the customer  service provided  by One Insurance  during the course of the 
claim investigation was unprofessional.  He believes the claim handler  was 
aggressive when  speaking to him, deliberately misinterpreted facts of the case in 
order to reject the claim and he wasnt called  back by a manager when he 
complained.
He believes One Insurance  either  mis-sold the insurance to him or is attempting  to 
avoid its obligations  under it.
Our investigator looked into the case and didnt  think One Insurance had acted reasonably  in 
declining the claim.  He considered the keys in car exclusion to be a significant  term. And - 
as it wasnt sufficiently highlighted  in the policy documentation, One Insurance  couldnt rely 
on it to decline the claim.
The investigator also didnt believe Mr S had acted carelessly or recklessly, as he didnt 
leave the cars side nor did he allow P to access the car without him being  present. The 
investigator also said that, as Mr S was within an arms length of the car when it was stolen, 
it would  have been reasonable for Mr S to believe this would be sufficient to deter any thief.  
The investigator said One Insurance should deal with Mr S claim in line with the other terms 
and conditions of the policy.
One Insurance disagreed  with the investigators findings. It still believed  Mr S had acted 
carelessly and recklessly by leaving the keys in the car and leaving the drivers  side door 
unguarded. It said the CCTV clearly shows Mr S got out of the car whilst it was running and 
walked away from the drivers side door. It has suggested Mr S had offered  P the opportunity 
to test-drive the car, as the CCTV shows he walked around the rear of the car and reached  
for the passenger door handle just before the car moved off. It doesnt believe this matches  
up with Mr Ss statement  that he was going  to check the back  light.  
In addition, One Insurance had previously  stated in its submission to our service  it didnt 
believe the keys  in car exclusion was a significant term that needed  to be highlighted to 
Mr S when the policy was sold. So, it believes it can rely on it to decline the claim. It asked 
for the case to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
Mr S also responded  to our investigator and pointed out that the case handler stated in their 
final call that he didnt  believe hed been careless  or reckless. He also said One Insurance  
hadnt provided him with the research  it said it had done on cars with similar headlights to 
his. He believes this research didnt take place and raises questions as to their integrity as 
claims handlers. He also emphasised again the significant anxiety and financial distress the 
matter has caused  him.
my provisional findings 
I issued my provisional findings on this complaint on 9 October 2019. In it I said I didnt 
intend to uphold the complaint for the following reasons:
Ref: DRN05517253One Insurance is free to decide  what risks it will and wont  cover under the policy and the 
terms and conditions of the policy define what those are. I appreciate the circumstances of 
this theft would have been very upsetting for Mr S and his wife and, have had an impact long 
after it happened. But, what I need  to decide here is whether One Insurance has acted in 
line with the policy terms and, if its decision to decline  the claim is fair and reasonable in all 
of the circumstances.
While I agree, with the investigator that the keys in car exclusion is something that should 
have been highlighted to Mr S and so cant fairly be used  to decline the claim, I do think 
One Insurance acted fairly  and reasonably  in declining the claim in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy. Ill now explain why.
Keys in car exclusion
The terms and conditions  of Mr Ss policy say he isnt covered for theft if the cars been left 
with the keys in it.
I think this is an important  exclusion  in the policy and one, which  could have a significant  
impact on a policyholders  action  to prevent the theft of their vehicle. Because  of this, I think 
this term should  be highlighted in a key facts or summary document.  
However I dont think that matters to my decision as I dont think  Mr S car was left as he 
was next to it when  it was stolen. So I dont think One Insurance  is entitled to rely on this 
exclusion to turn down  Mr Ss claim
Careless and Reckless  exclusion
The policy also says
Loss of or damage to your car caused by you carelessly or by wrecklessly [sic] offering your 
car to a third party including deception, fraud or trickery, including  when you are offering your 
car for sale.
One Insurance said the CCTV suggests  Mr S was intending to allow P to drive the car, albeit 
with him being  next to his in the passenger seat. Mr S has categorically stated he didnt 
intend to do this. In the police report he said: (In line with this decision,  Ive changed 
references to the thief to P)
P told me there was an issue with one of the rear lights and the housing was cracked which 
made him concerned about driving  anyway as it wouldnt  be road legal, he gestured and 
asked me to look at it.
I got out of the drivers  seat and walked  down the off side of the car to boot, I passed  P by 
the rear door and we passed  left shoulder to shoulder. As I reached the back of the car of 
the car I saw P get into the driver seat and heard  the engine, which was odd as I we had 
agreed I was to drive  him to the service station. I raced  around  the passengers side of the 
car and grabbed the passenger door handle which was pulled from my fingers as the car 
drove off.
Ive viewed the CCTV footage, and I think One Insurances suggestion that Mr S willingly  
gave control or offered  the car to P is more  likely  than not what happened.  I say this 
because after a conversation where  Mr S is in the drivers seat and P is standing just outside  
Ref: DRN05517254the car, P appears  to gesture for Mr S to get out. Mr S does so and walks  around the back  of 
the car to the passenger door and reaches  out to take the handle. Its at this point the car 
pulls away at speed.
The footage  doesnt seem to show Mr S race around the passenger  side of the car or him 
pause at any point when he reached  the rear of the car to check  the lights. He also didnt 
seem to glance at the car or the driver, as if he was surprised to hear an engine  start. It 
seems it was Mr S intention to walk around  the car and get in the passenger seat.
Therefore, as Ive said, I think its more  likely  than not that Mr S allowed  P to drive his car. 
And Im also satisfied he didnt check his identification or insurance documents to check he 
was who hed said he was and that he was legally allowed to drive Mr Ss car. For this 
reason, I think One Insurances view that Mr S carelessly or recklessly offered  his car to a 
third party is correct.
I appreciate Mr S also thinks this term only applies in the case  of a fake bankers  draft or 
bounced cheque  but I dont agree. When considering the ordinary meaning of the words Im 
satisfied its reasonable to conclude that P deceived or tricked Mr S by posing as a potential 
buyer.
Mr S thinks  One Insurance should have  highlighted this term. However I dont find this term 
unusual and I dont  think One Insurance needed  to highlight it. In any event, Mr S said he 
didnt let P drive  the car. So even if the term had been highlighted I cant see how that would 
have affected  his actions.
Mr S has cited the case law of Sofi v Prudential Assurance Co Ltd. He believes,  based on 
this, he acted with reasonable care and wasnt reckless.
However I also need to make my decision on whats fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances and Im not persuaded that Mr S didnt act recklessly. Hes told us he didnt 
recognise the risk of walking around  the back of the car to look at the light. But as Ive 
explained above I dont think thats whats most  likely to have happened. From viewing the 
CCTV Im satisfied  its most likely Mr S was going  to let P drive  the car to the services with 
him in the passenger seat.  He hasnt shown that he checked Ps identity or that he had a 
driving licence  or insurance. And for that reason I dont  intend to interfere with 
One Insurances decision to turn down Mr S claim on the basis that he recklessly offered his 
car to a third party when  selling it.
Courtesy car
As One Insurance  declined  Mr S claim,  there was no cover  under the policy  for him to be
provided with a courtesy car.
So, while I appreciate, being without a car would have been inconvenient  for Mr S I cant  say 
One Insurance has acted unreasonably  here as it acted in line with the policy.
Customer service
Mr S complained to One Insurance about how his claim was handled and the fact his calls 
werent returned. In response, One Insurance offered Mr S £50 compensation for this. I think 
this is a reasonable amount in the circumstances, One Insurance acknowledged its service  
could have been better and offered to put that right. Had it not have done so I would have 
Ref: DRN05517255looked to award  a similar amount. Based on this I wont be asking  One Insurance  to do 
anything more here except make  the payment to Mr S if it hasnt already done so.
Mis-sale of policy
Mr S has suggested that One Insurance may have mis-sold the policy to him. Mr S policy  
was sold by a broker. He would need  to make a complaint to that business if he feels  his 
policy has been mis-sold.
my provisional decision
I dont intend to uphold Mr S complaint  against One Insurance  Limited.
responses to my provisional  decision  
One Insurance received  my provisional  decision but didnt comment  on it. 
Mr S responded saying  he didnt accept my provisional decision. He provided a 21-page 
response with appendices  and said he believed there were some fundamental matters  I 
need to address. 
In summary  Mr S raised the following key points:
The burden of proof  is on One Insurance to prove recklessness. In my review, Ive 
added in new speculative  details  such as the checking  of ID and insurance 
documents. He believes it is beyond the remit of this service to do this.
He believes Ive incorrectly  applied the test for recklessness through an inaccurate 
analysis of case law, previous  FOS decisions,  guidance and procedure.
My provisional decision differs significantly from previous decisions issued by this 
service and a case detailed on our website. Mr S doesnt believe Ive followed the 
correct procedure when  making  my provisional  decision.
The investigators original decision should stand.
Ive not reviewed the witness statement  in detail or given it the credibility it deserves 
as a legal  document. And Ive deviated from the facts after watching patchy CCTV 
footage. Mr S points  out that research  studies have suggested  CCTV footage should 
not be used in isolation.
Concerns in relation to One Insurance have not been addressed, such as false  
reporting to a consumer and it changing  its story to avoid payment. 
Further developments  
I wrote  to both parties to say that I now accepted  Mr Ss point that he hadnt been reckless,  
but I still thought  his actions had been careless.  But as the policy term covered both careless  
or reckless actions, I still wasnt minded to interfere with One Insurances  decision to decline 
the claim.  
Mr S didnt agree with my findings. He repeated some  of the submissions  hed made before. 
He reiterated that he believed the term in One Insurances policy was a term about 
reasonable care and said that the term careless could be defined  as negligent. Mr S 
provided further commentary  around reasonable care,  negligence and carelessness  
including case law and articles. Mr S also said he believed the term should be considered  a 
Ref: DRN05517256significant term and cited insurers who in some form,  exclude  theft,  in the Insurance Product 
Information Document  (IPID) to support this.
One Insurance didnt provide any further  comment for me to consider.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Including the considerable submissions 
Mr S has made. Again, I must say whilst  I dont intend to respond in similar detail, I have  
read all his correspondence and taken it into account when making my decision.  So, if I dont 
mention any particular point or piece of evidence  it isnt because I havent seen it or thought 
about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference  it to explain my decision.
One Insurance declined Mr Ss claim and provided  its arguments  and evidence as to why it 
believed Mr S had acted carelessly  or recklessly,  meaning it was entitled to rely on the 
abovementioned exclusion. Mr S brought his complaint to this service for an independent  
review of its decision the decline his claim. While  I appreciate Mr S believes I havent 
followed correct procedure, as Ive not made the same decision as the case  published on 
this services website, I must  emphasise to Mr S, that each case  is considered on its own 
circumstances and merits. And no one case is exactly the same as another. Also,  the 
examples published on our website are summaries and do not contain  all of the details of the 
case.
I see no reason to change  my decision that the keys in car exclusion should not apply to this 
claim. One Insurance has not commented on this and Mr S has said he is happy with my 
finding here.
Mr S has said he believes  the exclusion for loss or damage caused by the policyholder  
carelessly or recklessly  offering their car is a significant term. And, as One Insurance  didnt 
include it on the IPID, it shouldnt be able to rely on it to decline his claim. Ive looked at the 
information Mr S has provided on this aspect, but Im not persuaded to change  my mind  
here. Mr S has said any term which invalidates the entire policy should be included in the 
IPID. However, the term Mr S is referring to, only excludes cover  in certain circumstances, 
which are quite limited in application.  Im not therefore persuaded this means that the term is 
significant and should have been  included in the IPID.
Also, while Ive considered Mr Ss points around reasonable care, I remain  satisfied this term 
is clear that it will not cover careless  or reckless  actions. So, I think  it sets a higher standard  
than a reasonable care. And I must review this complaint  against  the specific wording of the 
policy term.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr S, but having reconsidered everything including the new case  law 
and articles he has provided, and the information  he has provided  around the term 
careless, I havent changed my mind on what I think  was most likely to have happened  and 
on why I think One Insurances  decision to decline his claim was reasonable. 
As I explained in my provisional findings,  as well as taking case  law and guidance into 
account, I also need to make  my decision on what I think is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. And I need to decide  what I believe was more  likely than not to have 
happened taking  into account all of the evidence and arguments relating to the case, which  
includes the CCTV footage. 
Ref: DRN05517257Ive considered Mr Ss police statement  as part of the evidence he has provided. However, I 
dont consider it to be an independent account  of what happened. Our process is an informal 
one, so it cannot be tested under oath, as it would be in a court, I must therefore balance  it 
with the rest of the evidence and arguments available  to me.
Having considered everything  and viewing the CCTV  footage, I still think One Insurances 
suggestion that Mr S willingly offered control  of his car to P is more likely than not what 
happened for the same reasons set out in my provisional findings. Ive thought  carefully 
about what Mr S has said and I realise my decision here has a big impact on him, but Im not 
persuaded to change  my mind. 
In thinking about if Mr S checked Ps identification and driving/insurance documents, Ive 
considered, on a fair and reasonable basis, if Mr S did take some precautions to ensure the 
car was going to be driven legally by P and that P was who hed said he was. This is 
because if I thought hed done this prior to agreeing to let P drive his car, I may have taken  a 
different view on whether  he acted  carelessly and whether it was fair and reasonable for One 
Insurance to decline his claim. But I concluded in my provisional findings that Mr S didnt 
take steps to check Ps documents and Mr S confirms he didnt  do so. Mr S has argued that 
my reasoning here is flawed, as he could have  intended to check the documents in the car. I 
appreciate Mr Ss point  here, but this isnt what happened. And he has already said he had 
no intention of checking Ps documents. And this means overall, I think Mr S acted 
carelessly.
Mr S has said that careless  can be defined  in the dictionary as being  negligent.  He argues 
he does not think  his actions amount to negligence. Ive already outlined above  why I think  
Mr S was careless. But to respond to Mr Ss point here; its arguable  that at the point Mr S 
offered his car to P to drive, he hadnt  established  any firm details  about  his entitlement to 
drive and therefore I think he was negligent  and therefore careless.
Theres no doubt in my mind that P was a professional thief. However, I do think Mr S, in the 
circumstances, should have reasonably recognised  there was a risk, however small, that a 
buyer may not be genuine. The policy term explicitly covers situations where deception or 
trickery is involved, so I dont think the fact Mr S was tricked  or deceived by P into taking the 
action he did, changes  the outcome here.  
Overall, having considered everything, and despite my genuine  sympathy for Mr S and the 
position he has found himself in, I see no reason to change the outcome I set out in my 
provisional decision, i.e. - I do not think I should  interfere  with One Insurances decision to 
decline Mr Ss claim, as I think allowing it to do so is the fair and reasonable outcome to this 
complaint.
Mr S has questioned if I have listened  to a telephone call where  he was told by 
One Insurance it was only relying on the keys in car exclusion to decline his claim. I havent 
listened to that call as it is not relevant to my decision. In its final response letter, 
One Insurance explained to Mr S it was declining the claim due to two policy terms. 
Similarly, in its initial  submission to this service One Insurance has cited  both exclusions in 
its reasons for declining the claim. Should Mr S have  been told something  different during a 
telephone call then this further  adds  to his dissatisfaction with how the claim was handled, 
which Ive addressed below.
Ref: DRN05517258Mr S has also asked  why I have not specifically commented on him being told by 
One Insurance it had tested headlights  of other  vehicles, which  he doesnt believe they have. 
Again, I dont feel this was relevant  to my decision,  as Ive concluded One Insurance  is not 
entitled to rely on the keys in car exclusion.  So, Ive not needed to consider evidence  
concerning the time delay on headlights  of different models of vehicles. And  even if One 
Insurance didnt  check this, it wouldnt  alter my view that it was entitled to decline Mr Ss 
claim.
In my provisional decision,  I acknowledged that Mr S was unhappy with how his claim had 
been handled, which in my mind,  includes the headlight issue and the fact One Insurance 
didnt provide Mr S with the proof he requested of this report. One Insurance has offered 
Mr S £50 compensation for the poor service  he received, and having considered everything, 
I think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Mr S can contact One Insurance  if 
this payment hasnt  already been  made.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint about  One Insurance  Limited.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 June 2020.
Alison Gore
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0551725