K821x#15complaint
Ms A made two claims on the legal  expenses insurance section of her home insurance
policy, underwritten by Soteria Insurance Limited  (Soteria). Shes unhappy  about  how her
claims were  handled.
The legal expenses  insurance was administered on behalf of Soteria by C, a company
providing legal services.
background
I issued a provisional decision this complaint on 12 February 2021 explaining why I wasnt  
intending to uphold it - part of which is copied below:
Ms A made two claims under her legal expenses insurance with Soteria - to cover  the legal
costs of her pursuing legal proceedings against  two former employers.
The first claim  was made in October  2016  and pursued at the employment tribunal with
Soreria covering  Ms As fees, subject to the terms of the LEI being met throughout the
lifetime of the first claim.
The second  claim  was made in December 2017  but following two assessments on the
prospects of Ms A succeeding in the second  claim,  Soteria declined to cover  it further.
Although the legal advice  was that certain aspects of the second claim had reasonable
prospects of succeeding,  the advice was also that the costs  of pursuing the second claim
were likely to exceed  the value  of the second claim.
Ms A has summarised her complaints to our Service as follows:
Soteria has discriminated against  her because of her disability. And, in breach of the
Equality Act 2010 (the EqA), she says it failed to make reasonable adjustments whilst
handling her claims.
Soteria didnt allow her to appoint a barrister  of her own choice to provide an
assessment on the merits of her succeeding in her second claim, and by doing so it
failed to make reasonable adjustments.
She is concerned  about how the indemnity relating to the first claim was spent. Shes
unhappy that charges were made for the administration of the LEI in addition to legal
costs. Shes  also concerned about  the amounts charged by certain legal
representatives.
Ms A is unhappy that, up until April 2019, Soteria continued to use C to administer
the claims on her legal expenses insurance. Even  though  she had raised several
concerns about  the way in which her claims had been handled  and after it had
decided to stop providing legal representation to her in late 2017.
The way in which C, on behalf  of Soteria, communicated  with Ms A when
administering her legal expenses insurance.
Our investigators first view and the ombudsmans decision:
Ref: DRN04652662In November 2019, our investigator initially concluded that our Service  didnt have the power
to consider many of Ms As complaints. This was because they had been referred to our
Service outside of the necessary timeframe after the date of Cs final response  letters
(issued on behalf of Soteria).
During the course of administering her claims,  C issued 8 responses on behalf  of Soteria,
which it considered  amounted  to final response letters.
Our investigator also said that other  complaints raised by Ms A  those relating to
discrimination and failure to make reasonable adjustments  should be dismissed. Thats
because she concluded that the merits of those complaints had been  determined by the
Court.
And of the complaints our investigator did think our Service could, and should, consider, she
didnt think Soteria had done anything wrong.
Ms A didnt agree with that. So, her complaint was referred to an ombudsman to decide
whether our Service had the power  to look into her complaints and if so, whether any of
them should  be dismissed.
The ombudsman ultimately  decided that our Service did have the power to consider certain
complaints raised  by Ms A. Thats because some of the letters  which Soteria relied upon as
final response letters didnt include all the information they needed to, in order to meet  the
regulatory requirements of a final response letter.
However, the ombudsman concluded  that our Service didnt have the power  to look into any
complaints that had been considered, and addressed, by Soteria in its final response letter
dated 15 February 2018. That final response letter primarily  dealt  with the issue of whether  C
shouldve allowed Ms A to appoint  a legal representative of her choice to advise of prospects
of her succeeding in the second claim. And, whether, by not allowing her to do so amounted
to a failure to make  a reasonable adjustment.
The ombudsman also dismissed Ms As complaints  that Soteria discriminated against her
and failed to make reasonable adjustments from October 2017 as the merits of those
complaints had been considered by the Court and had been struck  out by it as having no
reasonable prospects of success towards  the end of 2018.
Our investigators second view:
The remaining  parts  of Ms As complaint were passed back  to an investigator to investigate.
When issuing her view in July 2020, our investigator  summarised those complaints to be:
How the indemnity relating to the first claim was spent and the fees charged by her
legal representatives.
Ms As concern that Cs representative  had spoken directly to a barrister in February
2018 who had been appointed to represent  her, calling her a difficult  client.  And, as
a result,  prejudicing her position - as the barrister subsequently declined to act for
her.
The way in which C communicated  with Ms A whilst administering  her claims.
Ref: DRN04652663Our investigator concluded that there were some areas where the service  she received from
C, on behalf of Soteria, could have been better. But due to the length  and nature of the first
claim she didnt think it was fair or reasonable to ask Soteria to pay Ms A any compensation.
Ms A didnt agree. So, her complaint has been  passed to me to consider those issues afresh
and decide.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I intend to partially uphold this complaint.
Before I explain why, I acknowledge that both parties have  provided  a significant number of
comments and documents. And although  I havent  addressed each comment  theyve  made,
I assure them that Ive taken on board  everything theyve said.
Also, just so everyone is clear, I am not considering  any complaint points that the
ombudsman has already concluded our Service doesnt have the power  to decide - or that
have been dismissed by her  as set out in her decision dated April 2020.
How the indemnity was spent relating  to the first claim
In its letter  dated  11 April 2019, C accepts that its letter to Ms A dated 11 December 2017
incorrectly set out the fees that had been incurred by  and paid to - the law firm who had
been first appointed to represent Ms A in the first claim.
It accepted this was a mistake on its part and apologised. It went  on to say that its mistake
did not detract from the amount of costs incurred by the law firm and those agreed and paid
by Soteria, which was a decision it says it was entitled to make.
The letter dated  11 December  2017 says:
-the law firm had been paid £2,520 including VAT;
-Counsel had been paid £1,980 including VAT;  and
-C, who had been acting as her legal representative for part of 2017, had been paid
£6,201.60 including VAT.
Ive also seen subsequent correspondence from Ms A to Soteria  dated  12 December 2017 in
which she seeks confirmation that this sets out the totality  of the costs that had been
incurred against  her indemnity up until then. She was reassured this was the case.
So, I intend to accept that she was understandably alarmed to find out in March 2019  that
the law firm had been paid £5,000 on 19 March 2019  over a year after receiving such
reassurances.
I also think it was reasonable for her to raise concerns about this with C and ask questions
about what the additional funds were paid for. And whether  it was in respect of the work
undertaken by the law firm in 2017.
Ref: DRN04652664As it transpires, C, on behalf of Soteria, had paid the law firm £6,000 (including VAT) in total.
That is over 150% more  than Ms A had been  told was the case  in December 2017.
The email  Ive seen  from Ms A to Soteria dated  19 March  2019 says, upon raising this issue
over the phone earlier that day, she was told that Soteria wouldnt  be looking into her
concerns as she complains about everything and as a result she said she was left without
any recourse. I know that Soteria did end up acknowledging her complaint point and said it
would be investigating  her concern but when doing  so, it didnt deny initially saying that she
complains about  everything.
It appears that Ms A was also concerned by her legal representative notifying her the
following day that £6,000 had been paid to the law firm in addition  to the barristers fees that
had been incurred whilst the law firm had been acting for her. From her subsequent 
correspondence to C on 20 March 2019,  its clear  how concerned she was about this  and
that it had significantly  reduced the indemnity available for the first claim.
She raised  her concerns  that the money had been paid fraudulently and said she would
report the matter to the police unless she received an immediate explanation as to what had
happened. That email was sent late afternoon and later that night,  having  not received  a
reply, Ms A notified C that she had reported the matter to the police and had received a
crime reference number.
Given the time Ms As first email was sent on 20 March 2019, I dont think its unreasonable
for C to not have  immediately responded. Its entirely possible that her email wouldnt have
been read by the time she reported the matter  to the police.
But as accepted by Soteria, Ms A is vulnerable. She says she has the following medical
conditions which are interrelated and amount to a disability:
- Aspergers  syndrome;
- Emotionally  unstable  personality disorder;
- Anxiety disorder;
- Acute stress reaction  / post-traumatic stress reaction; and
- Depression.
C, on behalf of Soteria, was aware of the medical conditions Ms A has - and the impact  they
can have on her.
A barristers opinion dated February 2019 advising on the prospects  of Ms A succeeding in
her second  claim also makes reference  to the following comments  made by Ms As
counsellor: disrespectful: emotional  response is angernot being taken seriously;
emotional response is anger. The barrister  also says there are similar comments  to Ms As
response to perceived  dishonesty and unfairness.
Considering the conditions  Ms A has and the impact  they can have on her - particularly
when shes feeling  stressed or responding to a situation which  she perceives to be dishonest
and unfair  - I dont  think it was unreasonable in these particular circumstances for her to
have reported  her concerns about fraud to the police without  waiting longer for a response
from C.
Im currently  persuaded  that this illustrates the considerable worry and distress felt by Ms A
Ref: DRN04652665upon discovering that the law firm had been paid considerably  more  than she had initially
been told. And this was made even more distressing and confusing  by the timing of finding
this out; around  the time when her barristers set of chambers was in contact with C about
discussing his fee to represent her at an employment tribunal hearing  that had been listed
for 12 days.  So, the cost of representation  was at the forefront of Ms As mind  and likely to
be considerable going forwards.
The very fact that she did report  the matter to the police resulted  in C concluding it was
conflicted and, ultimately,  finding another law firm to administer  Ms As first claim on behalf
of Soteria.
Whether or not it was fair and reasonable for Soteria to have taken that decision at the time,
considering it was its error which caused Ms A to question the difference between the costs
the law firm claimed in 2017 and then report the matter to the police, I dont think Ms A was
unreasonably prejudiced  by the change in administrator at that particular time. Nor do I think
she was upset by this decision at the time.  Thats because Ms A had been requesting a
change in administrator for a while; since C had declined to continue  legally  representing her
due to discovering in October 2017 that Ms A had made threatening remarks about  its staff.
From the correspondence Ive seen, after C unilaterally took that decision in October  2017,
Ms A was confused about how the same company could be conflicted  to legally represent
her but didnt have  a conflict  of interest when  administering the policy.  I think that confusion
is understandable but Im also currently satisfied that the situation was explained to her by
Soteria in various emails   for example one dated 4 January 2019.
And, despite Ms As concerns about  how C could  remain impartial   which I do understand 
I dont think it was unreasonable  for C to continue  to administer  the policy, particularly as it
was named as the administrator in the legal  expenses insurance section of the policy.
Also, its not unusual  for an administrator of a legal expenses  insurance policy  to have dual
roles and to also act as a legal representative, so long as it conducts both roles
independently. The roles of administering an insurance policy and providing legal
representation are different. Those roles are regulated by different bodies and come with
different regulatory  responsibilities.
Ms A says C  and in particular, certain  staff members - held biases towards her after
October 2017. But Im not persuaded looking at all the information  I have  that Cs decision to
stop legally  representing her  and the reasons for this  affected the way in which it
administered the policy up until April 2019 (when another law firm was appointed  to
administer the first claim under Ms As legal expenses insurance).
The legal fees that have  been paid:
Ive explained  above why I think Ms A was understandably distressed and confused by
finding out that C, on behalf of Soteria, had paid the law firm significantly more in March
2019 than shed previously - and wrongly  - been  told in December 2017.
Ive looked at the legal fees which have been paid by Soteria to the law firm and to C.
The law firm submitted a schedule of costs which was considered  by C on behalf  of Soteria.
The law firm had initially claimed £7,035 plus VAT and Soteria offered to pay around half of
that amount.  This was rejected by the law firm. They ultimately reached a compromise of
£5,000 plus VAT.
Ref: DRN04652666Ms A is unhappy because  that figure is a lot higher than C authorised for the initial  work  the
law firm was asked to carry out. Its not unusual for the insurer to consider the amount of
work which was undertaken - and the circumstances in which  it was undertaken - when
considering the overall reasonableness of the legal costs claimed. Even  if the initial costs
estimate has been exceeded.
Ive also seen a breakdown of the costs  incurred by C when legally representing Ms A. I can
see that its discounted any time incurred reviewing correspondence received from Ms A.
Ms A says that the costs  were unreasonably  claimed, that the amount of work undertaken
didnt justify the costs  charged for and she suspects some of the costs  claimed related to
administering the policy which  shouldnt be charged  for.
But in the circumstances of this particular  case, I dont think  Soteria acted unreasonably by
considering the costs  claimed  which had been  itemised  before negotiating with the law
firm and paying a proportion of them. Nor do I think it acted unfairly  by paying Cs fees as
claimed. Given the amounts claimed, I dont think it was unreasonable  of it not to instruct  a
costs assessor before  doing so.
It is not the role of our Service to forensically  examine the legal costs claimed. Thats the role
of a cost assessor.  If Ms A would like to challenge the amounts paid by the law firm and C,
when acting as her legal representative, she will need to instruct a qualified cost assessor to
consider the amounts claimed  and what was ultimately paid. If the cost assessors report  is
in her favour, she can then raise  this directly with Soteria  in the first instance.
Whether to instruct a cost assessor is a choice for Ms A. But given the amounts paid to the
law firm and C, the cost of instructing a cost assessor might outweigh any saving to the
indemnity. I also note that the barrister, who is representing Ms A through  direct access, has
agreed to cap his fee to prepare and represent Ms A at her employment tribunal hearing to
an amount equivalent to the remaining balance of the indemnity limit (£28,663.40). So, even
if more of Ms As indemnity has been  used than it shouldve been, its currently unlikely  that
she will be responsible for any legal fees  or incur  any financial losses   as a result.
I am also satisfied that the costs paid to the law firm by C, on behalf of Soteria, didnt  include
settlement of the barristers fees in the sum of £1,800 plus VAT - which had been  incurred
whilst the law firm was representing Ms A. Ive seen correspondence from C to the law firm
dated 24 January  2019 confirming that it had settled payment directly to the barrister for the
amounts owed. So, Im intending to find that the law firm didnt receive any additional funds
from C, on behalf of Soteria, to cover  the barristers fees  or that theyve been paid twice.
Ms A has previously  told our investigator  by way of an email dated  23 September  2019 that
she doesnt dispute the amounts C settled,  on behalf  of Soteria, to cover barristers  fees
incurred in 2017, November 2018  and early 2019. So, I havent considered whether those
costs have been reasonably paid by C, on behalf of Soteria.
Soteria referring to Ms A as a difficult client:
I dont intend to uphold this aspect  of Ms As complaint.
Ive seen a note dated 5 March 2018 made by the person who investigated this complaint
after Ms A raised it with C. The barrister says that he doesnt recall  ever being told by a
Ref: DRN04652667representative of C that Ms A was a difficult client.
I know Ms A is unhappy that Soteria has placed  more weight on what  the barrister said than
what she has said. But C, on behalf  of Soteria, also says that its member  of staff who Ms A
says made  this statement to the barrister denies saying this. I think  Soteria undertook  a
reasonable investigation into Ms As concerns. And whilst its of course  possible that the
statement was made, based on what Ive seen,  Im not persuaded on the balance  of
probabilities that it was.
If Ms A is unhappy about the way in which the barrister spoke to her at a conference she
attended with him  or that she was left without representation close  to a hearing date - she
would need to follow the complaints procedure of the barristers  set of chambers.
Due to concerns after the phone call mentioned in the matter above, Ms A asked for no
more telephone calls to take place  between C and any legal representatives appointed to
carry out any work on her case. Instead,  for transparency, she asked  that emails  be sent to
those legal representatives so that she could be copied into them. C declined to do this,
although it did say that it would provide Ms A with notes  of any calls that it had with her legal
representatives and any emails.
The terms of the legal  expenses insurance allow C, on behalf of Soteria, to contact legal
representatives for information about  a claim.
And I accept  its likely that Soteria had to discuss issues with legal representatives from time
to time to ensure the terms  of the policy were  being met, to negotiate legal fees and obtain
updates on issues  such as costs - and whether Ms A still had reasonable prospects of
winning her employment  tribunal claim.  Sometimes  the most  efficient  way of doing this
wouldve been by phone.  I appreciate that Ms A had suspicions about what  mightve been
said in certain calls. But I think it was reasonable of Soteria  to say that it would continue to
call legal  representatives working on Ms As case, if necessary. Particularly as it said it
would provide Ms A with notes of any calls.
The way in which C communicated  with Ms A when administering the legal expenses
Insurance:
Ms A says C, on behalf  of Soteria, failed to make reasonable adjustments in the way in
which it communicated with her. Its not the role of our Service to determine  whether  Soteria  
breached the EqA  thats the role of the courts. But Im required to take the EqA into 
account, if its relevant,  amongst other things when deciding whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint.
As set out in the background section of this provisional decision,  an ombudsman has already
decided that our Service doesnt  have  the power  to consider any complaints about disability
discrimination and / or failure to make reasonable adjustments which  were  addressed  by
Soteria in its final response letter dated 15 February 2018.
The ombudsman also decided that our Service shouldnt consider any complaints  relating to
disability discrimination and / or failure to make reasonable  adjustments which  took place
after October 2017, as the merits of these complaints have already been decided  by a Court.
However, the particulars  of claim setting out Ms As Court claim are dated 27 April 2018. So,
I think I can look at the concerns which Ms A had raised with C  and she says took place
Ref: DRN04652668after this date - about its failure to make adjustments for her.
Im satisfied that Ms A says the following occurred after April 2018:
-C didnt reply to her in a timely  manner and when  it did respond it wrote  long emails
which shed asked it not to do; and
-It didnt provide her with information about the service standards  it has in place,
setting out how long it should  take C to respond  to emails.
Ms A sent a considerable number of emails  to C. And there  were  times, particularly in early
2019, where Ms A would  sometimes  send several emails over the course of a few days. I
wouldnt reasonably  expect C to respond to each email straight  away.  That wouldnt  be
commercially viable.
However, I think C couldve  done  more to have  managed Ms As expectations about when
she was likely to receive a reply. I think providing  her with its service  standards, as she had
asked for on a number  of occasions  particularly in early 2019  - wouldve helped do that.
I cant see from the correspondence Ive been  given that C ever provided Ms A with its
service standards.  And, further, it didnt respond  to her complaints about this issue  when she
formally raised  it in February 2019 either.  Thats despite her being asked to clarify her
complaint points. This led to Ms A, understandably in my opinion, asking C once again when
she should receive a response to communications as per its service standards.  And I cant
see she received a reply  to that.
Reading the correspondence between Ms A and C I can see Ms A was getting particularly
frustrated by this. For example, in her letter dated 20 March 2019 Ms A says she had no
choice but to keep challenging (Cs) practices and behaviour until fairness is achieved. She
goes on to say but for Cs refusal to make reasonable adjustments  and setting of
expectations via service level agreements, she wouldnt need to keep contacting  C.
I also think C couldve reasonably done more to explain what it expected from Ms A in terms
of the frequency of her correspondence. Had it done  this, I think it wouldve most likely
resulted in Ms A sending  less emails to C; thereby reducing her level of distress,  whilst also
reducing the number  of separate  emails Cs representatives had to consider.
However, from the correspondence Ive seen, I dont think  Cs correspondence  was
unnecessarily or unreasonably over-long. And, overall, longer correspondence tended to be
broken up with sub-headings.
Contacting Ms As legal  representative in February 2019:
Ms A is unhappy that C contacted the set of chambers for her barrister, whod agreed to act
for her through direct access, in February 2019,  to provide an assessment on the likely value
of the claim.
In principle, I dont think it was unfair of C to have done this. Under the legal expenses
insurance, and subject to the other  terms of the policy,  Soteria will only fund a claim if
reasonable prospects remain and whether it was proportionate to pursue  (taking  into
account the likely value of the claim against  the likely costs  involved to pursue the claim).
It looks like advice was given on the value of the claim back  in 2017. But I dont think  it was
Ref: DRN04652669unreasonable for C to seek an updated advice  on the value of the claim before agreeing a
fee with the barrister for the significant  amount of work that was needed to prepare  the first
claim for an employment tribunal hearing.
However, I intend to find that the way in which C communicated that to Ms A wasnt  fair or
reasonable. Considering the concerns that she had raised previously about barristers
becoming conflicted and wanting  to ensure transparency  when  C contacted her legal
representatives, I think C couldve  informed  Ms A about the advice it needed from her
barrister, and why. I also think this wouldve prevented much of the confusion  and
subsequent correspondence - that subsequently took place about this issue.
Ms A says C wasnt  just asking her barrister for information, as it initially  told her. She says it
had requested a formal  advice from her barrister and had agreed to pay him two hours of
work for this.
Given her longstanding issues  about the policy indemnity and the way in which  she believed
work on her cases had been  unreasonably charged against that indemnity, I can understand
why she felt concerned  about what C was asking her barrister  to provide.
When responding to her concerns, C said it found no evidence that it had instructed the
barrister to undertake  any work. But I dont think that was right. And, overall, I dont think  C
did enough to reassure Ms A or give her an accurate explanation of what it needed and why.
And from what Ive seen, nor did it explain who was responsible for the barristers fee to
provide the advice it says it required.  I dont  think that was reasonable.
Not authorising a conference with a different  barrister to consider  the merits of a potential
claim against another barrister
Ms A is also unhappy that C didnt authorise funding to allow  her to attend a conference  with
a barrister after he had been instructed, in early  2019, to prepare  an opinion  on the
prospects of Ms A succeeding in a negligence claim against another barrister. And whether it
was proportionate to pursue that claim.
Ms A says that C failed to make a reasonable adjustment  as a result  because she was
unable to effectively  articulate  her concerns about  the legal representative in writing,  to be
considered by the barrister. As a result, she says the barrister didnt fully understand her
complaint points.
Ms A has produced medical evidence  explaining why she finds it more  difficult  using email  to
correspond with parties and understanding whats being said to her. However, C had
instructed the barrister  to provide the legal  advice for its benefit   so that it could determine
whether to fund Ms As professional negligence claim under the policy. I understand that the
barrister had been sent the necessary paperwork to advise, and information  from Ms A. I can
also see that Ms A was given an opportunity to provide comments  on the advice once
completed.
As it transpired the advice was that prospects  of success were less than 51% and even if the
claim did succeed, the barrister advised that the value of the claim was around £5,000. So,
he advised it wouldnt be proportionate to litigate. Although Ms A says the barrister  didnt
advise on the loss of opportunity, I dont think C unfairly relied  on the barristers opinion
when declining  to cover this claim under the legal expenses insurance.
Ref: DRN046526610And in all the circumstances of this particular issue, I dont think  C unfairly or unreasonably
declined Ms As request for a face to face conference  with the barrister.
Summary and conclusions:
C, on behalf of Soteria, says it made reasonable adjustments  to consider the particular
mental health issues Ms A lives with  and the impact they have on her. Its possible that
they did make some  adjustments throughout their dealings with her over several years.  As
explained, there are aspects of her complaint where its already been  determined by an
ombudsman that our Service cant  or shouldnt  determine.
However, for the reasons  Ive set out above,  there have been occasions  - particularly in early
2019 - when I think C didnt treat Ms A fairly and reasonably in the way in which it managed
the first claim made under her LEI policy.
Its not easy to untangle  the distress and inconvenience Ms A experienced by the things that
I intend to find C, on behalf of Soteria, got wrong  here.
In an email dated 20 March 2019,  Ms A says to C: 
I am very familiar with being humiliated, side-lined,  ridiculed, even hated, as a result  
of my disabilities. That is unfortunately  what my life is like. The only reason that I 
continue to engage with you at all is because I am forced to - otherwise I forego  the 
benefit of my insurance and give up all chances at having my employment  claims 
compensated had you resolved my complaints properly there would have been far 
fewer issues  later on.
Im conscious that Ms A wouldve been inconvenienced and distressed as a result of her
ongoing employment tribunal claim.  And by her unhappiness by other concerns she raised
about the way in which C handled her claims  but where I dont think it acted  unfairly or
unreasonably.
But given the comments Ive seen from Ms A in various correspondence with C and her level
of frustrations when  responding to some of the issues where I intend to find it shouldve
reasonably done better, Im currently satisfied that Ms A ended up sending many more
emails than she wouldve  otherwise needed  to have done. And this wouldve unnecessarily
exacerbated her stress levels at an already anxious time. Im also satisfied that it caused
additional and unnecessary worry, frustration  and distress to her.
I havent seen  any medical evidence to support to what extent each of Ms As wrongdoings
had on her  or her underlying mental health issues. But based  on the information Ive been
given about her medical conditions and how they all impact her, I also think  its fair to
assume that Cs wrongdoings wouldve had some  detrimental impact on them.
To put things right I provisionally  directed Soteria to pay Ms A £500 for the considerable, and 
unnecessary, distress and inconvenience she experienced as a result  of what Soteria  got 
wrong here.  
Responses to my provisional decision 
Ref: DRN046526611I invited both parties to respond to my provisional  decision with any further information or 
arguments they wanted me to consider. Mrs B replied  saying  that I hadnt dealt with all her 
complaint points. Soteria  accepted my provisional  decision. 
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken on board Ms As further  comment that I havent addressed all her complaint 
points. But Im satisfied  that Ive considered  the concerns shes  raised which  form part of this 
complaint. As Ive set out in detail above  - and in my provisional decision - an ombudsman 
has already decided that there are aspects  her complaint that our Service doesnt have the 
power to look into. And there are other  aspects of her complaint that have been dismissed.
I also know that Ms A has raised other concerns against Soteria that do not form part of this 
complaint but are being investigated by our Service. 
As neither party has made any new substantive arguments, or presented any new evidence, 
theres no reason  for me to reach different  conclusions to those  set out in my provisional 
decision. 
So, for the reasons set out above  and in my provisional decision  I partially uphold Ms As 
complaint.
putting things right
I direct  Soteria  to pay Ms A £500  for the considerable, and unnecessary,  distress and 
inconvenience she experienced as a result of what  Soteria got wrong here.
my final decision
I partially uphold  Ms As complaint. I direct Soteria Insurance Limited to put thing right by 
paying Ms A £500 compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 April 2021.
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0465266