K820x#14complaint
Mrs T complains that the vehicle she acquired  through a hire purchase agreement financed  
by FCE Bank Plc wasnt of satisfactory quality.  She wants an issue  with noise from the 
vehicle to be fixed or to reject the vehicle and receive compensation.
background
Mrs T is represented  in this complaint by her husband  but for ease of reading Ill just refer to 
her.
Mrs T tells us that in March 2018 she acquired  a new vehicle  from a dealer Ill refer to as S. 
She says that after several months she noticed  a noise from the rear as if a window was 
open. Which it wasnt.  She says the vehicle has subsequently been seen by S and brake 
discs and tyres have  been changed.  But the noise still persists. She wants the issue  to be 
fixed or to reject  the vehicle.
FCE told us that Mrs Ts complaint was raised in January 2019. It said that two dealerships  
had concluded  the issue was with the tyres. FCE said that it hadnt seen anything to show 
that the vehicle had faults at the time of supply.
I issued a provisional decision on this case on 31 March 2021.  I said that I didnt intend to 
uphold this complaint.  And that I thought that the information was inconclusive. It was 
insufficient to show  that the vehicle wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied.
Since I issued my provisional  view, both parties  have replied.  FCE said it didnt have 
anything to add. Mrs T responded and said that she now didnt want to reject the vehicle. 
She said the noise  only started after the vehicle  had been recalled for issues  relating to the 
seat belts. And she simply wished for the noise to be fixed  or to receive some compensation. 
But she didnt think the dealer, S, was capable  of resolving the issue.  As it had changed its 
stance on what caused the noise.
I thank both parties for their responses. As no new material information has been provided, 
Im not minded  to change my provisional  decision.  This is largely repeated  in my final 
decision which is set out below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Mrs T s enjoyment of the vehicle  seems  to have been impaired by this noise 
appearing. I understand that any unexplained noise with a vehicle can cause  concern.  And 
here theres  been  conflicting opinions upon  the likely cause  of this noise.
Mrs Ts hire purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit  agreement and our service  
is able to consider  complaints relating to it. FCE supplied the vehicle so its responsible for 
complaints about  the quality of the vehicle.
I dont apply the law - directly - but I do take it into account. Relevant  law here includes  the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA).
Ref: DRN02220112The CRA states that in order to conform to contract goods must be of satisfactory quality 
when supplied. Satisfactory quality is defined as being what a reasonable person would 
consider to be satisfactory. As the vehicle  here was new it would be expected  that it would 
be supplied  without defects.
The CRA contains a presumption that where goods  dont conform to contract within  six 
months of the date of supply that they didnt do so at that time. After  this it would usually be 
for the consumer to show that any faults  which resulted in the vehicle not conforming to 
contract were present at the point of supply. The complaint here was raised with FCE more  
than six months after supply.
In the context of this complaint, in order to say that FCE should allow rejection of the vehicle, 
or alternatively pay for repairs and provide compensation, Id have to find that whatever  
caused the noise was present at the point of supply. And that it resulted in the vehicle not 
being of satisfactory  quality.
It would seem probable  that this would result  from a mechanical issue with the vehicle. Or 
that the noise   whatever  the cause - was excessive to the point it wouldnt  be reasonable to 
expect Mrs T to accept it.
Ive seen various items of information including  job sheets  provided by S and a video 
supplied by Mrs T. But none of the items  supplied  show theres any mechanical  defect. Or 
that the noise  is at an excessive level.
Where information is unclear or contradictory - as some of it is here - I reach my conclusions 
on the balance  of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely  to have happened in light of 
the available  evidence and the wider surrounding  circumstances.
Different garages have  looked at the vehicle. But despite various theories being put forward 
and solutions  attempted, the overall conclusion I draw is that no one is sure whats  behind 
the issue.
A job sheet  supplied by S referred  to it having replaced the brake discs. S also commented 
to our investigator that it had tested the vehicle using tyres swopped  from other  vehicles. 
And that a noise  was still present even when these tyres were used. It said it had also 
compared the noise with two other  similar  vehicles. And found that one was the same and 
one was quieter.  And that after discussion with the manufacturer it was felt that any noise 
was a characteristic of the vehicle. And was unlikely to be capable  of being  remedied.
As Mrs T didnt notice the noise for several months,  Id have doubted that its a characteristic 
of the vehicle. As one mightve expected a characteristic to be present from the outset.
Not being satisfied with S, Mrs T obtained  another  opinion from a dealer Ill refer to as F. It 
identified a noise  but concluded the issue was with the tyres. I understand from FCE  which 
said it had spoken  with an engineer at F - that it had also identified  the tyres  starting  to 
crack. And had suggested that Mrs T should take the vehicle for further  examination. But I 
cant see that this has occurred.
A video  supplied by Mrs T doesnt  take matters  any further as no significant noise is audible. 
Whether that is due to sound issues with the video I cant say. But I accept the information  
from the two dealerships that a noise  was present.
Ref: DRN02220113Im now aware that the vehicle passed  an MOT  on 26 February 2021. Advisories recorded 
some slight  damage and that all the tyres  were  cracked / perishing. Given  the odometer  
reading of only 4,019  miles  this seems unusual. But in the absence  of any further report  
such as that recommended by F - Im unable to say if this might provide an explanation.
In summary,  Ive concluded  that theres insufficient  information to show  that the vehicle 
wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.  That includes the level of any noise. The 
results of the inspections  that Ive seen are inconclusive.  And the vehicle appears to be 
mechanically sound and passed  the recent MOT. So theres no immediate safety  concerns. 
I understand that Mrs T is likely  to be disappointed at my decision. But in the absence of 
sufficient information  it wouldnt be fair and reasonable to require FCE to do anything else.
Accordingly, Im not upholding this complaint.
.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 July 2021.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0222011