K820x#14Complaint 
Mrs C complains about a deposit  she made into her Santander UK Plc (Santander) bank 
account. Mrs C says she handed over £17,500  but only £15,000 was paid in. Mrs C would 
like Santander to credit the missing  £2,500  to her account. 
Background
Mrs C went to her Santander branch on 4 July 2018, wishing to pay money into her account 
over the counter. Mrs C says she took seven bags  of money,  each containing £2,500 each,  
totalling £17,500. Mrs C maintains each  bag had exactly £2,500 in  just as they had been 
handed to her by her bank. Shes  told us she opened each of the seven bags and counted  
the contents of each  bag separately  - returning  the money to their individual bags at home 
before leaving  for the bank on 4 July 2018.  She explains the bags were placed on her 
kitchen table at home  and that she divided the seven bags of money into two different  
packages. One package  contained one bag of £2,500 along  with her bank book, while the 
second package  contained the other  six bags of £50 notes to the value of £2,500 each. 
Mrs C says she confirmed the amount of £17,500  with the cashier when she was asked how 
much there was. 
 
Mrs C says the cashier took all seven  bags of money and moved away from her line of sight. 
Shes said on becoming anxious she moved  over in the direction where the cashier had 
gone. And that when the cashier returned  to the counter,  she was told there was £15,000. 
Mrs C says she told the cashier this is not the amount  of money  she gave her. At this time, 
Mrs Cs told us she was in shock,  feeling dejected  and that the banks  cashier had 
consciously and deliberately stolen her money.   
Santander says Mrs C confirmed to the cashier  that the amount to be paid in was £15,000.  
Its told us the cashier used the automatic note counter and advised Mrs C that the amount 
was £15,000.  
Santanders told us that at the time Mrs C informed  the cashier the amount counted was 
£500 short.  Its explained a second member of staff came and also counted the money and 
also confirming the amount  was £15,000.  The cashier also checked the surrounding areas at 
the time of Mrs Cs visit. 
Mrs C has explained that after raising with the cashier that £15,000 was not the amount 
shed given over, she was asked if she wished to take the money back home  or bank it. 
Mrs C says as she did not want to be walking around with the sum of money and it was 
closing time at the bank; she banked the sum of £15,000 and left the branch at that time. 
She returned to the branch on 5 July 2018,  to report the money that shes  told us was stolen 
by the banks cashier the previous day. 
Santanders said the till area was checked  again  to make sure the money wasnt around the 
cashier or had dropped behind the cabinet that holds the note counter. 
Following its investigation,  Santander  confirmed the cashiers till balanced at the end of 
4 July 2018. It feels no Santander error has taken place. 
Santander added it was on her visit to the branch on 5 July 2018 that Mrs C said the money  
was £2,500 short and that there  should have been  £17,500 and not £15,000.  
Unhappy with Santanders response, Mrs C referred  her complaint to this service.  
Ref: DRN04134312Our investigator looked at all of the available  evidence, including  what  Mrs C has told us, the 
statements from the branch staff,  the CCTV from the time and print outs to show  the counter 
till balanced. Our investigator concluded  he was unable to say £17,500 had been  handed  
over and so wasnt recommending Santander  do anything further. 
Mrs C disagreed with the investigators assessment and has asked for an ombudsmans  
review. 
My findings  
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear Mrs C has very strong feelings  about this matter  and Id firstly like to assure her that 
Ive carefully considered  everything she has said and provided  in reaching my decision. But 
in case such as this, where there are conflicting versions of events, I have to reach my 
decision on the balance  of probabilities. That is what  I think  is more  likely to have happened 
in the circumstances. 
And based on what Ive seen, I think its more likely  Santander has correctly credited her 
account with the amount of money  that was given to it. I know  Mrs C will be disappointed  
with this decision, so Ill now explain why.
Mrs C has essentially  complained that £2,500 of her money was stolen by a member of staff.  
This is a very serious allegation  and I hope  Mrs C understands that it wouldnt be reasonable 
for me to uphold  her complaint based solely on what shes  told us. Its not the role of this 
service, or Santander, to investigate if a crime has taken place. Thats  a job for the police 
and the criminal justice service. The issue for me to consider is whether, on balance,  Mrs C 
handed over to the cashier on 4 July 2018  the sum of £15,000 or £17,500.  
 
Santander has given  this service witness statements from the members  of staff involved,  
including the cashier who served Mrs C; the second  member of staff who also counted  the 
money; the branch manager and other  members  of staff who were present at the relevant  
time. 
Having reviewed the statements of the cashier  and the member of staff who re-counted the 
money theyve confirmed £15,000  was counted  and that Mrs C initially said there  was a 
discrepancy of £500. The other statements provided  from staff members also confirm Mrs C 
was heard saying  the money was £500  short. 
I know Mrs C feels strongly that the cashier  took her money,  and while I cant say definitively 
that this didnt happen, Im not persuaded this is more likely than not. I say this because,  the 
statements from several members of staff confirm  £15,000 was counted. I also have to take 
into account there appears  to be an inconsistency in the amount of money Mrs C said was 
missing. 
From the information Santander has given us from 4 July 2018, Im satisfied there wasnt  a 
cash error in the branch on that day its provided  records that show the cashiers  till 
balanced - meaning  everything tallied up at the end of the day. 
Ref: DRN04134313Santander has provided this service  with CCTV footage from 4 July 2018 when Mrs C 
attended the branch to pay in the money.  Having  reviewed this footage, while its not 
possible to say how much  money  was handed  to the cashier,  I can see a number of bags 
were handed  over to the cashier,  as Mrs C has indicated. 
I am aware  Mrs C has recently  visited our service and viewed the CCTV footage herself. 
Following this, shes said the events didnt happen  as viewed and that she believes it is the 
wrong CCTV. Mrs Cs also commented the person in the CCTV footage wasnt  her. Ive 
thought carefully  about this. Again Id like to assure  Mrs C that I dont doubt whats  shes told 
us are her honest recollections from the time.  But I have to take into account  the evidence  
available. 
And from my review  of the footage, Im satisfied its consistent  with information Mrs C has 
provided to us in her complaint submissions. For example, Mrs C told us that on becoming 
anxious she moved over in the direction of where the cashier was. And this was viewed in 
the footage. Ive also not seen any reason to doubt or question  the footage provided. 
I understand the frustration Mrs C must  feel and I dont doubt her integrity or that she has 
made this complaint in good faith.  But I dont think it would be reasonable for me to uphold a 
complaint about  a member of staff stealing a large sum of money  without there being 
sufficiently persuasive  supporting evidence that they did so. And in this case  I dont think 
there is this evidence. 
So taking everything Ive seen and been told into account, for the reasons given above, Im 
not persuaded that, on balance, Santander has incorrectly counted the amount of money 
Mrs C had taken to be credited to her account.  So I dont think it would be fair to require it to 
do anything more.
My final decision  
My final decision is that I wont be asking Santander UK Plc to take any further action  to 
resolve this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 August 2019.
Staci Rowland
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0413431