K822xcomplaint
Mr B has complained that National  Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold him a fee-
paying Advantage Gold account.
background 
One of our adjudicators assessed  the complaint and concluded that the account  had been  
mis-sold. She explained  that to put matters right, NatWest should refund Mr B the Advantage 
Gold account fees that he paid, and to also pay Mr B the overdraft interest he was charged 
on those fees.
NatWest accepted the adjudicators assessment and wrote  to Mr B on 30 June 2020 to 
explain that it will pay him £187.83 in total, to settle his complaint. 
This settlement offer comprised of £116.55 in Advantage Gold  account fees, less 81p of 
overdraft savings Mr B received as a result  of having the Advantage Gold  account. The total 
amount also included £72.09 of interest  on the account fees - calculated at 8% simple per 
year from when Mr B paid the fees to the date of settlement. NatWest had deducted basic  
rate income tax from the interest amount, which is in line with what  it is required to do on 
compensatory interest  awards.
Mr B contacted our service because he didnt think the amount awarded to him was correct.  
He asked for our service to review whether NatWests settlement offer was fair.
As its not in dispute that the packaged account was mis-sold, I will not look at what 
happened when  the account was sold to Mr B. The matter left for me to consider is whether 
NatWests settlement offer is fair and reasonable, and if its not, what  I think reasonable 
redress should be in the circumstances.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained  our approach to packaged  bank accounts on our website and Ive used that 
to help me decide this case. And having done so, I think that the settlement offer NatWest 
made was fair and reasonable. I will explain why.
Advantage Gold account fees to be refunded
I think it goes without  saying that, to put Mr B back into the position he wouldve been  in had 
the Advantage Gold account not been  sold to him, NatWest needs to refund the monthly 
account fees he paid to have the account.  
I can see that between  14 May 2010 and March 2011 Mr B was charged the monthly  
account fee of £12.95 nine times. 
So the amount  that NatWest calculated in its settlement offer letter  looks to be correct. And 
although 81p was deducted from the account fee total, I dont think making  this deduction is 
unreasonable. This is because it is the amount Mr B saved in overdraft interest as a result  of 
Ref: DRN02056282having the Advantage Gold account   which he wouldve had to pay had he not been sold 
the packaged account.  
Should overdraft charges  be included in the redress?
As well as refunding  the account  fees, I have also considered whether NatWest should  
include any overdraft charges that were applied to Mr Bs account, in its redress.  
I think I should make it clear to Mr B that I would  only require overdraft  charges  to be 
included in any redress for a mis-sale complaint, if they were  incurred as a direct  result of 
the Advantage Gold account fees debiting the account. In other words, if Mr B wouldve 
incurred the overdraft charges anyway had his account been a fee-free account, then I dont 
think it is reasonable that those charges should  be included in any redress.
Looking at Mr Bs account statements I can see that when  the first account fee was applied,  
the account remained in a credit  balance  so no overdraft charges were incurred because 
of it. 
When the second account fee was applied (3 August 2010), this left an overdrawn balance 
of £44.16 on Mr Bs account. So even if the £12.95  fee had not been applied to the account, 
Im satisfied that Mr Bs account wouldve still been overdrawn on 3 August 2010. So Mr B 
wouldve still been charged overdraft charges for the month of August  - even if he didnt 
have the packaged account.  
Looking at all subsequent times  when  the account fees were applied  to the account, the 
account was already  overdrawn by much more than the amount  of the account fee. So 
again, Im satisfied that all other overdraft charges wouldve still been incurred by Mr B, had 
he not had an Advantage  Gold account.  It therefore  follows that I dont think  its necessary for 
NatWest to include any of those overdraft charges within the redress for this complaint.
What interest should be included  with the redress?
In NatWests settlement  offer letter, it calculated interest at a rate of 8% simple, per year,  
less deductible  tax. NatWest used this interest rate because it is the standard  compensatory 
interest rate that our service requires businesses to pay, on any amounts of money  where 
the consumer  has been deprived  of having  the benefit of that money.  
Mr B has noted that there are various charges in the benefit calculator  that were  not included  
in the settlement offer. But these  amounts were overdraft charges  which, for the reasons Ive 
already explained above, I dont think should be included in the redress  calculations  in this 
case. 
Mr B has also asked  that the full amount that was eventually written off be refunded to him. 
But I dont see why NatWest should do that in relation to this complaint. The eventual debt 
consisted of money  Mr B had spent from the account (so was rightfully owed) or overdraft 
charges that were  incurred because of his spending on the account - rather  than because of 
the packaged account fees.
However, I understand that a bone of contention for Mr B in this case is that the adjudicator  
had originally asked  NatWest to pay him interest on the account fees at the overdraft interest 
rate, rather  than 8% simple interest.  
Ref: DRN02056283Looking through  the complaint file, I can see that following further communication with 
NatWest, the adjudicator  subsequently concluded  that the interest rate NatWest  used in its 
settlement offer letter  was fair and reasonable. So she endorsed  NatWests  offer.
I have considered all options and having done  so, I have  to agree with the adjudicators 
conclusions. This is because, even though  the overdraft interest rates were significantly 
more than 8% at the time,  Mr B was only charged overdraft interest  up until March  2011. 
After that point Mr B was not charged any further  overdraft interest or charges. And as the 
overdraft interest charged on the account  fees was being applied to an overdrawn balance, I 
cant say that Mr B had been deprived of that money, as it was never his in the first place i.e. 
it was adding to his indebtedness rather than being  deducted from money hed credited to 
the account. NatWest  calculated  how much  Mr B was charged in overdraft interest on the 
account fees in this period  (using  the rates that were applicable to the account at the time), 
and it calculated it to be £44.21. 
Nevertheless, NatWest says that the entire overdrawn balance  on the account was written  
off in October 2012. And the figure  NatWest  has given  for the amount  that was written off 
(£1,950.33) was similar to the overdrawn balance on the account before it was passed  to the 
NatWests collections department. So it doesnt appear as though Mr B made any payment 
to reduce this balance  during that time.
Mr B says that the debt on this account  was sold on. But hes not provided any evidence of 
this. So based  on the evidence that is available to me, I can only reasonably  conclude  that 
the debt was written  off by NatWest and therefore  was never repaid by Mr B. 
Because of this, I cant reasonably conclude  that the overdraft interest that was generated by 
Mr Bs account fees should be refunded to him  as he effectively never paid this interest - 
as NatWest wrote off the balance that included  those  amounts in 2012. As such, I think 
NatWests offer to pay Mr B interest  on the account fees, using  the standard  compensatory 
interest rate, is fair and reasonable  in the circumstances  of this complaint. 
Having looked  at the figures that NatWest has provided, Im satisfied that they have been 
correctly calculated. I should add that it is simple, not compound,  interest. And it is 
calculated from the date each account fee was applied to the account, to the date of 
settlement. Therefore,  if Mr B accepts my decision, then the amount  to be paid to him should 
be slightly more than the figures  given in the settlement offer letter due to the settlement 
date being slightly  different.
Putting things  right
As outlined  above,  to put matters right I require NatWest to:
Refund Mr B all of the Advantage  Gold account fees that he was charged;  and
Pay interest on those  fees at a rate of 8% simple  per year, calculated from the date 
each fee was applied to the account to the date of settlement, less deductible  tax.
As Mr B is aware, NatWest has calculated the account fees to have totalled £115.74, after 
the overdraft saving of 81p had been deducted.  And as of June 2020, the interest award  was 
£71.91 after the tax deduction. 
So for the reasons given above,  I dont think NatWest needs  to do anything more, beyond  
what has already been  outlined above, to put matters  right in this case.  
Ref: DRN02056284I appreciate that Mr B may be disappointed  by this, as it seems  he was expecting  more 
redress than what was offered by NatWest. But I hope I have been able to explain why I 
think the above redress is reasonable in the circumstances.
my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above, I require  National  Westminster Bank Plc to do what I 
have set out above to put matters right,  in full and final settlement of this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 October  2020.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0205628