K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 2004. Mrs N says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ns case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why. 
Mrs N says that PPI was added without her knowledge or consent, but I think  its likely 
Barclays made it clear that Mrs N didnt have  to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out 
 although I can understand  why she cant remember this as it was over 15 years  ago.
Mrs N was sold her PPI over the phone, after she completed a short application for a credit  
card through the post. The paper credit  card application captured  basic details and the rest 
of the application was completed over the phone. Theres  no call recording available,  but this 
isnt unusual for a sale made in 2004, and businesses  arent required to keep records  
indefinitely. But Barclays has provided a call script  that was in use at the time which shows 
that its representative would be prompted to point out that the PPI was optional,  and gain 
proper consent  for it to be added to an account.  While I cant  be certain how closely  this 
script was followed, I havent seen anything to suggest Barclays did anything differently  
when it sold PPI to Mrs N. And I think its likely she wouldve known that she didnt have to 
have PPI to get the card,  and chose to take it out
Barclays recommended  the PPI to Mrs N so it had to check  that the PPI was right for her  
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and she 
seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mrs N about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But as I think she chose to take it out - it looks  like she wanted  this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful  for her if something went  wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the PPI would have put 
her off taking  out the cover. 
This means  Barclays doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs N.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs N because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs N about that. Because  Barclays  didnt  tell Mrs N, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN05775072Ive thought about everything Mrs N has said - but these  points  dont change  my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs N.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mrs N any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 September 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0577507