K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  Mrs W took out with a 
credit card in 2004. Mrs W says Capital One (Europe) Plc mis-sold her the PPI.
background
I sent Mrs W and Capital  One a provisional decision on 12 August 2019  to explain why I was 
intending to uphold the complaint. An extract from my provisional  decision is set out below:
Im currently intending to uphold the complaint because I dont think Capital One gave 
Mrs W clear enough  information about the limitations and exclusions in the PPI policy.
The policy excluded claims resulting from any medical condition which Mrs W knew  about  at 
the start of the start of the policy. And I havent  seen clear evidence that Mrs W was made  
sufficiently aware of this term during the sale.
I think this wouldve mattered to Mrs W because shes told us she was suffering from 
respiratory-related medical  conditions around the time of the sale.  Shes  told us she had an 
underlying condition, suffered a number of infections and was ultimately taken to hospital 
where a further  condition  was discovered. Shes said these conditions had a lasting impact 
on her and that she had a significant  amount of time off work  as a result.
I appreciate that Mrs W didnt tell us about  these conditions when she first brought  her 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman  Service. But, due to the level of detail and evidence 
that Mrs W has now been able to provide about her conditions,  Im satisfied that she was 
suffering from them at the time of the sale.
Based on what Mrs W has told us, I dont think shed have taken the policy  if it had been 
made clear to her that any time off work as a result of her conditions  wouldnt have been 
covered by it. So I think shes lost out as a result  of Capital One not making the exclusions 
clear to her.
I set out what I felt Capital  One should do to put things right and said Id consider  any further 
information Mrs W and Capital One sent me. But neither Mrs W nor Capital One had 
anything further  to add about  the sale of the PPI.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ws case.
As Mrs W and Capital  One didnt have  anything further to add, I see no reason to change the 
conclusions I set out in my provisional decision. So I still think this complaint should be 
upheld, for the same  reasons.
Ref: DRN03172352putting things right
Capital One should put Mrs W in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out 
PPI.
A.Capital One should find out how much  Mrs W would have owed when  she closed her 
credit card account if the policy  hadnt been added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
Capital One should then refund the difference between what  Mrs W owed when she 
closed her account and what she would have  owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs W made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Capital One can take off what  
she got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B.Capital One should add simple interest  on the difference between  what Mrs W would 
have owed when she closed  her account from when she closed it until she gets the 
refund. The interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  Capital  One works out what Mrs W would have owed each month  without PPI 
 Mrs W paid more than enough to clear  her balance,  Capital One should also pay 
simple interest  on the extra Mrs W paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest  until the 
point when Mrs W wouldve owed Capital One something  on her credit card. The 
interest rate should  be 8% a year.
D.Capital One should tell Mrs W what its done to work  out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  Capital One to take off tax from this interest. Capital  One must give Mrs W a 
certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
Capital One (Europe) Plc should put things right by doing what  Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 October  2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0317235