K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains that a hire purchase  agreement  under which  a car was supplied  to him was 
mis-sold to him by Group 1 Automotive  UK Limited.
background
A new car was supplied  to Mr E under a hire purchase agreement with a third party that he 
signed in September 2015.  The agreement had a term of four years, the monthly  payment  
was £400 and there was a maximum total mileage of 32,000 miles and a maximum annual 
mileage of 8,000 miles. Mr E says that he wanted  an agreement with an annual  mileage  of 
30,000 miles but that he was told that he shouldn't  worry  about  that and Group 1 would be 
able to resolve it a couple of years down  the line. He says that he became  concerned  about 
this in June 2017 when  he spoke  with another dealer so he contacted Group  1. He then 
complained to Group 1 that the agreement had been mis-sold to him. He wasnt  satisfied 
with its response so complained to this service.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that this complaint should  be upheld.  She reviewed the 
signed documents and didnt think that the finance agreement was misrepresented to Mr E. 
She said that she didnt  have enough evidence to show  that the signed documents  conflict  
with the conversations  that took place prior to signing. And she thought that Mr E committed  
to the terms set out in the contract. So she concluded that she wouldnt be asking Group  1 to 
do anything more. 
Mr E has asked  for his complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman.  He says, in summary, 
that:
he didnt have an opportunity to discuss or consider the pre-contract document  prior 
to signing the agreement as they were both put on the table at the same time for 
signing;
he wasnt happy to enter into the contract  - as evidenced by his questioning of the 
8,000 mileage  allowance  but was coerced into signing the contract by Group 1s 
assertion that he'd be able to sort out any discrepancies or consequences of 
breaching the annual  mileage limit by getting another  deal at an unspecified time in 
the future;  
Group 1s representatives colluded in something that they knew to be a fallacy in 
order to secure the deal with him and acted unfairly and hes now liable for the 
adverse financial  consequences of that; and
he knew that the 8,000 miles  annual limit would be significantly breached and feels 
that the situation that day and the action's that led him to signing  the deal (and its 
consequences) havent  been  fully understood.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr E says that he approached Group 1 in July 2015  to buy a new car on credit. He says that 
he had no deposit,  could afford  to pay £400 each month  and that his annual  mileage was 
30,000 miles.
In September  2015 he signed a demands  and needs statement and the hire purchase 
agreement.
Ref: DRN06292452Immediately above  his signature on the demands and needs statement it says:
I hereby  certify that the above comments accurately reflect the products that I wish 
to purchase based  on the conversations I have had with the Sales  Executive.
And that statement shows that his estimated annual mileage was 8,000 miles, that his 
approximate monthly  budget  was £400  and that he didnt know  of any changes in his future 
circumstances that should  be considered when arranging the finance agreement.
And in the signature box of agreement it says:
This is a Hire-Purchase Agreement regulated by the Consumer  Credit  Act 1974. 
Sign it only if you want to be legally bound by its terms.
And the agreement clearly set out the term of the agreement, the monthly payment of £400, 
the annual mileage limit of 8,000  miles and the total mileage limit of 32,000  miles.  Mr E 
accepts that he was aware of the mileage  limits before he signed the agreement and that he 
knew that hed breach  those limits. And he says that he relied  on assurances that were given 
to him on behalf  of Group 1 about the mileage limits. But theres no agreement  to show what  
assurances were given to him and theres  no written documentation  to show  what,  if 
anything, Group 1 had agreed to do. 
Mr E was aware of the mileage limits  but signed  the agreement. In doing  so I consider that 
he agreed to and accepted those mileage limits.  Im not persuaded that theres enough 
evidence to show that Group 1 gave him any enforceable assurances in relation to the 
mileage limits. I consider  that it was Mr Es decision to sign the agreement  and Im not 
persuaded that he was coerced into signing it by Group 1. If he hadnt wanted  to accept the 
mileage limits then he shouldnt have signed  the agreement (or the demands and needs 
statement).
So I dont  consider that the agreement was mis-sold or misrepresented  to Mr E. And I find 
that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable  in these circumstances for me to require  Group 1 to 
arrange for the hire purchase agreement to be ended or to change the mileage limits - or to 
take any other action  in response to his complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Es complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 June 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0629245