K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs P say Santander UK Plc (trading  as N&P) mis-sold them a mortgage  payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 1987.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint be upheld. Santander disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive considered what Santander  has said but Ive still decided  to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ps 
complaint. This is because Mrs P was working  fewer than 16 hours when the policy  started, 
and so is unlikely  to have been  eligible  to be covered by the policy.  I say this because I think 
the policy is likely to have  not been  available to someone in her work  circumstances.  
Santander has not been able to supply the actual policy wording  that applied  from the time.  
The nearest  most likely wording is that from 1994. This says, to be eligible, you have to be 
in continuous employment  for the previous  6 months, and employment is defined  as to 
be in paid work an average  of 16 hours  or more per week:
Looking at the level of Mrs Ps pay on the mortgage application, and taking into account  her 
recollections of a job where she was on zero hours, I think  it is likely she was working less 
than 16 hours a week. 
Santander has given  us a sample  of a PPI application  form and a PPI leaflet from around the 
time of the sale. Santander says this doesnt  say Mrs P would be excluded.  But I can see it 
also doesnt set out what the eligibility criteria are. It only mentions that you cant  claim 
unemployment benefits if youre self-employed  or an existing borrower.  It was fairly common 
for people  working  fewer  than 16 hours a week to be ineligible by PPI policies, or otherwise 
not treated  as employed for the purposes of redundancy  cover.  And the fact that the 
nearest similar  policy,  from a few years later, had this restriction leads me to conclude  that 
Mrs P was probably also affected by such a term in the policy. 
I dont think Santander  should have recommended the policy, and I think  Mr and Mrs P have 
lost out as a result. 
fair compensation
Santander should put Mr and Mrs P in the position  theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Santander 
should:
Ref: DRN02478092Pay Mr and Mrs P the amount they paid each  month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
If Mr and Mrs P made a successful claim under  the PPI policy,  Santander can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Santander UK Plc to take off tax from this interest. 
Santander must give Mr and Mrs P a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if they 
ask for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. 
I require Santander  UK Plc to pay Mr and Mrs P compensation in accordance  with the 
calculation of redress set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 August 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0247809