K821x#15complaint
Mr N complained that MBNA Limited (MBNA) mis-sold him payment protection insurance 
(PPI) with a credit  card.
background
I recently issued a provisional decision  about  this complaint in which I said I was intending to 
uphold Mr Ns complaint.  I then gave the parties  a chance to submit  any more  information 
they wanted me to consider. 
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Neither party has brought forward any new evidence, so Ive got no reason to depart from 
my provisional decision and Im therefore upholding Mr Ns complaint. 
what the business needs  to do to put things right
MBNA should put Mr N in the financial position  hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. 
The policy should  be cancelled  if it hasnt  been  cancelled already and:
A.MBNA should find out how much Mr N would owe on his credit  card if the policy  
hadnt been added to it. It should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any 
interest charged on those  premiums. It should also remove  any charges  that were  
caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  as well as any interest  added  to those charges.
B.MBNA should then refund the difference between what Mr N owed and what  he 
would have owed.  If Mr N made  a successful  claim under the PPI policy, MBNA can 
take off what he got for the claim  from the amount it owes him. It can also take of any 
commission monies it has already paid him back.
C.If  when MBNA works out what Mr N would have owed each month without PPI  he 
paid more than enough to clear  his balance, MBNA  should also pay simple interest 
on the extra Mr N paid.  And it should  carry on paying interest until the point when Mr 
N wouldve owed MBNA something  on his credit card. The interest  rate should be 8% 
a year.
D.MBNA should tell Mr N what its done to work  out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MBNA to take off tax from this interest. MBNA  must  give Mr N a certificate  
showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
The PPI was mis-sold and so I direct MBNA Limited to compensate Mr N as Ive outlined  
above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 May 2019.
Ref: DRN04838092Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN04838093summary  provisional  decision
complaint
Mr N complained that MBNA Limited  (MBNA)  mis-sold him payment protection insurance  (PPI) 
with a credit  card.
background
I can see Mr N has already  been paid back some money, for the commission MBNA got from selling 
him the PPI. However,  one of our adjudicators  said the complaint about the actual mis-sale element 
shouldnt be upheld. 
Mr N still thinks the PPI was mis-sold in the first place and asked for an ombudsmans  decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ns case.
Having done this, Im intending to uphold the complaint about the mis-sale too.
Mr N filled out what looks like a postal application form for his credit card,  on 12 October  1998.  I was 
shown a copy  of this and can see there was a section on it about  PPI. The form asked Mr N if he 
wanted PPI and he didnt  tick the relevant box to have it. 
So I think this strongly confirms he didnt  want any PPI at the time.
MBNAs says its records  show Mr N was sold the PPI during a phone call its staff had made to him on 
14 October 1998. But MBNA  cant tell me why Mr N apparently changed his mind  so quickly after 
having already refused  the cover and it doesnt have a recording of the call. 
So MBNA hasnt got any direct evidence of his consent and it doesnt have any form of agreement  or 
signature showing  Mr N changed his mind  or agreed to buy the policy. But it referred  us to a guidance 
script, which it says its staff were told to follow  when  selling PPI over the phone to consumers like Mr 
N. However, I dont think this is relevant because the script  relates  to guidance  issued in 2000,  2 
years after these events.
So I dont think theres very much evidence  at all that Mr N ever properly agreed to have PPI cover 
like this. 
MBNA also had a duty to provide information about the cover that was clear,  fair and not mis-leading.  
Because theres no recording of the call, it cant demonstrate that it did this.
I note,  for example, that the benefit level offered for this PPI cover was only 3%, considerably lower 
than other  PPI policies I know were available  at that time. This means  that only 3% of the outstanding 
credit card balance would  be paid off each month in the event of a successful claim.  In addition to 
this, I havent seen any evidence that it would have been pointed out to Mr N that during a period of 
the PPI being claimed on, the PPI cover would  still need  to be paid for and that any outstanding 
balances / charges  would continue to attract  interest.
Because I dont think these  important  features  would  have been explained  clearly to Mr N, I next need 
to consider whether  this would have made any difference to whether hed have still wanted a policy 
like this. I dont think he would have, because he would  have probably considered this PPI to be very 
poor value  for money. 
Ref: DRN04838094I say this because although  Mr N says remembering  his circumstances  from so long ago is quite 
difficult, we know he had recently taken on a job in a well-respected profession within local 
government. I cant say his sickness protection would have been particularly strong at the point he 
took out this PPI because he probably hadnt been in his job for that long. But the important  points for 
me are that he would have had some protection from sickness. And I also think that the level of 
sickness protection (and indeed other benefits)  would have improved substantially  moving forward. 
So I think in the near future he would see his work-related  sickness benefits  improve  to up to 6 
months full pay and 6 months half pay. 
There are therefore a number of reasons  Id uphold  this complaint. I dont think theres any reliable 
evidence that MBNA ever got Mr Ns consent. And I dont think the cover was explained to Mr N 
either. If it had been,  I think he wouldnt have considered it something he would want to buy.
what the business needs to do to put things right
MBNA should put Mr N in the financial  position  hed be in now if he hadnt taken  out PPI. The policy 
should be cancelled  if it hasnt been  cancelled already and:
E.MBNA should find out how much Mr N would owe on his credit card if the policy hadnt been 
added to it. It should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on 
those premiums. It should  also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
F.MBNA  should then refund the difference between what  Mr N owed  and what  he would  have 
owed. If Mr N made a successful claim  under  the PPI policy, MBNA can take off what he got 
for the claim  from the amount it owes him. It can also take of any commission monies it has 
already paid him back.
G.If  when MBNA works out what Mr N would have owed each month without PPI  he paid 
more than enough  to clear his balance,  MBNA should  also pay simple interest on the extra Mr 
N paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mr N wouldve owed 
MBNA something on his credit card.  The interest rate should be 8% a year.
H.MBNA should tell Mr N what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires MBNA to take off tax from this interest. MBNA must give Mr N a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im intending  to uphold Mr Ns complaint in full and direct MBNA to pay 
him all the compensation as Ive outlined  above.
I now invite  all parties to submit any further evidence or comments  they wish me to consider by 5 April 
2019 after which I will issue a final decision.
Ref: DRN0483809