K820x#14complaint
Mr A says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance  (PPI) 
policy. 
background
Mr A bought the policy in 2003  at the same time as taking out a credit  card by post.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr A disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr As case.
While I know this will disappoint Mr A, I dont think this PPI policy  was mis-sold   Ill explain 
my reasoning.
Mr A said he didnt  know hed been  sold PPI. He also said he did take out PPI, but only 
because he thought it would help him get a loan or a better rate, and that he was pressured 
into buying it. Ive looked at whats most likely to have happened.
Mr A applied for his credit card by post.  There was a section for PPI. It gave some brief 
details about what PPI was for and what it cost, and then had two tick boxes to choose from: 
one to buy PPI and one to turn it down.  Both boxes were equally prominent and neither one 
appears to have been pre-ticked. Mr A chose the box to buy PPI and signed the application.  
The application was done by post and Mr A didnt  speak  to anyone at Capital One,  so I dont 
think its likely that anyone  pressured him into buying PPI. I think that Capital One made 
Mr A aware he had a choice about  buying  the PPI, and that he chose to take it at the time.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mr A, so they didnt have to check if it was right for 
him. They did have  to give Mr A enough  information to decide  if the PPI was right for him.
Its possible that the information Capital  One gave Mr A about PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  The question, then,  is whether  I think better information was likely to have 
changed his mind. Here, Mr A chose to take out the policy - so it looks  like he wanted this 
type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time it doesnt look like he 
was affected by any of the policys main exclusions or limitations.  And he doesnt seem to 
have had any other cover in case he was off sick or lost his job. So the policy could have  
really been useful for Mr A in case something  went wrong. And so I dont think better 
information about the PPI was likely to have put him off taking out the cover.
Ref: DRN08271002my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0827100