K821x#15complaint
Ms B has complained about  U K Insurance Limited.  She isnt happy about the way it dealt 
with a claim under her car insurance  policy.
background
Ms B was involved in a car accident  in 2015 and she made  a claim under her car insurance  
policy. UKI looked into things for her and settled  the claim 50/50.  Ms Bs car was a write off. 
But she chose to keep  the salvage at that point  in time and UKI sent her a cheque  for the 
total loss value of her car.
Ms B went onto make a claim for her uninsured losses through her legal representative and 
solicitor. She wasnt happy about the way this was handled (and she has been  directed to 
the Legal Ombudsman if she remains unhappy about that) but eventually her claim was won 
at court.  
But she held UKI responsible for storage costs and the loss of use of her vehicle amongst 
other things  and she complained to this service.  Our investigator looked into things for her 
and partly upheld  her complaint. She asked UKI to look into changing liability to non-fault  as 
Ms B won at court and for it to pay £500  in acknowledgement of some of the delays and 
poor service given to Ms B.
Both sides didnt agree  with the outcome. Although UKI agreed to look into changing the way 
the claim was settled to non-fault it thought that £250 compensation, as opposed to £500 
was fair. This was because it thought Ms B was responsible for some  of the delay and 
looking to keep her car stored when it had offered to help her and to remove  the car. While 
Ms B said that she wasnt given the correct valuation initially; that the salvage had to be 
retained for her ongoing court case and that she should be paid storage costs  for this; and 
that she should be awarded  a loss of use payment for the time she has been unable  to buy a 
new car as she didnt have settlement. So the matter has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I think the complaint 
should be partly upheld. Ill explain why.
The details of this complaint are well known  to both parties, so I wont repeat  them  again 
here. But Ill focus on a few key issues and the main reasons for my decision.
I know the accident and the drawn-out  nature of dealing with the claim and complaint has 
affected Ms B and I have a lot of sympathy for the position she has found herself in. But I 
have to be fair to both sides  and a lot of Ms Bs difficulties  have  been  because of the 
accident, the claim and court proceedings in relation to her uninsured  losses  as opposed to 
just UKIs delay or lack of action.  I know  Ms B feels  that UKI should be held responsible  for 
the actions of her legal representative but, as our investigator explained,  they were  
appointed separately, and Ms B had a direct agreement with them.
Ms Bs car insurance claim was advanced  in 2015 and UKI settled the claim within  a 
reasonable timeframe. It deducted  Ms Bs excess and the salvage  amount, as Ms B wanted 
to retain  her car, from the amount it paid her which in effect was the end of its involvement 
Ref: DRN05155162with Ms Bs claim. I know Ms B says she didnt receive the cheque  and that it wasnt  for the 
right amount, but she couldve  chased this with UKI if she didnt receive it or cashed the 
cheque and asked  for the shortfall (which  was less than £200). And this service expects 
consumers to mitigate their position,  so I wouldve expected Ms B to get the settlement from 
UKI and purchase  a new car so that she was mobile. It wouldnt be fair to hold UKI 
responsible for Ms Bs choosing not to buy a new car and mitigating her losses,  especially as 
the value of her car was under £1000. 
However, I can see Ms B made UKI aware  that she hadnt cashed the cheque in early 2016 
and she looked  for clarification about what to do about the salvage  (her car) that she had 
kept on her path. And while  it left messages for Ms B around  this time asking what she 
wanted to happen in relation to the salvage, I agree  with our investigator it couldve done  a 
little more here. UKI couldve written out and emailed explaining it was happy to collect  her 
car if she wished, at that stage. But I agree the £500 compensation suggested by the 
investigator covers the inconvenience caused and any loss of use that she would be entitled 
to which  would be limited  for the reasons Ive explained above.
 
Turning to the storage costs Ms B would like as she stored the car on her path. I dont think 
UKI can be held responsible for this. I say this as Ms B chose to keep  the salvage (her car). 
She says this was on the advice of her solicitor in order to support her personal injury claim. 
While I havent seen  any evidence of this I can see that UKI told Ms B that this wasnt  
necessary. And I dont  think I can hold it responsible for the choice Ms B made, whether she 
was advised to or not, especially when Ms B didnt incur any costs although I accept it 
mustve been inconvenient  for her. 
Ms B seems to be under the impression that UKI shouldve kept her car in storage while  her 
uninsured losses  and personal  injury claim was ongoing. But that isnt how motor insurance 
works and her car insurance provider  wasnt  involved in her personal injury  claim, just her 
motor insurance claim. And once UKI paid Ms B the market  value  of her car and settled 
liability back  in 2015 that was the end of her claim.  I wouldnt  expect it to keep  her car in 
storage once the car was deemed a write off as this would cost a lot in storage charges. 
Ms B was entitled  to keep the storage, which she chose  to do following  advice  from her legal 
representative in relation  to her personal injury and uninsured losses claim, but that wasnt a 
matter for UKI. And I note UKI paid for the collection  of the salvage  when Ms B decided that 
she didnt want the car. So I think it has acted fairly here.
Finally, in relation  to other  costs  Ms B incurred in advancing her uninsured  losses  and 
personal injury claim I dont think UKI is responsible for these. As our investigator  explained 
UKI wasnt responsible  for advancing  this claim so I cant  hold it responsible for these.
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons outlined above, that I partly uphold  this complaint. I require U K 
Insurance Limited to pay Ms B £500  compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 October  2020.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0515516