K822xcomplaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1996 
alongside a mortgage. Mr O says Lloyds Bank PLC, Lloyds TSB Scotland at the time, mis-
sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Os case.
Mr O and his representative provided a lot of detail in support of this complaint. So I dont 
doubt the strength of feeling.  Ive read and considered everything theyve said.  However, it 
may be helpful to explain  that the purpose of my decision isnt to address every point thats 
been made  its only to provide my conclusions and reasons  for them.  So while  Id like to 
reassure Mr O and his representative that Ive thought carefully about everything, my final 
findings will be expressed in considerably  less detail.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold, and Ill explain  why.
Mr O says he didnt know the PPI was optional. Ive considered what Mr O has said, 
however, based  on the evidence Ive seen, I think  its likely he chose to take out the policy   
knowing it was something he didnt have to have.  I say this because Ive seen a copy of his 
mortgage application form where the PPI section was completed.  The copy  available  isnt 
very clear, but it looks like the first part of this section  included two options  for the PPI  one 
of the boxes was ticked. Lloyds says this was a yes and no option  to accept or decline the 
policy, and I think thats likely to be correct. Under this it appears there was a question about 
his eligibility for the PPI  and although  I cant see what this question  is exactly - I can see it 
was completed.  There was also a box below which appeared  to ask the benefit split required 
and, as the mortgage was taken out in Mr Os name  only,  was completed with 100% for 
Mr O.
Although the application  form is not clear  and the signature page is not available, the PPI 
was added to Mr Os account so I think its more likely  than not that he ticked yes to PPI and 
ticked to show he was eligible for the cover. I also think its likely he signed  the application  
form, as after this a mortgage offer was sent out. In addition, the mortgage offer included 
information about the PPI  setting out the monthly premium, the party insured and that the 
policy benefit only covered Mr O. So I think if Mr O hadnt agreed to the policy he wouldve 
questioned this with Lloyds at the time. 
Mr O says he felt pressured into taking out the PPI. But he hasnt said what happened  to 
make him feel pressured, and I havent  seen any other evidence to support this. So I cant 
fairly and reasonably conclude that its more  likely  than not that Mr O was pressured into 
taking out the policy.  
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr O so it had to check  the PPI was right for him  and 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time,  I think that it was. I say this 
because from the evidence Ive seen it doesnt look like he wouldve been  affected by any of 
the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  and he seems to have had a need  for the cover.
Ref: DRN02275762Mr O says he was entitled  to sick pay and had some  savings at the time which he couldve 
used to make his PPI payments if he was off sick from work or made redundant. But Mr O 
was borrowing funds  secured against  his home so I think  this wouldve been his most 
significant financial commitment. The PPI couldve covered his mortgage  repayments for up 
to 12 months. So I think having the policy in place wouldve  provided  him some additional 
security and freed up his sick pay and savings to use for other expenses.   And having seen 
a copy of a financial  review of his circumstances at the time, I can see that Mr O didnt have 
much money left after deducting  his monthly expenses,  so I think he wouldve struggled to 
make his mortgage repayments if he was off work long term. So I think  he couldve found the 
policy useful. 
Ive considered what Mr O says about  an attempted claim  on the policy  being  rejected. Mr O 
says that this shows Lloyds sold him a policy which was unsuitable for him. Its not clear  
from the evidence  provided what this claim  was for or why it wasnt successful. But, in any 
event, for the reasons  Ive already  outlined  above I think the PPI was suitable for Mr O at the 
time. And so this doesnt  change  my decision on what happened when the policy was sold to 
him in 1996.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr O about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But the evidence suggests he chose to take it out - so I think he wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful  for him if something went wrong.  So I 
dont think better information  about  the PPI would have  put him off taking out the cover. 
This means  Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr O. But Lloyds will 
pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr O because : 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr O about that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Mr O, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
Lloyds has to pay back to Mr O any commission and profit  share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. Lloyds should  also pay back to Mr O any extra  interest he paid 
because of that.
Lloyds should  pay back to Mr O the extra he paid each month  because  the commission and 
profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Lloyds should  also pay Mr O 8%* 
simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr O can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr O.
Ref: DRN02275763But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr O any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 February  2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0227576