K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain,  with the help of their representative Mrs H, that they were  mis-sold 
Critical Illness Cover  (CIC) by Legal and General Assurance Society Limited because it 
hasnt provided  the cover  they were told it would.
background
In 1994 Mr and Mrs W took out a unit-linked  endowment policy with optional CIC to protect  
their mortgage. They  say they were told that the policy would protect them  against death  and 
all illnesses  and disabilities with no exceptions.
In 2016 Mr W started to have leg and lower back pain which  steadily worsened  so that he 
had to retire in July 2018 with Mrs W also retiring to help care for him. He was diagnosed 
with spinal canal  stenosis in the lower back and underwent an operation in February 2019.
Mr W claimed on the policy  but his claim was unsuccessful  because his illness didnt satisfy 
the definition of Permanent  Total  Disability (PTD). He and Mrs W complained to L& G on 
the basis that they were not made aware of the exclusions  on the CIC and were  told the plan 
would cover them for any disability that prevented either of them  working.
L & G didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had previously dealt with a complaint by 
Mr and Mrs W about the sale of the policy and paid redress in 2006 so it would only address 
the issue about the CIC not covering Mr W for his current illness.  
It set out what the definition of PTD was within the policy booklet  and the fact that this stated  
it would  provide cover before the age of 60. It said Mr and Mrs W were  made  aware of the 
conditions and that Mr W was over 60. It also said that even if he wasnt  too old the illness 
he currently suffered from didnt meet the criteria for PTD.
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld. She 
said the policy was suitable for their needs at the time they took it out. She said that the 
exclusions and limitations of the policy were  normal within the industry and didnt think 
Mr and Mrs W would have found cover  elsewhere  that didnt have such limitations.
Mr and Mrs W didnt  agree  with the investigator. Mrs H made the following points on their 
behalf:
Mr and Mrs W had very little knowledge and awareness of insurance  policies.
They believed they were getting  the best and maximum  cover to protect themselves 
and their children,  covering all eventualities.
They dont know if they wouldve  made  different choices if they had known of the 
exclusions and limitations of the policy.
They became  more aware  of life policies when they were affected  by the failings in 
endowment plans.
They compared premiums with relatives  and found theirs  were significantly higher but 
didnt change to a new provider because they thought they had the best cover.
If they were aware they didnt need  the critical illness cover they wouldve switched to 
another provider  paying  lower premiums.
The investigator responded to the points  raised  but didnt change her opinion. Mrs H asked 
that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman
Ref: DRN02434332my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I sympathise with the position Mr and Mrs W are currently in, with Mr W being unable  to work 
because of his back problems and Mrs W caring  for him. But that cant influence my decision 
on their complaint. What  I have to do is decide  if L & G has done  anything wrong based on 
the evidence that I have  been given by the parties.  And my findings are made on a balance  
of probabilities  what is more likely  than not.
Mr and Mrs Ws complaint  is that they were  misled about the cover provided  by the policy  
because they were told at the time the policy was sold to them  that it covered all illnesses 
and disabilities. 
There were limitations to the CIC cover, so if they were told they were covered for every  
illness and disability this would have been deliberately  misleading.  I have  no reason to think  
Mr and Mrs W havent said what they believe to be true. But given they are recalling what 
happened nearly 25 years ago it is unlikely their memory of what they were told is accurate 
or complete and this isnt persuasive evidence that they were misled.
The documents I have seen,  such as the policy booklet, made it clear that there were 
limitations to the cover.  The booklet refers to the wide range of illnesses that were  covered 
by the policy  and then sets out a list of illnesses covered. I think the reference  to a wide 
range of illnesses  and the fact a list was provided  shows that not all illnesses were  covered. 
There is nothing to indicate that the back problems that Mr W has suffered from are covered 
by the policy.  But one of the conditions listed is PTD. This is not defined within the policy  
booklet itself but L & G have provided the following definition:
(a) a mental  or physical irreversible  disability to the extent  that she he/she cannot maintain 
a basic independent existence without  the continual supervision and frequent attention of a 
third party, or
(b) if the life assured by reason of sickness or accident is totally unable  to follow nay 
occupation and in the opinion of Legal & General is likely to remain  so permanently.
L & G has said that Mr Ws back problems dont satisfy the definition of PTD but more  
importantly the policy booklet makes clear  that for a claim to be made the PTD has to be 
before the person claiming  is 60 years old. Given Mr W turned 60 before he started having 
back problems he isnt eligible to claim on the basis he has PTD.
I am satisfied that the documents Mr and Mrs W will have seen were  misleading about the 
cover provided and didnt  suggest the policy covered all illnesses. I also think  it was made 
clear that there were limitations to the cover, such as the age restriction for a claim based on 
PTD.
Even if I accepted that Mr and Mrs W werent  aware of the limitations of the CIC Im not 
satisfied they wouldnt  have chosen to have the cover if they had been made aware  of these. 
The CIC was a suitable recommendation in their circumstances  married with dependent 
children  and provided valuable  cover  for their mortgage if one of them did have one of the 
Ref: DRN02434333critical illnesses covered by the policy. And I think it is more likely than not they wouldve 
wanted both life and CIC even if there were limitations to the cover.
I accept it is possible they may have  gone elsewhere to find cover. But the limitations are not 
unusual in any way and other  providers  wouldve had similar limitations in cover. They  would 
not have been able to get a CIC policy  that provided  cover for all illnesses and disabilities. 
They might have been able to get a policy that provided cover for the specific illness  Mr W 
suffers from now. But they wouldve had no reason to look for such  cover  when they took the 
policy out in 1994 so I can see no reason they wouldve done this. 
It is also possible they couldve  found  a policy with lower premiums.  But there is no reason to 
think they wouldve  looked around for a different provider given other providers wouldve had 
similar limitations. And no way of knowing if they wouldve got a policy with lower  premiums 
anyway.
I appreciate that my decision will be very disappointing for Mr and Mrs W given Mr Ws 
ongoing back problems.  But I am unable to uphold their complaint  based on the evidence 
that I have  seen. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 October  2019.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0243433