K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs G are unhappy with the way Ageas  Insurance  Limited handled a claim on their 
home insurance policy.
background 
Mr and Mrs G contacted  Ageas after a faulty  washing machine caused a leak in their 
kitchen. They were  asked  to email some  photographs and find a local tradesman  to look at 
the problem. Mr and Mrs G were  having  some  difficulty. And they found the situation very 
distressing. So they asked  Ageas to send someone to have a look. They  wanted  some 
support through the process.
Mr and Mrs G said Ageas sent a drying  specialist who confirmed a kitchen door needed 
replacing. And they recommended  removing  some floor tiles to help dry the area. But the 
flooring was continuous. There werent  any natural breaks in the doorways. And Mr and 
Mrs G didnt watch a non-matching floor or door in their fitted kitchen. So they want  Ageas to 
reconsider its decision and contribute more towards  the replacement  costs.
Ageas was sorry for any distress caused.  But the policy didnt  cover  for matching items. So it 
wouldnt pay to replace any undamaged items  or contribute towards the cost of doing so. 
Unfortunately the kitchen  had been  discontinued.  But Ageas said it would try to get floor tiles 
that matched  if possible. Ageas said itd received a quotation from Mr and Mrs G to replace 
the floor tiles. But due to the cost it appointed its own contractors to quote for the work.  Its 
contractors suggested  a total settlement of just over £4000. This included replacing the tiled 
flooring in the kitchen, two water damaged kitchen units and plinth and decoration work. But 
a new kitchen had now been fitted. And it was unable  to find any additional damage. So 
Ageas wouldnt  consider  any further  contribution to the replacement  kitchen.
Mr and Mrs G werent satisfied with Ageas response. So theyve contacted our service and 
our investigator looked into the matter. She could see they were  unhappy  with the settlement  
offered. The kitchen had been  discontinued  and they were  unable to get matching units and 
floor tiles. Ageas said the policy didnt cover for matching items. But our investigator didnt 
feel it was fair to rely on that clause. Mr and Mrs G had a continuous floor before the 
damage. And they wouldnt be put back in the same  position theyd been  in before the leak. 
Our investigator felt Ageas should contribute 50% towards the replacement of the flooring in 
the hall way, bathroom and kitchen  for the loss of match. But she didnt think it would be fair 
for Ageas to contribute towards the replacement of the kitchen. At the time of its inspection  
only two units were  damaged. And Mr and Mrs G had now fitted  new kitchen units.  So she 
had no other  information  to see if there  was any additional damage caused by the leak. 
Ageas accepted our investigators  decision.  And it raised an additional payment of over £800 
to Mr and Mrs G. 
Mr and Mrs G didnt agree. So theyve asked for an ombudsmans final decision. They feel 
poorly treated  by Ageas.  They had to fight for the drying equipment to be used. So theyd 
like Ageas to replace  the kitchen units on the right side because there was mould growing 
behind and they say they couldnt be reused. And theyd  also like them to pay 50% towards 
the units on the left side because of the loss of match.
Ref: DRN04825752my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Unfortunately in any claim involving damage  from an escape  of water there is often a large 
degree of stress and inconvenience. I can see how upsetting Mr and Mrs G have found this 
matter. So Ive looked very carefully  at everything thats happened to see if Ageas needs to 
do anything more to put things right.
When Mr and Mrs G reported the leak Ageas suggested they send some photos and a quote  
for repairs from a local supplier. But Mr and Mrs G werent really sure what  to do. They just 
wanted Ageas to get the area dried  out before any more of the kitchen was damaged.  I know 
Mr and Mrs G feel they had to push for Ageas  to organise the drying specialist. But I dont 
think it was unreasonable for Ageas to suggest  they contact a local tradesman to assess  the 
damage. That can often be quicker  than Ageas appointing its own agent. And sometimes  the 
problem can be sorted out sooner. 
But it wasnt  unreasonable for Mr and Mrs G to ask their insurer to step in and help. I can 
see they contacted Ageas  three days after reporting the claim to express their concerns. And 
Ageas arranged for the drying specialist who arrived two days later. So while I appreciate  
how worrying it mustve been  for Mr and Mrs G I think  Ageas  responded  to their concerns. 
And it did so in a reasonable  period of time.
Mr and Mrs G gave Ageas a quote  to repair the damage. But Ageas decided  to send their 
own assessor. And I dont  think that was unreasonable. Insurers may have  their own 
specialists who can complete the work at a lower cost. But Ageas only wanted to replace the 
damaged units and kitchen flooring. Section 13 of Mr and Mrs Gs home insurance policy 
matching of items says Ageas wont pay for the costs of replacing any undamaged  or 
unbroken item or parts of items forming part of a set if it isnt possible to match 
replacements.
Our investigator didnt  think that was fair to Mr and Mrs G. The policy didnt cover 
undamaged matching items. But she could see the flooring extended  from the kitchen 
throughout the hallway. And it wasnt possible to get matching tiles. So if Ageas only 
replaced the kitchen  flooring it wouldnt be putting Mr and Mrs G back  in the same  position 
theyd been in before the leak. I can see Ageas has now agreed to pay half of the cost of 
replacing the flooring in the hallway and closet area in addition to paying  for the replacement 
kitchen floor. And I think  thats the right outcome in the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs G would also like Ageas  to contribute towards the cost of replacing the kitchen. 
There was mould growing behind some  of the units. But theres  no evidence to suggest the 
units were damaged even  if there was mould on the wall behind. Its not unusual for mould to 
develop after a leak. The drying process can only remove a certain  amount  of moisture  while 
its taking place.
When Ageas agents visited  the property they discovered Mr and Mrs G were already  having 
a new kitchen fitted. They werent able to identify any damage  to the old units. And I dont 
think it would  be fair to ask Ageas to contribute  towards replacing  more of the kitchen units 
without any evidence to suggest they were damaged as a result of the leak.  
Ref: DRN04825753Mr and Mrs G say they had a pleasant well-maintained  home before the water escaped. And 
theyve found  the process  very distressing. They explained this to Ageas. But they feel 
Ageas just wanted to make a cash settlement to complete the claim  as quickly as possible. I 
can see Ageas has apologised for any upset caused  and said that certainly  wasnt its 
intention. Although not everything went as smoothly as Mr and Mrs G wouldve hoped  I dont 
think Ageas  dealt with the claim unfairly  or unreasonably. They  responded quickly to the 
request for a drying specialist. And they tried to keep them updated as the claim progressed.
I know Mr and Mrs G will be disappointed  with this decision. But I think the cash settlement 
offered by Ageas, including the additional  payment of just over £800 towards the matching 
tiles, is reasonable  for the damage  caused by the leak.  But it wouldnt be fair to ask Ageas to 
make any further contribution towards the cost of replacing the kitchen units. So I wont be 
asking Ageas to do anything  more. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Ageas Insurance Limited  should contribute an additional  50% 
towards the matching tiled area as it has already agreed to do.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 August  2020.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0482575