K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs L are unhappy that China Taiping  Insurance (UK) Co Ltd wont pay their full 
home insurance claim for water damage  as it said they had underinsured their property.
background
In September  2018 Mr and Mrs L made  a claim to China Taiping after their property was 
damaged by a water  leak. They obtained  estimates for repair and after considering them 
China Taiping advised Mr and Mrs L that it accepted their lower  estimate,  for £3,900  
together with their cost for initial emergency  work of £386.40. This added up to a total of 
£4.286.40.
However China Taiping  said that Mr and Mrs L had underinsured their property. They  had 
asked for it to be insured for a rebuild value of £245,000 but the loss adjuster calculated the 
actual value at £303,868.  As the property was only insured for 80% of the value at risk, it 
proposed to pay 80% of the claim, calculated at £3,070.12, net of the policy excess of £350.
Mr and Mrs L protested that they had bought their policy through a price comparison 
website. When they were asked to give the rebuild cost of their property they said the 
website was pre-populated with the £245,000  figure. The loss adjuster  replied  that 
Mr and Mrs L had used  a basic form of the BCIS  (Building Cost Information Service)  
calculator. The loss adjuster had access to an industry version which  gave a more accurate 
valuation. They also said that a figure  for external works, garage, railings.  walls,  pavings and 
drains should be added.
Mr and Mrs L pointed out that the price comparison website didnt give any guidance that the 
external works should be included. They felt entitled  to use the figure given to them and 
werent asked for any more accurate figure.  China Taiping  sent them an interim payment of 
£3,000.
On referral to this service  our investigator  said that Mr and Mrs L werent asked a clear 
question, nor given  clear  guidance as to how to estimate their rebuild  cost.  So he said 
China Taiping should deal with the balance  of the claim, and pay Mr and Mrs L £100 
compensation.
China Taiping said that the policy holder is advised within  the quoting  screen  that the tool 
provides an average  for that post code area and that the range may be lower  or high. They  
are also provided with the range  and could have selected a sum insured higher within  the 
range. Their value  at risk calculation is within the range provided  to the Insured. In addition, 
proposers are advised  to take care to estimate the rebuild cost correctly  so that you are 
adequately covered If you made  a claim and your rebuild cost was too low, your 
provider may not settle the claim in full. The proposers are also advised  to refer to previous 
insurance documents, surveyors reports or mortgage valuation  reports for finding  their 
building value at risk.
Our investigator said it was unreasonable to ask a question that required of the consumer 
expert knowledge. In order  to assess the value they would  have  been  required to have such 
knowledge. They relied on the value  given by the website which was an average value for a 
property of their type, age, build materials and location.
Ref: DRN01456022Mr and Mrs L asked that we review the compensation  as the matter has caused them  a lot of 
emotional distress. They believe  they should  be awarded the maximum award in our 
moderate range (£500).  They further believe the £350 excess  shouldnt be deducted.
The matter  has been passed to me for further  consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would first of all observe  that China Taiping is willing to sell its policies through  the price 
comparison website. If a proposer accepts a quotation on the website they will be directed to 
the insurers/brokers own website.  There the insurer is quite entitled to ask more detailed  
questions. In this case, on being redirected to the brokers  website for China Taiping, 
Mr and Mrs L werent asked any more detailed questions about the propertys rebuild value.  
The proposal form said Full rebuilding costs of the property (please note this is not the 
market value)  and the £245,000 figure  was put in the box next to it.
So I think it reasonable to expect that Mr and Mrs L in assessing the rebuild value of their 
property would rely on the price comparison site to assess an average  value  of their property 
give its age, type,  building material and location. This came  out, Mr and Mrs L say at 
£245,000. However  the screen  shot Ive seen while setting out that figure in the box also 
says the value was estimated at £263,000. The guidance also said the cost could vary 
between £165,000 and £374,000. Whilst China Taiping has pointed  out that its estimate 
comes within  those  figures, so does  Mr and Mrs Ls estimate.
Ive noted that the loss adjuster was able to provide  an accurate valuation because  they 
measured the floor space  of the property  and had access to an industry version of the BCIS 
calculator. They also said strictly speaking  external works should be included. Of its 
valuation of £303,868, the sum of £36,430 was allowed  for the garage, railings.  walls,  
pavings and drains.  Ive looked at the comparison website  and I cant see that anywhere the 
proposer is asked  to add a figure for such external  works.
Obviously the loss adjuster is at an advantage being  an experienced valuer. But I have to 
look at what Mr and Mrs L were  asked. And at no stage  were they told they had to get a 
professional valuation. If the property had been extra-large with above  average  fittings  
and/or had extensive outbuildings Mr and Mrs L might have been expected to give a value of 
higher than the average. Or if theyd been given more detailed  guidance on China Taipings 
proposal form they might have been  expected to follow it. But I cant  see that either of those 
considerations apply. I think  if China Taiping wanted  more detail of the at risk value it could 
have asked for it.
Arguably Mr and Mrs L shouldve put a value  of £263,000 but as their valuation  seems to 
have been pre-populated on the form and is 92% of their higher valuation I dont think  it 
would be reasonable to say they were  underinsured.  They should however consider for 
future insurance whether they should increase the rebuild cost.
As I dont think Mr and Mrs L were given clear  guidance about  assessing the rebuild cost of 
their property I dont think it is fair to reduce the claim payment for underinsurance. Ive 
considered the award of compensation but I think £100 is reasonable taking into account  the 
circumstances of the case and awards weve made  in similar cases.  The excess  is payable  
Ref: DRN01456023as part of the insurance contract, if I were to tell China Taiping not to deduct  it that would be 
equivalent to awarding more compensation.  
China Taiping should therefore pay the balance  of Mr and Mrs Ls claim calculated as 
follows:
Cost of repairs including emergency repairs £4.286.40
Less excess £   350
Less already paid £3,000
Total deduction £3,350.00
Balance payable      936.40
It should add simple interest at 8% per year from the date of the claim until it pays this. It 
should further pay £100 compensation.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require China Taiping Insurance (UK) Co Ltd to:
pay Mr and Mrs L £936.40, as calculated above together  with simple interest* at 8% per 
year from the date of the claim until it pays it.
pay £100 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 July 2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
*China Taiping Insurance (UK) Co Ltd is required by HM Revenue and Customs  to deduct tax from 
any interest paid. Should Mr and Mrs L request it, China  Taiping Insurance  (UK) Co Ltd  should 
provide them with a certificate  showing how much tax has been taken off so that, if appropriate,  they 
can reclaim it.
Ref: DRN0145602