K820x#14complaint
Mrs F complains that a car she bought through a Hire Purchase  Agreement  with Specialist 
Motor Finance Limited (SMF) wasnt of satisfactory quality. And shes not happy with how 
SMF dealt with her complaint. She would like SMF to reimburse the cost of repairs,  an 
independent report  and expenses she has incurred. Also compensation for distress and 
inconvenience. 
background
Mrs F says on 28 March  2017 she took out a Hire Purchase Agreement with SMF for a six 
year old car with 68,000 miles on the clock.
She says within  two weeks a burst pipe had to be fixed. In September  2017 she had to have 
the engine replaced and so was without a car for approximately six weeks.  Then  in 
November 2017  she had further  problems  with the car. She said at that point she had a 
diagnostic test carried out on the car which confirmed the engine had been replaced.
She says in January 2018 she contacted SMF  to complain. By this time she says she also 
had had problems  with the gearbox.  She says SMF  asked her to provide evidence of faults  
developing or present  at the point  of sale. But it wouldnt accept either  a roadside recovery 
breakdown report  or diagnostic report from November 2017 as neither showed faults were 
present or developing at the point  of sale. 
Mrs F says she had a further  diagnostic  test carried out in March 2018 which identified four 
fault codes. 
Finally she says she then contacted SMF in July 2018 to say she wanted  to hand the car 
back as the power  had suddenly dipped whilst she was driving on the motorway.
SMF said it arranged  an independent report which didnt show any evidence of faults  present 
or developing at the point of sale. And it didnt feel Mrs S had provided any other  evidence  to 
show this was the case.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. She found no evidence  of any faults  present or 
developing at the point of sale from either the independent report  or from information Mrs F 
provided.
Mrs F didnt  accept this view. She said when the car first developed problems within  two 
weeks she asked to return it then and at several  other times.  But says she was told she had 
to allow  an opportunity for the car to be repaired.
She said when she had a problem with the engine in September 2017 she incurred taxi 
costs as she didnt  have use of her car. She said she would get further information from the 
engineer to confirm  the engine had been  replaced at this time. She felt this supported there 
was a problem  with the car when she bought it.
She wasnt happy that SMF didnt accept both the roadside recovery breakdown report  and 
a diagnostic report from November 2017.  She said she had already paid £200 for a report   
which SMF  said it would reimburse but hadnt.  She said she would organise another report if 
SMF paid for it
.
Ref: DRN09715332Overall she felt she had shown through the work  on the car and various reports that there 
were problem present  when she bought  the car. She asked for our adjudicator to listen  to 
phone calls as she didnt  feel the customer contact notes accurately reflected her calls.  And 
she didnt feel that SMF had dealt  with her complaint well  it hadnt, for example, phoned 
her back  when it said it would.
Our adjudicator considered these points  but didnt change her view. She said she was 
satisfied the problem with the pipe two weeks after Mrs F having  the car had been  repaired.
She explained that under consumer legislation generally if there is a fault reported within  the 
first 30 days  a consumer can reject a car. After 30 days and up to six months  generally  its 
reasonable for a repair to be offered before rejection.  After six months the onus is on the 
consumer to show that there was a problem present or developing at the point of sale.
She said if Mrs F had wanted to reject the car when she first had a problem she would have 
had to raise this with SMF  as the finance  company but she hadnt seen any evidence  that 
Mrs F had done this.
She said we wouldnt  expect a second hand  car with high mileage to be fault free. And it 
would be reasonable to expect to have to carry  out some repairs.
She said she hadnt seen any evidence to show the engine had been replaced in September  
2017. But felt as we would expect,  after 30 days  of use at least one opportunity  to repair,  if 
this had been done that this was the right course of action given the AA report  stated there  
was damage to the front of the engine.
She said the information Mrs F gave SMF from the AA and diagnostic  reports  didnt show 
evidence of faults present or developing  at the point  of sale so she didnt think SMF were 
wrong to ask for more evidence. And noted  that SMF had tried itself to get information from 
the dealer but was unable  to do so.
She noted the four fault codes Mrs F referred to in a diagnostic  carried out in March  2018. 
She agreed  with Mrs F that the issues identified didnt happen overnight but noted that by 
this time Mrs F had had the car for a year and travelled more than 7,000 miles. She didnt 
feel those faults  were linked to the problem Mrs F had two weeks  after she got the car
She explained that although Mrs F wasnt happy with the way her complaint had been 
handled that we can only consider complaints against regulated activities.  And complaint 
handling wasnt a regulated activity  
She considered, but said she had decided not to ask SMF for copies of any phone calls, as 
she didnt feel these  would evidence faults with the car which is what  further evidence she 
would need.
Finally she said she wasnt sure what  other  reports Mrs F could provide to show  faults  were  
existing or developing at the point of sale particularly as the independent report  carried out in 
January 2019  concluded  the car was fit for intended  purpose at the point of sale.
Mrs F didnt  accept this further  view and asked  for an Ombudsmans final decision.
Ref: DRN09715333my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs F has raised  the issue of how her complaint has been handled by SMF. Our adjudicator 
has explained that we can only consider complaints about regulated  activities. And complaint 
handling isnt a regulated  activity so not one we can consider.   So I wont  specifically  be 
addressing that aspect  of Mrs Fs complaint in in this view.
Mrs F has told us she has had a number of problems with her car - firstly a burst pipe within  
two weeks of getting the car. She hasnt given us specific evidence of this but given the car 
failed its  MOT on 15 April 2017 due to a fuel system leak then passed another MOT on the 
same day I am persuaded there was a problem but it was fixed. And Mrs F hasnt given us 
any evidence to show she had to pay for this repair.
The next problem  Mrs F says occurred in September 2017 when she had problems with the 
engine. She says the engine was replaced but she found out later by the wrong model.  
Unfortunately I havent found any evidence of either the engine being  replaced or being 
replaced by the wrong model. Our adjudicator attempted several times to speak to the 
mechanic Mrs F says told her the replacement engine was the wrong one but was unable  to 
do so
The only evidence Ive have  for this issue is a roadside recovery report stating damage  to 
the front of the engine.
I am unable  to evidence  if the engine was replaced or not. And if it was if the right model was 
used. Mrs F has told us the engine was replaced.  She hasnt told us she had to pay for that 
or given  us any evidence of an invoice. It seems to me if the engine needed to be replaced 
that was a reasonable course of action. And in the absence  of any information  to show the 
wrong model  was used  I cant reasonably  conclude  that this was the case.
Although Mrs F has given us a diagnostic report dated November 2017  showing three  faults 
these dont indicate issues with the engine. And it wouldnt be unreasonable that a second 
hand car with significant mileage has some issues.
Mrs F had a further diagnostic test carried out in March 2018 which identified four fault 
codes. The report also commented  that the service transmission was sluggish and lacked 
power however  this report didnt confirm any of the issues were present or developing at the 
point of sale.
I can see from SMFs c customer  notes  Mrs F contacted it to report problems with the 
gearbox in January 2018. And then again in July 2018 when Mrs F says she had a problem 
with the engine speed dropping suddenly.
By the time Mrs F had problems in 2018 with her car she had already had the car for over six 
months so the onus  was on her to show any faults were present or developing at the point of 
sale.
SMF commissioned an independent report which I have seen. That report noted a number  of 
issues. It felt the problem of a lack of power  might be due to a blocked diesel particulate  filter 
(DPF) which  needed cleaning at a cost of £85. It considered this to be a maintenance issue.
Ref: DRN09715334It didnt identify any problems with the car that could be said to be present or developing at 
the point of sale. It noted the car had passed two MOTS since Mrs F had it which, in its 
view, demonstrated  the car was road legal.
Looking at all the information I have I havent seen anything that states that any of the 
problems Mrs F had with her car were either present or developing at the point of sale. So 
on that basis I dont  feel there are any grounds on which I could reasonably  tell SMF to let 
Mrs F reject the car.
Mrs F has asked that the cost of repairs and diagnostic reports  she has commissioned be 
refunded. Im not entirely  clear what repairs Mrs F has paid for. Im conscious Mrs F bought  
a second hand car with 68,000 miles on the clock.  Unfortunately some  repairs can be 
expected with second hand cars. I could only reasonably expect SMF  to cover these repairs, 
and any associated diagnostic reports, if they related to faults present or developing at the 
point of sale. But as I havent found any evidence of this I dont think I can reasonably  ask 
SMF to cover any costs  Mrs F could  evidence.
Mrs F has also asked  for other costs to be considered such  as taxi costs  whilst she was 
without her car. She hasnt evidenced how long she was without her car or any actual costs 
incurred. But even  if she were to do so I dont think its fair to expect SMF to cover  these for 
the same  reason that I dont  feel it fair to expect  SMF to cover the cost of any repairs.
Finally Mrs F has asked  for compensation for distress and inconvenience. I dont doubt that 
having issues with a car would be stressful. And there would be some  convenience whilst 
issues were being  looked into and dealt  with .But I think that has to be expected with an 
vehicle more so with a second  hand one. As I havent found any evidence that SMF has 
done anything  wrong I dont  feel I can reasonably expect it to compensate Mrs F
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 January 2020.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0971533