K820x#14complaint
Mrs M isnt happy with the service shes received from BUPA insurance Limited following a 
claim she made on a private medical  insurance  policy. 
background
Mrs M was a beneficiary of her employers private  medical insurance  policy. In December  
2018 she stopped working for them and her benefits  under that policy came to an end in 
January 2019.  The crux of Mrs Ms complaint is that she wasnt told that she was no longer 
in the scheme.  
During early 2019 she was in contact with BUPA on a number of occasions and had 
treatment authorised. Mrs M says that this was a worrying time because she was not feeling 
well and was worried she had cancer, as shed had it before. 
In a call in March  2019 BUPA realised the policy had lapsed  and the treatment shouldnt  
have been authorised. So they wrote to Mrs M to say that the policy was coming to an end. 
In the meantime Mrs M called to check about  cover and was reassured that everything was 
fine. 
A few days  afterwards Mrs M was told that she wasnt actually covered as the policy had 
ended shortly after shed  left her job. Mrs M took out a new policy with BUPA and they 
backdated it so that she had continuous cover. At this point Mrs M had more  appointments 
planned. 
In their final response letter BUPA acknowledged what  had gone  wrong.  They agreed to pay 
for the costs of the authorised treatment and ensure  the payments didnt come out of 
Mrs Ms allowance on her personal policy, so that she had the maximum level of benefit 
available. They offered a further £50 in addition to the steps theyd already taken. 
Mrs M didnt  think  this was fair because  she said shed had to take out a new policy  so she 
wanted the premiums  back. She says she only took out a new policy  because she wasnt  
sure if BUPA  would honour the payments  made and her upcoming appointments.  
Our investigator looked into what happened and didnt uphold the complaint. She thought  
that BUPA had acted fairly when they realised  the error and had done  enough  to put things  
right. She didnt  think BUPA  had forced  Mrs M to take out another  policy  and theyd tried to 
give her a range of options. Mrs M didnt  agree  because she still didnt think it was fair shed 
had to take out a new policy, which she says forced her into debt. So I need  to make a 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mrs Ms complaint because I think BUPA  has done enough to put things 
right: 
Ref: DRN01057442Mrs Ms employer  was the group policyholder. So BUPA  relied on the policyholder to 
give accurate information about the members  of the scheme and communicate 
information to them. So it wasnt  for BUPA to explain the implications of Mrs M 
leaving her employer  on her cover under their private medical  insurance  policy   
BUPA werent told that Mrs M had left her former employer until the middle of 
February. But they authorised treatment after they were told that and also offered 
Mrs M reassurance about her level of cover  at a time when  they ought reasonably to 
have been aware the policy had lapsed
BUPA has apologised and taken steps  to ensure Mrs M didnt lose out  by paying  
£50 compensation  for the trouble caused, covering the cost of the pre-authorised 
treatment, offering her continuous cover and giving her the full policy  benefit for the 
policy year. I think thats reasonable  and is enough to make  up for what  went  wrong 
here 
I appreciate that Mrs M had a lot going  on and was worried  about her health. But 
when she asked  for the relevant  pre-authorisations shed not been working for her 
former employer for about two months.  And she didnt mention this to BUPA in the 
calls about the policy. I find that surprising given  the circumstances as I dont think  
she could reasonably expect to be covered by the scheme when she was no longer 
working for the company and hadnt done for some  time 
I dont think that she was forced into taking out a new policy  and I dont think  it is fair 
for the premiums to be refunded for the time that she took out a policy  in her own 
name. I think  BUPA were trying to find her options to put things right.  At the point that 
she was sold the new policy  the complaints process was ongoing and BUPA  were  
considering how best to put things right. And Mrs M hadnt completed all of her 
appointments. So, at that point in time, there was still a significant  benefit to her 
keeping continuous  cover in place, particularly  given her medical history. So this 
point doesnt change my thoughts  about  the outcome of the complaint. 
my final decision
Im not upholding Mrs Ms complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, 
Im required  to ask Mrs M to accept or reject my decision before 13 February 2020.
Anna Wilshaw 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0105744