K820x#14complaint
Mrs Ks complaint is that HSBC UK Bank  Plc has treated her unfairly by asking her to repay  
her overdraft.
background
At the relevant time Mrs K had a Premier  account  with HSBC which had an overdraft facility  
of £15,000. To be eligible for the Premier account, Mrs K needed to have an income  of at 
least £100,000  per annum and have a mortgage  or investment account with HSBC.
HSBC had monitored the overdraft for some  time,  because it had been at, or close to, its 
limit. In September  2017  HSBC told Mrs K it was withdrawing the facility. She complained 
and HSBC issued  a final response  letter on 28 October 2017.  HSBC agreed to renew  the 
facility until April 2018. 
In May 2018  Mrs K contacted HSBC and raised a number of issues, primarily relating to the 
banks refusal to offer her a new mortgage after her existing mortgage had reached the end 
of its term. Eventually,  a friend agreed to lend Mrs K the money to pay off her £35,000 
mortgage. Mrs K then wanted a new mortgage  of £15,000 to repay the overdraft. HSBC  
wouldnt give Mrs K a new mortgage.  Thats the subject of a separate complaint upon which 
Ive also written a final decision.
On 31 August 2018 £36,000 was paid into the account, and £35,000  was immediately paid 
out to redeem Mrs Ks mortgage.  Because she no longer held a mortgage account with 
HSBC, Mrs K was also no longer eligible for a Premier  account.  When HSBC  reviewed  the 
account in September 2018,  it converted the account to a basic  account. HSBC  also 
cancelled the overdraft and asked Mrs K to contact the bank  about  making  arrangements to 
repay it.
Mrs K complained to HSBC that it had treated her unfairly. HSBC didnt agree and so Mrs K 
brought her complaint  to us where  it was considered  by an investigator.
He looked at everything Mrs K and HSBC had said but wasnt able to uphold  the complaint. 
He thought HSBC had acted fairly  and in line with its account  terms and conditions. Mrs K 
didnt agree with his findings and asked for an ombudsman to review  the complaint. Mrs K is 
very unhappy that, after being a customer of HSBC for over 50 years, the bank is unwilling to 
recognise her loyalty. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The starting point  here is that an overdraft is intended to be a short-term measure to assist a 
customer who is having temporary cashflow issues. Its not intended to be either a long-term 
loan facility, or to be used  as an income stream.  It is repayable in full, on demand.  
Against this background, and reviewing  Mrs Ks bank statements going back a number of 
years, I understand why HSBC had concerns about  Mrs Ks use of the overdraft. Insufficient 
credits were  being made into the account to make any inroads at all into reducing  the 
Ref: DRN01001052overdraft. I also note that Mrs K didnt  co-operate with HSBCs  requests for details of her 
income and expenditure in order for the bank to assess what assistance it could offer Mrs K.
Matters appear to have  come to a head after HSBC refused to agree to give Mrs K a 
£15,000 mortgage so she could clear  her overdraft. This has now left Mrs K needing to find a 
way to repay this debt.  And its apparent from what shes said that Mrs K doesnt have the 
resources to do this.
HSBC is required to treat customers in financial  difficulty positively and sympathetically and 
to consider fairly any proposals made by the customer. But HSBC  can only do this if Mrs K is 
fully co-operative and gives HSBC all the information it needs about her financial situation so 
that it can make a fair assessment of her repayment proposals. 
In this regard, I note that in May 2019 Mrs K told HSBC that she was behind  with priority bills 
because she had had to pay off her mortgage.  Yet Mrs K also told HSBC that her friend was 
giving her £35,000 to pay off the mortgage with no expectation of repayment,  as Mrs K had 
herself given financial  support  to her friend some years ago. The mortgage had been  paid off 
in early September 2018, so there was no reason why, by May 2019,  Mrs K could not have 
made inroads into repaying her overdraft over the intervening  months, given that she no 
longer had any mortgage payments to make.
So I feel I must emphasise to Mrs K the importance  of providing HSBC  with full and frank 
disclosure of her circumstances, so that it can decide what  help is available for her.
After the mortgage  was repaid Mrs K no longer met the criteria to hold a Premier account. In 
the circumstances, Im satisfied HSBC  was entitled  to transfer  Mrs K onto a basic  account, 
which came  without an overdraft facility.
I appreciate Mrs K has had significant health  issues and that these events have been very 
stressful for her. But in all the circumstances, I dont think HSBC  has treated her unfairly.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 November 2019.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0100105