K820x#14complaint
Miss C complains that a car she financed through an agreement with Close  Brothers Limited 
(Close Brothers) was not of satisfactory  quality.
background
Miss C took receipt of a used car in March 2018. She financed the deal through a conditional  
sale agreement with Close Brothers.  The car had completed 114,723 miles at the point of 
supply and was about eight years  old.
She says there were problems with the car from the beginning. Within  the first week the 
battery needed replacing and an engine service light came  on. The garage told her they 
were unable to turn the light off but that there  was nothing wrong with the engine.
After seven months Miss C noticed an oil leak and she says a garage  identified a faulty 
pressure switch which was replaced.  But the problem  persisted and the car needed roadside 
recovery. Miss C has subsequently been  informed  that the fuel injectors will need replacing. 
So she complained to Close Brothers.  She said it was clear shed been supplied  with a faulty  
car and she wanted  them  to fix it or allow her to give the vehicle back  and cancel the finance  
agreement.
Close Brothers didnt  agree. They  said that, as the problem had occurred more than six 
months after Miss C took receipt of the car, they would need  independent  evidence  from an 
engineer to demonstrate the fault was there at inception  when they were responsible for 
the cars  condition. 
So Miss C referred her complaint to this service and our investigator provided her opinion. 
She didnt  think there was sufficient evidence to suggest the problem Miss C complained  of 
was there  from the beginning. She explained  that given the cars age and mileage it could be 
expected to suffer from some problems and she didnt think  a problem of this kind was a 
reason to expect  Close Brothers to take any action.
But Miss C disagreed. She said the oil leak was still present and that the car had issues  from 
the beginning and she asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I agree with the 
investigators opinion.  I know that will disappoint  Miss C so please let me explain.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ref: DRN08199892Miss C acquired her car under a conditional sale agreement. The relevant law says that the 
car should have  been of satisfactory  quality when supplied. If it wasnt  then Close Brothers  
are responsible. I take account of relevant law when deciding  what  is fair and reasonable. 
On this basis if I thought  the car was faulty when supplied, Id think it fair and reasonable to 
ask Close  Brothers to put this right. 
But Close Brothers  responsibility for the car is not unlimited. Whilst they are responsible for 
its condition at the point of supply  they are not responsible for faults that develop afterwards.
And after seven  months  of ownership  I think its reasonable to expect Miss C to provide 
evidence that the fault she now complains of was there from the start or developing at this 
point.
Im not persuaded there is evidence to demonstrate this. Ive read that the engine service 
light had been  on for a time but I dont think that was evidence  of a fault. Miss C has 
explained that the garage said the engine was fine but that they didnt have the technology 
to turn the light off. Ive not been provided with evidence that their report was wrong or that 
the subsequent faulty pressure switch or fuel injectors were  symptomatic of an earlier engine 
problem.
So Im afraid  theres insufficient evidence here to suggest that the current  problems were 
there from the start.
The car wasnt new when  Miss C took receipt of it. Itd completed quite a high mileage and 
was eight years old. When I consider whether  a car was of satisfactory quality I consider the 
age and mileage  and here Id expect the car to have  some problems and to develop  
problems earlier than a new comparable vehicle. Thats because components may start to 
reach the end of their useful life and would be subject to more wear  and tear. 
Having considered the types of problem Miss C refers to I think  theyre examples of 
problems that could be expected on a car of this age and mileage and Im not persuaded 
they suggest the car wasnt suitably durable  or of unsatisfactory quality.
So I dont  think it would  be fair to ask Close Brothers  to take any additional action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 July 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0819989