K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W say Capital One Homeowner Loans (COHL) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs W bought the policy when they took out a loan in 2007.  The policy covered Mr W 
for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint  as they didnt feel COHL had made the costs of the 
policy clear.  COHL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, and provided some further 
evidence about  what information was given  to Mr and Mrs W when they took out the policy, 
so the complaint was passed to me.
In my provisional decision of 24 March  2019 I explained why I wasnt minded to uphold  this 
complaint. In response to that provisional decision neither CPHL nor Mr and Mrs W had any 
further comments to add.
my findings
Ive once again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ws case.
In my provisional decision I explained  the following:
I think COHL made Mr and Mrs W aware that they had a choice about buying the PPI, 
and that they chose  to take it out. The loan agreement Mr and Mrs W signed referred to 
the PPI as optional.  It also asked them  to tick a box and sign  separately to their 
signatures for the loan itself  to confirm they wanted  to take out the PPI. Mr and Mrs W 
selected to take the PPI, and I think it would  have  been  clear that they could choose not 
to take it if they didnt  want it.
COHL recommended the PPI to Mr W  as the sole policy  holder  and it seems to have 
been right for him based on what  Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. Mr W has 
told us he had some sick pay, but that he didnt  have any other  means of keeping  up 
repayments if he had been too ill to work or had lost his job. And Mrs W wasnt working 
at the time. So if something had gone wrong, then I think  the PPI could have provided Mr 
and Mrs W with a useful  benefit. 
The monthly cost of the policy was shown in the demands and needs statement that was 
sent to Mr and Mrs W before they signed to agree to take out the policy. So I think  Mr 
and Mrs W wouldve  understood how much they would  need to pay for it. 
Its possible COHL didnt point  out the main things the policy  didnt cover. But Mr W  as 
the sole policy holder  doesnt  appear  to have been affected by any of those things.  So 
even if better information had been provided, I dont think  this would have changed Mr 
and Mrs Ws decision to take out the PPI.
Ref: DRN06012542Ive taken into account what Mr and Mrs W have  said so far, but their points dont change my 
decision.
As neither Mr and Mrs W nor COHL  has said anything to make me change my mind,  I still 
dont think this complaint  should be upheld.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 May 2019.  
Sophie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0601254