K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains about AIG Europe  Limited.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this case as follows  
Mr A holds cover with AIG Europe Limited.  He made two complaints to us concerning  claims
made on this cover.  One was resolved  by negotiation and some £59,250 was paid. I believe
that settled that aspect  of the claim, and I wont be looking at that further  as Mr A accepted
that amount.
On the other claim issue one of our investigators looked into the matter and I can see that
£2,500 was offered at some point.  Mr A didnt think that was enough, but the investigator
didnt think anything needed to be paid, so didnt think an increase was warranted. Mr A
didnt accept that view, so the case has been  passed to me for a final decision.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The element  of Mr As cover that I am considering here (as opposed  to that under which he
received the £59,250) concerns bodily injury and his loss of employment. The investigator
felt that any claim failed for two reasons, first that he hadnt lost his employment soon
enough for a valid claim, second  that the matter  had been caused  by a gradual  condition,
which isnt covered under the policy.
At the moment I agree with the investigator that Mr As claim fails, on the issue of time of
claim. I think  the gradual condition issue is more finely balanced. I will explain why.
Mr As policy  requires  him to have  his last day of employment service within  two years of any
injury. Mr As last injury  seems to have been  agreed as happening  in 2015, and his last day
of service was in March  2018, so his claim fails on this point. I know  Mr A considers his
claims started in 2017, within two years of the injury, but that isnt what the policy requires.  It
requires the last day of service  to be within two years, and it wasnt.
Looking at the gradual aspect of the problem things are not so clear. The policy  does
exclude gradual causes, but Mr A suffered two separate events (at least) and I cannot say
for sure that they are connected or that the issue became gradually  worse so should  be
excluded from cover. That may be the case but I cannot be certain. But, as I think  the claim
fails on the date of employment service point I dont  need  to make a decision on the gradual
element at this time.
My current  view is that Mr As claim fails as he didnt leave service soon enough after the 
accident(s) for the policy terms  to allow for a pay-out.
Since my provisional decision Mr A has not responded to us, despite being reminded. AIG 
have come back saying  their offer remains on the table, but otherwise they dont have  any 
other argument to add. 
Ref: DRN07592742my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr A hasnt  come  back to us and AIG mainly agree with the provisional decision I see no 
reason to change  it. Accordingly my final decision  is that no pay-out  is due. 
my final decision
I make  no award against AIG Europe Limited. The offer made by them is a matter between  
them and Mr A. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 December 2019.
Christopher Tilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0759274