K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs J have a whole of life policy administered by The Royal  London Mutual 
Insurance Society Limited  (Royal  London).  They have complained about the increase in 
premiums following the most recent review.
background
Mr and Mrs J took out a whole of life policy in 1998 following advice from an independent 
financial adviser. The policy was set up on a maximum basis  and had an initial  sum assured  
of £40,000. The policy included waiver of premium  and was also indexed  linked meaning it 
would increase in line with inflation.
The policy was reviewed  in 2008 and 2013 where it failed the reviews  both times. In 2013 
Mr and Mrs J chose to pay a premium  of £70 per month.
The policy was reviewed  again in 2018 where it again failed. The options presented to 
Mr and Mrs J at this time were as follows:
Increase the sum assured to around  £61,000  and increase the premiums to £150 per 
month;
Maintain the sum assured at £59,000 and increase the premium to £144 per month; 
or
Keep  the premiums  the same  (£77.79 per month)  and reduce the sum assured to 
£32,000. 
This is what  prompted Mr and Mrs J to make the complaint. They  feel the level of the 
increases is grossly unfair and they feel they would have  been  better  investing  the money 
they paid in premiums  elsewhere as savings.
The complaint was assessed  by one of our investigators who was of the view it couldnt be 
upheld. He confirmed  with Royal London  that the reviews had been carried  out correctly and 
in line with its terms and conditions and he saw no evidence to persuade  him the 
calculations were incorrect.  He also felt that as a reviewable policy there  was always  the 
chance that the premiums would fall short of being  able to maintain the sum assured at 
some point during  the life of the policy and he was also satisfied that Mr and Mrs J were fully 
aware of this fact.
Mr and Mrs J didnt agree with the assessment  and remained of the view Royal London had 
acted unfairly in increasing their premiums. They also commented that they felt Royal 
London should have provided a long term forecast of expected policy costs and increases at 
outset.
The investigator considered Mr and Mrs Js comments but wasnt  persuaded to change his 
initial outcome.  So as no agreement could be reached the complaint has been  passed to me 
to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  the 
complaint can be upheld.
Ref: DRN06106912Firstly its important to point  out that as Royal London didnt sell the whole of life policy to 
Mr and Mrs J I cant  consider whether  this policy, set up on maximum basis, was suitable for 
them. Nor can I consider  what information they would have been provided at the point of 
sale or whether  they were  fully aware of what they were taking out.
All I can look at against Royal London is whether it has administered the policy  correctly.  
Having looked  at everything that has been  provided  I am satisfied it has. The policy  was a 
reviewable whole of life policy. As set out in the policy  terms and conditions  reviews would 
have to take place at specified times during  the policy to check  whether the amount being 
paid into the policy was enough to maintain  the cover it provided  (the sum assured). I know  
Mr and Mrs J were aware of this as they have accepted that it was pointed out to them when 
they took the policy that the premiums could increase. I appreciate  that the policy  was 
indexed linked and so this would happen  on a yearly basis, but given they knew about  this 
its very likely  they knew about the reviewable nature of the policy and the potential  
consequences of those reviews.
So Royal London  has, in my view,  administered the policy in line with its terms and 
conditions.
With regards to the level of the increases required  or the decreases in the sum assured, 
Royal London doesnt have any control  over that. The cost of living increases as one gets 
older and this is one the factors that are taken into account when reviewing the policy and 
calculating the increases/decreases required. The criteria  of the calculations are largely the 
same industry wide and so are not specific to Royal London.
Ultimately this is the way these polices work.
I know Mr and Mrs J feel that some  sort of forecast  should have been given to them at the 
point of sale but this just would not have been possible. No policy  provider or any business 
for that matter would be able to predict  price changes for a whole of life policy  twenty years 
plus into the future. This is just unreasonable and I wouldnt expect this to happen. All Royal 
London had to do was ensure it administered the policy in line with the terms and conditions 
of the policy. Which as I have already  stated  I think it did.
I know my decision will disappoint to Mr and Mrs J but ultimately this is the nature of these 
types of policies. Increase in the premiums will always be required if the policy is set up on a 
maximum basis and until the review happened  there is not a way to predict the level of those 
increases.
I am therefore satisfied  that Royal London  had carried out the reviews  correctly and has 
calculated the premiums correctly. I also dont agree that it has acted  unfairly by increasing 
the premium to the level it has.
Ref: DRN06106913my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 April 2019.
Ayshea Khan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0610691