K822xcomplaint
Mrs A has complained to Cofunds Limited  (t/a Aegon) about problems shes experienced 
with her trading  account..
background 
Represented by her husband, Mrs A explained that she faced problems with her account 
from May 2018 and was unable to log into the trading platform.  Aegon  also didnt complete 
a transfer request which had been requested around  that time.
When Mrs A was eventually able to log back into her account all her open positions  had 
been closed and her funds were  being held in cash.  Aegon accepted the shares  had been  
sold in error  and offered to put things right.  It wanted to reinstate Mrs As positions and paid 
her £500  for the trouble and upset shed experienced.
Mrs A didnt accept Aegons offer.  She felt that it wouldnt be able to reinstate shares 
adequately and reflecting  what  she may have  done  in line with her investment strategy, and 
she felt that the £500 compensation didnt reflect the trouble and upset the problems had 
caused.
One of our investigators  reviewed the complaint  and felt unable to ask Aegon to do anything 
else.  Whilst she accepted  there  had been  a number of problems, she said Aegons offer is 
in line with what our Service would recommend to put things right.
As Mrs A disagreed, the complaint has now been  passed for me for a fresh  review  and to 
make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so, Ive reached much the 
same conclusion as the investigator  and Ill explain why.
Firstly, its important that I confirm what Im considering within  this decision.   When the 
investigator was looking  into matters, Mrs A raised concerns that no interest had been on 
her funds whilst  held in cash.  But its now been  dealt  with as part of a separate  complaint, 
and so I shall not be commenting  on that issue.
There are a number of other issues that Mrs A has raised concerns  about, and Ive taken 
those fully into account.  But Ill only refer to those  issues which I feel are central  to the 
decision I have reached.
Aegon accepted that there were problems which  affected Mrs As ability to log into her 
account and manage her positions.  Its explained  that these occurred following a change in 
the platform used  to manage  the account,  which was implemented in early  May 2018.  
Those problems resulted  in a greater amount of communication to Aegon and explain the 
delay resolving things,  but they dont justify it.
Mrs A also says that a low-value transfer  request that she made  took too long and she had 
to cancel it due to the delays.  Ive considered this and note that the request was for £33.02 
Ref: DRN02651422and didnt cause  a loss.  But I appreciate that the delays would have compounded the 
frustration Mrs A was already feeling  towards Aegon.
The issue  which  I believe  to be central to the complaint  is the erroneous  sale of Mrs As 
shares, which resulted  in her funds being held in cash.  Aegon  accepted  that it was at fault 
for mistakenly selling  the shares, and so Ive not had to reconsider that point.  Instead,  Ive 
focussed upon whats a fair and reasonable way of putting things right.
As the investigator  had explained to Mrs A, the approach this Service usually takes is to put 
someone back into the position  they would have likely been in if the business  hadnt done 
anything wrong.  So  in situations  such as this, that would usually involve us requesting that a 
business reinstate  the shareholdings which  had been sold in error.  But I understand that this 
is not what Mrs A wanted Aegon  to in this situation.
I understand why Mrs A didnt want Aegon to replace  her back  into a position where she held 
the shares that were sold by it.  The relationship between them has broken down and Mrs A 
has lost trust in the service offered by Aegon.  So her funds were kept in cash  at her request, 
and as I stated earlier,  the interest to be received whilst those funds have been held in cash 
has been dealt  with in another complaint.
Given the above, the question Im really being asked to decide  now, is what  level of 
compensation is fair and reasonable for the trouble and upset the problems  have caused.   I 
understand Aegon has already paid £500 but that Mrs A doesnt  feel that is a sufficient 
amount, and shes referred to other cases  where  the same  or higher levels  of compensation 
has been paid.
Its important I explain  that our Service does not issue penalties or fines against businesses 
for wrongdoing  that is the role of the regulator  (the FCA).  An award  for trouble  and upset 
is to reflect  the impact on the individual involved and so is specific to the circumstances  of 
each complaint.
I understand the whole  situation has been  incredibly frustrating  for Mrs A  from the initial 
problems being  unable to log into her account  up until this point.  But  I also dont consider 
the situation has particularly caused  financial hardship whilst the issue has been resolved.  
Mrs A has explained that the investments were made with an intention to provide a long term 
benefit for her grandchildren   and so I dont  consider the lack of access to funds would  
have caused the same distress as a situation  where  those funds were needed immediately.
Whilst I appreciate Mrs A will likely  disagree,  overall  I think  £500 compensation is in line with 
what I would  have  suggested as compensation and so it wouldnt be fair and reasonable for 
me to ask Aegon to pay additional compensation.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  But as I 
consider the offer made by Cofunds  Limited  (t/a Aegon) to Mrs A is fair and reasonable, I 
wont be asking it to do anything more now.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2019.
Ref: DRN02651423Ross Hammond
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0265142