K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L say Santander UK Plc mis-sold them PPI. 
background
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken alongside a 
mortgage in 1999.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. In my provisional decision sent in September 2019 I 
explained why I didnt agree with our adjudicators findings. I said:
Santander had to make Mr and Mrs L aware  that the PPI was optional and gain their 
consent before adding  it to their mortgage.  Theres limited  information available from the 
time the PPI was sold, but this isnt surprising considering how long ago the sale took place 
and that businesses arent required  to keep this type of information  indefinitely. From the 
information that is available I am unable to say that Santander didnt present the policy  as 
optional, or that Mr and Mrs L didnt  agree  to take it.
Santander recommended  the PPI to Mr L so it had to check that the PPI was right for him. 
Mr L has told us that he would have been  entitled to sick pay and redundancy pay when he 
took the policy and that he could have relied  on savings and his partner who was employed 
at the time with good benefits to help make the repayments. He also had a separate  
accident and sickness policy. But the PPI would  have  paid out in addition to Mr Ls sick pay 
and for longer. The policy would also have protected Mr and Mrs Ls savings so they could 
be used towards other essential expenses. While  Mrs L would have wanted to help, her 
ability to help would have been dependent on her circumstances at the time which could 
have changed.
We have asked for further details of Mr Ls alternative policy but he has not been able to 
provide evidence to support the cover it provided. Because  of this I am unfortunately unable 
to say the additional policy would  have had an impact on the suitability  of the PPI policy  he 
took with the mortgage.
Our adjudicator upheld  this complaint because Mr L told us he suffered  from a medical 
condition at the time he applied for the PPI which he wouldnt have been able to claim for. 
But Mr L has also told us that the condition was controlled by medication  that it has never  
worsened, and didnt affect  his day to day life. With this in mind I still think  Mr L would have 
taken the policy knowing he couldnt claim for the condition.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Ls circumstances at the time he wasnt  affected by any of the 
remaining exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover and Mr and Mrs L seem to have had a 
need for the cover.
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr and Mrs L about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But I think  they chose to take it out - so it looks  like they wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful  for them  if something  went  wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the PPI would have put 
Mr L off taking out the cover.
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about  the non-
disclosure of commission where PPI was sold.
Ref: DRN09348062The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit  share from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium   and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right,  the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission  and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
But these  rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship  provisions 
in the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions  which  were  added to 
the Consumer  Credit Act in 2006  came into force on 6 April 2007. The changes  made in
2006 explained that the unfair relationship  provisions would only apply to credit  agreements 
taken out on or after 6 April 2007,  or agreements  taken out before then, which  were  still 
running on 6 April 2008.
Santander has given  me information that shows Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage  was taken out in 
1999 and ended in 2004. So based on what Ive said above, I dont think the unfair 
relationship provisions in the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment,  or the 
rules and guidance made by the FCA in relation  to the non-disclosure of commission  apply 
here.
Mr L has said he had reason to claim on the policy in 2001 when he sustained an injury but 
didnt as he was unaware he had it. But I dont  think this means the PPI was mis-sold and if 
Mr L would  like to attempt  a retrospective claim he should contact the insurer.
Neither Mr and Mrs L nor Santander  provided  any further information in response  to my 
decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party provided any further  information  I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 December  2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0934806