K820x#14complaint
Mr Bs complained that Foundation for Credit  Counselling (FCC)  made  a mistake when 
setting up his debt relief order (DRO).
background
When Mr B was contacted by creditors asking him to pay a debt of £1,500  he realised it 
hadnt been included in his DRO. He complained to FCC as hed wanted it included  and said 
FCC had made a mistake in not including it in his application. 
FCC said it didnt hold information  from 2014  when Mr B initially  asked for advice. It said it 
sent him a copy of the application  to check before submitting it in January 2015. It said it 
also would  have sent him a copy of the final submitted application.
FCC said the debt wasnt included and the DRO couldnt now be amended  to include it. It 
added that if it had been included then the total debt would have been over the acceptable 
monetary limit for the application.  This means  it would have been declined  and Mr B would 
have lost his £90 application  fee. 
Mr B remained unhappy  and brought his complaint to us. Our investigator  looked into things 
but didnt recommend Mr Bs complaint be upheld as he didnt think FCC had made  an error.
Mr B disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it.
Due to the time thats passed neither Mr B nor FCC have been able to provide anything  
other than verbal  information about what happened  at the time Mr B initially  asked for advice 
or from his application. That means  its difficult to know exactly what happened so Ive made 
my decision  based  on what I thinks most  likely. FCC has also provided a copy  of the DRO 
issued by The Insolvency Service from January 2015. 
Mr B said the £1,500  debt was one of his largest  so he definitely wanted  it included. Ive 
seen the DRO  and this debt isnt listed. I can also see that it was one of Mr Bs largest debts 
at the time he made the application so I can understand why he would have wanted it to be 
included in order to be written-off. However  I dont have enough to persuade  me that it was 
FCC that made the mistake in missing the debt from the application or that Mr B would have 
done anything  differently.
FCC has provided detailed information  about  its processes at the time of the application. It 
said it sent Mr B a copy of the application to check before it was submitted and also a copy 
of the final submitted application. It also said Mr B phoned it before the application was 
submitted and its usual  process was to read through the list of creditors to make  sure 
everything was included and to check the balances were correct.  It said it also would have  
asked Mr B to confirm the application was correct  and hed understood everything  before 
submitting it. It said the verbal agreement on the phone would have constituted  his 
Ref: DRN04147712signature. I havent  heard anything from Mr B to persuade me this didnt happen and Ive no 
reason to think FCC didnt  carry out its usual process.
When taking all this into consideration I think its most likely Mr B had the opportunity  to see 
at that time which debts  were included and let FCC know if any were missing. As he didnt 
do this I think its most  likely it wasnt FCCs fault that the debt wasnt  included. 
FCC also said at the time of Mr Bs application the maximum amount of debt allowed to 
proceed with a DRO was £15,000. It said if Mr B had declared  the additional £1,500 debt his 
application would have been rejected and he would  have lost his £90 application fee. FCC 
would have known  the limit for the DRO. So I think its unlikely it would have made the 
application if it had known about the additional  £1,500 that would have taken  him over it. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr B was hoping  for, but in this particular case  I havent 
seen enough to persuade  me it was FCCs fault the debt was missed from the DRO. So Im 
not going to ask it to do anything further.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Sarann Taylor
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN0414771