K820x#14Mr and Mrs W complained that London and Country  Mortgages Ltd (L&C ) didnt tell them  
that they wouldnt be able to borrow more  on their new mortgage for seven years.  They say 
this meant  they had to rely on credit  cards and expensive loans to do work  on their property.  
Theyd like an acknowledgement of the mistake, an apology, and compensation. 
background
In August  2014,  Mr and Mrs W contacted L&C about  finding them  a possible mortgage with 
a lender. Mr and Mrs W found a property  and had an offer accepted.  L&Cs  adviser  
completed a fact finding process in early  September. Mr and Mrs W wanted to borrow 95% 
of the value of the property they wanted to buy.  
L&C provided a Key Facts Illustration about its recommended  mortgage. This was for a 
repayment mortgage over 27 years, with an initial fixed rate product to December 2016. 
Section 12 of this document said:
Additional secured borrowing
You will not be able to apply for additional secured borrowing until the expiry  of 7 years  from 
the date of completion of the Help to Buy mortgage guarantee scheme loan.
There were some emails between L&Cs adviser and Mrs W, because  the lender initially  said 
the mortgage wasnt affordable for the amount Mr and Mrs W wanted to borrow. In these, 
L&C and Mrs W discussed  income,  and also some  outstanding loans and credit cards, and 
whether Mr and Mrs W could pay off some of these.    
On 22 September  the lender issued a mortgage  offer. Section 12 of the mortgage offer said:
Additional secured borrowing
You can apply for extra borrowing at any time This will increase the amount of borrowing 
secured on your home.
Mr and Mrs W completed on their purchase in November.
On 28 January 2015, the lender wrote to Mr and Mrs W. The letter said that unfortunately the 
mortgage offer hadnt included all the information  about the product selected. It said:
The offer document should have  stated at section 12 that under the Help to Buy scheme 
you will not be able to apply for additional  secured  borrowing until the expiry of 7 years from 
the date of completion of the original  Help to Buy mortgage guarantee scheme loanIf  you 
have any concerns please to not hesitate to contact us at the number above.
In August  2018,  Mr and Mrs W complained to L&C. They said that when theyd bought  the 
property, it had been barely  habitable  and had needed complete renovation. Theyd  decided  
to do as much work themselves as they could, and apply  for further borrowing later.  Mrs W 
said shed rung the lender when theyd  received  the January 2015 letter  about  no further 
borrowing for seven  years. She said the lender had denied having sent that letter,  and had 
said that in any case it was L&Cs responsibility.  Mrs W said shed then sent a complaint to 
L&C but didnt get a reply.  She explained that shed been under a lot of stress from the state 
the house was in, and had felt unable to pursue the complaint any further.
Mr and Mrs W said that theyd relied  on credit cards and expensive loans to get the work on 
the house done. This had been a strain on them, and they hadnt had the money for the 
Ref: DRN04715442enjoyable things  of life. They said this had affected them psychologically as well as 
financially.
Mr and Mrs W asked  L&C to acknowledge its error, apologise, and pay them  compensation 
for the financial loss caused by the expensive loans theyd taken out, and the psychological 
impact.
L&C didnt uphold  Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. It pointed out that the Key Facts Illustration 
had correctly said that no more borrowing would be available  for seven years  from 
completion. The mortgage offer which the lender had issued had wrongly  said that Mr and 
Mrs W could apply for extra borrowing. But L&C pointed out that Mr and Mrs W had never 
told the L&C adviser  that theyd want to apply  for more borrowing in future. And it explained 
that the error  on the lenders mortgage offer wasnt L&Cs fault, because  it was the lender 
who had sent the offer.
L&C also said that it had never received  any previous  complaint about  this, as Mrs W had 
claimed. L&C said that if it had, it would have dealt with the complaint in line with its required 
complaints procedure.
Mr and Mrs W werent satisfied and complained  to this service.
The adjudicator didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. She looked at the fact finding 
document and saw that there hadnt  been  any discussion about extra borrowing in future. 
And Mrs W had also told the adjudicator that she didnt think shed explicitly brought  this up 
with the broker.  Mrs W had told the adjudicator that shed assumed theyd be able to borrow 
more as she thought this was usually the case with mortgages. The adjudicator considered  
that L&C hadnt mis-sold their mortgage on the grounds theyd  want to borrow more in future  
- because the broker hadnt  known thats  what they wanted.
The adjudicator also noted that the mortgage  offer had been produced by the lender, not by 
L&C, so L&C wasnt at fault for the mistake.
Mr and Mrs W werent satisfied. They said they felt L&C should have asked if theyd want to 
apply for more money in future. L&C had sold them a product which wasnt suitable for their 
needs, and the broker should  have considered their future plans which included full 
renovation and extra borrowing. They said theyd never received the document which said 
they wouldnt be able to borrow for seven  years.
Mr and Mrs W said it had been difficult for L&C to find them a mortgage because  of their 
credit rating, and because  they wanted  to borrow 95% of the propertys value. They  felt the 
adviser had deliberately not told them about  the restriction just to ensure he made a sale.  
Theyd ended  up in financial difficulties, and if theyd  known, they wouldnt have gone  ahead 
with buying the property.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Complaint that the mortgage was mis-sold because Mr and Mrs W wanted  to borrow more
Ref: DRN04715443Ive looked first at the documents which record what was discussed between  Mr and Mrs W 
and L&C at the time of their mortgage  application  in 2014. These are the fact find document, 
and the Key Facts illustration, and emails  from the time.
These documents dont record anything being said about the condition of the property being 
so bad that Mr and Mrs W would have to borrow more money in future. The fact find 
document shows a detailed  record of Mr and Mrs Ws income and outgoings, so it was a 
detailed discussion.  It also records that Mr and Mrs W wanted stability  of payments and if 
Mr and Mrs W had been intending  to borrow more quite soon, they couldnt  have achieved 
this because their payments would have gone up. 
Mrs W told our adjudicator that she hadnt explicitly told L&C that theyd want  to borrow  more 
quite quickly. So I consider that there was no discussion about  possibly borrowing more 
quite soon. As L&Cs  adviser didnt know this, I dont  find that he was under any obligation to 
recommend a mortgage which offered  this facility. 
I dont agree with Mr and Mrs W that L&Cs  adviser should have asked whether they might 
want to borrow more  quite  soon. Very many  things can happen  during  the lifetime  of a 
mortgage, and it wouldnt be reasonable to expect an adviser to ask specifically whether 
every possible  change  might happen.
So I find the mortgage wasnt mis-sold.
The Key Facts illustration  does, as Ive set out above, make it clear  that there couldnt be 
any more borrowing for seven years after the mortgage completed. I recognise  that Mr and 
Mrs W say they didnt  receive this. But I think its highly likely that the L&C adviser would 
have told them that theyd be getting  correspondence about his recommendation. So if they 
didnt get this, I think its reasonable to expect  them  to have chased L&C for it. 
The incorrect mortgage offer
Its clear that the September 2014  mortgage offer was incorrect when it said Mr and Mrs W 
would be able to apply for extra  borrowing at any time. But this was the lenders mistake  and 
responsibility, not L&Cs.  This complaint is against L&C not the lender.
But Id point out that future lending is never guaranteed. I can see that when Mr and Mrs W 
took out their mortgage, they had some difficulties in borrowing the amount they needed, 
because of the high percentage of the property value, their income  and a number  of existing 
credit card and loans. Even if the terms of the mortgage had permitted them to apply for 
more money straightaway, there was no guarantee theyd have met lending requirements.  
Complaint that L&C didnt  answer Mr and Mrs Ws complaint  in early 2015
Mr and Mrs W have  also said theyre  unhappy that L&C didnt reply when they complained in 
early 2015.  This was after theyd had the correction letter from the lender saying they 
couldnt apply  for more  money within seven years. Mr and Mrs W say they complained, but 
L&C say it never received a complaint until August 2018.
When evidence conflicts, as here, I make my decision on what  I think  is more  likely to have 
happened. Here, Ive looked at L&Cs  contact records, which  dont show anything for that 
period. So I think  its likely  that L&C didnt  receive any complaint  after the lender sent Mr and 
Mrs W its correction  letter in January 2015.  I recognise that Mrs W has said she didnt follow 
Ref: DRN04715444up the complaint  because  they were under a lot of stress from the state their house was in. 
Im sure this was a difficult time for them, and Im sorry to hear that. But Im not persuaded 
that it would  have been more difficult to chase up any complaint, than to make  the multiple 
applications for new credit which they did. So I think it would be reasonable to expect Mr and 
Mrs W to have followed up any complaint to which L&C hadnt responded.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint against London and 
Country Mortgages Ltd. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 May 2019.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0471544