K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains that Aviva Insurance Limited  acted unfairly and unreasonably when dealing  
with his claim under a home emergency policy. He wants  compensation covering the costs  
of an engineer and a new boiler.
background
Mr D had a home emergency policy with Aviva, which covered dealing with emergencies 
connected to gas central  heating  and the boiler (amongst other items). He had an issue with 
his boiler, and two engineers were sent out to look at it. The second engineer  said that the 
boiler shouldnt  be covered  by the policy (due to the type of boiler) and didnt carry out any 
work. Aviva then said that the boiler shouldnt have passed the boiler health check (carried 
out in order to decide whether the boiler should be accepted in the first place) and refused to 
continue to cover it. Mr D felt that this was unfair and unreasonable  (particularly  as his wife 
was about to give birth) and paid for an engineer to attend, who told him a new boiler  was 
required. 
Mr D complained to Aviva. It said the boiler shouldnt  have  been  accepted  in the first place 
and wasnt covered by the terms and conditions of the policy.  Aviva refused to pay for a new 
boiler as it said it hadnt undertaken any work on the old one, but refunded the excess fees 
paid by Mr D, together  with the premiums paid.
Mr D complained to us, saying if hed known, he couldve got a policy from another insurer  
(but no evidence was provided confirming such a policy  was available). The adjudicators  
view was that the policy specifically excluded boilers  with a thermal store  (like Mr Ds) from 
being covered  at all. He said Aviva was able to refuse to deal with the boiler as a result. But 
the adjudicator  also said that Aviva shouldve told Mr D this when it carried out the boiler 
health check, though  he didnt think it was likely Mr D wouldve been able to get insurance 
from elsewhere. The adjudicator said Aviva  didnt have to pay the engineer  or new boiler 
costs, but should  pay £150 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by Mr D only 
finding out later that his boiler wasnt covered  when  his wife was about to give birth.
Aviva accepted the adjudicators view,  but Mr D didnt. He said he couldve got insurance 
elsewhere. The adjudicator said that from the evidence available, the boiler was too old to be 
covered by any of the insurers suggested  by Mr D; he didnt change his view. Mr D asked  for 
an ombudsmans decision and commented further that he believed  one of the insurers  
wouldve covered  him and saved him the engineers fee.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The first point to consider  is that the boiler health check  isnt part of the services offered 
under the insurance contract, and its made clear in the policy that its excluded  and cant 
form the basis of a complaint to this service.  This doesnt stop me looking  at whether Aviva 
has acted fairly and reasonably in dealing with Mr Ds claim, but I cant specifically deal with 
the check itself.
The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say that Aviva has a responsibility to handle  
claims promptly and fairly.  And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. Under the terms and 
Ref: DRN08213652conditions of the policy, boilers with a thermal store (such as Mr Ds) are excluded from 
cover entirely. So it wasnt unfair  or unreasonable for Aviva to refuse to deal with the boiler 
claim, and to refund the excess fees and premiums  paid.  Effectively, this puts Mr D back into 
the position he shouldve been in all along; the boiler  shouldve  been refused cover  from the 
outset.
And Aviva didnt break the boiler, so it isnt fair or reasonable for the costs of the new boiler 
to be paid by it.
I think Aviva  shouldve told Mr D earlier that the boiler couldnt be covered. But the health  
check isnt part of the insurance contract  and there was little time between the first and 
second engineers visits. And the evidence  suggests that it is unlikely the boiler wouldve 
been covered  by another insurer  due to both its type and its age. So I dont think  its fair or 
reasonable for the engineers fee paid by Mr D to be refunded either.
I do think Avivas  failure to tell Mr D earlier that the boiler was excluded from cover did cause 
trouble and upset;  its also relevant that the trouble and upset was amplified by the timing as 
Mr D found out just as his wife was about  to give birth. But £150 compensation is fair and 
reasonable to reflect  this, and money never truly compensates for trouble and upset.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint  and Aviva  Insurance Limited should pay Mr D 
£150 for the trouble and upset caused  by its unfair  and unreasonable  conduct. Under the 
rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or reject my 
decision before  10 October 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0821365