K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains about Scottish  Equitable Plc (Scottish Equitable).  Shes  unhappy Scottish 
Equitable included the option of taking 25%Tax  Free Cash  (TFC) from her Retirement 
Control Pension Plan in literature it sent her when this option  wasnt  available. 
background
Mrs B took out a Retirement Control  Pension  Plan with Scottish  Equitable in 2004. This was 
a capped drawdown arrangement and at the time Mrs B took the maximum 25% TFC she 
was entitled to. The remainder of Mrs Bs fund was placed in her Retirement Cash  Account 
where it was invested.
In June and October  2018 Scottish Equitable wrote  to Mrs B reminding her that her selected  
retirement date (SRD)  of 22 December  2018  was approaching. Scottish Equitable  said Mrs 
B should consider all the options  available to her before she decided  what  to do with her 
pension savings. It also provided Mrs B with a breakdown of her fund value, a Pension 
Wise letter, a Money Advice Service Your pension: its time to choose leaflet and Scottish  
Equitables Retirement  Path leaflet.
On the basis that the option  of taking 25% TFC was included in the enclosures Scottish 
Equitable provided  her with, Mrs B says she and her husband made various financial plans 
and commitments, such as taking  a world cruise and paying off outstanding finance on their 
car.
With her SRD approaching Mrs B called Scottish Equitable in December 2018 to discuss the 
options available to her. Mrs B told Scottish  Equitable she wanted to take 25% TFC from her 
plan and leave  the rest of her fund invested.  But Scottish Equitable  advised  Mrs B the TFC 
option wasnt available to her and explained  that shed had already taken her TFC 
entitlement when  her plan was originally set up. Unhappy with this, Mrs B complained.  She 
said shed made  plans based  on the TFC option  presented in literature Scottish Equitable 
had provided her with and requested  therefore  that it honour  this option which had been 
presented to her. 
Scottish Equitable  responded  to Mrs Bs complaint and provided  its final response.  In 
summary it said:
some  of the information  it had sent to Mrs B was generic and wasnt specific to her 
situation
it understood Mrs B was disappointed when she was told shed already taken her full 
entitlement to TFC but the income  Mrs B was able to take was capped  and subject to 
Government Actuarial  Department (GAD)  rules so it couldnt make  a further TFC 
payment
Mrs B still had the option  of moving her fund to a Flexi Access  Drawdown 
arrangement and as this wasnt  subject to GAD rules  the income shed be able to 
take would  be more flexible
Unhappy with Scottish Equitables response  Mrs B referred her complaint to our service.
One of our investigators  considered the matter and said she didnt think  Scottish  Equitable 
had done anything wrong.
Ref: DRN09849592Mrs B responded and said given how long ago her plan was taken out it wasnt  reasonable 
to have expected her to recall that shed already taken  her TFC entitlement.  She also said 
the literature Scottish  Equitable sent her included no warning that she could check  whether  
TFC option was available under her plan.
As no agreement could be reached  the matter was referred to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not intending to 
uphold Mrs Bs complaint.  I realise this will come as a disappointment to Mrs B but Ill explain 
why Ive reached this decision. However  before I do, I should emphasise  that while Ive 
taken note of the correspondence, arguments  and comments made by both parties,  I have 
limited my response to what  I consider  to be the issues  central to this complaint. 
I should firstly say that I do have sympathy for Mrs B. I can appreciate  that it will have been 
very disappointing to learn she wouldnt be able to take TFC from her plan as she believed  
shed be able to. Especially as she says shed  made  plans based  on the funds she thought 
shed be able to secure tax free from her plan. But while I do understand Mrs Bs position, I 
must have  regard for what Mrs B is entitled  to under her plan and whether Scottish Equitable 
met its obligations regarding the information  it provided her with as she approached her 
SRD.
Mrs Bs Retirement  Control Pension  Plan was a capped  drawdown  arrangement. Her 
retirement funds were crystallised  in 2004  when  she elected to take all the TFC she was 
permitted to take. Mrs Bs remaining funds  were invested via her Retirement Cash Account.  
As Mrs B had used  her entire  TFC entitlement in 2004, any additional income she later took 
from her plan was subject to tax. Because of this Im unable  to say Scottish Equitable is 
incorrect when it says the option of taking TFC from her plan isnt something thats now 
available to Mrs B. So I wont be directing Scottish Equitable to make the TFC payment 
shed like it to make. Mrs B has never had the option to take 25% TFC from her plan on 
more than one occasion.
Turning now to the literature Scottish Equitable provided Mrs B with in the lead up to her 
SRD. Scottish Equitable had a duty to provide Mrs B with information about  the various 
options that could be available to her at her SRD.  In addition to this Scottish Equitable  was 
required to highlight the importance of the decision Mrs B would be making in choosing  how 
to take her retirement  income and encourage her to seek financial advice. Having carefully  
reviewed the available evidence Im satisfied  Scottish Equitable  met this obligation.
Ive considered the letters and enclosures  Scottish Equitable sent Mrs B in June  and 
October 2018. Both letters  confirmed the current value of Mrs Bs plan and advised the value 
wasnt guaranteed.  Scottish Equitables enclosures  provided Mrs B with non-specific 
information about the various potentially available options for taking retirement benefits and 
reminders of importance of shopping  around  to get the best deal to suit individual 
circumstances. The information  provided was general and included  repeated  references  to 
the importance of getting  financial advice.  
Ref: DRN09849593For example the documentation said:
With more choice than ever before, we understand that choosing  the right retirement option 
for you can be daunting and we strongly  recommend you get guidance or advice to help with 
your decision  ()
Whats available  in the market will vary at any given time so youll  need to discuss  your 
options with a financial adviser ()
Speak to a regulated financial adviser
Retirement income planning  is complicated  and the options you have () differ  in suitability 
depending on your personal circumstances. The choices you make  will affect your income 
for the rest of your life. We therefore  recommend that you speak to a financial adviser unless 
you are certain that you understand which option  is right for you.
Complex products  such as investment  linked annuities and flexible retirement income  
products are difficult to compare yourself and an adviser will talk you through the detail and 
recommend whether one of these or a guaranteed  income product is right for you ()
Having considered the documentation I dont consider that the information Scottish Equitable 
provided Mrs B with ought to have reasonably led her to conclude with any certainty that the 
option of taking TFC (or any of the other  options  outlined) was something  she was 
guaranteed to be able to do. 
I think it wouldve been reasonable to expect Mrs B to have made enquiries with Scottish 
Equitable to establish exactly what  specific options were available  to her or to have sought 
financial advice which wouldve provided Mrs B with further insight into which available 
option might  be most suitable given Mrs Bs personal  circumstances and objectives.
Mrs B has said that due to the passage of time between her taking TFC from her plan in 
2004 and her SRD in 2018,  shed  completely  forgotten shed already taken TFC from her 
plan. And so she proceeded on the assumption that as Scottish Equitable  included  the TFC 
option in the generic literature it provided,  that this must be an option available  to her. I do 
find it entirely plausible Mrs B may have forgotten shes already  taken  TFC from her plan in 
2004. However I also think that given the significance of making retirement choices  that it 
wouldve perhaps been prudent for Mrs B to seek assurances or simple  confirmation of the 
specific options available to her before she took any further action.
Im mindful that there were a number of warnings in Scottish Equitables  literature to Mrs B 
that the quoted value of her fund wasnt guaranteed and could change in the future . Based 
on this as well as the general information Scottish  Equitable provided  and the emphasis on 
seeking financial advice,  Im not persuaded  that it was wholly  reasonable for Mrs B to go 
ahead and make  important financial plans and commitments. To proceed and make  
decisions based on the unspecified  information  and unguaranteed values represented a real 
risk.
I have no doubt  Mrs B was disappointed  and understandably frustrated  when she learnt the 
TFC option she thought she could select wasnt available. However based on what  Ive seen 
I dont think I can reasonably conclude Scottish  Equitable is responsible for the loss of 
expectation Mrs B considers she has suffered  in this respect. Scottish Equitable  provided  
Mrs B with all the information  it was required  to.
Ref: DRN09849594I should say that its not uncommon  for policy documentation and in particular automated  
retirement packs to cover  more than one set of circumstances. 
Overall I do have sympathy for Mrs B and understand shes disappointed she cant take a 
further 25% TFC from her plan as she assumed shed be able to. But as Ive explained, this 
option simply isnt available to her. And for the reasons Ive outlined above,  I havent been 
able to conclude  Scottish  Equitable has done  anything wrong in the way shes claimed. In 
particular Im not persuaded Scottish Equitable is responsible for the financial losses  Mrs B 
considers shes suffered  following  her assumption  the TFC option would be available  to her. 
I understand Mrs B will be disappointed with my decision. And I dont  doubt  her strength of 
feeling or sincerity  in referring her complaint  to this service. But for the reasons Ive 
explained Im unable to uphold Mrs Bs complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2019.
Chillel Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0984959