K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that Nottingham Building  Society treated them unfairly  by not 
agreeing to extend their interest  only mortgage. They say this is due to age discrimination.
background
Mr and Mrs S have  an interest only mortgage with Nottingham Building Society. The term 
expired in March  2019 with an unpaid balance. The building society declined  Mr and Mrs Ss 
request to extend  the term for up to three years while they made  arrangements  to repay it. 
Mr and Mrs S say theres no possible explanation for this other  than age discrimination.
Our investigator said Mr and Mrs S would be in no better position  after a term extension. 
They would still need to sell one of their properties or refinance  the mortgage. 
Mr and Mrs S didnt  agree. Mr and Mrs S emphasised that their complaint is about  age 
discrimination.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
The term of Mr and Mrs Ss interest only mortgage  expired in March  2019 with an unpaid 
balance of about £190,000. 
Mr and Mrs S had asked Nottingham  Building  Society to extend the term of their mortgage  
on a number of occasions since late 2015.  The society  declined, saying they hadnt provided 
evidence of a credible repayment  strategy at the end of any extended term.
In March 2019 Nottingham Building  Society extended the term of Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage  
to June 2019. This was to allow them time to sell a buy-to-let property which Mr and Mrs S 
said they were marketing for sale. It said it would consider a further extension in June  if the 
property was on the market and not yet sold. 
Mr and Mrs S say Nottingham Building Society declined to extend the term for a longer 
period due to age discrimination.  They say theres no other reason for their request to be 
declined. I think it might be helpful here if I set out the rules on mortgage  regulation  that 
Nottingham Building Society had to follow when dealing with Mr and Mrs Ss request.
The regulator (the Financial  Conduct  Authority or FCA) sets out in its rules that it expects 
stringent assessments  of affordability  and, for interest  only mortgages, repayment  strategy  
before lenders agree to enter  into or vary mortgages.
There are two exceptions to this for mortgages taken out before 2014.  First,  where an 
existing mortgage  is to be varied and theres  no change to its terms likely to be material  to 
affordability. And, if the first exception doesnt  apply,  the lender doesnt have to carry out an 
assessment of affordability  or repayment strategy provided the loan balance hasnt 
increased since 2014 and the proposed change is in the borrowers  best interests. 
Ref: DRN05601702Mr and Mrs S want to vary their mortgage by extending the term. This is a change  likely to 
be material to affordability. But Nottingham  Building Society could  offer this  despite any 
concerns about  affordability or the repayment strategy  if it would be in Mr and Mrs Ss best 
interests. And its fair to say that affordability  and repayment strategy are not the only factors  
that Nottingham Building Society might  need  to consider  they also include the fact that 
Mr and Mrs S agreed, when they took it out, to repay their mortgage  in 2019.
Mr and Mrs S say they want more time to arrange repayment of the mortgage.  Mr S told 
Nottingham Building Societys complaint  handler  they hadnt specified  a three years 
extension and would have been  happy  with two years or even one year.  Mr and Mrs S told 
Nottingham Building Society they have a buy-to-let property which  they intend to sell to 
repay the mortgage. Mr S told the society  in spring  2019 that this property was worth 
£260,000 to £300,000,  notice to end the tenancy expired in May 2019  and they were  
marketing it for sale. Mr S told Nottingham Building  Society their children prefer them  to sell 
their property rather than use equity release. When they brought the complaint to us, Mr and 
Mrs S told us they intend to downsize.
Mr and Mrs S do have  options for repaying  their mortgage. They dont  want  to take out an 
equity release product, which they consider would be expensive. So, in order to repay the 
mortgage, Mr and Mrs S will have to sell one of their properties.
Mr and Mrs S havent said why they didnt arrange  for the sale of their buy to let property 
before their mortgage  term expired. They  havent  said theres a reason why they cant sell 
the buy to let property  or (if they do downsize) their residential property  now.
I dont think it would  be in Mr and Mrs Ss best interests for the mortgage term to be 
extended. Their  means  of repayment  the sale of one or both of their properties  wont  be 
different at the end of any extension. They will have paid more interest in the meantime. And 
theres no guarantee property values wont fall, or that it wont be more difficult  to sell the 
properties at that time. Mr S told Nottingham Building Society that Mrs S has dementia. Im 
sorry to hear this, and appreciate the difficulties this can cause. It might  become more 
difficult for Mr and Mrs S to make  arrangements  to repay the mortgage in future. 
I need to be fair to both parties  here,  and Nottingham Building Society has a right to expect  
its money to be repaid  when the mortgage  term expires. Mr and Mrs S agreed to do this 
when they took out the mortgage. 
Nottingham Building Society provided  notes and recordings of calls with Mr S. I think  the 
society was consistent  in its discussions with Mr S from late 2015  that it wouldnt extend  the 
term. 
The society  agreed  in March 2019  to extend the term of Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage  for three  
months to allow them  time to sell their buy-to-let property. It said it would consider renewing  
this if the property was being marketed. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic there were 
restrictions in place  in Spring 2020.  However, the property market has been open and active  
since then. I think Nottingham Building  Society has been fair in allowing Mr and Mrs S 
additional time to sell the property.
Mr S says he didnt know before that Nottingham Building Society would have extended the 
term if hed provided evidence of a repayment  strategy. He says its evidence  of age 
discrimination that it wont extend  the term now (he says the only difference  between  then 
Ref: DRN05601703and now is that they are older).  I dont think thats a reasonable conclusion.  If Mr S had 
provided evidence  of a repayment  strategy  in (say) 2015 or 2017, the society would have  
considered his request. But the rules  on mortgage  regulation the society would have had to 
apply would have  been the same as Ive described above. Mr and Mrs Ss repayment 
strategy would  have been the same as it is now. And so the outcome  would,  most  likely, 
have been the same.
Mr S says hes been discriminated against  due to his age. I havent seen anything to support 
this. I think Nottingham Building  Society considered Mr and Mrs Ss request for a term 
extension, and applied the rules on mortgage regulation,  fairly.   
What happens  now?
Nottingham Building Society extended the term of Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage  to allow them  
time to sell their buy-to-let property. It says it will consider extending this provided the 
property is being  marketed. It agreed to put any action it might otherwise have taken on hold 
while the complaint  has been with us.
Due to the Covid-19 pandemic  and related Government restrictions,  the regulator issued 
guidelines. It recently issued new guidance  in effect from 20 November 2020. This sets out 
the regulators expectations about tailored forbearance and how lenders should approach 
repossessions. Nottingham Building Society should take this, and any further  guidance into 
account.
Hopefully Mr and Mrs S will be able to repay the mortgage by the sale of their buy to let 
property, or the sale of their residential  property if they do downsize as they say they intend 
to do. If this is no longer their intention, or isnt possible for some other reason, Id urge Mr 
and Mrs S look into other options  to repay  their mortgage. Mr and Mrs S should keep 
Nottingham Building Society informed about  the steps theyre  taking to repay  the mortgage. 
And, as Ive said, the society should  take the regulators guidance into account  and bear in 
mind it has to treat Mr and Mrs S fairly. But, ultimately,  if Mr and Mrs S arent  able to repay  
the mortgage Nottingham Building Society will be entitled to take possession of their 
property as a last resort.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 December  2020.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0560170