K821x#15complaint
Mr C has complained about misleading  values  provided by Scottish  Equitable Plc for his 
pension plans. He has asked for his pension benefits to be backdated until 2012.  He says as 
this is when he would have taken benefits  but for Scottish Equitables errors.
background
Mr C had six pension plans with Scottish Equitable. Four of these were invested  in the with-
profits fund. Guaranteed annuity  rates also applied to those  four plans. Mr C intended to take 
his benefits at age 60 using the guaranteed annuity  rates.
Scottish Equitable  sent Mr C statements showing  the value of his plans. Mr C had stopped  
paying contributions to his plans in 2008. When he came to draw benefits in 2012 it was 
identified that errors  had been made in the valuations sent to him. This affected the value of 
three of his plans. The values  were  much lower than he had been led to believe. He delayed 
taking benefits.  He complained about  the values and the complaint was referred to this 
service.
One of my colleagues  issued a decision about  Mr Cs complaint. She concluded  that Mr C 
had suffered a loss of expectation and not an actual financial loss. She wasnt satisfied that 
Mr C delayed taking his benefits as a result  of Scottish Equitables  error; or that he had 
made financial commitments.  Scottish Equitable offered £3,000  for the distress  and 
inconvenience caused by its errors.
Since my colleague issued her final decision Mr C has had further correspondence with 
Scottish Equitable.  He has also taken his pension benefits. As a result of the further  
correspondence he has been offered an uplift in the value of his pension  benefits. This was 
after the calculation  of his fund values  was referred  to Scottish  Equitables chief  actuary.
Scottish Equitables  position:
Mr Cs plans were  traditional with-profits investments. The value was not calculated  
by reference to underlying fund links.
At the outset a contractual  rate of premium becomes payable in exchange for a 
defined benefit  at maturity. Bonuses could  be added to that benefit. A terminal bonus 
could also be paid.
When values for early surrender are calculated it is assumed the earliest  surrender 
date is the original maturity. The benefits  payable are then recalculated. This is 
further complicated if the policy  is made  paid up. There is no concept of an exact  
basis of calculation. Pay outs for with profits funds may fall within a range rather  than 
have a defined  value.
The chief  actuarys report  of 5 December 2016 provided a detailed explanation. The 
premium payment frequency for Mr Cs plans changed. The first 14 years  were paid 
annually. This was 77% of the value.  Making  this adjustment  meant the offer to Mr C 
increased. Mr C has now accepted the offer.
They have not changed their calculation  approach. However they have identified 
customers who have altered their plans.  The methodology previously described to us 
does fulfil its obligations.
They did not provide incorrect valuations to this service. There  are a number of 
methods to identify  the correct valuation for with profits plans. The valuation  
previously sent is within the range of acceptable values.
Ref: DRN03591982I issued my provisional decision on this case in December 2018. I set out the background as 
repeated above.  I went on to explain  that my colleague had dealt with most of the issues in 
2015. I was considering the impact of the new calculations on Mr Cs retirement plans. 
I concluded that the report from the chief actuary  provided a sensible way to calculate the 
value of Mr Cs plans.  However, my colleague dealt with most  of the issues Mr C has raised 
in her decision. The error that has since been identified was relatively  minor.  I didnt think 
that would  have caused Mr C to alter his retirement planning.
I thought that Mr C had been caused  a great  deal of distress by Scottish Equitables errors. 
A payment of £500  was appropriate to compensate for those issues.
Aegon accepted my provisional decision.  
Mr C didnt agree with my provisional decision.  In summary, he said:
He believed these  are the main points, 
1.Aegon miscalculated his pension policies in 2012 to 2014.
2.Aegon misled  him to not take his benefit  in October 2012 after the values had 
dropped saying the fall was temporary.  Aegon said they had overstated  their 
bonuses in 2012 so reduced  them in the third quarter  of 2012. He wanted to 
know for what period  the values were overstated.
3.After the final decision  in November 2015 he was given the formula  Aegon  
had used to show  the ombudsman the calculations Aegon had been  using.  
He realised these  calculations were incorrect. Aegon have increased the 
valuation of three policies by £23,643 . He had asked Aegon if the values of 
his other  polices were  correct. Aegon have given no information.  He believes 
all these policies have  been miscalculated  from 1987. 
4.When he was sold these pension  polices it was on the understanding that 
when the company  makes a profit the policy holder benefits. That is what  he 
was told "with-profits' means.  Why have  Aegon bonuses dropped?
He thought his complaint would be passed to the Pensions Ombudsman  Service.
My provisional decision had only looked at point 4. Not all of the main points. He had 
six policies with Aegon  and was concerned about the valuations from 1984 to 2016.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Should this complaint be passed to the Pensions Ombudsman Service?
Mr Cs complaint is about the administration of his pension plans. That is a regulated activity 
and something that the Financial Ombudsman  Service can deal with. We may refer 
complaints about  maladministration to the Pensions  Ombudsman Service,  but we arent 
obliged to do that. In this case, my colleague has already issued a decision about the events 
Mr C is complaining about. It is not appropriate for me to refer the complaint to the Pensions 
Ombudsman about the remaining issue.
Ref: DRN03591983What issues have already  been dealt with?
My colleague dealt with issues  about  the valuations produced  by Aegon and bonuses  added 
to Mr Cs with-profits policies. She concluded that Aegon had made mistakes with the 
valuations, but had put those mistakes right. She also explained that final bonuses arent 
guaranteed and were not something wed usually interfere with. Aegon  had given  Mr C 
information about how the bonuses  were calculated and referred him to the CFPPFM 
(Customer Friendly  Principles  & Practices of Financial Management).
Mr C is still not happy  about the bonuses added to his policy.  I can understand why he is 
unhappy because  Aegon has made  a number of mistakes with his pension plans. However, 
there isnt any new evidence to make  me think that the bonuses  havent been allocated  
correctly. Bonuses  on most with-profits policies have been reduced over a number of years, 
so Im not surprised that the bonuses  werent  as high as Mr C was expecting. Thats  the 
normal approach  that we would use in dealing with similar complaints.
Im satisfied that these  issues were  dealt with by my colleague in her final decision.
Mr C has six policies with Aegon
Mr C said that he had six policies with Aegon and not four. We have therefore contacted 
Aegon to establish whether a complaint has been  made about the other two policies and 
whether the values have been calculated correctly.  Aegon has checked values for those two 
policies and confirmed  that they are correct. Mr C has been provided with those details.
What are the remaining issues? 
The issue  that remains for me to deal with is the valuation of Mr Cs policies made after my 
colleague issued  her final decision. 
Is the latest valuation provided by Aegon correct?
I have reviewed all of the evidence about  the valuation including  a report from Aegons chief 
actuary. This is what  I said in my provisional  decision:
Mr C paid annual premiums to his pension plan. This was the first 14 years.  He then 
amended the plan to pay monthly premiums.  Subsequently the plan was made paid up in 
2008. The calculation  of the plan values provides a higher value if premiums are paid 
annually, as they are paid in advance.  This appears logical to me as the premiums are 
invested for longer. 
Mr Cs plan values were  calculated on the basis that he had paid monthly premiums. It 
wasnt until the chief actuary reviewed the matter that an adjustment  was made to the plan 
values. That was to allow for part of the value to be calculated using annual premiums. The 
plan values therefore increased.  Scottish Equitable has argued that there is more than one 
way of calculating  the value and that the value should fall within  an acceptable range. I dont  
agree. Let me explain why.
In this case, Mr C paid annual premiums for 14 years. If the policy  had been made paid up at 
that point the value  of those premiums would  have been greater than treating them  as 
monthly premiums. But because Mr C then converted the policy  to a monthly premium basis  
those premiums were treated as having  a lower value. That cannot  be right.
Ref: DRN03591984In my view, the report set out by the chief actuary provides a sensible way to calculate  a 
policy value. It reflects what actually happened. It appears to me that any other method has 
been adopted because of limitations in the systems.  So I think  that the value now provided to 
Mr C uses the correct  basis.
Mr C has made some  points about  the information  and valuations  provided about his 
policies. I accept that Aegon provided misleading  and incorrect information to Mr C over a 
number of years. Most of these points were dealt with by my colleague in her final decision 
issued in November  2015. 
In Mr Cs response to my provisional  decision he made the point I have  only looked at part of 
his complaint. I can confirm I have  reconsidered all of the available  evidence. But in deciding 
this complaint that I am trying to consider what impact the new evidence  would have  made 
to Mr C when deciding  about taking his pension  benefits. As most of those points had been 
dealt with by my colleague I have to consider what impact the new evidence would have.
Would Aegons latest miscalculation  have made  a difference to Mr Cs actions?
Aegon made  a number of errors in the calculation of the value of Mr Cs pension  policies. 
These could have influenced  him when he decided how to take the benefits and what dates. 
As my colleague dealt  with those issues I need  to consider whether the additional error 
made that has now been rectified would have  altered his decision. In my view,  the latest 
error is relatively minor  in considering the total value of Mr Cs pension  benefits. My 
conclusion from this is that this error would not have altered his decision about taking 
benefits.
I realise that Mr C will be disappointed with my decision. He has clearly been  caused a lot of 
distress and inconvenience because of multiple errors made by Aegon  with his pension  
policies. I remain of the view that a payment of £500  is appropriate for the distress and 
inconvenience Mr C has been  caused.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint. Scottish Equitable Plc must  now pay Mr C sum of £500.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 August 2019.
Roy Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0359198