K820x#14complaint
Mrs G complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, mis-sold her a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. The complaint is brought on her behalf by a 
claims management company.
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2007.  The policy was added  to 
Mrs Gs credit card account during a phone call after the card had been set up.
Our adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint should be upheld.  Mrs G disagreed. 
Her representative said, on her behalf  and in summary, that:
It wouldve been difficult for Mrs G to work out how much the policy  was actually going to 
cost, so she couldnt decide  if it was good value for money.
It wasnt made clear that the policy was optional.
Barclaycard didnt take into account that Mrs G wouldve received sick pay from her 
employer, so she didnt  need  the policy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Gs complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Gs complaint because:
Mrs G had applied for the card online and knew her application  had been  successful. 
The PPI was sold a couple of months later, so she knew  she didnt have to take the PPI 
to get the credit  card. Although I cant be sure exactly what  was said during the phone  
call, Im satisfied that the call script  wouldve required the member of staff to make 
Mrs G aware that the policy was optional. And, in all likelihood, this call script wouldve  
been followed. So, overall, I think Barclaycard made Mrs G aware  that the PPI was 
optional and that she chose to take it.
Barclaycard recommended  the PPI to Mrs G, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable  
for her based on what Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time. She told Barclaycard 
she wouldve received  13 to 26 weeks pay from her employer if she couldnt work due to 
sickness or an accident. The PPI wouldve paid out for longer - up to 12 months  in the 
event of a successful claim. So I think it couldve  been a useful benefit  bearing in mind  
Mrs G said she didnt  have any other means of meeting  her repayments. It also covered 
her if shed become unemployed.
Ref: DRN00939502Its possible  the information Barclaycard gave Mrs G about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
should have been. But Mrs G chose to take out the policy and so appears to have 
wanted this type of cover. She wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations 
and the policy  was competitively priced and apparently  affordable.  So I think  it unlikely 
Mrs G would  have made a different decision if better information  had been  provided. On 
balance I think she would still have  taken out the policy.
But Barclaycard has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs G because:  
Barclaycard got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs G about  that. Because  Barclaycard didnt tell 
Mrs G, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclaycard has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays  Bank UK PLC, 
trading as Barclaycard, does not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs G.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, does have to pay back to Mrs G any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand 
it has already done this, so I dont award any further  compensation.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0093950