K820x#14complaint
Mrs B is unhappy with Phoenix Life Assurance Limited (Phoenix) because she feels  it 
mis-sold her the life assurance policy she took out. 
Mrs B is represented by her husband  Mr B - on this complaint.
background
Mrs B took out a term assurance policy in December  1992 for the life of her husband. The 
policy was renewable on an annual basis and was set up for a term of 31 years. The amount 
of life cover  was £20,000 and the initial monthly premium was £6.08. The current  life cover  
amount is £35,809  and the monthly premium is £34.74. The expiry date on the policy was 
set as 28 December  2023  providing the premiums  were paid and kept up to date. 
Mrs B has raised some specific points as to why shes  feels she was mis-sold the policy. 
She says:
She was misled by the adviser and thought  the policy she was taking out was a 
whole of life policy  rather than a term assurance policy;
The adviser didnt  explain that the policy had an expiry date and had no surrender 
value; and
Shes unhappy that if the policy is cancelled, the premiums wont be refunded.
Phoenix looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. It said it hadnt found any evidence 
that the policy had been mis-sold to Mrs B. The documentation completed  at the time 
showed Mrs B had a need for life cover. Phoenix said that it believed  the policy was suitable  
and affordable. 
Mrs B referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into the complaint and 
said he didnt think Phoenix  had mis-sold the policy and didnt therefore require it to do 
anything further.  
Mrs B didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to make a decision. So the complaint has 
now been passed to me. Mrs B says:
She doesnt think its reasonable to expect  that she reads all the small print;
Its not reasonable to take Phoenixs word as it doesnt have the supporting  
paperwork as evidence; and
Phoenix has already  had to pay out on mis-sold PPI policies sold around the same 
time which shows that she too must  have been  mis-sold the policy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to say firstly that I appreciate the policy was sold a long time ago and I understand 
Mrs Bs concerns that theres  a lack of some of the documents.  The paperwork is limited but 
its also not unusual  in circumstances such as this. To reassure Mrs B, while not all the 
Ref: DRN07243442evidence from the sale is now available, I have looked at what is available from both parties 
and my decision is based on whats most likely  to have  happened at the time..
The policy itself was designed to have a review each year. The review was based  on the age 
of the life assured, the level of life cover and the premium rates  that apply each year.  The 
amount of life cover  could also have been  increased depending on whether this option was 
included at the time of taking the policy. Usually, the premium  of this type of policy  is low to 
start with and as the life assured gets older,  the cost of providing the life cover  becomes 
more expensive meaning higher premiums as the policy gets further into the term. Theres 
no cash value and the policy provides life cover only. If the life assured  survives the term, no 
sum is payable.
In terms of the documents completed at the time of sale,  Phoenix  has said it doesnt have 
the fact find. But it has provided other  supporting documentation which  Ive looked at. 
The client profile  form shows  that a recommendation of the policy was made because  of the 
need of life cover for an interest  only mortgage  and the ability to pay back loan
The proposal form for the policy  shows that it was being arranged  for a term of 31 years and 
it was on a renewable  term basis. Mr and Mrs B both signed the proposal form.
The policy terms and conditions provide further information about  the annual  renewable term 
benefit. This says:
 On the death  of the Assured before the Termination Date  the Sum Assured will be 
payable. The Sum Assured is the amount shown in the Schedule as varied in 
accordance with the appropriate conditions of this policy.
Mrs B received annual  statements which Ive also looked at. The start date and the end date 
of the policy  are clearly  shown in these statements. Theres no ambiguity in the way the 
information has been presented which could in any way suggest  that the policy was a whole 
of life one. 
Theres a letter dated 28 January 2016  which Phoenix sent to Mrs B. This gives information 
to Mrs B setting out the benefits of the policy and again, includes the start date and the end 
date of the policy. It also provides other  information about the policy: 
The protection benefits stop at the point of expiry.  Your policy only provides 
protection benefits and will never have a cash-in value. Your policy will end on 28 
December 2023  at which point the protection benefits will stop.
From what  Ive seen in the documents, Im not persuaded  that the information presented 
was unclear or mis-leading.  Theres nothing in these to suggest  the policy was anything  
other than a term assurance. I also cant see anything that refers to the policy  being a whole 
of life. 
I can see there was an option for Mrs B to convert the policy  to either  a whole  of life or an 
endowment. This had to happen before Mr Bs 60th birthday. If Mrs B had intended to convert 
the policy, I cant see that this ever happened. 
Ive also carefully considered Mrs Bs comments to us. I realise the sale took place over 25 
years ago and therefore its not always possible to remember every detail of what happened 
Ref: DRN07243443during the sale.  So while Mrs B says she shouldnt be expected to read all the small-print, in 
the absence of anything else, this is the information we have as evidence  and its inevitable 
that we have to rely on this paperwork as part of the overall submissions from Mrs B and 
Phoenix. I understand the information  from the point of sale is also limited.  But additionally, 
Mrs B was sent annual  statements which also had the policy information and I cant  ignore 
this either.  
In regards to Phoenix paying out on mis-sold PPI policies, I cant  comment on this as its not 
relevant. Im only looking at the individual circumstances and the merits of this case. 
I appreciate that Mrs B would like the premiums refunded because she believes the policy  
was mis-sold. However, Im satisfied that taking into account the circumstances of this case,  
the policy wasnt mis-sold. Theres nothing to suggest that taking out a term assurance 
policy was an incorrect choice for Mrs B based on her needs at the time. While  she thought 
she had a whole of life policy, all the documentation from the point of sale,  and 
subsequently, points to the policy having a set term with an end date of 28 December 2023. 
Overall, I dont  think Phoenix mis-sold the policy to Mrs B and I therefore  dont require  it to 
do anything further.  
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, Im not upholding Mrs Bs complaint against  Phoenix Life 
Assurance Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 June 2019.
Nimisha Radia
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0724344