K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2004 to 
cover the repayments  on loans ending *975 and *983. Mr and Mrs H say Northern Bank
Limited (NBL) mis-sold  them the policy.
background
Mr and Mrs H took out a PPI policy in 2004 to cover  Mr H if he was unable  to work because
of illness,  injury or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should  uphold the complaint in full. Mr and Mrs H disagree,
so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
In my provisional decision of 19 February 2019  I set out why I wasnt minded to uphold the 
complaint about  the mis-sale of the policy and I invited  both parties  to make any further 
submissions before I reached a final decision.  Neither NBL nor Mr and Mrs H have made  
any further submissions.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Hs case.
In my provisional decision,  I explained  that: 
Currently, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold and Ill explain why
Mr and Mrs H took out a mortgage in 2004. Their mortgage  application  form had a separate 
section for PPI. There is nothing on this form indicating  the PPI was compulsory.
Mr and Mrs H had requested a benefit amount  of £550 to cover  Mr H only.  They  appear  to 
have also written out an amount of £550  for Mrs H but then crossed this out. So, to me it 
looks like they were  aware they had a choice about  taking PPI.
I understand this form mightve been  completed  in branch, but I wouldve expected  Mr and 
Mrs H to have looked  over the form before  signing it. So, overall, based on everything  Ive 
seen I think its more  likely NBL made  it clear the PPI was optional and that Mr and Mrs H 
agreed to take it to cover Mr H only.
The policy document that applied to Mr and Mrs Hs policy is no longer available.  But NBL 
has been able to provide  me with a policy summary which  Ive looked at, as well as 
considering what  I know  more widely about how these policies worked. This has helped me 
decide what the policy terms would likely have said to enable me complete my assessment 
of this case.
NBL says it recommended  the PPI to Mr H (as the sole policy  holder) so it had to check if the 
PPI was right for him. And based  on what Ive seen  of Mr Hs circumstances at the time, I 
think that it was. For example, he was eligible for the policy  and he wasnt  affected by any of 
the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover.
Ref: DRN05042292Based on what Ive seen,  Mr H also seems to have had a need  for the cover. Mr H told us he 
had good sick pay provided by his employer as well as mentioning other employee benefits.
But this policy wouldve paid out on top of his employee benefits.  It wouldve paid out for up 
to 12 months if Mr H was unable to work because illness  or injury  so potentially longer than 
his full sick pay wouldve  lasted. It also provided up to 12 months of cover  for unemployment. 
And having the policy wouldve left his sick pay and any other means  he mightve had 
available for Mr H to use on other  essential  expenditure.  So I still think the PPI couldve been 
useful for them.
Its possible the information NBL gave Mr and Mrs H about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But I think  they chose to take it out - so it looks  like they wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful  for them  if something  went  wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable.
Which means NBL doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H. But 
NBL has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H because:
NBL got a high level of commission  and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs H about that. Because NBL didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs H, that was unfair.
To put that right, NBL has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
cancellation of the PPI
Mr and Mrs H have complained that they thought the PPI would end automatically when the 
loans were repaid,  but its only when they noticed  the payments still going  out of the account,  
that they contacted NBL who then cancelled  the policy. Having looked  though  everything  Ive 
been provided with, it looks  as though  loan *975 was closed in 2005 and loan *983 was 
closed in 2012. But the PPI remained in place until 2013 despite  both loans being  closed.
NBL says its PPI policy was portable so it was kept in place to cover  other  loans Mr and
Mrs H mightve  had and it was up to Mr and Mrs H to cancel it if they no longer required the 
cover after the loan was repaid.
But Ive had a look through the policy summary  and it does suggest  that customers  needed 
to have a loan with NBL in order to be eligible for cover. NBL has confirmed Mr and Mrs H 
had no loans open with them after loan *983 was closed in 2012.
The summary also says the PPI will end when the loan is repaid and not replaced with a new 
loan. Which seems to be what happened  in this case   and in line with what  Mr and Mrs H 
believed would happen.
So it looks  like Mr and Mrs H were  charged for PPI that they were no longer eligible for, and 
a policy  was kept in place  when it should  have been  cancelled in accordance with the likely 
policy terms. Overall,  I think  the PPI shouldve ended in 2012 when the final loan was repaid 
so I intend to uphold this aspect of Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
As explained above, neither NBL nor Mr and Mrs H have made any additional comments  in 
response to my provisional  decision. In the absence of any new points for me to consider,  I 
Ref: DRN05042293find no reason to depart from my original  findings  as set out in my provisional decision.  So 
although I dont  think this policy was mis-sold, I do uphold  Mr and Mrs Hs complaint about 
the delayed cancellation of the policy. 
what the business needs  to do
NBL should  refund to Mr and Mrs H the PPI premiums it charged after loan *983 was closed 
in 2012 until the policy was eventually  cancelled in 2013. It should:
Pay Mr and Mrs H the amount they paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% a year*.
Deduct any payment its already made  in relation to the commission Mr and Mrs H 
paid for this part of the PPI premium.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs H can claim back  the tax if they dont pay 
tax.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint in part. Northern  Bank 
Limited must  put things right by doing  what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 April 2019.
Asma Begum
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0504229