K820x#14complaint
Ms M is unhappy that Nationwide  Building Society  (Nationwide) hasnt  refunded her, under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act (CCA),  for the cost of a holiday membership club she 
purchased on her credit card.
background
In November 2010, Ms M made a payment  for £2,865.23 from her Nationwide  Gold credit 
card to the supplier of the membership club.  Shes told us this was the balance for 60,000 
points, which  she felt pressured into purchasing during a lengthy presentation that she 
believed was with a reputable travel company. 
Ms M wrote to Nationwide in November 2015  to make a claim under section 75 for a refund 
on the money paid to the supplier as she felt there  had been a breach of contract  and 
product was misrepresented. She also provided  it with a partial copy of the purchase 
agreement.
Nationwide responded to Ms Ms request for a refund and requested additional  information  
which it said was required in order for them to investigate the claim. This information wasnt  
provided, so Nationwide didnt agree to refund the money. 
The investigator who looked into Ms Ms complaint  agreed a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation couldnt  be established  without the requested information. 
Ms M was unhappy with this and asked for a decision. We attempted  on several further 
occasions to get the information  Nationwide had also tried to gather, but Ms M confirmed it 
wasnt available. However,  during  these requests Ms M confirmed that she paid the deposit 
of £4,639.17 using a different credit  card with another bank, which I shall refer to as 
Company B. This amount was refunded by Company B immediately after Ms M notified them 
of it.
my findings
Ive carefully considered  all the available evidence and arguments  to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  it. I have  
set out my reasoning below. 
Ms M is seeking to rely on the protections set out in Section 75 of the CCA. In certain 
scenarios Section 75 will enable a consumer to submit a claim directly  to their lender in the 
event of misrepresentation or breach of contract  on the part of the supplier.  However,  it is 
important to note that Section 75 does not provide an automatic entitlement to a refund of 
the goods or services purchased. Instead,  a consumer  must first prove  that they have a valid 
claim. 
Having looked  through all of the information available,  I think  it was reasonable of 
Nationwide to decline to investigate her claim until it had been  provided with the necessary 
information to support  Ms Ms claim. 
Ref: DRN09945452Ms M says she has a claim against  the supplier  because  she believes it made false  
statements when describing and ultimately selling  her the membership. To substantiate this 
claim, Nationwide would need to see that the supplier did make the statements Ms M alleges 
and that those statements were false resulting in Ms M suffering  a loss. To do that, it would 
need to review what was said and what information Ms M relied  on at the point of sale.
To assess Ms Ms claim, Nationwide requested:
A copy of the contract with the supplier detailing exactly  what was purchased 
All evidence to substantiate  the claim for breach of contract and misrepresentation 
A copy of all correspondence with the merchant
Any other documentation to support the claim
I can see Ms M provided a copy of her purchase  agreement, but the document doesnt 
provide any detail about the issues shes raising  with the contract. It does not set out what  
Ms M would receive by becoming a member or how the scheme was intended to work. It 
does point to additional documents, including the terms  and conditions  of Purchase and 
Membership, Member Declaration  Disclosure  Statement and Scheme  Rules but Ms M says 
she didnt receive  these attachments. 
This information is important because it would allow us to compare what  was promised with 
what Ms M said happened. In her complaint letter, Ms M has said that she was told by 
purchasing 60,000 points  shed be able to take two holidays per year and be able to easily 
sell the points to existing customers who would want additional points. She also states she 
was not given a cooling off period or told there  would be a £100 fee when making a booking. 
She also believes the sales presentation was orchestrated in a way to suggest that it was 
being sold by a more reputable travel company. 
Without any contractual evidence to check these allegations against or correspondence with 
the supplier, it would be difficult for Nationwide to say the supplier misrepresented  the 
product or breached  its contract with Ms M, so I dont think  its unreasonable  for Nationwide  
to decline Ms Ms claim. 
Its unfortunate that Ms M is unable  to locate these documents, but as it stands, I dont think  
Nationwide has done anything wrong.  
I note Ms Ms comments about  the fact that Company B refunded her the full deposit  back  
without question in August  2017 (the balance was paid by Nationwide). However, I can see 
that this was an ex-gratia offer, made by Company B in full and final settlement without any 
admission of liability. So, because Company  B offered to refund this on a commercial basis 
without considering the claim, I cant say Nationwide  should be compelled to do the same. 
Taking everything into account,  I think Nationwide has acted fairly and reasonably so I am 
not going to direct it to do anything further  to resolve this complaint. 
Ref: DRN09945453My final decision  
For the reasons  detailed  above, I do not uphold Ms Ms complaint against Nationwide  
Building Society. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or
reject my decision  before 13 April 2020.
Lucy Wilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0994545