K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC declined his credit card applications  and hasnt told 
him why. Mr C is concerned hes been  blacklisted because of a late payment in March 2018.
background
Mr C has held a credit card with Lloyds for a number of years. In February 2018 he didnt  
receive his monthly  statement and, as a result, his payment  was made around 10 days  late 
in March 2018. 
Mr C has told us that he subsequently tried to take advantage of a 2.9%  purchase  interest  
rate offer and both he and his wife tried to call Lloyds to accept. Lloyds wasnt  able to put the 
offer in place  because  of some discrepancies with Mr Cs date of birth on its systems. Mr C 
says he was then told to apply for a new credit card with Lloyds which  couldve given him a 
0% interest rate. 
The credit card application wasnt approved because  it didnt  meet Lloyds criteria. Lloyds 
hasnt provided  a specific reason explaining why the application was declined.  
Mr C complained as he feels hes been  blacklisted by Lloyds. Lloyds responded and 
apologised for the problems  Mr C experienced in relation to his date of birth.  It paid Mr C £36 
to cover the cost of his calls. But Lloyds didnt  agree  itd made  an error by declining Mr Cs 
credit card application. 
Mr C referred  his complaint to this service and an adjudicator looked at what had happened. 
He confirmed no adverse  information had been  reported to the credit reference agencies  in 
relation to the late payment in March 2018. The adjudicator thought Lloyds  had dealt with 
Mr Cs complaint fairly so didnt ask it to do anything further. Mr C remains  unhappy  as he 
feels he still hasnt been given a good  enough  reason for his application being declined.  
Mr C asked for his complaint to be appealed so its been passed to me to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr C is a long standing customer of Lloyds and has held his credit  card for 
many years. I appreciate why hes concerned that Lloyds  declined his application after such  
a long relationship which appears  to have been positive. But, unfortunately, the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service  cant force Lloyds to give either Mr C or us the specific 
reasons behind its decision not to proceed. I appreciate thats  going  to disappoint Mr C. 
Businesses are free to set their application criteria in line with their commercial judgement. 
By giving specific reasons  for an application being  declined its often possible for the banks 
criteria to become public. So businesses wont generally say what  the specific  reason for an 
application being declined is. And whilst  I understand  why Mr C wants to know, Im not able 
to force  Lloyds to provide  that level of detail. Lloyds  is allowed to proceed by explaining  that 
Mr Cs application was declined because it didnt meet its criteria, it doesnt  have to say 
exactly why. 
Ref: DRN09953732I know Mr C is concerned  that the late payment  in March  2018 led to a negative mark being  
placed against him, effectively blacklisting him from future products. But Ive not seen 
anything to indicate thats the case.  Lloyds has provided evidence to show that it didnt 
report the late payment  from March  2018  to the credit reference agencies.  That means no 
one from outside  Lloyds knows the payment was made a bit later than normal. 
Lloyds has also confirmed  that the application was automatically declined by its systems.  
Lloyds application  system takes  all the information provided by a customer  and looks  at 
information it holds  internally as well data supplied by the credit reference  agencies. It then 
assesses the application  in line with Lloyds criteria  in order to reach a decision. Im satisfied, 
from what Ive seen,  that Lloyds assessed  Mr Cs application fairly and its decision not to 
proceed was reasonable. I appreciate that Mr C wants to specifically know whether the late 
payment in March  2018 was the reason  behind  the banks decision but its not possible to 
provide that level of detail. 
Im satisfied Lloyds is entitled to keep this information confidential due to its commercially 
sensitive nature. Ive looked at all the information Lloyds has provided but Ive not found 
anything to indicate Mr Cs been blacklisted for future products. But any new product  or 
service Mr C would  like to take advantage  of will be subject to Lloyds application criteria at 
the time.  
As Ive not found any evidence of a mistake by Lloyds Im not telling it take any further action 
to resolve this complaint. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject  my decision 
before 22 February  2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0995373