K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains about the interest calculation when he requested a settlement figure from 
Santander Consumer  (UK) Plc.
background
In June 2018 Mr H was supplied with a car and entered into a Conditional Sale Personal 
Contract Purchase agreement with Santander.  
In August  2018  Mr H requested a settlement figure from the website, which  quoted him a 
figure of £25,945.58 against a balance of £31,226.65.  The settlement figure was valid until 
18th October 2018 and contained 58 days of interest.
Mr H contacted Santander and said he felt the interest was too high. During  the conversation 
Santander incorrectly told Mr H that the rate of interest applicable  to his agreement was 
9.9% APR or 7.65% PAF. Mr H corrected the agent and said the interest rate applicable to 
his agreement was 5.09% PAF.
Mr H feels that the interest  has been calculated incorrectly or that it has been  calculated on 
the balance each month instead of on a pro rata basis.  Mr H also says he wasnt  advised of 
the mandatory interest he would have to pay if he withdrew from the agreement early.
Santander has acknowledged that it gave  incorrect advice  on the telephone but has 
provided evidence  that the settlement figure  has been calculated using the correct interest 
rate of 5.09% PAF.
Mr H wasnt happy with Santanders response and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said the total interest charged under the 
agreement had been added to the balance at the outset and that this service  wasnt  able to 
interfere with a commercial decision of this nature. He also said Santander had provided 
evidence that the interest  rate applied to the agreement and used to calculate the settlement 
figure was 5.09% PAF.
Mr H didnt agree. He said hed entered into the agreement on the understanding that 
interest would  be applied on a flat rate basis. He said hed been charged an effective rate of 
over 10% and felt that the agreement had been  mis-sold  to him because hed been  told by 
the dealership  that there was no early payment penalty.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering the part of Mr Hs complaint which relates to mis-selling by the dealership,  Ive 
taken account  of what Mr H says he was told. However, there are no contemporaneous 
notes of the discussions which took place  between Mr H and the dealership  and because  I 
wasnt present I cant be certain  of what was said. In such  circumstances, I need to look at 
the available  documents  for the best evidence  of what  was discussed and agreed.
Ref: DRN00647142Ive reviewed the agreement including the terms and conditions.  These say that interest  will 
be charged on the amount of credit at the daily amount  shown on the front page of the 
agreement beginning  on the date when the credit is provided and ending on the date when 
the credit  and accrued interest  is repaid.  This indicates that the total amount  of interest is 
added to the agreement at drawdown.  Although I understand that Mr H is unhappy about the 
agreement being  front loaded in this way, this is a business decision by Santander and not 
one with which I am able to interfere.
Ive reviewed the evidence provided  by Santander. Despite the incorrect  interest rate being 
quoted on the telephone, Im satisfied  that Santander has applied the correct rate of 5.09% 
to calculate the settlement figure.
I appreciate that Mr H is unhappy  about being  charged 58 days interest to withdraw  from the 
agreement early. Where a consumer requests to settle an agreement early,  the Consumer 
Credit (Early Settlement) Regulations  2004  say that the settlement  date is 28 days after 
receipt of the request.  The same regulations  also allow  the lender to defer  the settlement 
date by 30 days. Im satisfied that Santander  has applied  the regulations correctly when it 
provided the settlement quotation to Mr H.
Ive taken into account all of the points  made  by Mr H and I appreciate  that he still feels  that 
hes been charged too much interest. Santander  has provided a breakdown  of how interest 
has been calculated  and based  on the available evidence Im satisfied that the settlement 
figure was calculated in line with the rate of interest specified in the agreement and taking 
account of the early  settlement regulations which Ive mentioned above.
I appreciate that Mr H will be disappointed by my decision  because hes clearly paid more 
interest than he was expecting to pay. But on the available  evidence  I dont  think the interest  
is incorrect. 
I can see that Santander has already explained to Mr H that the interest he pays  at the start 
of the agreement will be greater than the interest paid in subsequent monthly repayments 
because the balance is higher. As Mr Hs balance reduces, his payment will consist of more 
capital and less interest.
For the reasons  Ive given Im unable to uphold the complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 October  2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0064714