K821x#15complaint
Miss H has complained about a number of loans  she took out through a company called 
Elevate Credit International Limited, trading at the time as Sunny. Miss H says she was lent 
to irresponsibly and the loans caused her financial problems.
To keep  things simple  Ill refer mainly to Sunny.
background
We now know that Miss H took out 6 instalment loans from Sunny between  November 2017 
and October 2018.  Ive enclosed a summary of Miss Hs borrowing with Sunny, based on the 
information it provided to us. It can be found  in the appendix at the end of this decision. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into the complaint and said they thought  it should  be upheld  
from the point of loan 4 onwards. Sunny doesnt  agree with this although it says it is 
prepared to otherwise  settle the complaint. That offer hasnt  been  agreed to, so complaint 
has therefore come to me for an ombudsmans final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. Ive followed this approach when thinking  about  Miss Hs 
complaint.
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure that 
Miss H could repay all the loans  she was given in a sustainable  manner.  These checks  
ought to have taken into account a range of different factors, such as the amounts being  
lent, the total repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. However,  certain factors  might point to the fact that 
Sunny should  have  fairly and reasonably done more to establish that any lending  was 
sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history or pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. So, Sunny was required to establish 
Ref: DRN04817652whether Miss H could  sustainably repay  the loans; not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course,  the loan being affordable on this basis might be an indication that Miss H could 
sustainably make the repayments.  But it doesnt  automatically follow  that this is the case. 
This is because the relevant regulations define  sustainable as being  without undue 
difficulties and in particular, the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments as well as without having to borrow  to meet the 
repayments. So, it follows that a lender should realise,  or it ought to have fairly and 
reasonably realised, that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments  sustainably if 
they are unlikely to be able to make them without borrowing further.
Sunny told us it carried out certain affordability and credit checks before agreeing to lend to 
Miss H. Ive thought about this and Ive also looked  at the overall  pattern of lending history 
with a view to seeing if there was a point at which Sunny should reasonably have seen  that 
further lending  was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. Ive considered whether, at some 
point, Sunny should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further  loans. 
Our adjudicator said that they thought the complaint about loans 1, 2, and 3 ought  not to be 
upheld as they appeared affordable. Ive looked  carefully at these and taken  note of Miss Hs 
declared income. Ive also looked at what she said about her monthly  expenditure. 
With this information,  and bearing in mind what Ive said above about the length of the 
lending relationship, I think the checks which Sunny most likely carried  out would have been 
quite basis ones. However, I also think they would  have  been proportionate for loans 1  3. 
And I think these levels of checks,  together with the income and expenditure details provided 
by Miss H, would have made those particular loans appear affordable  for her. 
I dont therefore  uphold this part of the complaint.
However, I think from the point of loan 4 onwards in this case  things would have  looked  
different and therefore required  a more thorough and responsible approach. Theres  no 
evidence Sunny altered its approach at the point  of loan number 4 to look more thoroughly at 
Miss Hs financial situation. I think if it had done this it would have shown she was having 
trouble managing her money  and was probably borrowing to meet  normal  ongoing 
commitments and those of other borrowing. 
We know for example,  that she was indebted to at least  one other short-term loan provider. 
Sunny would have  also been  able to see that she hadnt yet paid back loans 2 or 3; these 
were still outstanding. So even though loan 4 was for a reduced amount compared with her 
previous ones, the combined monthly  payments became the highest amount yet, because  of 
all the other  debt she still had. It seems  to be that Sunny took no account of these issues,  
and I think it was irresponsible to lend to Miss H at the point of loan 4 onwards.
In addition to the above,  at the point of loan 6, there  was an additional and clear pattern of 
repeated lending evident in my view. As before, loan 6 was taken out whilst some  of her 
other loans  remained  outstanding and the amount she asked for increased again.  So there 
was an obvious  dependency on high-interest, short-term lending evidenced by this, her sixth 
loan in less than 11 months.  
So Im also upholding  Miss Hs complaint in respect of loan 6 as well. Sunny repeatedly lent 
to Miss H in an unsustainable  manner because:
Ref: DRN04817653 
this loan had the effect  of unfairly  prolonging her indebtedness by allowing her to 
take expensive  credit intended  for short-term use, over an extended time period; and
the length of time over which Miss H borrowed  was likely to have had negative 
implications on her ability  to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market 
for these high-cost  loans.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Miss H paid on loans 4 - 6;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges on these from 
the date they were  paid (if they were)  to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loans 4 and 5 from Miss Hs credit  file;
loan 6 means any information recorded about  it is adverse. So all entries about loan 
6 should be completely removed from Miss Hs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give Miss H a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I partly uphold Miss Hs complaint. Elevate Credit  International 
Limited should put things right for Miss H as set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 June  2020.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Appendix
Ref: DRN04817654Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments AmountHighest 
Combined 
Repayment
1 28/11/2017 16/01/2018 6 £200 £61
2 25/03/2018 29/09/2018 6 £300 £100
3 02/04/2018 29/09/2018 6 £300 £197
4 01/06/2018 19/11/2018 6 £100 £230
5 29/07/2018 19/11/2018 6 £200 £296
6 14/10/2018 19/11/2018 6 £350 £216
Ref: DRN0481765