K821x#15The complaint
Mr Ls complaint is that he was given incorrect advice by Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited (VWFS)  about when to make payment when he was voluntarily terminating his 
hire purchase agreement (HPA). He said that this resulted in negative  information being 
recorded on his credit file. 
The details of this complaint are well known  to both parties, so I wont repeat  them  again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached  by the investigator for these reasons: 
Mr L contacted VWFS  in February  2019 to discuss  a voluntary termination of his 
HPA. I have listened to the call and Mr L is told the shortfall amount and how the 
process will work. He appears  willing on the call to make  the payment but is told that 
he could make the payment after the process  was completed.  VWFS accepted that 
Mr L was provided  with incorrect information about when to pay the shortfall  amount.
VWFS took actions to amend Mr Ls credit  file for the period  during which  he was 
waiting to be advised of payment. The evidence provided supports these actions 
were taken.  I find this was a fair resolution to put him back  in the position he would 
have been in had he not been given incorrect advice.
Mr L has provided copies of his recent credit report information and suggested that 
the amendments  werent made. However,  based  on what  I have  seen, one credit  
report provider recorded missed  payments from June 2019, and another  was 
showing a missed  payment in a March 2020 report. This doesnt suggest  the 
amendments werent made  but instead that information has been  added since then 
to reflect  the current  situation. 
Mr L was told that his credit file had been amended  in May 2019 and he had been 
told on more than one occasion  of the need to make the shortfall payment and the 
possible impact on his credit file of not doing  this. Therefore, at this point, I find that 
he was aware of the need to make  the payment and the consequences of not doing  
so. Because of this I do not find that VWFS did anything wrong  by recording 
information on Mr Ls credit file that reflected  the outstanding balance  and situation  
on his account  from this point.
I understand that Mr L still hasnt paid the shortfall amount and until he does so his 
credit file will be affected by this.  
VWFS offered  to pay Mr L £25 as a gesture of goodwill. Mr L thought  a much larger 
amount of compensation should  be paid. I have looked at information provided, and I 
do not find that there is evidence to suggest Mr L was financially affected by the 
information recorded on his credit file between February and April 2019.  That said,  
the issue did cause  upset and I dont think £25 is enough. Our investigator 
recommended Mr L be paid £75 compensation and, given the upset caused  but also 
Ref: DRN01511502the actions taken by VWFS in response  to Mr Ls complaint, I find this a reasonable 
amount.
For the reasons  above, I find the recommendation made by our investigator of Mr L being  
paid £75 compensation (alongside the actions already taken by VWFS) is reasonable to 
resolve this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld. In order  to resolve Mr Ls 
complaint, Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited should pay Mr L £75, as it has 
agreed, to reflect the upset caused by Mr L receiving incorrect  information in a call in 
February 2019.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 August 2020.
Jane Archer
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0151150