K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2004. Mrs M says Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I will explain why.
Mrs M says at no time was it made  clear that the PPI was optional.  Halifax should  
have given Mrs M a fair choice.  So Ive thought about what  shes told me.
As so much time has passed since the sale Halifax isnt able to provide all the 
paperwork from the time- thats not unusual or surprising as businesses  are only 
required to keep records for so long. But it has sent a copy of an application form 
which I think would have  been similar to the one Mrs M completed  at the time. On it 
theres a section about the PPI. To choose  the insurance, Mrs M would have had to 
mark the box. She could have left it blank  if she didnt  want  it. Theres  nothing written 
on the form which would have led her to think she had to take it out to get the credit  
card. And Halifax sent Mrs M a welcome letter and a copy  of the policy schedule 
shortly after she had applied. I also think the PPI would have appeared on her credit  
card statements.  So if she wasnt sure about  it or didnt  know  about it she could have 
questioned it with Halifax at any time. Overall, I think Halifax made it clear that Mrs M 
didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although I can 
understand why she cant  remember this after so long.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mrs M so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
her  and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think  that it 
was. For example, as she was in good  health  and didnt  have any unusual 
employment circumstances she wasnt affected  by any of the main  exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI cover. And she seems to have had a need for the cover. 
Mrs M says the information wasnt clear.  And its possible the information Halifax  
gave Mrs M about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  been. But she chose to take 
it out - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover.  And it seems like it would  have 
been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I 
dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have  put her off taking out the 
cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mrs M has said - including what she has said about her 
employee benefits. Mrs M has told us that she would have been  entitled to six months full 
sick pay followed by six months  half sick pay and if shed been  off work for any prolonged 
period, she would have had no difficulty in maintaining her repayments. But these points 
dont change my decision.
This policy would  have paid out the monthly  benefit in addition  to and for longer than Mrs Ms 
full sick pay would have  lasted - for up to 12 months.  And any redundancy pay could have 
Ref: DRN03155992been used for other important living costs if she lost her job  so I still think the PPI could 
have been useful.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mrs M paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mrs M back  some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mrs M now Ive issued my final decision if it hasnt 
done so already. If Halifax has already  paid this to Mrs M it doesnt need to do anymore.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0315599