K822xcomplaint
Ms M says Express Finance (Bromley) Limited  (trading as Payday  Express)  irresponsibly 
lent to her.
background
I attach my provisional decision of 11 April 2019, which forms part of this final decision. In 
my provisional decision I set out why I was intending  to uphold Ms Ms complaint. I invited 
both parties to make any further comments before I reached a final decision. 
Following this, Payday  Express responded confirming that it accepted my provisional 
decision and that it would  pay compensation to Ms M. And Ms M didnt provide anything  
further for me to think about.  
my findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im pleased to see that Payday Express has accepted my provisional  decision and agreed to 
pay compensation to Ms M. And as neither party has provided anything further for me to 
think about, I see no reason to alter the conclusions  I reached in my provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision  of 11 April 2019, Im upholding 
Ms Ms complaint. Express Finance  (Bromley) Limited (trading as Payday Express)  should 
put things right in the way set out in my provisional decision of 11 April 2019. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms M to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 May 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN07598012COPY  OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Ms M says Express Finance  (Bromley) Limited (trading as Payday Express)  irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about  eight  payday loans  Payday Express provided  to Ms M between November  
2009 and April 2012. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Ms Ms complaint  and thought the deferrals from the third one on loan 
eight onwards shouldnt have been  given.  Payday  Express agreed but Ms M didnt  as she didnt think  
that what Payday Express had agreed to do went far enough. As the parties were unable to agree the 
complaint was passed  to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  
lending - including all of the relevant rules,  guidance and good  industry practice  - on our website.  
Payday Express  needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice  
this means that it should  have carried out proportionate checks  to make sure     Ms M could repay the 
loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could  take into account a number  of different  things, 
such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income  and 
expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough 
checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Payday  Express should fairly  and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of time during 
which a customer has been given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing  had become,  or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think  that it is important  for me to start by saying that the rules  and regulations in place meant that 
Payday Express  was required to establish whether Ms M could sustainably  repay  her loans   not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds  and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might  be an indication a consumer could  
sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is 
because the Office  of Fair Trading Irresponsible  Lending  Guidance (ILG)  defines in a sustainable  
manner as being without  undue difficulties and in particular without incurring or increasing problem 
indebtedness, over the life of the credit agreement and out of income and/or available savings.  And, 
in these circumstances, it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower  wont  be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  unlikely to be 
able to make  their repayments without  borrowing further. 
Ref: DRN07598013Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this context and 
what this all means for Ms Ms complaint.
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Payday Express lending history with Ms M, with a view to seeing  if 
there was a point at which Payday Express  should reasonably have seen that further lending was 
unsustainable, or otherwise  harmful. And so Payday Express should  have realised that it shouldnt 
have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Ms Ms case, I think that this point was reached by loan three. I 
say this because:
Ms M was provided with loan three within  days of eventually settling loan two. I say eventually 
settle because Ms M deferred loan two on three  occasions and the amount requested for loan 
three was the same  has what had been  belatedly  repaid. So Payday Express  ought  to have 
realised it was more likely than not Ms M was having to borrow  further to cover the hole 
repaying her previous loan was leaving  in her finances and that Ms Ms indebtedness was 
increasing unsustainably.
From this point onwards, Ms M wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed 
Payday Express.  Loan eight  was taken  out two and a half years after Ms Ms first. And it was 
for a significantly  larger amount. Ms M had paid large  amounts of interest to, in effect, service  
a debt to Payday Express over an extended period. Indeed Im especially concerned at the 
fact that Payday Express continued to lend to Ms M despite the significant  number of 
deferrals on some  of these loans.
I think  that Ms M lost out because  Payday Express continued to provide borrowing from loan four 
onwards because:
these  loans had the effect of unfairly  prolonging  Ms Ms indebtedness  by allowing her to take 
expensive credit  intended for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the sheer number of loans  and deferrals was likely to have had negative implications on Ms 
Ms ability  to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market for these high-cost 
loans.
So Im intending to uphold  the complaint about three to eight and say that Payday  Express should put 
things right.
putting things  right  what Im intending to say that Payday Express needs to do
refund all interest and charges Ms M paid on loans  three to eight;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges  from the date they 
were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
the number of loans taken from loan three onwards means any information recorded  about  
them is adverse. So all entries about loans three to eight should be removed from Ms Ms 
credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Payday Express to take off tax from this interest.  Payday Express 
must give Ms M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN07598014my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im intending  to partially uphold Ms Ms complaint and tell Express  
Finance (Bromley)  Limited (trading as Payday Express) to pay redress as set out above.
So unless the comments and evidence  I get by 25 April 2019 changes  my mind, thats what  Ill tell 
Payday Express  to do in my final decision.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0759801