K820x#14complaint
Mr O says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS)  mis-sold  him a payment protection  insurance  (PPI)  
policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr O bought the policy in 2002 at the same time as taking out a mortgage. He applied for the 
mortgage and PPI policy in branch. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mr O for accident, sickness,  and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  £241.40 a month towards  Mr Os mortgage 
balance in the event of a successful claim. At the time, it cost £14.61  a month.  
At the time,  Mr O was employed  as a pipe fitter. He has told us he was not entitled  to any 
sick pay should he be unable to work.  Mr O told us he had approximately  £3,500 savings for 
a rainy day.
Mr O has said he was in good health  at the time of the sale.  
BoS has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account  closed in 2006. 
Mr Os representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Os representative says:
BoS failed  to meet the sales standards which  applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr O wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Os representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means BoS should have told 
Mr O about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means BoS should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr O and the impact  they 
would have had on his chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
Ref: DRN02417092The information Mr O received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr O disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Os. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Os complaint.
This sale took place  in 2002 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2006. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
BoS, selling  insurance at this time:
Ref: DRN02417093The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like BoS at the time.  So Im satisfied  I should take these codes  into account 
when deciding, what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Os 
case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so BoS 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mr Os complaint.  
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If BoS gave advice, whether it advised Mr O with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether BoS gave  Mr O sufficient, appropriate  and timely  information to enable  him 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing to 
his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr O, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr O suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Ref: DRN02417094Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr O and BoS, 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Os complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mr O know  he had a choice?
BoS had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. 
BoS had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. 
BoS hasnt got copies  of Mr Os actual paperwork from the time of the sale  things did 
happen some time ago. But BoS has provided us with examples of the paperwork it says   
Mr  O would have seen  when he took out the policy. And these show that a customer would 
reasonably have understood they had a choice about PPI, and they would  have had to 
agree to take it out.
So, taking everything  into account  and in the absence of persuasive evidence that 
something very different happened in Mr Os case - I think  its more likely than not Mr O 
knew the policy was optional and he agreed to take it out without undue pressure.
did BoS provide advice?
The sale took place  in a face-to-face  meeting.  BoS has told us that in this case its 
representative would have recommended Mr O buy the policy.
This means  BoS had to advise  Mr O with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether the 
policy was appropriate  or suitable given his needs  and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps BoS took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr O. It seems Mr O cant remember  clearly what  happened and there  
is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. This is unsurprising  in 
respect of a sale during a meeting. The adviser  had some limited information  about Mr Os 
financial circumstances, but there  is no specific evidence to show  the adviser took steps to 
establish whether  Mr O would have been caught  by the significant  exclusions and limitations  
which might  have meant the policy did not fully meet his needs.  For example, there  is 
nothing to suggest BoS considered whether Mr O had any pre-existing  medical  conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded BoS did all it should have done to 
determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr O given his circumstances. So Im not 
persuaded BoS advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded BoS did all it should  have  done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr O, I do think its more likely than not that the policy  was ultimately  suitable  for 
him. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Mr O met the eligibility criteria  for the policy.
-Mr O had a need  for the policy  Mr O would not have received any sick pay if he 
was unable to work  due to illness, his redundancy benefits are likely to be limited and 
Ref: DRN02417095he would  only have  limited savings he could fall back on. The policy  would have 
helped Mr O manage the consequences  if he was unable  to work.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr O.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr O. There  was 
nothing about  Mr Os employment or occupation  which would have made it difficult  
for him to claim. The policy didnt exclude pre-existing medical conditions and in any 
event Mr O has told us he didnt have  any existing medical  conditions  at the time of 
the sale. 
-While  the policy included a requirement  that Mr O be disabled  or unemployed for 30 
days before he could make a claim and would only pay benefits  for a maximum of 24 
months for each  claim, it still provided valuable cover given: Mr Os circumstances, 
the fact the policy  protected the mortgage repayments relating to his home and the 
potential consequences  should Mr O be unable to make the repayments on loans 
secured against  his house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  BoS gave Mr O sufficient information 
about the cover provided by the policy to enable him to understand  what BoS was 
recommending to him and make an informed decision about whether to follow  that advice 
and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr O was given a broad description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect his payments if Mr O was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate costs.  I 
have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr O would have taken out the 
policy without any sense  of what the policy was for and of how much  the premium  might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  BoS gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr O agreed  to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr O Im not persuaded BoS did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to him. Im not persuaded BoS gave Mr O all of the information  he needed 
about the policy to make an informed decision about whether to follow the recommendation 
and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Os representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Os. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
Ref: DRN02417096-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Os representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr O about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Os representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr O has suggested. And taking into account  the law, industry  codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that BoS ought to have done  either.  
what effect did BoSs shortcomings have on Mr O? To what extent did Mr O suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that BoS didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mr O. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr O suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mr O would have 
still taken out the policy,  had BoS done things  properly.  
While Im not persuaded BoS took the steps  it should have done to establish  whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr O, I have found  that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for him.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr O  suffered loss or damage in 
this case primarily  depends on whether, if BoS had explained things properly,  Mr O would 
have acted differently,  or whether he would have taken out the policy  in any event.
Mr O says he wouldnt have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr O had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when BoS advised him that there  was a suitable 
product he could buy that would protect  his mortgage payments in the event he was unable 
to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, he concluded he wanted that 
product. But he made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  he 
thought he was getting is not exactly what he got. 
Ref: DRN02417097As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr Os circumstances at the time 
of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for him.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr O knew  he would have to pay something 
for the policy, it doesnt appear BoS told him the exact premium at the point Mr O applied for 
the policy. Having  said that, it seems  likely  Mr O would have been  told the cost before the 
policy started and he paid for the policy for a number of years,  so if the costs  were 
significantly at odds  with their expectations at the point of sale,  its possible he might  have  
raised that with BoS at the time or reconsidered his decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr O would have found  the cost unacceptable if he had been  
given the exact figure during the meeting in which he agreed  to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  BoS made clear exactly what Mr O would get back in return in 
the event he made a successful claim.  But I think its unlikely Mr Os expectations about 
what the policy would pay in the event  of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet  his mortgage  
payment) was significantly  different to what  the policy actually  did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr O thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr O 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr O be unable  to 
do his own job, a similar job or any paid work  which his experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified him to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 24 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr O pause for thought   and may well have  caused  him to conclude the policy wasnt  as 
good as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the cover,  
when coupled with the other shortcomings  in this sale,  might have dissuaded some 
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr O from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr Os circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. Mr O was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to him 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
Mr O wouldve been caught by any of the significant  exclusions   Mr O was in permanent  
employment. So, I still think  he had some good  reasons  to take the policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr O might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely he would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mr O 
from taking out the policy,  Mr O, in his circumstances, still had some good  reasons to take it 
out.
Ref: DRN02417098If Mr O had known he could only claim for disability if he was not only unable  to do his job or 
any similar job but also unable to do any job which in the insurers view he might  reasonably  
be qualified  for, it might  have played  into his thinking about what he would do. And I accept it 
may have  given him pause for thought  although  given Mr Os circumstances and the 
limited other means he had to make his repayments  if he was not working, on balance,  I still 
think he would have  been interested in taking out the cover  
BoS may not have told Mr O that any claim he made would be limited to a 24-month period. 
This may have differed  from what he expected and might have hoped for, but he had limited 
other means  to fall back on. 
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr O would still have thought  a policy  that paid up 
to 24 monthly mortgage payments would have  been of benefit  to him and would help him 
manage the consequences  should  Mr O be unable to work  in the circumstances covered by 
the policy. The policy allowed for multiple  claims to be made, it could help reduce his 
outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time,  ensuring  his home was not placed at risk.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr O would still have taken out the policy. The policy was suitable  for him, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help him manage the consequences  if Mr O was made redundant, or unable  to work 
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mr O 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr Os representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr O would  not have bought the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr Os 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr O 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position he would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr O believes  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Ref: DRN02417099Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr O in the position  he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that he would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that he would still have 
taken out the PPI had he been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy he was buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude BoS should  pay Mr O compensation, as that would put him in a 
better position than he would  have  been  in if everything had happened as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Mr O thinks BoS misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of BoSs 
statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why BoS failed to act fairly  
and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it provided  
but because the overall  information BoS gave Mr O, in the way it did, was insufficient  to 
meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 2002 when 
providing information about an insurance  policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Os representative  says a court might take if it were 
to find BoS negligently misrepresented the contract  to Mr O and about  the remedy  a court 
might award if it were  to find that BoS had been in breach of its duty of utmost good  faith.  
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr O in a better position  than if everything had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 December 2020.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0241709