K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a secured loan Mr H and Ms C took out in 2015 with Nemo Personal 
Finance Limited.  Mr H and Ms C believe the loan was unaffordable  and therefore  lent 
irresponsibly. To settle the complaint,  they say Nemo should  allow them to repay the loan 
interest-free.
background
In what follows, I have  summarised events in rather  less detail than theyve been presented, 
using my own words to do so, and also rounding  some of the amounts involved.  No 
discourtesys intended  by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think  it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint.  
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows  me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which, although presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral.  Another reason 
I have left out a lot of the detail is to avoid the risk of identifying the consumers when my 
decision is published.
The circumstances of this complaint, briefly,  are in that in 2015,  Mr H and Ms C consulted a 
third-party intermediary about obtaining  a loan to consolidate their various unsecured 
consumer credit debts. The intermediary (which I shall refer to as L) submitted an application 
for a second  charge loan to Nemo on Mr H and Ms Cs behalf.  Nemo approved the 
application, issued  an offer,  and the transaction completed shortly afterwards
In 2018, Mr H and Ms C complained, saying the loan was unsuitable, because  Nemo didnt 
make sure they could  afford it. Nemo has rejected Mr H and Ms Cs complaint that it is at 
fault, saying responsibility for assessing  the suitability of the loan as a means  of dealing with 
their unsecured creditors lay with L. 
The adjudicator who considered the complaint didnt recommend it should be upheld. 
Mr H and Ms C have  asked for their complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where, as here, a lending application is made  through a third-party  intermediary,  there  is no 
obligation on the part of the lender  to replicate the role of the intermediary. The responsibility 
for any advice that may be given about the suitability of consolidating debt and converting it 
from unsecured to secured lies with the intermediary  rather than with the lender. The 
lenders duty is to lend responsibly by assessing  affordability.
In the case at hand, the greater focus  has been  on the conflicting information Nemo was 
given about how much Mr H earned, and what figure it eventually  relied  on when deciding 
whether or not to grant the loan.
But incomes not the most important factor when  assessing  the affordability of a 
consolidation loan;  the debt already exists, but in a form that the consumer can no longer 
Ref: DRN01302312afford to service. The aim is to make that debt more affordable.  So, whilst income is still 
relevant, ultimately,  its outgoings - before and after - that matter  the most. In essence, a 
decision on affordability turned on how much  it was likely to save  Mr H and Ms C per month. 
Overall, Im satisfied Nemo did conduct an affordability assessment before granting the 
consolidation loan.  I dont  think it was flawless, but everything Ive seen tells me that taking 
the consolidation loan and using it to repay  most of their existing unsecured creditors should  
have made  a very substantial improvement in Mr H and Ms Cs finances.  
The monthly cost of the consolidation  loan from Nemo was a little under £640, other than the 
first payment  which  was closer to £740,  due to the timing of the start date. Im aware that not 
all of Mr H and Ms Cs unsecured credit was to be repaid. But even taking  that into account, 
the aggregate monthly cost of the debt that was being consolidated was of the order of 
£2,000. Thats an anticipated improvement in monthly cashflow in the region of £1,360, as a 
result of Nemos decision to lend. I cant fairly hold Nemo to account if that improvement 
hasnt materialised in the period since the loan was granted.
Mr H and Ms C clearly  believed theyd benefit from the consolidation (otherwise why would 
they have applied for it?) and so did the third party  who recommended it as a solution to the 
financial pressures they were under at the time.  Nemo believed it, based on the information 
that it was presented with by L as Mr H and Ms Cs intermediary. I dont  think  it was wrong to 
think that; and thats why I cant fairly  conclude that Nemo acted irresponsibly when it agreed 
to lend. 
If Mr H and Ms C have  any concerns  about how L advised them and presented  their loan 
application to Nemo, theyd need  to complain separately to L. In making that observation,  I 
am making  no recommendation that they should make a separate  complaint, and they 
should draw no inferences  on what the merits of such a complaint, if made, might be. But I 
cant fairly hold Nemo liable for any acts or omissions there could have been  on Ls part. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  My final decision concludes  this services consideration of 
this complaint, which means  Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of 
it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H and Ms C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2020.  
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0130231