K820x#14complaint
Ms O and Mr P have complained about their home  insurer Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance 
Plc (RSA).  They are unhappy about delays they believe  it caused to their claim made  to it 
following a water leak.
background
There was a leak in November 2016  and, in December 2016  RSAs representative inspected 
the damage. Stripping and drying was meant to commence in January 2017 but didnt. Ms O 
and Mr P had asked for details of what was to be done and how long work would likely take. 
Their requests in this respect were  never  satisfactorily answered by RSAs  contractor.
Ms O and Mr P complained to RSA. It accepted it hadnt communicated  with them properly 
and apologised. However, this didnt resolve the problem as the poor communication  
continued. 
Work to dry the property was undertaken and completed at the end of May. At this stage 
RSAs contractor said no further survey to establish what works  were necessary was 
needed. Ms O and Mr P asked to see a schedule of intended work and to be told how long 
the work  would take. These  requests were  made  on more than one occasion. Sometimes 
answers were provided, sometimes not. When details were provided  they were  often  
incomplete or incorrect. 
In June a surveyor  attended the property. He found lots of discrepancies in the schedule 
between what work  was planned  and what he thought needed doing. Towards  the end of 
June, still not having  received details of what  work was planned, Ms O and Mr P were told 
that the contractors  wanted to start work  on 6 July. RSA was aware that Ms O and Mr P 
were going  away  on 12 July so said only part of the work would be done and the rest left 
until they came back. Ms O and Mr P felt starting work within a few days  was too short  
notice. RSA then said work would start on 14 August. 
Ms O and Mr P were  still unhappy with the details that had been  shared  with them about the 
intended work. They made a further  complaint to RSA. By the end of August work  hadnt 
started but RSA had agreed to change  the contractor, Ms O and Mr P had met with the new 
contractors surveyor and were much happier with his approach. The new surveyor  
answered all Ms O and Mr Ps questions and it was agreed that work  would start in October 
and would likely be finished  by the end of that month. The schedule and work  went  to plan 
and Ms O and Mr P were  happy with the repairs. 
In its final response issued in November 2017  RSA accepted that it had caused Ms O and 
Mr P distress and inconvenience.  It noted  that when  Ms O and Mr P had first complained to 
it, it had waived the £250 excess  charge. It said, given what had happened since then, it 
would pay them a further £500  compensation. 
Ms O and Mr P werent satisfied by this. They complained to us about what theyd been  
through up to the point RSA had agreed  to change  the contractor. They  said failures and 
errors early on in the claim meant  theyd  been given every reason to need to scrutinise the 
reinstatement of their home; that was why theyd wanted to be present when  the works were  
done and to know what was planned.  They  pointed  out that the second contractor had no 
issue with adequately dealing with their concerns  and giving them the answers they needed. 
They said the claim had been delayed by 27 weeks  (out of a total of 44) because  of the 
Ref: DRN00612012failure and/or inability  of the first contractor to give them satisfactory answers.  They 
explained how this had affected them.
Ms O and Mr P also said they were  unhappy  because the delays  had impacted RSAs  outlay 
for the claim.  They  felt it was unfair for the costs related  to delays to be logged against their 
record. They  noted that RSA had said that the overall claim cost was at least  partly 
responsible for the increased premium  theyd been  charged  at renewal.
Our adjudicator noted that RSA had accepted it had failed Ms O and Mr P and provided 
£750 in compensation (the excess waiver plus the £500 payment).  He felt, in all of the 
circumstances, that was a fair and reasonable resolution. Regarding  the premium he asked 
RSA for evidence and the detail it provided  satisfied him that the overall claim cost hadnt  
affected the premium.  He explained that regardless  of whether RSA had caused or allowed 
some of the claim costs  to accrue, RSA was bound to record  the whole  cost on the industry 
database, as it is the whole  cost that other insurers want to know about.
Ms O and Mr P were  unhappy. They said they wanted an explanation of what the minimum 
responsibilities are that the insurance  industry  must operate under. They also asked/said:
Who is contractually responsible to address and resolve unnecessary delays caused by 
the insurers agents?
What responsibility does the insurer  have  to provide information to progress matters?
What responsibility does the insurer  have  to step in when its agent causes delay?
What is an acceptable  delay?
How can they avoid  something like this happening in the future?
Over  the 27 weeks, £750 only equates  to £4.00 per day.
Compensation should be awarded in light of the fact that RSA knew for months what was 
needed, indeed  its file shows it knew in December 2016 of the expected timescale for 
repair. So most of the delay could easily have been avoided. Plus it only moved to 
change the contractor once a complaint to this service had been  made.
They dont believe the overall claim cost hasnt  affected their premium because RSA 
previously told them it had.
The correct claim cost should  be calculated and shared  with them.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
in answer to Ms O and Mr Ps questions
Insurers are required by the industry  rules to treat their customers  fairly. 
A policyholder is in a contract with the insurer. So when a claim is made  and the insurer  
repairs a property, it is the insurer that is responsible for its own, as well as any of its 
contractors or sub-contractors  actions.  Including loss adjusters and accommodation 
arrangers/providers. All these can loosely be referred to as the insurers agents.
It should, in its role as the insurance  expert, provide all reasonable information that is 
needed to move a claim forwards.  
Ref: DRN00612013It should also do all it can to prevent and/or minimise delays caused by itself and/or its 
agents. Some delays  though might  be beyond an insurers  control  and/or not caused by it or 
its agents. So an insurer wouldnt have liability for those or any distress and inconvenience  
caused as a result of them.
In insurance reasonable  and unreasonable  delays  are often referred to (as opposed to 
acceptable or unacceptable  ones). What is reasonable or unreasonable  will vary in each 
set of circumstances.  To take an extreme hypothetical example; it might  be reasonable for 
subsidence repairs to be delayed for two years because the claim in question has involved 
on-going investigations into the cause of the damage and long periods of necessary 
monitoring. In most  other claim examples I can think of, I think  its unlikely that a two year 
delay would be seen  as reasonable as its unlikely that such lengthy investigations would be 
needed. But again the specific circumstances would have  to be considered in order for a 
decision in that respect  to be made.  I appreciate this doesnt  give Ms O and Mr P a specific  
timeframe but it is very much the reality  of insurance claims that each differs  and what is a 
reasonable timeframe  in one may not be in another.
I cant advise Ms O and Mr P what to do if they are unfortunate enough to have to make 
another claim in the future. I hope  that if they do they wont meet  the same  or similar 
problems to those  they experienced here. If they do they can complain and if the insurer is 
liable for what went wrong it will likely  have  to compensate them  for the upset its failures 
caused them. 
compensation for distress and inconvenience
I appreciate that broken down into a daily rate the compensation RSA has provided seems 
quite small.  However,  I dont assess compensation in that way or base my awards  on that 
type of calculation. Rather I look at everything  that has occurred  and, using my knowledge 
and experience of other awards  we have applied in similar circumstances, I make a decision 
as to what fair and reasonable  compensation is for all the upset caused.
The awards I make are also not meant  to be punitive. So they arent designed to prevent an 
insurer from acting this way again  in the future. But also nor would I make a greater award 
purely on the basis that the insurer knew what it was doing was wrong  and did nothing to 
prevent the upset  that was caused. Again that would be acting to punish the insurer.  So my 
focus is always on what upset the insurers failures caused.
I think RSA did get things wrong  in this claim. It should, in my view, have acted to change its 
contractor earlier. But Im not convinced it only did so because  the complaint  had been  made  
to us. From what Ive seen I think it did this to try and resolve  the claim, its just unfortunate it 
didnt do so sooner  which  would have  avoided a lot of the distress  and inconvenience Ms O 
and Mr P suffered.
That all being said, I am satisfied that the compensation that RSA has provided does fairly 
and reasonably compensate Ms O and Mr P for the distress and inconvenience they were 
caused. I know they disagree  but Im not persuaded that requiring RSA to pay them anything 
more would be fair or reasonable. 
They did have several weeks of delay but they were living, through their own choice, in their 
home, and RSA was providing a hotel room  which they used for washing. Although  I 
appreciate that this in itself presented some difficulties and if the claim had been shortened 
so would the period of disruption.  I know they took time off which was sometimes  wasted 
Ref: DRN00612014and that they spent  a lot of time trying to manage  the repairs which  the contractor seemed 
unable to do. Ive taken  into account  all of this and everything theyve  said,  and having done 
so Im satisfied that £750 is fair and reasonable compensation.
claim costs
I know Ms O and Mr P were initially told by RSA that the claim costs had affected the 
premium they were charged. I dont  know  why they were told this. What I do know  is the 
evidence that RSA provided to us showed this isnt the case. The claim  itself had an effect, 
but not its value.  
More often than not it is the fact of a claim that insurers will want to know  about. The value 
rarely affects an insurers decision to offer cover  or the price at which  it offers it. But when an 
insurer does want to know about the value  of a claim it will, in my experience,  want  to know 
what the total claim cost was, regardless of why that total sum was reached.  And how an 
insurer chooses to offer cover and/or what things they choose  to base their prices on are 
issues of commercial judgement. They are issues for each insurer alone to decide  and 
something that we usually  will not interfere  with.  
However, if Ms O and Mr P receive information from a prospective or current  insurer in the 
future that confirms that a lower  overall claim outlay for this loss would generate  a cheaper 
premium, they could send  this to RSA. Id expect  RSA to look at that evidence and 
correspond with Ms O and Mr P to tell them what it intends to do in light of it. I say this 
because I am satisfied that RSA, through its own failures and those of its agents,  caused the 
claim costs  to be inflated. I just havent, at this stage, seen that Ms O and Mr P have 
suffered or are likely to suffer a loss because of this (ie a higher cost for future  insurance).  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms O and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 March 2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0061201