K820x#14complaint
Mr T is unhappy  because Vitality Health Limited  refused to cover the claim he made  under 
his private medical  insurance policy.
background
In 2013 Mr T moved his private medical  insurance to the company thats now known as 
Vitality and renewed it annually thereafter.
In 2016 Mr T was experiencing severe pain in both knees. His GP referred him to an NHS 
specialist but he didnt feel he could wait for the appointment. So his GP then referred him to 
a private specialist who sent him for x-rays and an MRI. It was subsequently agreed  that 
Mr Ts left knee  needed a total knee replacement, which  was booked to take place in mid-
December with some pre-operative tests beforehand. His right knee also needed  treatment, 
but that was put off as the treatment to the left knee was considered  more  urgent.
Mr T gave  details  of his Vitality policy to the hospital where his operation was due to take 
place. The hospital contacted Vitality  but it refused to authorise any treatment  because  Mr T 
hadnt submitted  a claim. 
Mr T got in touch with Vitality and it explained the claim  process,  included  that he and his GP 
needed to complete a claim form and it needed Mr Ts previous insurance certificate. Vitality 
didnt receive and review  the claim form in time to authorise Mr Ts operation, so it had to be 
rescheduled for the following month.
In early-January 2017 Vitality said that it couldnt  fairly assess Mr Ts claim because it still 
didnt have Mr Ts certificate of insurance  from his previous insurer.  So it hadnt been  able to 
transfer across any existing medical exclusions.  As a result it couldnt  cover the costs Mr T 
had already incurred and couldnt authorise  his operation. Mr T complained  about  this in 
November 2017  and, when Vitality repeated what itd said the previous year, Mr T came to 
us. At that point  he still hadnt had the operation, either privately or through  the NHS.
Our investigator didnt  think Vitality  had done  anything wrong.  Mr T disagreed  and said he 
wanted his case  reviewed afresh by an ombudsman. He also said he was going  to provide 
further comments but hasnt done so.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I dont think it was wrong 
of Vitality to refuse Mr Ts claim  Ill explain why.
Vitality has provided copies of the correspondence  that it says were  sent to Mr T when he 
first took out the policy and each year at renewal. He hasnt said explicitly disputed  receiving 
these and I note they confirm  that:
Mr T had been accepted for cover, and the policy underwritten,  on a continued 
personal medical exclusions basis.
If personal medical exclusions applied to Mr Ts previous plan then they would be 
carried over to the new plan and additional exclusions might be applied.
Ref: DRN09268182If Mr T was previously  covered on a medical  history disregarded  basis  then no 
personal medical exclusions would have been applied and this would carry over to 
the new plan.  That is unless Mr T completed a switch application from in which case 
personal medical exclusions might be applied.
Vitality needed a copy of Mr Ts previous insurers certificate of insurance  which  
showed the underwriting terms and any personal medical exclusions 
Vitality wouldnt be able to authorise  any eligible claims until Mr T provided his 
previous insurers  certificate.
So I think Vitality has made clear throughout the lifetime of Mr Ts policy  that it would need 
his insurance certificate to determine the extent of his cover. And it wouldnt be able to 
process any claims until this was received. Vitality reiterated, when Mr T first reported  his 
claim, that it needed  the insurance  certificate.  And I think its likely it could have  told him this 
even sooner if hed got in touch earlier, before he started any treatment and as instructed in 
the policy terms and conditions. 
Instead of calling Vitality  when  his GP first mentioned making  a referral to a specialist (and 
because he was unhappy with the NHSs waiting times) Mr T sought  a private referral from 
his GP and proceeded down this route,  incurring the associated costs.  Had he contacted  
Vitality earlier  in the process  then its possible Mr T couldve obtained the necessary 
insurance certificate and his operation  couldve gone ahead  as planned towards  the end of 
December 2016.   
As things  stand I dont  think  it was wrong  of Vitality  to refuse to cover Mr Ts claim. Its 
possible the treatment  Mr T needs  might  be covered  by the policy,  but Vitality wont be able 
to process this or any other (related  or unrelated) claims  until it has the insurance certificate. 
And the fact that Mr T has continued to pay premiums  a point he has stressed more than 
once  doesnt change this.
Mr T says he asked  his previous insurer for the certificate and was told it would  be recalled 
from archive and sent it to Vitality. He also suggests  that Vitality has misrepresented what 
went on throughout this claim. But, despite  being  given  the opportunity to expand  upon and 
substantiate these  comments, he hasnt done so. And Ive seen nothing  to suggest Vitality  
had received the certificate when it initially refused to process Mr Ts claim or in the 
subsequent 10-months  from January to November 2017  when Mr T got in touch again 
about his claim.
Mr T has also criticized  the transfer  of his policy from his old insurer  to the company now 
known as Vitality. He says he was told this would  be seamless  and he feels  the service hes 
received has fallen short. But Im not able to look into his complaint about how this policy 
was originally sold to him or what happened  during the transfer. If he wishes to pursue a 
complaint about  that then he must raise it with Vitality and/or his broker in the first instance. 
We may then be able to consider that complaint if he remains  unhappy with their answers.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2019.
Ref: DRN09268183Ruth Hersey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0926818