K820x#14complaint
Mrs P is unhappy with NewDay Ltd increasing  the interest rate on her Aqua credit  card.
background
Mrs P noticed her interest  rate had increased and she felt this was unfair. She also felt the 
size of the increase was excessive.
In response to Mrs Ps complaint NewDay said it gave her advance  notice  of the increase.  
And that it gave her the option of opting  out of it, if she continued to reduce the balance and 
made no further transactions.
NewDay explained the reason for the increase as follows:
There  were  a number of factors that we considered when setting your individual rates of 
interest on this occasion. These included the way you managed  and used your card and 
may have  included the records held for you at the Credit Reference Agencies on other  credit  
products you have.
Mrs P wasnt  happy with the explanation  given. She said she couldnt  recall receiving the 
letter, that her repayments are always made  on time and that she has an excellent  credit 
score.
An investigator here looked into Mrs Ps concerns. He found the terms of the credit 
agreement allow for interest rate increases, and he felt NewDay  had provided sufficient 
notice of the change along  with the option to opt out of it. 
Mrs P still felt the increase was unfair, for the reasons already given. She also pointed  out 
that her rate is around 10% more than NewDays highest advertised rates.  Because of this, 
the complaint  has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs P but I wont be upholding her complaint, Ill explain why. First of 
all, I too found  the increase to be allowed for under the terms of the credit  agreement,  
provided sufficient notice was given.
NewDay wrote to Mrs P on 1 January 2018  to inform her of the forthcoming  increase, which  
would take effect  from 9 March 2018.  This was over the 60 days notice, as set out in the 
credit agreement  which  is also in line with the regulatory requirements.  Those  also require 
businesses to allow their customers to opt out of the increase, by paying off the balance 
before it takes  effect; this option was given to Mrs P so I believe NewDay did what it had to.
I appreciate Mrs P says she doesnt  recall receiving  the letter, but that isnt something I can 
hold against NewDay.  Ive seen a copy of it which shows the same address we have for
Mrs P, alongside system  notes which suggest  it was sent. I note that NewDay said it wrote  to 
Mrs P a second time,  on 1 February 2018.  But when we asked it for a copy of that letter it 
said only the earlier one had been  sent.
Ref: DRN05270292It wouldve  been helpful if NewDay had written to Mrs P a second time, as theres  less 
chance of two letters being missed.  But it isnt required to do that, so I dont think  it not 
having sent the second letter is reason enough  for me to uphold  Mrs Ps complaint. And the 
rate of interest is set out on the monthly  statements that were  sent to Mrs P so she could  
have seen it earlier than she did.
I know Mrs P is also unhappy with the reason  NewDay  gave for the increase, being a 
change in risk. The rules require NewDay to provide an explanation for the increase on 
request, but say that the explanation may be generic.
NewDays explanation  meets the requirements, although I can understand  why Mrs P 
doesnt find it satisfactory.  We asked NewDay if it could elaborate further  but it said the 
passage of time means thats difficult. It said it doesnt dispute that Mrs P has a good credit 
score, but it said there are various  factors outside  of that and account  management  which 
can affect the rate of interest  it applies. And its possible  that what  it views as good  account 
management might vary over time.
Finally, I know  Mrs P has complained about the size of the increase, but its generally down 
to the provider to decide  what rates it is willing to offer credit for  just as its also for the 
consumer to decide whether a rate is acceptable  to them. And as Mrs P was allowed  to opt 
out of the increase, I think she was treated fairly overall.
I appreciate the opportunity to opt out was missed by Mrs P as she doesnt recall seeing the 
letter, but the offer was there nonetheless,  and I think NewDay has done whats  required of it 
in this case.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 October  2019.
Will Weston
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0527029