K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that Red Sands Insurance Company  (Europe) Limited turned down his claim 
under his pet insurance policy.
Background
In May 2019  I issued  a provisional  decision saying that I was minded to uphold the 
complaint. I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions  before  I reached my 
final decision. Both parties have responded stating that theyve received my provisional  
decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr H has accepted my decision. Red Sands have acknowledged receipt  of my provisional 
decision. It has chosen not to put any arguments  to me within the timescale set out. It is well 
aware of our processes so I can only assume  it no longer wishes to contest my position.
Considering the respective positions  of the parties  I see no persuasive reason to deviate 
from the position as set out in my provisional decision. Consequently this complaint is 
upheld.
What the business needs  to do
Within 28 days of the date we tell it Mr H has accepted my final decision I order Red Sands 
Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to pay Mr Hs 2017 claim regarding this dog, subject  to 
the policy limit and excess.  Red Sands  must add interest at the simple  rate of 8%* from 
when the claim should  have  been settled until it is paid to Mr H.
*If Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe)  Limited  considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr H how much its taken  off. It should 
also give Mr H a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
my final decision
For the above reasons and those described in my provisional decision attached  Red Sands 
Insurance Company (Europe) Limited should  make payment as I have described above  
within the timeframe described.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2019.
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN06460552COPY OF PROVISIONAL  DECISION
complaint
Mr H complains that Red Sands Insurance Company  (Europe) Limited turned down  his claim under 
his pet insurance policy.
background
Mr H has annual pet insurance  with Red Sands.  In 2017 he made a claim for the vets treatment of his 
dog in relation to the eye condition Episcleritis  (a condition of the eyeball which appears reddened). 
Red Sands  paid on his claim for this condition. It then applied an exclusion for claims  related to eyes 
and sight on the policy.
In August 2018 Mr H made a claim  on the policy for the removal of a Meibomian gland  adenoma from 
his dogs eyelid (in essence  a lump  on the eyelid).  Red Sands declined to pay the claim on the basis 
that this condition  was covered by the exclusion that had been added to the policy.  Also because  the 
policy states  it will only provide cover for a condition for 365 days from when it was first discovered. 
So Mr H complained and Red Sands said it hadnt done anything  wrong. So Mr H complained here.
 
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. He said Red Sands  had added  an exclusion which was unfairly  
broad. He also said that it seemed unfair to include the eyelid under the exclusion which referred to 
the eye and sight. Red Sands disagree and have asked  for an Ombudsmans decision.  So the 
complaints comes to me for review.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Red Sands  and Mr H dont  agree to some of the key issues here. So I can only make my decision 
based on the evidence  provided to me by the parties. In short I must  decide what is most  likely to 
have happened.
Having considered  the matter I think this complaint  should  be upheld but for differing  reasons  to the 
adjudicator. As a consequence Im issuing  this provisional  decision to allow both Mr H and Red Sands 
to make any further arguments they wish.
Clearly in applying an exclusion to a policy  such as this there needs  to be fairness  both in the 
exclusion term itself but also its application. And within  this fairness  clearly there needs to be 
proportionality. And the exclusion should be sufficiently descriptive to ensure that when its applied to 
the policy  the policyholder  has an understanding of what is excluded so that they know what they are 
paying for.
Having considered  what  has happened here Im not persuaded that Red Sands  decision to decline 
this claim is fair. So I am directing them  to pay the claim.  Ill explain why.
I can see from the underwriting guide which  goes with this insurance that there is a separate  
exclusion for eye lid conditions  to the other exclusions for eyes. So it seems clear  to me that Red 
Sands treats these  conditions separately. But in this case theyve applied their eye and sight  
exclusion to an eyelid condition. Which I think is unfair.
 The Red Sands representative has said to us in response to the adjudicators view that the condition 
on the eyelid is covered by the eye and sight  exclusion. But this is contrary  to its underwriting guide. 
Ref: DRN06460553And I think the underwriting guide is more persuasive as to the position of Red Sands on what  its 
exclusions do or dont cover.
The only expert evidence I have to rely on is that provided by Mr Hs vet who treated  the dog. Mr Hs 
vet has said of the adenoma it is;
not the same condition, nor is it affecting  the same anatomical part that is now a problem. We'd  urge 
you to consider these as separate  conditions  and thus the previous history of Episcleritis should not 
be a reason to exclude an eyelid lump.
I find this expert comment persuasive. But having  considered  the two conditions Im not persuaded 
that there is a sufficient link between  the two conditions. I dont think  there is a direct causal link from 
the Episcleritis  to the Adenoma.  And as Ive said Red Sands clearly treat these  as separate  conditions 
because they have separate exclusions for them  in their underwriting guide.
And I think that if Red Sands had wished to cover adenomas when it applied the exclusion it would 
have used its adenoma exclusion it has at its disposal (as described in the list of its exclusions that it 
has provided  to this service)  and not its eye and sight exclusion. It seems  to me that when applying 
the exclusion it did, Red Sands was considering  the likelihood of recurrences of the Episcleritis and 
consequential conditions  of it such  as conditions of the eyeball or the sight. I dont think  it put in the 
exclusion because  it was concerned about a lump on the eyelid-because if had been it had the 
exclusion in its list of exclusions to use to exclude it (but it chose not to).
For the reasons  Ive given Im currently minded to uphold this complaint. And if that is my final 
decision my suggested remedy would be along the following lines:
Within 28 days of the date we tell it Mr H has accepted my final decision  I order Red Sands 
Insurance Company  (Europe) Limited to pay Mr Hs 2017 claim regarding this dog, subject to 
the policy  limit and excess. Red Sands  must  add interest at the simple rate of 8% from when 
the claim should have been settled until it is paid to Mr H.
*If Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe)  Limited  considers that its required by 
HM Revenue & Customs  to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr H how 
much its taken off. It should  also give Mr H a certificate showing  this if he asks for one, so he 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
my provisional  decision
For the above  reasons,  I am currently  minded  to uphold this complaint about  Red Sands Insurance 
Company (Europe)  Limited to settle his claim  as above.  I now invite both parties to let me have any 
further arguments by the date set out at the beginning of this provisional decision.
Rod Glyn-Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0646055