K820x#14complaint
Mr F has complained that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros  y 
Reaseguros, S.A. unreasonably refused to pay his claim under his travel policy.
background
Mr F booked  to travel to a destination in Europe  with some friends for a long weekend. He 
booked his flights, accommodation  and hire car on 19 January 2018 for a departure on 2 
March returning  on 5 March 2018. 
He bought his travel policy  late in the evening on 26 February 2018. His airline cancelled his 
departure flight before he travelled, due to the extreme weather conditions,  from Storm 
Emma and what was commonly called the beast from the east.  
Mr F made a claim to Mapfre. Mapfre refused to pay his claim as it believed he knew  of the 
weather situation  at the time he bought  his policy.
Mr F disagreed and brought his complaint  to us. The investigator was of the view Mapfre  
hadnt done anything wrong.  Mr F disagreed so his complaint has been passed  to me to 
decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill now explain  why.
My role and the role of this service  are to assess whether  Mapfre did anything  wrong in 
making its decision based on the evidence  available.
Whilst Mr F booked his holiday  on 19 January, he didnt buy his travel policy until 26 
February. In the policy, there are general  exclusions, which  is normal in any insurance 
policy. 
Mapfre said it relied on general exclusion no 31, which  says as follows:
Any claim related to a known event (see Definitions  on page 14) that you were 
aware of at the time you took out this insurance and/or, prior to the booking  of any 
individual trip.
The definition of a known event is as follows: 
A known  event is an existing or expected publically  announced  occurrence, such as 
named tropical  storm, a hurricane or a strike  voted upon by union  members.
Mapfre said it was well publicised that the UK was expecting extreme  weather conditions 
from Storm  Emma and/or  the beast from the east at the time Mr F applied for and bought 
his travel policy for this trip namely  late in the evening of 26 February  2018.  It relied  on local 
newspaper reports  to the area where  Mr F lived of 24 and 25 February talking  of the weather 
changing substantially  and heavy snowfall in Mr Fs area being  expected.  It also relied on 
well-known TV stations  plus other national TV stations warning of a Siberian blast being  
Ref: DRN05634452expected and that a risk to life of heavy  snowfall being forecasted during the day of 26 
February. Mr F bought  his policy around 10.19pm on 26 February.
So I have  to decide whether Mapfre did anything wrong in relying  on this substantial  
evidence of the beast from the east being warned about and forecasted  at the time. I dont 
think it did. This significant weather front was broadly and repeatedly forecasted at the time 
as can be seen from this evidence. So I dont think the conclusions Mapfre reached 
concerning Mr Fs reasons for buying  his policy over five weeks after he booked his holiday 
were either unreasonable or unfair.  Sadly, for Mr F the balance  of probability is not weighted  
in his favour in these  circumstances.
As Mapfre clearly and repeated explained  to Mr F, that it doesnt allow anyone to buy a 
policy when a situation such as a severe weather warning already exists and then use that 
situation as the reason to claim cancellation  of his trip. No travel insurer permits this type of 
thing, not just Mapfre. Had Mr F bought  his policy around the same time as he booked his 
trip, he would  of course then been covered when his airline cancelled his flight,  effectively 
cancelling his trip.
Mr F also complained that Mapfre delayed  in processing his claim and coming to its 
decision. Mapfre agreed there was some delay in its processing. It paid Mr F £80 
compensation for this delay. I consider thats reasonable and indeed  slightly  higher than 
what I would  have  awarded had Mapfre not done so. Therefore I dont require Mapfre to do 
anything more concerning this element of Mr Fs complaint.
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 May 2020.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0563445