K820x#14Complaint
Mr J complains that National  Westminster  Bank  Plc blocked a transaction on his credit  card 
and restricted his account.
Background
Mr J ordered a sofa and paid a deposit  on his credit  card in store. But when he called to pay 
the final payment  over the phone, the transaction  was blocked and a restriction  was placed 
on his account.
The following  morning Mr J called NatWest who said the transaction  was blocked by its fraud  
detection system. But because  it was happy  it was Mr J who wanted to make the payment, 
and that it wasnt  fraudulent,  it released the restriction placed on his account.
Mr J wanted to know the reason his payment was blocked and the reason he wasnt 
contacted as soon as the restriction was placed.
NatWest said it wasnt  able to give him the exact reason. It said it uses  a system that looks  
for current fraud trends  and these constantly change to try to protect its customers  from 
fraudulent activity on their accounts. And it said it aims to call its customers as soon as 
possible. But in this instance, Mr J called it, before it was able to call him.
Unhappy, Mr J brought his complaint to us. He wanted to know  the reason the transaction  
was blocked and thinks this information  should be clear to account holders  and merchants. 
He said as he made a payment to this retailer before, it should  have  been  obvious this 
transaction wasnt fraudulent.
Our investigator looked into Mr Js complaint and didnt uphold it.
Mr J remained  unhappy and asked  for an ombudsmans  decision.  He thinks NatWest  should 
be able to tell him the reason the transaction was blocked, and this should  be clear to all 
account holders.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it. Ill 
explain why.
The terms of Mr Js account with NatWest say it might refuse a transaction or payment and 
place a restriction on his account if it suspects fraudulent  activity.  And it says if it does this, 
itll try to let him know as soon as possible.
NatWest cant say the exact  reason  this transaction was flagged. But Im of the opinion it 
doesnt need to. NatWest  has explained  it uses a system that is constantly  analysing trends 
and it uses this system to try to stay ahead  of any fraudsters.
I understand Mr J thinks it should  be clear  at what point NatWest start to suspect fraud,  but I 
disagree. If it was common knowledge what NatWest were looking for, then any potential 
Ref: DRN01278332fraudsters would have  an advantage, as theyd be able to avoid the checks and avoid 
detection.
Ive seen when  Mr J called NatWest, and while I agree it would  have been  better  if it had 
called him as soon  as the transaction was blocked,  this isnt always possible. Mr J called 
NatWest the morning after the payment was blocked. Although I cant  say when NatWest  
wouldve called him had he not called  first, Im satisfied the block  was removed in a 
reasonable time.
In this instance I do understand Mr Js frustration, but for the reasons given I dont  find that 
NatWest have done anything wrong.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Js complaint against National Westminster  Bank  
Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 November  2019.
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0127833