K820x#14complaint
Mrs B is unhappy with the amount  of compensation offered to her by Santander UK Plc 
(Santander) following  a complaint she made about  a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background
The complaint is about a credit card PPI policy. Mrs B took the credit card with Santander, 
then called Alliance  & Leicester, in May 2002  (account numbers ending 0148, 1895  and 
9484).
Mrs Bs credit  card account  was transferred to a different business (Business A) in March  
2003. Santander is only responsible for any compensation payable for the period until the 
account was transferred  to Business A. So from 2002 until 2003. Any premiums  for after this 
period are the responsibility of Business A. 
Mrs B complained about her policy. Santander  responded  to Mrs B agreeing that it couldnt 
confirm the PPI was appropriate for her. To resolve  the complaint it offered compensation of 
£132.54 (after  tax) for the mis-sale of the PPI.
Due to the amount of time that has passed  since  Mrs B had her credit  card account with 
Santander, it doesnt have any credit card statements which would show how much she paid 
for the PPI up until March  2003. So Santander  has used the statement information  it got 
from Business A for the 12 months  following the transfer to make  an assumption about  how 
much Mrs B was charged for the PPI before the transfer. 
Mrs B wasnt  happy with the offer so brought her complaint  to this service.
One of our adjudicators looked  at the complaint but didn't think  it should be upheld. He 
considered that under  the particular circumstances of Mrs Bs complaint, the offer was fair.
Mrs B didn't  agree. And as the complaint remains unresolved, it has been  passed to me for 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Santander has agreed to pay compensation for the mis-sale  of the PPI, I havent looked  
at how the policy was sold to her. Ive only considered  whether  the compensation offered by 
Santander is fair.
When I decide, or a business agrees, that a PPI policy has been mis-sold  Id expect it to, as 
far as possible, put the consumer in the position  they would be in had they not taken the 
policy. Id expect it to refund the premiums paid for the PPI, any associated interest or costs  
and add 8% simple per year interest as compensation for any time the consumer had been 
out of pocket for that money.  
Different businesses work out compensation in different  ways.  Not every  credit card account 
works in exactly the same  way and there isnt a set way of calculating redress  that every 
Ref: DRN06609842business has to follow. In every case I must consider what a business has done and whether 
its offer is fair in the circumstances  of the individual complaint.  
Santander no longer has records of Mrs Bs credit card account after it was transferred to 
Business A. I dont  find this surprising as businesses  arent  under any obligation to keep 
records indefinitely. But Business A has been  able to provide statements for Mrs Bs account 
after the transfer. So Santander  has been able to use the information about how she used 
her card before then. Its taken an average figure  of how Mrs B used  her account to assume 
an account balance  the month before the account  was transferred. And its then reduced this 
balance over time to when the card was opened,  May 2002. 
While I cant be sure, I think this is a good indication of how Mrs B was likely to have been 
using her credit card account between May 2002 and March 2003.  Its the closest  date 
available for that period and in the absence of any other evidence  its not unreasonable to 
assume Mrs Bs use of her card was similar. 
What Santander  has done will inevitable not perfectly reflect  how Mrs B used her credit card 
and how much the PPI actually cost her during the periods for which it doesnt have 
statements. But in the absence of statements from that time, there is no way that Santander 
could do this. So, it has had to come up with a way of working out how Mrs B is likely to have 
used her card during  that time and what the PPI may have cost. What  is has worked out may 
be more or less than the actual cost. But overall,  I think the assumptions Santander has 
made, when it doesnt know  what happened, are fair. 
Mrs B has said that the amount offered by Santander should be deducted from the balance 
transferred to Business A in 2003.  She says she subsequently had to pay more in 
repayments and charges  to her account because of this higher balance.  And Mrs B has 
explained she struggled financially, her health was poor and she had to take time off from 
work. 
Its simply not possible to say much of the transferred account balance  was made up of PPI 
that was sold by Santander. Santander  has used estimates to work out what  Mrs Bs 
account might have looked like, but its not able to say how much she was actually charged 
for PPI or what her balance would have been without it. So when Santander has said Mrs B 
was charged £62.91  for PPI this isnt the amount  she was actually charged, instead this is a 
figure Santander worked out to be able to offer fair compensation. And it wasnt the case  that 
£62.91 of the balance  that was transferred  to Business A was made up of charges for PPI  
its possible the amount  transferred was more  or less than that. 
That said,  I see Santander  has paid simple interest  the rate is 8% a year  to compensate 
Mrs B for the time that shes been  out of pocket. It has paid this from the date Mrs B paid 
more until she gets the money  back.  Given I cant now say the exact losses  Mrs B incurred 
because of any PPI transferred  to Business A, I think this is a fair and appropriate  way to 
reflect the time Mrs B has been out of money shed otherwise have had.
In the circumstances of Mrs Bs Santander complaint, I think Santanders  offer is in line with 
what I would  expect  to see, and is fair. 
Ref: DRN06609843Mrs B has said she didn't make any claim  on her policy when she wasnt  able to work. She 
should contact  the policy insurer in the first instance if she wishes  to make a back  dated 
claim
my final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold Mrs Bs complaint and wont  be asking Santander UK Plc 
to do anything further than its already done. I understand the compensation has already  
been paid to Mrs B.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2019.
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0660984