K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about issues hes experienced with a car supplied with finance  from Black 
Horse Limited.
background
In December 2016 Mr M was supplied with a car and entered into a finance agreement  with 
Black Horse.
Mr M experienced repeated issues with the brakes.  The car was returned  for repairs  on 
several occasions but the issue couldnt  be resolved. Black Horse  agreed to accept a 
rejection of the car but Mr M is unhappy  about  the offer, particularly in relation to usage 
charges and the amount  of compensation. He complained to this service.
Our investigator looked at everything  and said the offer by Black  Horse was fair.
 Mr M didnt  agree. He said the car had been  returned for repair  19 times and felt that the 
provision of a courtesy car was irrelevant as hed had to pay for a faulty car throughout. He 
also explained that hed covered significant  mileage  due to having  to make weekly visits to a 
sick relative who lived some distance  away. Mr M also said that the car had developed 
further faults including a leak in the gearbox and issues  with the battery.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Black Horse  has agreed to accept  a rejection of the car and has offered to end the 
agreement with nothing  further to pay, refund Mr Ms deposit together  with interest  and pay 
£450 compensation for distress and inconvenience and loss of enjoyment. It said it wouldnt 
refund Mr Ms payments because the usage charges exceeded the total monthly payments.
Mr M is unhappy  with the offer. In particular hes said that the usage charge of 45p per mile 
is too high and the compensation doesnt  reflect the distress and inconvenience hes 
suffered.
After the investigator  issued a view, Mr M reported  further issues  with the car. These issues 
didnt form part of his original complaint and I cant see that hes reported  them  to Black  
Horse, so I wont  be considering these  issues within  the context of this decision. If Mr M 
wants these looked  at he needs to raise them with Black Horse first.
When a car is rejected  its generally  the case that monthly payments are refunded, subject to 
a deduction for fair usage. Theres no set amount that a finance  provider can charge per mile 
for usage but the rate must be reasonable and appropriate. In this case,  Black  Horse has 
charged 45p per mile which is in line with HMRCs  mileage rate, so Im unable  to say that its 
unreasonable.
I can see that Mr M has covered significant mileage in the car. I acknowledge his 
explanation for this but I still think its reasonable for Black Horse  to apply charges for use.
Ref: DRN04332062I appreciate that the car was returned for repairs on multiple occasions and its 
understandable that this has caused distress and inconvenience to Mr M. I can see that Mr 
M was provided with a courtesy car throughout, so Ive taken this into account.  On balance,  
the compensation offered  by Black Horse for distress and inconvenience  and loss of 
enjoyment is in line with what this service  would recommend. Based on this I think the offer 
is fair and reasonable.
Taking everything into account  I think the offer by Black Horse  is fair.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 July 2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0433206