K820x#14complaint
Mrs Ss complaint is about the lifetime  mortgage  sold to her and her late husband by 
Prudential Lifetime  Mortgages  Limited (Prudential).
Mrs S is represented in bringing this complaint by her son, who Ill refer to as Mr S2.
background
Mrs S and her late husband  took out a lifetime mortgage with Prudential  in 2008. The 
mortgage was recommended  to them by Prudential as suitable  for their needs.
Mr and Mrs S initially borrowed £15,000,  with the option to borrow  additional funds in the 
future under a cash reserve facility.  Additional  borrowing under that facility was drawn 
down between 2009 and 2011.
Mr S2 complained to Prudential on his mothers behalf in 2016. He raised a number of 
concerns with the way in which the mortgage  was sold and the manner in which it operates.  
In summary,  he said:
Prudential failed  to properly advise Mr and Mrs S and the recommendation to take 
out a lifetime mortgage was unsuitable. Theyd  not been  given  guidance as to the 
cost and consequences of the further  borrowing they took up. Mr S2 thought  a 
shared appreciation mortgage  wouldve been  more appropriate.
There were  a number of discrepancies within the documentation  about the solicitor 
who purportedly acted  on his parents  behalf. He doesnt  believe his parents ever 
received advice from a suitably-qualified  solicitor and acted solely  on the advice of 
Prudentials adviser.
The interest payable  under the mortgage was unfair, being over 6% more than the 
Bank of England  Base  Rate.
There were  various inaccuracies or omissions  within the paperwork that called into 
question the validity  of the documentation and the agreement  as a whole.
He questioned the role of commission in the advisers recommendation. But no 
details on the amount  earned by the adviser  were disclosed.
Mr S2 proposed to redeem the mortgage by repaying the original amount borrowed in full 
settlement. 
Prudential didnt uphold  the complaint and declined Mr S2s repayment proposal. Again in 
summary, it said:
The recommendation to take out a lifetime mortgage was appropriate based on the 
needs recorded by the adviser  when it was arranged. The correct sales  process was 
followed and alternative options  were considered but discounted.
Ref: DRN03944102Mr and Mrs S had been  required to appoint their own solicitor   and Prudential 
wouldnt have  recommended  one. A Solicitors Safe Homes Income Plan (SHIP) 
Certificate had been completed by a firm of solicitors who confirmed it was acting on 
Mr and Mrs Ss instructions  independently  of Prudential. It also said the terms and 
conditions of the mortgage had been explained  to them. Any concerns about  the 
solicitors role ought to be directed to them.
It had clearly explained to Mr and Mrs S how interest would be charged  and how it 
would accrue. The interest rates werent based  on the Bank  of England  Base Rate, 
hence theyd not fallen in line with it. The interest  rates  applicable to this mortgage  
were fixed   meaning they wouldnt change over the term of the loan, whatever 
happened to interest  rates more widely.
Not being satisfied with its response to the complaint, Mr S2 referred the matter to us and it 
was reviewed by one of our investigators.
our initial conclusions
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. He thought Prudentials 
recommendation to take out a lifetime mortgage had been suitable, while noting it could only 
advise on its own products  which didnt include shared appreciation mortgages.
Our investigator thought that the rate of interest Prudential  charged was a matter  of its own 
commercial judgement and not something we could comment  on. He thought  Mr and Mrs S 
had been properly informed as to what rates  would apply  to their loan, as this was set out in 
the mortgage paperwork.
On the issue of commission, Prudential told us that its advisers  didnt receive commission on 
the sale of lifetime mortgages. So he didnt  think there was any issue here.
Our investigator said he couldnt  comment on the actions of the solicitors  involved in the 
transaction, which would be a matter  to raise with them directly and then for the Legal 
Ombudsman if necessary.  The paperwork showed that Mr and Mrs S had received 
independent legal advice about  the transaction.
Mr S2 didnt  accept our investigators view. Aside from the overall suitability of the mortgage, 
he thought there were  a number of inconsistencies  in the paperwork and was concerned at 
the lack of retrievable records. So the complaint was passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Prudential did anything wrong in selling this lifetime mortgage 
to Mrs S and her husband, so Im not upholding this complaint.  Ill explain  why.
Ref: DRN03944103was Prudentials recommendation suitable?
As part of the application  process  in 2008, Prudentials adviser completed a lifetime 
mortgage questionnaire  more commonly known as a fact find document.  This says that 
Mr and Mrs S were  looking  to borrow £15,000,  which was to cover the cost of a new kitchen 
(£5,000), some work around the house (£2,500),  a gift of £5,000 to their daughter,  an 
emergency fund of £1,500  and the fees to take out the mortgage itself (£1,000). It also notes 
that they were  attracted to a drawdown  facility, which  would allow further borrowing in the 
future.
The fact find shows that Prudential gathered details of Mr and Mrs Ss financial 
circumstances and I think this was sufficient to enable an appropriate recommendation. 
Their declared income and expenditure shows that they couldnt have sustained  the monthly 
payments that wouldve  been required to support a traditional loan or mortgage.  They  didnt 
have any other assets or savings to use either. And notes made by the adviser suggest that 
selling the property and downsizing was discounted as Mr and Mrs S were happy in their 
home and didnt want to move. So I think Prudential gave appropriate consideration to 
whether any viable alternative  sources  of funding  were  available, and reasonably  considered 
that there  werent.  
I note that Mr S2 feels that a shared appreciation mortgage wouldve been a more  suitable 
recommendation. But Prudential says it didnt  sell that type of mortgage. In fact, shared 
appreciation mortgages were only available from limited providers and, by the time Mr and 
Mrs S were  looking  to raise funds in 2008,  were  highly  unlikely to have been available. That 
doesnt mean Prudential should  just have recommended  anything it had without justification. 
But I dont think thats what happened  here. For the reasons above, I think a lifetime 
mortgage was a suitable option for Mr and Mrs S to achieve their aims.
Similarly, Mr S2 says that his parents were desperate to borrow the funds to help their 
daughter  who he says was in desperate need of financial help. He fears  Prudential  took 
advantage of this desperation. I dont  know exactly  how Mr and Mrs S presented  their needs 
to the adviser,  but Ive not seen anything to suggest  any desperation was evident.  Helping 
their daughter was just one of a number  of stated aims, which  in any event isnt an unusual 
(or inherently unsuitable)  objective.
I understand Mr S2 also considered the recommendation to have been poorly thought out, 
on the basis that the terms and conditions of the mortgage required Mr and Mrs S to 
maintain the property in a good  condition. He says work now needs doing   noting soffits  
and fascia boards that need replacing   which was foreseeable at the time, as was his 
parents limited means to facilitate this. The term good  condition  is quite  subjective,  but I 
dont think it bound Mr and Mrs S to complete maintenance work that was beyond their 
means  especially to the extent of fairly common wear  and tear issues  like the soffits  and 
fascia boards Mr S2 points to.
Mr S2 also says that the property had no downstairs bathroom, which wouldve been 
prohibitive for his late father had he survived as hed been  unable to get upstairs. And I note 
hes funded a conversion to the property  for the comfort of his mother  recently too. But I 
dont think that such changes  either required or desired   wouldve been foreseeable for 
Prudential when making the recommendation some years earlier. 
Ref: DRN03944104Its adviser could only base its recommendation on what he knew at the time. The fact find 
records Mr and Mrs S in good health,  but for mild asthma on Mrs Ss part, back  in 2008. 
There are any number  of things that could affect someones long-term living  standards and 
needs, and I dont think Prudential could reasonably be expected to predict how these might 
change for Mr and Mrs S over the years that followed.
So taking all of this into account, I dont think Prudentials recommendation to take out the 
lifetime mortgage was unsuitable.
did Mr and Mrs S receive appropriate  legal  advice?
Mr S2 is particularly concerned at apparent discrepancies within the mortgage paperwork 
about the solicitor  who purportedly  acted  on Mr and Mrs Ss behalf. As this decision is 
published and so publically available, Im not naming any of the firms  of solicitors or their 
employees here.
Mr S2s concerns in this regard seem primarily to be focused on the solicitor  detailed within 
the application form. And thats understandable  it appears from what hes said that no such 
solicitor exists. I know he would like further  investigation on this point, but I dont think its 
necessary. I say this as in the event,  Mr and Mrs S were advised by a different solicitor from 
the one named on the application form.  Theres  a completed SHIP Certificate, signed and 
dated by the solicitor, who confirmed that he explained the terms and effects  of the mortgage 
to Mr and Mrs S. So while I do understand Mr S2s concern at the discrepancy  between the 
solicitor named in the application  form and the one who went  on to act in the transaction, it 
seems to me that wouldve had little bearing on what actually happened  as Mr and Mrs S 
went on to receive independent legal  advice from a suitably-qualified solicitor. 
Mr S2 says his parents were recommended to this firm by Prudential. But Prudential says 
that wouldnt have  happened and that the solicitor  was independent. And the SHIP  certificate  
provided by the solicitor  at the time also stated his independence  from Prudential. So I dont 
think I have enough  to support Mr S2s claim here.
If Mr S2 has any concerns  about  the role played by the solicitor in this transaction, they 
should be directed  to his firm in the first instance.  We only have the power  to look at 
Prudentials actions and we cant raise concerns about this on his behalf.
should the interest rate have reduced  in line with the Bank of England base rate?
Mr S2 queries whether  the interest rate applicable  to the mortgage  ought  to have reduced in 
line with the Bank of England base  rate over the years.  
The interest rate that would apply was set out in the mortgage offer, under section 5, which 
says:
The initial loan has a fixed rate of 7.01% for the whole of the term.
Ref: DRN03944105So it was clearly stated  that the rate would be fixed at 7.01%  for the duration  of the mortgage 
term. There was no link to the base rate, in the way of a tracker  rate, as Mr S2 suggests. 
This was explicitly confirmed under section 9 (Will the interest rate change? ): 
The interest rate on the Prudential  Lifetime Mortgage is fixed  for the life of the 
lifetime mortgage, so the amount you owe (as shown in Section 8) will not change if 
interest rate change.
While a factor in setting  rates, it doesnt follow that all rates  need to be in some way aligned  
to the Bank of England  base rate. 
Mr S2 says that within a key facts illustration given  to Mr and Mrs S at the outset, it was 
implicit that the mortgage rate was somehow linked to the Bank  of England  base rate. The 
wording he cites said that the illustration was valid for 30 days  but that the interest  rate will 
not be guaranteed.  I dont agree that this suggests  any direct  link to the Bank  of England  
base rate. Rather,  lenders  dont seek to guarantee rates for long periods in case of changes 
to their rates  upon  which one of many possible factors  could  be changes to the Bank of 
England base rate. 
As a lifetime  mortgage,  interest rolled up and was added to the mortgage  rather  than being 
paid off monthly. The mortgage offer also detailed  how that would work  and gave a 
projection of what that would cost in each year of the 15-year term. So I think  Mr and Mrs S 
were given appropriate information  about  the level of interest that theyd  be charged and 
what this would look like in practice.
I appreciate Mr S2 is also concerned that the interest rate applicable  to additional borrowing 
remained at a similar level (6.78%) despite the Bank of England  base rate dropping to 
unprecedented lows.  I understand his point here. But it was up to Prudential to decide the 
cost of its products   essentially, the terms on which it was willing  to lend. Generally 
speaking, its not a matter that we can interfere in. And as Ive set out above,  the base rate 
will be just one of a number of factors that influence  the rates a lender will offer.  Here,  
Prudential clearly communicated the information it was required to about the interest rate 
that would  apply to Mr and Mrs S, and they accepted  the mortgage offer on that basis.  
So I cant say that Prudential did anything wrong either in offering the rate it did, or in 
continuing to charge  that rate despite changes  to the Bank of England base rate.
are there gaps in the paperwork that should invalidate  the contract?
One of Mr S2s main concerns with the documentation related to the details of the solicitor 
recorded within the application.  But as set out above, I dont  think that actually had an impact 
on the transaction in any way.
Mr S2 also says that his parents  didnt sign at least one key document and notes that the 
adviser didnt sign the fact find in the box provided.  He doesnt think  the contract is 
enforceable due to shortcomings in the paperwork.
Ref: DRN03944106Only a court can determine whether a contract is legally enforceable. We can consider 
whether its fair for the parties to be bound  by the contract, and given the circumstances here 
I think it is. None of the issues with the paperwork that Mr S2 has highlighted lead me to 
think that Mr and Mrs S werent  given  appropriate information about the mortgage or that the 
legal requirements  for the mortgage  werent met. Mr and Mrs S signed to confirm  their 
acceptance of the terms and conditions  of the mortgage offer and, subsequently, a mortgage  
deed. 
Mr S2 has also said that the Bank  of England  base  rate was quoted  in the mortgage  offer of 
7 April 2008 but fell a few days later, which shouldve  prompted an amended offer. I dont  
agree with that, or Mr S2s description  of that as a misrepresentation   because it was 
correct at the time it was made. I dont think it was necessary for Prudential to reissue the 
paperwork simply because the base rate changed.  That rate was only mentioned in 
connection with the calculation of early repayment  charges,  which was also caveated  with a 
warning that the Base  Rate  may change between now and when the funds are released. I 
think that was sufficient.
 I also doubt whether  the 0.25% drop in the rate  and its impact  on potential  early 
repayment charges   wouldve been significant  to Mr and Mrs Ss decision to take out the 
mortgage in any case. So again  I dont think it would be fair to annul the contract on this 
basis.
More broadly, Mr and Mrs S had the benefit  of the funds  and so it seems fair to me that 
theyre bound  by the conditions on which Prudential agreed to lend it to them.  
did commission play a part in the advisers  recommendation?
Prudential says its advisers werent paid commission  for selling lifetime mortgages and Ive 
seen nothing to suggest otherwise here. Mr S2 says that regardless of commission,  the 
adviser wouldve  been motivated to sell  and I think thats a fair point. 
Commission and sales targets  arent  in and of themselves inherently wrong or unfair. The 
risk of course is that they can lead to unsuitable recommendations, bad advice or a lack of 
clear information. But for the reasons set out above,  Ive not found that to be the case  here.  
So having  taken into account everything  that Mr S2 has said and provided to us on behalf of 
Mrs S, I dont  think that Prudential mis-sold the lifetime  mortgage to his parents. Im sorry to 
disappoint him and Mrs S, but I have no basis on which  to require Prudential to accept a 
reduction in the amount required to redeem  the mortgage.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 June  2019.
Ben Jennings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0394410