K820x#14Complaint
This complaints about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  Mr R says 
Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold him the PPI. 
Background
Mr R applied for a credit  card with Lloyds in 1997. At some  time between then and 2000, PPI 
was added to his account that was designed  to help protect his repayments if he couldnt 
work due to disability  or unemployment.  
Our adjudicator didnt  think the PPI had been  mis-sold. As Mr R didnt agree with the 
adjudicator, the complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Rs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Unsurprisingly, given how long ago the PPI was sold, there are gaps in the information  
available from the time.  Mr R suggests the PPI was sold in a meeting, but Lloyds cant  
confirm how it was sold. From  experience of how Lloyds sold PPI between 1997  and 
2000 across all its sales channels, Ive no reason to think it was added without his 
knowledge or agreement.  
If Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr R, it had to check that the PPI was right for him. 
And, based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think  that it was. For 
example, I cant see that hed have been affected by any of the exclusions to, or limits  
on, the PPI cover. And the PPI benefits  would have paid out for up to 12 months per 
claim. Given he had no other  means of making his credit  card repayments if he wasnt 
working, I think hed have found  the PPI useful.  
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should  
have been. But I think it likely  he chose  to take it out  so it looks  like he wanted  this type 
of cover.  And it seems it would have  been useful for him if something went wrong. It also 
looks like hed have found it affordable.  
So, I dont think better  information about the PPI would have put Mr R off taking out the 
cover. Which means Lloyds doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr R. 
But Lloyds will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr R because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mr R about  that. Because Lloyds didnt  tell Mr R, that 
was unfair. 
Ref: DRN02828692To put that right, Lloyds has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think  that offers  fair in this 
case.
What the business needs  to do
If it hasnt  already done so, Lloyds has to pay back to Mr R any commission and profit share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. Lloyds should  also pay back  to Mr R any 
extra interest he paid because of that.
Lloyds should  re-work the credit  card account and pay back  to Mr R the difference between 
what he owes and what he would have owed if the commission and profit share it got hadnt  
been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Lloyds should  also pay Mr R 8%* simple interest if 
Mr R paid off his credit card at some  point.
I understand Mr Rs been subject to an Individual Voluntary Arrangement  (IVA). His IVA 
supervisor says they have an interest in any compensation Mr R might receive. Mr R and 
Lloyds should  bear in mind Mr Rs obligations under that IVA in respect  of any compensation 
paid. 
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr R can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC doesnt have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr R.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr R any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 April 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0282869