K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that Western  Circle Ltd, trading  as Cashfloat, lent to him in an irresponsible
manner.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision dated  15 July 2019,  
an extract  of which is attached and forms part of this final decision.  So, I wont  repeat that 
information here. 
In my provisional decision,  I set out why I thought  that Cashfloat  shouldnt have given Mr H 
loans seven to 12 and what I proposed to direct it to do to put matters  right.  I invited both 
parties to let me have any further comments and evidence.  Mr H agreed with my provisional 
decision. Cashfloat hasnt responded to my provisional findings. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither  Mr H nor Cashfloat  have provided  me with anything  further,  I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.  So, I dont think  
that Cashfloat should have given Mr H loans seven to 12 and it should put matters  right.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above and in my provisional  decision, I uphold Mr Hs complaint in 
part. I direct  Western Circle Ltd, trading as Cashfloat, to;
refund  all interest and charges Mr H paid on loans seven to 12;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded  interest and charges from the 
date they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
the number  of loans  taken from seven onwards means any information 
recorded about them is adverse. So all entries  about loans seven to 12 
should be removed  from Mr Hs credit  file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Cashfloat  to take off tax from this interest.  Cashfloat  
must give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off, if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 September  2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN06237112extract of provisional decision
complaint
Mr H complains that Western Circle Ltd, trading as Cashfloat, lent to him in an irresponsible manner.
background
Cashfloat gave Mr H 12 loans between December 2014 and December 2015.  Mr H repaid all of the 
loans he had with Cashfloat.  A summary of Mr Hs borrowing from Cashfloat is shown  as an appendix 
to this decision.
Mr H says that his borrowing  with Cashfloat built up over a year, which  caused him to use other 
short-term lenders. He wants  compensation.
In response to Mr Hs complaint, Cashfloat offered him compensation of £150 as a gesture of 
goodwill. Mr H didnt accept  that offer.
One of our adjudicators assessed Mr Hs complaint. He said that Cashfloat shouldnt  have given 
Mr H loans five to 12 and he set out what Cashfloat should do to put matters right.  Cashfloat didnt 
agree with the adjudicators assessment. It said, in summary:
A certain  number of loans within  a year doesnt automatically mean  that the loan 
repayments are unsustainable.
It carried  out a proportionate  affordability check.
Mr H told it that he wanted to borrow  for under  a month  and he repaid in that time 
without difficulty.
Mr H was effectively  borrowing the same £1,100, as he kept repaying early  then 
borrowing again.
The repayment for loan six wasnt a significant proportion of Mr Hs income.
Its checks were  proportionate.
The adjudicator erred in in looking at Mr Hs expenditure and income.
As the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, its been passed to me, an ombudsman,  to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general  approach to complaints about  short-
term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  - on our 
website.
Cashfloat needed to take reasonable  steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In practice, this 
means that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mr H could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These  checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such  as how much was being lent, the repayment  amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages  of a lending relationship, 
I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
Ref: DRN06237113But certain factors might  point to the fact that Cashfloat should fairly  and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable  for the consumer. These factors  include:
    the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
    the higher the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
    the greater the number and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans  (reflecting  the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important  for me to start by saying that Cashfloat  was required to establish  whether  
Mr H could sustainably repay his loans   not just whether  the loan payments were  affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments  being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow  this is the case. This is 
because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being  without undue  
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time,  while meeting  
other reasonable  commitments; as well as without  having  to borrow  to meet the repayments.  And it 
follows that a lender  should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont 
be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments 
without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information provided  in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint.
I dont think that Cashfloat  was wrong to give Mr H loans one to four. Given  the repayment amounts, 
what was apparent about  Mr Hs circumstances  at the time and his history with the lender at that 
point, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for Cashfloat  to ask Mr H for the amount of 
information needed to show  the lending  was unsustainable.  There  wasnt anything  in the information 
Mr H provided or the information Cashfloat shouldve been aware of, which  meant it wouldve been 
proportionate for Cashfloat  to start verifying what 
Mr H said about his financial  position.
I think the position changed  at loan five. By then, Mr H wanted to borrow more  than hed borrowed 
before and a pattern of borrowing was emerging which  suggested that Mr H was reliant on this sort 
of borrowing. In those  circumstances, proportionate checks are likely to have established a much 
fuller picture of Mr Hs financial position. I think proportionate checks  before loan five wouldve  
meant that Cashfloat took steps to verify the information Mr H provided about  his financial situation. 
I think that the same applies  to loan six. Cashfloat didnt  carry out proportionate checks before  
loans five and six. Thats not the end of the matter, as I need to establish whether  that made any 
difference here.
Ref: DRN06237114I cant say for sure what Cashfloat wouldve found out had it taken steps to verify Mr Hs true 
situation before loans five and six. Mr H has provided  us with evidence of his financial circumstances 
at the time he applied for the loans. So Ive been able to get a picture of what  his financial 
circumstances were  like. Of course, I accept  that this isnt perfect, as different checks  show different 
things. And just because something shows  up in the information Mr H has now provided, it doesnt 
mean that it wouldve shown  up in any checks that Cashfloat mightve  carried out. But the information 
Mr H has provided is the best indication  I have of what his financial  circumstances were  at the 
relevant time.  In the absence of anything else, I think its reasonable to rely on it.
Ive looked at Mr Hs income and his essential expenditure  at the relevant  time. His essential 
expenditure includes housing/transport/food/phone/insurance/bank  charges/loan  repayments.  Based 
on what Ive seen,  I dont think  that proportionate checks before loans five and six wouldve shown 
that Mr H couldnt afford to repay those loans. And I agree  with Cashfloat that the required 
repayments for loan six didnt represent a substantial proportion of Mr Hs income.  I dont think that I 
can safely conclude  that Cashfloat  shouldnt  have given Mr H loans five and six.
But Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Cashfloats lending history with Mr H, with a view to 
seeing if there  was a point at which Cashfloat should reasonably have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable,  or otherwise harmful. And so Cashfloat should  have realised that it shouldnt 
have provided any further loans.
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Hs case, I think that this point was reached by loan seven. I 
say this because from loan seven, Mr Hs overall reliance on short-term loans  was established. Mr H 
had taken seven loans in almost seven months and the amounts had increased.
From loan seven onwards,  Mr H was provided  with a new loan within a short  period of settling a 
previous one. So Cashfloat  ought to have realised it was more likely  than not Mr H was having to 
borrow again  to cover  the hole repaying his previous loan was leaving in his finances and that Mr Hs 
indebtedness wasnt improving. Cashfloat says itself that Mr H was effectively  borrowing  the same 
amount again. He wasnt  making  any real inroads to the amount he owed Cashfloat. Loan 12 was 
taken out 12 months after Mr Hs first loan with Cashfloat  and if was for a much larger  amount. Mr H 
had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Cashfloat over an extended period.
I think that Mr H lost out because Cashfloat continued to provide borrowing from loan seven onwards 
because these  loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Hs indebtedness  by allowing him to 
take expensive credit  intended for short-term use over an extended period of time. And the sheer 
number of loans was likely  to have had negative implications on Mr Hs ability to access mainstream 
credit and so potentially kept him in the market for these
high-cost loans.
So, I dont think  that Cashfloat should have given Mr H loans seven to 12 and it should put things 
right.
putting things right  what I intend  to ask Cashfloat  to do
refund all interest and charges Mr H paid on loans  seven to 12;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
the number of loans  taken from seven onwards means any information  recorded  
about them is adverse.  So all entries about loans  seven to 12 should  be removed 
from Mr Hs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Cashfloat to take off tax from this interest.  Cashfloat must  
give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off, if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN06237115my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given  above, my provisional  decision  is that I intend to uphold Mr Hs complaint 
in part. I intend to direct  Western Circle  Ltd, trading as Cashfloat, to put things right as indicated  
above.
Ref: DRN06237116Appendix  Mr Hs borrowing from  Cashfloat
Ref: DRN0623711