K821x#15complaint
Mrs J complains that HSBC UK Bank plc wont refund  to her the compensation that shes  
claimed for a cruise. 
background 
Mrs J used her HSBC  credit card in July 2017 to pay £300 as a deposit of £75 each for a 
cruise for four passengers. And she used the same credit card in March 2018 to pay the 
balance of £485.50 for her and her husband. It was a two night getaway cruise  departing  in 
April 2018. Mrs J had issues with the inclusive drinks service and the entertainment on the 
cruise so she complained  to the cruise company. She then claimed a refund of £200  for 
each of the four passengers from HSBC under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.  
But she wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He didnt  think  that 
there were grounds to conclude that thered been either a misrepresentation or breach of 
contract by the cruise  company  so he didnt think that he had any proper grounds to say that 
HSBC had acted  incorrectly  in how it had dealt with Mrs Js complaint.
Mrs J has asked for her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. She says, in 
summary, that they had no entertainment on the two evenings  (other  than one man singing  
well on one evening and a man singing badly on the other  evening   each for only 45 
minutes) which doesnt constitute the entertainment advertised and that they paid a premium 
price for this cruise, which included a premium drinks package, so that they could have  
cocktails but didn't  get them because of the long queues and poor service.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mrs J 
and to HSBC  on 5 August 2019. In my provisional decision I said as follows:
In certain  circumstances,  section  75 gives a consumer an equal  right to claim 
against the supplier  of goods or services or the provider of credit  if theres  been a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation  by the supplier.  To be able to uphold  Mrs Js 
complaint about  the cruise, I must be satisfied that theres been  a breach of contract 
or misrepresentation by the cruise  company and that HSBCs response  to her claim 
under section 75 wasnt fair or reasonable. Im not determining the outcome of 
Mrs Js claim under  section 75 as only a court would be able to do that.
Mrs J paid a deposit  for the cruise for her and her husband and another couple.  And 
she paid the balance of the cost of the cruise for her and her husband and the other  
couple paid their own balance. Im only able to consider HSBCs response to the 
issues about which Mrs J has complained to the extent that they affected  her (as the 
account holder)  and her husband  and Im unable to consider any affect  that those 
issues had on the other  couple.
Mrs J has provided  a screenshot from the cruise  companys website which relates  to 
the cruise she took. She suggests  that she looked at the website and relied  on what  it 
said prior to booking the cruise. The website says:
Ref: DRN03220722Your cruise  embraces modern luxury at every turn, and the entertainment  
onboard is no exception.  Our team go the extra  mile to ensure that your 
experience is unforgettable. . Onboard [the ship] try a jaw-dropping  circus  
show or even a rock concert in our main theatre.
In its response to Mrs Js complaint, the cruise  company said:  Our entertainment 
differs on a Taster Cruise  and I am sorry if you were unaware of this prior to sailing.  
But theres nothing  on the booking confirmation  to say that Mrs J had booked a taster 
cruise or that the services  that she would receive on her cruise were  different to 
those on other cruises or from what was advertised  on the website. 
Mrs J clearly expected to receive  entertainment  of the quality  referred to on the 
cruise companys website. And there doesnt seem to be any dispute that the 
entertainment that was provided was of a considerably lower standard.  I consider 
that the onboard entertainment was likely  to have been a factor in Mrs Js decision to 
book the cruise. I consider that the cruise company has misrepresented the 
entertainment and that Mrs J was induced into entering into the contract  for the 
cruise, in part, by that misrepresentation.
Mrs J has also complained about  the all inclusive drinks package.  But the drinks 
package was available to them and they chose  not to use it as often  as they had 
expected because of long queues  and poor service.  When they did get served she 
says that some of the drinks she and her holiday companions wanted  had run out. 
But the cruise company  says that there were other bars with bar staff available who 
wouldve been able to serve Mrs J and that it set up a temporary bar outside  that 
lounge offering beers and wines in order to take the pressure off the bar staff in the 
lounge. And I dont consider that the cruise company had said that all of the drinks  
that passengers  wanted would be available at all times. For all of these reasons Im 
not persuaded that Mrs J has provided enough  evidence to show that the drinks  
package was misrepresented  to her or that theres  been a breach of contract  by the 
cruise company about the drinks package.
Mrs J said in her complaint to the cruise company that the cabin was wonderful and 
that the food was excellent. She received  the cruise and clearly enjoyed some  
aspects of it  even if the drinks package and entertainment werent  what shed 
expected and she didnt consider the cruise  to be good value. I consider that Mrs J 
and her travelling companions received  most of what theyd paid for and what I 
consider the cruise company  had offered them. So Im not persuaded that it would  be 
fair or reasonable  for me to require HSBC to pay her compensation of £200 for each 
passenger. I consider that the misrepresentation about the entertainment and the 
loss of enjoyment that that caused  justifies total compensation of £50.
So I find that HSBCs response to Mrs Js complaint hasnt been fair and reasonable. 
And I find that it would  be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for HSBC to 
pay £50 to Mrs J to compensate her for the cruise companys misrepresentation 
about the entertainment. But I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to 
require it to take any other action in response  to Mrs Js complaint.
So subject to any further representations by Mrs J or HSBC,  my provisional decision was 
that I was minded to uphold this complaint in part.
Ref: DRN03220723HSBC has accepted my provisional decision but Mrs J has responded to it in detail and has 
provided further documents in support of her compliant. She says,  in summary, that:
cruising is expensive,  but she pays for the luxury  and the standard  of entertainment  - 
and on this occasion she paid more than she usually would as premium  drinks were 
included  but the cruise was misrepresented to her;
they did not receive luxury entertainment which was a breach of contract;
the premium drinks package wasnt available and they had to queue at the bar but 
when they got to the front of the queue they invariably found out that the drinks they 
wanted had run out;
she doesnt drink beer or wine and wanted  the cocktails that shed paid for;
the drinks package was misrepresented to her as the cruise  company couldnt deliver 
what it had promised  and there  was also a breach of contract  as the cruise  company 
didnt provide a luxury  drinks  package;
the contract with the cruise company was made with her when she paid the deposit 
for all four passengers so the fact that the other couple paid their balance has no 
bearing on her section 75 claim; and
she feels very strongly that they deserve £200  compensation  each.
She also refers to social media exchanges concerning other  customers  issues with the 
drinks package on similar cruises.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not persuaded that 
I should change  my provisional  decision. 
Mrs J clearly feels very strongly that the cruise  was misrepresented to her and that theres 
been a breach of contract by the cruise  company  because of the issues  that she had with 
the entertainment and the drinks package  and she says that all four passengers for whom  
she booked the cruise should  have  received compensation of £200 each. 
But there must be a relevant relationship between the debtor, the creditor and the supplier 
for section  75 to apply.  In this case the debtor is Mrs J because  she used her HSBC credit 
card to pay for part of the total cost of the cruise, the creditor is HSBC bank because it 
provided credit to Mrs J and the supplier is the cruise company. Mrs J paid the deposit  for all 
four passengers but the other  couple  paid their own balance. Im satisfied  that Mrs J 
arranged the cruise for all four passengers but I consider it to be clear that separate 
contractual arrangements were made for each  couple. So when considering  Mrs Js 
complaint, I can only consider any breach  of contract or misrepresentation to the extent that 
it has affected Mrs J and her husband.  I consider that HSBC  has no liability  under section 75 
to the other couple arising from Mrs Js payments to the cruise company.
In my provisional decision I accepted that there had been a misrepresentation by the cruise 
company about  the entertainment and I consider  that the misrepresentation justified total 
compensation to Mrs J of £50. I still consider  that to be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Mrs J has made detailed  claims that the drinks package was also misrepresented and that 
there was a breach of contract  by the cruise company because  the drinks  package wasnt 
available to them. I accept  what Mrs J says about the queues and the drinks that they 
wanted not being available. But her comments relate to the busy evening  period around the 
time that the entertainment was happening. And the drinks package would also have been 
Ref: DRN03220724available to her and the other passengers at other times. I sympathise with Mrs J because  
the issues that she experienced clearly had a significant detrimental  impact on her 
enjoyment of the cruise.  
But for the reasons set out in my provisional decision, Im still not persuaded that the drinks  
package was misrepresented  to Mrs J or that theres been a breach of contract by the cruise 
company about  the drinks package. And the discussion  on social media  about  other  
customers issues with the drinks package on similar  cruises  isnt enough to show that Mrs J 
has suffered a misrepresentation or breach of contract about  the drinks  package on her 
cruise. 
Other than the £50 referred to above,  I find that it wouldnt  be fair or reasonable in these 
circumstances for me to require HSBC to refund to Mrs J any of the money that she paid for 
the cruise  or to take any other  action in response  to her complaint. 
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, my decision is that I uphold Mrs Js complaint in part. And I 
order HSBC UK Bank plc to pay £50 compensation to Mrs J.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0322072