K820x#14complaint
Ms H says Bank  of Scotland  plc mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance  (PPI)  policy. 
background
Ms H bought the policy in 1997  at the same time as taking out a credit  card in branch. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Hs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Hs complaint because:
 From  what we know about how Bank of Scotland sold PPI in branch at the time, I think 
its likely  that PPI was discussed with Ms H. The credit card application also showed 
that PPI would be included and another type of insurance  not included.  This suggests 
that Ms H made a decision about what insurance to take. Ms H signed the application.  
I think she wouldve checked  this before  signing it  to make sure it reflected the 
discussion. So I think Bank  of Scotland made Ms H aware that she had a choice  about  
buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it. I appreciate that Ms H says the PPI 
wasnt discussed, but Im mindful that the sale was over 20 years  ago and memories  
can fade or change over time.  
 Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Ms H, and it seems  to have been right for 
her based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. She didnt have much  
sick or redundancy  pay through  her work having been in her job for less than a year. 
And she had no other way to keep up with her repayments if shed been  unable to 
work. I appreciate she had a second job, albeit  without guaranteed hours. This 
wouldve reduced the likelihood of her making a claim for redundancy. But I dont think 
this made the policy unsuitable for her. 
 Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Ms H about  the PPI wasnt as clear  
as it shouldve been. But Ms H doesnt  appear to have been affected  by any of the 
main things  the policy didnt cover   and based on what  I know  about her 
circumstances it looks like the policy couldve been useful to her. So I dont think  better 
information wouldve  stopped  her buying  it. 
Ive taken into account Ms Hs comments.  But these points dont change my conclusion.
Ref: DRN07751562my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Ms Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 October  2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0775156