K821x#15complaint
Miss M complains about the repairs that Admiral Insurance Company Limited  carried  out on 
her car under her motor  insurance policy. She wants  the repairs completed properly or 
payment to have it done at her garage.  
background
Miss Ms car was taken to Admirals approved garage for repairs following an accident. 
Miss M returned the car twice as she was unhappy with the quality of the repairs. Her local 
garage said there was still a mis-match  with the paintwork, but Admiral  disagreed.  
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  Admiral offered to pay 
half the cost of the repairs and the compensation. It provided an independent  assessors 
report saying that there  wasnt  a colour  mismatch. But the investigator thought this was 
inaccurate as other evidence said there  was a colour mismatch.  She thought Admiral should  
cover the cost of the repairs quoted by Miss Ms local garage and pay her £150 
compensation for her inconvenience as she was without a courtesy car for some  time.
Admiral replied that it thought there  were conflicting expert opinions. It said Miss M had 
attended the independent engineers inspection  and agreed with it at the time. It said she 
didnt complain until four months later. It maintained its redress  offer and it asked  for an 
ombudsmans review,  so the complaint has come to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Miss M has felt frustrated and stressed by the handling of her claim. 
Shes had to return her car for rectification work.  Shes had to arrange  and rearrange the hire 
car provision so that she could attend her appointments. I was sorry to hear that this has had 
an effect on her health. I dont think the short delay in her bringing her complaint to Admiral 
is significant or relevant in these circumstances.  
Admiral has already agreed to pay Miss M £150 compensation for not providing her with a 
hire car during a period of her claim. Miss M has accepted this, so Ill not consider this point 
further. 
What remains for me to consider is the dispute  about the paintwork repairs  made to Miss Ms 
car. Miss M is still unhappy that the paintwork doesnt match whilst Admiral has offered to 
pay half the cost of further repairs. 
We dont assess whether or how damage  to a vehicle would be caused  as this is a matter for 
the experts in these  situations, the insurance companies and engineers. Our role in these  
complaints is to determine whether  an insurance  company has considered all the available  
evidence and whether it can justify its decision  to not pay for additional repairs.
Admiral has relied on the evidence provided  by its independent assessor.  He said in his 
report that there were  colour differences between the original  paintwork  and the repaired 
areas. He said there would always be some colour  differences between the new paint and 
that applied to metal. So he didnt think rectification was needed. 
Ref: DRN06490272In a further report, he said the colour  applied in the repairs  was correct and any issue with 
the match was due to the original paintwork.
Miss Ms local garage also provided a report. This said that there  were  colour  differences 
and that the repainting was needed to rectify these. It provided an estimate of the cost of 
these. Admiral didnt challenge the estimate.  But it offered to pay half the estimate. 
So, from what I can see, theres agreement between the experts  that there are colour 
differences between  the repaired areas  and the original paintwork. Where theres 
disagreement is about whether rectification work  is needed. Ive looked at Miss Ms policy  
and it says that in the event of damage  Admiral will pay to repair  the car or pay cash in lieu. 
I think its reasonable for Miss M to expect her car to be repaired to its pre-accident  
condition. I think its agreed that this hasnt been  done as the experts  say that there  are paint  
differences between  the repaired and original parts. So I think Admiral hasnt justified its 
decision to pay only half the cost of the further rectification work. And so I think it should pay 
the full cost to complete the repairs to Miss Ms car.
 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance  Company 
Limited to do the following:
Pay Miss M £150 compensation for being without a courtesy car during part of her 
claim, as its already  agreed to do.
Pay Miss M the cost of the repairs to her car, £1,659.45. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 July 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0649027