K820x#14complaint
Miss M has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc unfairly cancelled  her car 
insurance policy as if it didnt exist and didnt  deal with a claim she made.
background
Miss M made a claim to her car insurer, RSA following  the theft of the car she was driving.
While RSA investigated the claim, it discovered  that Miss Ms driving and insurance  history 
was different to the information she gave  when she applied for the policy. As a result, RSA 
made the decision to cancel  Miss Ms policy as if it didnt exist.  This meant  it didnt deal with 
the theft claim she made. 
Miss Ms car was recovered. She was very unhappy  with RSAs decision.  She gave her 
reasons as to why she didnt answer  the questions correctly when she bought the policy. 
She thought  RSAs decision was unfair.  Miss M wanted it to meet her claim for stolen items 
in the car and pay the recovery and storage costs.
Our investigator considered the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 
2012 which insurers rely on when deciding whether to avoid a policy for misrepresentation. 
She thought  RSA had asked Miss M clear questions when she applied  for the policy   but 
Miss M hadnt taken  enough care when answering them. So she thought  RSAs  decision to 
cancel her policy as if it didnt exist  and not meet her claim  was fair. 
Miss M didnt agree. So the case has been passed  to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where a complaint  arises  from non-disclosure of information important  to an insurer, we look 
to see that it asked a clear question when the policy  was taken out. We check  that the 
information given  would  affect whether a policy  was offered or its terms. And we check  
whether the policyholder has taken reasonable care to provide accurate information. If not, 
we consider whether they did so deliberately,  recklessly or carelessly. RSA said that Miss M 
carelessly misrepresented the facts in order to buy her policy.  RSA has placed reliance on 
the terms of CIDRA  and I have taken account of the Act.
The investigator set out the parts of CIDRA  that apply to Miss Ms case  along with the 
questions as RSA asked them - so I dont intend to quote them  again in my decision. In 
summary, the questions  RSA asked Miss M which she answered incorrectly were: if shed 
ever had a policy  cancelled, if shed been  involved in an incident in the past five years even 
if she didnt make a claim, whether shed had any previous convictions in the past five years  
and who the registered keeper and owner of the car was.
Miss M said she was the registered keeper and owner of the car, she declared one non fault 
claim in the previous five years, and she didnt tell RSA shed had a previous policy 
cancelled by an insurer.
However, the car Miss M was driving  was under  a personal finance  agreement in her fathers  
name. Miss M had a previous policy cancelled by an insurer for non payment of premiums. 
Ref: DRN02509942Shed reported an incident to her previous insurer which happened in March 2017  but 
didnt report it to RSA.  The incident she reported  to RSA from December 2016  was recorded 
by her previous  insurer as a fault claim  but Miss M told RSA it was a non fault claim. She 
didnt disclose a TS10 conviction which had happened within  the previous five years.  Miss M 
said she didnt tell RSA about it as it was over three years ago.
I think the questions  RSA asked were  clear. And when RSA sent Miss M her policy 
documents, it asked  her to check the information  provided was correct.  It highlighted that if 
any information wasnt correct, it could lead to her policy being voided and any claim being 
rejected. 
So I think Miss M didnt take enough care when she applied for the policy.  I therefore think  
RSA acted reasonably  when  it decided to cancel Miss Ms policy as if it didnt exist and reject 
her claim. RSA said it provided  a refund of premiums to Miss M. 
I appreciate that the circumstances of the theft has caused Miss M upset and anxiety. 
Miss M said the way RSA has dealt with the claim has added to her upset. Ive considered 
whether RSA - in its role as the insurer - has acted reasonably  and treated Miss M fairly. I 
understand Miss M will be disappointed  but I think it has. So I dont think RSA needs  to do 
any more.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 December 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0250994