K820x#14complaint
Miss B says she was mis-sold a credit  card payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.  
The insurer,  St Andrews  Insurance  Plc, has taken  responsibility for the sale and the 
complaint.
background and summary to complaint
Miss B bought  the policy  in 2004,  sometime after taking out a credit card.  She applied  for the 
PPI policy  over the phone. 
At the time,  Miss B was employed  as a senior adviser support manager. She has told us she 
was entitled to full pay for at least six months  if she was off work sick and redundancy pay 
worth at least three months  pay. Miss B has said she had two medical conditions at the time 
of the sale. 
The policy provided  cover  for disability,  unemployment,  death and critical illness   subject  to 
its exclusions and limitations.  It offered to repay  10% of Miss Bs credit card balance  in the 
event of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost 78p per £100  of the monthly  outstanding  
balance. The premium  would continue to have to be paid during a successful claim and it did 
attract interest. 
Miss Bs representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Miss Bs representative says:
St Andrews failed to meet the sales standards which applied  at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Miss B wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Miss Bs 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means St Andrews should 
have told Miss B about the poor value;
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means St Andrews should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Miss B and the 
impact they would have had on her chances of making a claim; and
The information Miss B received was misleading. These  policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue. 
Ref: DRN09869492Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had the 
opportunity to provide their responses  to the adjudicators opinion.  Miss B disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion for several reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant 
law and regulations;  relevant  regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Miss Bs. I dont  intend  to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Bs complaint.
This sale took place  in 2004 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself was with a third-party  and not AXA. That means the unfair  
relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court  
judgment in Plevin  about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance  made by the FCA 
about the handling of complaints  about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the 
Plevin judgment, arent  applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint:
The General  Insurance  Standards Councils  General Insurance Code for private customers  
the GISC  Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies) other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
Ref: DRN09869493The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Among other  things, the code said that As a condition of membership of the Association  of 
British Insurers (ABI),  members undertake  to enforce this Code  and to use their best 
endeavors to ensure that all those involved in selling their policies observe its provisions.
While not all financial businesses who sold PPI at the time were  a member of the ABI or 
GISC, I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice 
expected of businesses like St Andrews at the time.  So Im satisfied I should take these 
codes into account  when deciding, what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of Miss Bs case.
I have also taken account of relevant law in reaching  my decision, including: the law relating 
to negligence, misrepresentation and contract (including the express and implied  duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
I am also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first 
issued by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the 
sale of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated  activity,  so 
St Andrews  was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Miss Bs complaint. 
key questions  
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If St Andrews gave advice, whether it advised Miss B with reasonable care and skill 
 in particular,  whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for her, given her 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether St Andrews  gave Miss B sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to 
enable her to make  an informed choice  about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading 
way  the main  provisions  of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Miss B, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Miss B suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Miss B and 
St Andrews,  Ive decided  not to uphold Miss Bs complaint.  Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Miss B know  she had a choice?
St Andrews  had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Ref: DRN09869494There are gaps in the information thats still available  from the time of the sale.  For example, 
theres no recording of the sales call or a copy of the script the adviser might have followed. 
That said,  Ive taken  into account that Miss B applied for the PPI more  than a year after 
applying for the associated  credit card. And that the letter  Miss B was sent a few days after 
the sale, enclosing  her policy schedule, thanked her for her recent application. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Miss B knew the policy  was 
optional and she agreed to take it out without undue  pressure. 
did St Andrews provide  advice?
St Andrews  said that, when it sold Miss B the PPI, it provided advice. 
This means  St Andrews had to advise Miss B with reasonable care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given her needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps St Andrews  took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Miss B. It seems Miss B cant remember  clearly  what  happened  and 
there is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy.  The adviser had 
some limited  information about Miss Bs financial  circumstances, but there is no specific  
evidence to show the adviser took steps to establish whether Miss B would have been 
caught by the significant  exclusions  and limitations  which might have meant the policy did 
not fully meet her needs. For example,  there is nothing to suggest St Andrews considered 
whether Miss B had any pre-existing medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded that St Andrews did all it should 
have done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Miss B given her circumstances. 
So Im not persuaded St Andrews advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded St Andrews did all it should have done to make  sure the policy  was 
suitable for Miss B, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately suitable 
for her. In reaching  that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Miss B met the eligibility  criteria  for the policy.
-Miss B had a need for the policy  it seems  likely  that Miss Bs ability  to continue  to 
meet her credit card repayments would  have been put under strain if she was not 
working for an extended period  of time  even allowing for the redundancy benefits 
and sick pay she says she would  have been entitled to.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Miss B.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Miss B. There  
was nothing about Miss Bs employment  or occupation which would have made  it 
difficult for her to claim. 
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for disability or unemployment, it still provided  useful cover  given  Miss Bs 
circumstances and the fact the policy could have cleared her outstanding card 
balance.
Ref: DRN09869495Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  St Andrews gave Miss B sufficient  
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what  
St Andrews  was recommending to her and make an informed decision about  whether to 
follow that advice  and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Miss B was given a very broad description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is, that the policy would protect her card payments in the 
event she was unable  to work through disability or unemployment). Ive reached this 
conclusion because I think  Miss B would  have been  told this  at the very least   during the 
discussion with the adviser. I think its unlikely Miss B would have taken out the policy 
without any sense of what the policy was. 
Im also satisfied Miss B would have realised the policy wasnt  free and its likely she would 
have had some understanding of how much the policy cost before  agreeing  to take it out.
But the evidence  from the time of the sale doesnt  tell us whether St Andrews gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost (the fact that the premiums  
would be added to the account balance, attracting interest if unpaid  at the end of the month, 
and were payable  during  a claim) or about  the exclusions  and limitations, before Miss B 
agreed to take out the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Miss B, Im not persuaded 
St Andrews  did enough  to present  information about the policy it was recommending  in a 
way that was fair and reasonable to Miss B. Im not persuaded  that St Andrews gave Miss B 
all of the information she needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  
whether to follow the recommendation  and take out the policy.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Miss Bs representative has raised  a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Miss Bs. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Miss Bs representative considers to be poor  
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Miss B about the limitations and exclusions,  it should  have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Miss Bs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith 
in insurance law imposed  a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material facts and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
Ref: DRN09869496think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Miss B has suggested.  And taking  into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that St Andrews  ought  to have  done either. 
what effect did St Andrewss shortcomings  have on Miss  B? To what extent did 
Miss B suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that St Andrews didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy to 
Miss B. So I have gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude 
she suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must decide whether or not 
Miss B would have  still taken out the policy, had St Andrews  done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded that St Andrews took the steps it should have done to establish  
whether the policy  it recommended was suitable  for Miss B, I have found that the policy was 
ultimately suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Miss B has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if St Andrews had explained things  
properly, Miss B would  have acted differently, or whether she would have taken out the 
policy in any event.
Miss B says she would not have taken it out and believes that I should presume this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. I have considered  the representations 
of both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Miss B had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when St Andrews advised her that there was a suitable 
product she could buy that would protect  her credit card payments in the event she was 
unable to work because of disability and unemployment, she concluded she wanted that 
product. But she made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  she 
thought she was getting is not exactly what she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Miss Bs circumstances  at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. 
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Miss B ought reasonably  to have known she would have 
to pay something for the PPI and that it would cover  a portion of her outstanding balance.  
But, I accept that St Andrews didnt make clear the on-going cost information.  So while 
Miss B didnt know some things, the ultimate position in the event of a successful claim was 
not dissimilar to what she would reasonably  have  thought from the information she based 
her decision  to take out the policy on and found acceptable. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Miss B thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
Ref: DRN09869497The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions and/or symptoms that 
Miss B knew about or ought to have known about before  the start date of the policy  
or had seen a doctor for in the 12 months  prior to the start date; 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Miss B 
wasnt a permanent employee.
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Miss B be unable to 
do her job, a similar job or any paid work  which her experience, education or training 
reasonably qualified her to do. 
I do accept there is a possibility that the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Miss B pause for thought  and may well have caused her to conclude that the policy  
wasnt as good  as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Miss B from taking out the policy. 
The evidence about Miss Bs circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, could have proved valuable to her should 
the insured risks have become a reality. Although Miss B says she had medical  conditions  
when the PPI was taken  out and the policy wouldnt have provided cover  had she needed 
time off work because  of either condition, I dont think better information about this exclusion 
would have put her off agreeing to it. 
I say this because  the information Miss B has provided about her health  at the time of the 
sale hasnt been  consistent and, as such, Ive decided not to place emphasis on it. For 
example, when Miss B was asked  about  her health in a PPI questionnaire (PPIQ) she 
indicated shed been diagnosed  with stress  in 1997 and had missed around six months of 
work as a result. She also indicated she was diagnosed with a condition affecting  the blood  
vessels and kidneys in September 2000.  Miss B said shed missed several weeks of work 
since 2004 as a result of it.
However, when St Andrews contacted  Miss B direct  to discuss  her complaint, I understand 
she said she hadnt missed six months of work  because of stress as previously indicated. 
Regarding her other condition, I gather Miss B said shed  taken  time off work prior to her 
diagnosis in 2000 but not since.
Overall, Im not satisfied  that better information  about the exclusion for PEMCs would have 
put Miss B off the policy.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Miss B 
might reasonably have  expected. But its unlikely she would have expected to be able to 
make a disability claim without having  to provide some  evidence to support that claim. And 
while this limitation  might  have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly  different 
circumstances to Miss B from taking out the policy, Miss B, in her circumstances, still had 
some good  reasons to take it out.
Ref: DRN09869498If Miss B had known  she could only claim for disability if she was unable to do both her job 
and any paid work which in the insurers view she might reasonably be qualified for, it might 
have played into her thinking  about  what she would have done.  And I accept it may have 
given her pause for thought  although  its possible she may not have been overly 
concerned given that if Miss B was unable (through  disability) to carry on her own 
occupation the chances that she would be able to take up a similar occupation would also,  in 
all probability, be limited.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Miss B would still have taken out the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close  to 
what she thought  she was getting and I think the policy  could provide a useful benefit in a 
difficult time, notwithstanding her employment  benefits. And in those circumstances I 
consider it more likely  than not that she would have taken out the policy  in any event.  
Miss Bs representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Miss B would not have bought the PPI she bought  unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Miss Bs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Miss B 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Miss B believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Miss B in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible she wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that she would  still have taken 
out the PPI had she been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy 
she was buying.  So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude St Andrews  should pay Miss B compensation,  as that would  put 
Ref: DRN09869499her in a better position than she would have  been  in if everything had happened as it should 
have done. 
Im also aware that Miss B thinks St Andrews misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how 
it described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
St Andrewss statements  misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why 
St Andrews  failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in 
the information it provided  but because the overall information St Andrews gave  Miss B, in 
the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 2004 when providing information about  an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Miss Bs representative says a court  might  take if it 
were to find St Andrews  negligently misrepresented the contract to Miss B and about  the 
remedy a court might award if it were to find that St Andrews had been  in breach of its duty 
of utmost good  faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Miss B in a better position  than if everything had 
happened as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 October 2020
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0986949