K822xcomplaint
Mrs K has complained about the way AXA Insurance  UK Plc handled  her claim under her 
car insurance policy. 
background 
In August  2018  another driver reversed  into Mrs Ks car whilst she was stationery in a car 
park. Mrs K submitted a claim to AXA. It paid for the repairs to her car. There were  some 
issues with the repairs, but I understand these  have been resolved. Mrs K told AXA she 
wasnt at fault and the incident was captured on CCTV. And she suggested it get this 
evidence from the local council. 
Mrs K complained to AXA, as she said it didnt act quickly enough in getting a copy of the 
CCTV evidence. She also said it has not kept her fully informed and updated  along  the way. 
She was also unhappy  her No Claims Discount (NCD) was reduced as a result of the 
incident and hadnt been reinstated by the time she took out a new policy with another  
insurer.
Mrs K wanted the excess shed paid refunded and her NCD reinstated because  the accident 
was not her fault. 
AXA has said it acted in a timely  manner and chased the council to obtain  the CCTV 
evidence. 
It also said that until the claim was settled  it didnt need to refund Mrs Ks excess  or reinstate 
her NCD.
An investigator looked at Mrs Ks case and did not agree that AXA had delayed  obtaining  the 
CCTV evidence from the council. But she did feel it could have acted quicker once it had 
received it. For this reason, she recommended AXA pay £150 compensation to Mrs K in 
recognition of the distress and inconvenience shed experienced.
AXA agreed to pay the compensation. But Mrs K didnt  think  it was enough to resolve  her 
complaint. So the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
I contacted AXA for an update regarding Mrs Ks claim and was told that, although both 
insurers have not yet reached  an outcome,  AXA has now refunded  Mrs Ks excess and 
reinstated her NCD. It also confirmed  this in writing, along with the fact the claim will be 
recorded as a non-fault. 
Ive also established  AXA did eventually send the CCTV evidence to the other drivers 
insurer and chase them regularly  on whether it would accept liability. But the other insurer  
repeatedly failed to respond to its chasers and AXA eventually resorted to an independent  
arbitration process, which it looks like is still ongoing. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case.  Having done  so, Ive decided  to uphold  it.
Ref: DRN07187532Our investigator sent Mrs K a timeline showing the process AXA went  through  to obtain  the 
CCTV evidence from the council. And  despite  what Mrs K has said - I dont  believe AXA 
could have done much  more to obtain  the CCTV evidence  quicker  than it did. 
From when AXA received  the CCTV evidence I think it hasnt handled Mrs Ks claim as 
promptly as it should have done.  It also seems  AXA hasnt  provided appropriate updates  on 
the progress of the claim, leading to Mrs K having to chase it to find out what was 
happening. I say this because looking at the system  notes provided, I can see that AXA 
delayed in sharing the CCTV evidence both internally and with the third party insurer.  I can 
also see that Mrs K has had to contact  AXA on numerous  occasions for an update of her 
claim. 
Whilst I recognise AXA could have done more,  I dont think its fair to hold it solely 
responsible for the delays since it received the CCTV footage.  As Ive explained it did 
eventually send this to the other drivers insurer, although it was a few months after it 
received it. And it has now at least refunded  Mrs Ks excess and reinstated her NCD. And, 
Mrs K should be able to obtain a refund from her new insurer if she lets it know her no claim 
discount has been reinstated. 
I can of course appreciate  Mrs K is frustrated that her claim has not been settled yet, 
particularly given the circumstances around  the accident. But AXA would have always  
needed confirmation from the other insurer that it wasnt contesting liability for the accident  
before being able to close  the claim, regardless of whether this was a straightforward liability  
issue. 
And  even if AXA had sent the CCTV footage off to the other drivers insurance earlier it 
may still not have recovered its outlay or Mrs Ks excess by now.  And, technically its not 
obliged to reimburse Mrs Ks excess or reinstate her NCD until itd achieved  this. So I think  
its been more  than reasonable in doing these things anyway. 
 
With this in mind, and taking into account  all the other circumstances of the complaint, I think  
the £150 compensation AXA has agreed  to pay for the delay it caused since  obtaining the 
CCTV evidence, in addition to reimbursing Mrs Ks excess and reinstating her NCD 
produces a fair and reasonable  outcome to her complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ks complaint and AXA Insurance UK Plc should pay 
her £150  in compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 May 2019.
Greg Callander
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0718753