K821x#15Complaint
Mr G says Gain Credit  LLC (trading  as Drafty) refused to accept his new banking details 
which led to missed payments and additional  interest being charged.  Mr G says that Drafty 
agreed to remove the interest but didnt  do what it agreed.  Mr G is also unhappy with the 
way Drafty has handled his complaint  and the level of service he has received. 
In order to put things  right Mr G wants Drafty to close  his account without any further 
repayment and remove the negative information from his credit  file. 
Background
Mr G approached Drafty for a running  credit facility in April 2018. This was a running credit  
account where a consumer could either  request funds up to their agreed credit  limit in one 
go or take multiple  drawdowns up to their limit. Drafty initially  agreed Mr Gs facility with a 
credit limit of £630. His credit limit was increased  to £940 a few months later but around 
November 2018,  his limit was decreased  to £710. 
The last correspondence  from Drafty  shows Mr Gs account was passed to recoveries and 
there was an outstanding  balance of around  £974.
In our adjudicators latest findings,  he recommended Drafty  pay £150 to Mr G for the delays 
in dealing with his Data Subject Access Request (DSAR) as well as the service he received.  
Our adjudicator felt Drafty  should  also remove any adverse information  recorded  with Credit 
Reference Agencies (CRAs) between  21 September  2018 (when Mr G first told Drafty about 
the problems with updating his bank details) until 21 October 2018  which  is when Drafty 
made Mr G aware he could make a payment using alternative payment methods. 
Mr G disagreed with our adjudicators recommendation. Mr G says there are serious  
problems with the way Drafty has handled his complaint. Mr G says key information has still 
not been provided to him as part of his complaint and SAR's request, and Drafty has been 
charging him interest incorrectly. Mr G also provided this service  with further information 
around the timeline of events and the information Drafty is currently reporting on his credit 
file.
Drafty didnt  respond  so I dont know what it thinks about the outcome that has been  
reached. 
As no agreement could be reached, the case has now been  passed  to me for a decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
Ref: DRN02874022To begin with, Mr G emailed Drafty on 21 September 2018 to inform them  that he had 
recently changed his bank  account. It appears that Mr G had difficulties making his payment 
due for September as the telephone  notes  on the same day shows he called Drafty to inform  
it that he was having  problems in updating his new bank details. The call notes state that 
Drafty advised Mr G that he would  receive a call back from their complaints department.
The following  day, there seems to be a few calls made between Drafty and Mr G trying to 
discuss why Mr G was unable to make a payment. But it doesnt appear that the situation 
was resolved. Around a week later, Mr G told Drafty he had attempted  to make his payment 
but again the payment  was unsuccessful. Drafty advised him that they would arrange a call 
back in order to discuss his account as well as removing the interest accrued on the account  
during the time that he wasnt able to make payments,  as well as a refund for the calls Mr G 
was making to try to resolve  the situation.
On the 29 September 2018,  Mr G discovered that his account  had been  suspended as no 
payment had been made for that month.  Mr G was advised that he would receive a call back  
from Drafty  within 24-48 hours. But it doesnt  appear  that Drafty called him back as agreed  
because it seems the next call took place on 2 October 2018 shows  Mr G contacted Drafty 
to speak to a manager. The advisor  assured Mr G that Drafty would take care of the interest 
and requested him to wait for some time in order to update his card details. Mr G was 
informed him that someone would get in touch with him by the following week.
Ive not seen any information to suggest  Drafty contacted Mr G as it agreed. Based on what I 
can see, the next contact between Drafty and Mr G was around three weeks later on 21 
October 2018. Here  it seems Drafty  explained  that due to system restrictions it couldnt  
validate Mr Gs card. It also, at this point provided Mr G with alternative payment methods 
such as making payments  via cheque or standing order.  Mr G has told us at this point, he 
didnt make a payment  because the balance  of the account and the following day 
By now, I can understand Mr Gs frustrations  as he was willing  to make his payments but 
due to an unspecified issue Draftys  systems couldnt update  to Mr Gs new card details. 
Before this problem,  Mr G seems  to have been  making his contractual  repayments in-line 
with his agreement, so there doesnt  appear to be the case that Mr G wouldnt pay rather  
that he couldnt pay via his chosen method. 
Its also still not clear the reason why he was unable to update his card details which  means 
payments couldnt  be made. But in the absence of any information  about this from Drafty,  its 
difficult to say exactly what  the issue was. But Im satisfied this error  doesnt appear to have  
been caused by Mr Gs actions. 
But in these circumstances,  I wouldve expected  Drafty to offer other different ways  Mr G 
could make his payment.  And thats what Drafty  did. So from the point  Mr G was first aware 
that he was unable to make  his payment, up until Drafty offered him other  ways  to pay, I 
think Drafty should refund any interest and late charges (if it hasnt  done  so already) and it 
should amend  Mr Gs credit file to ensure no late payments are reflecting on his credit file.
Although Mr G was told he could pay by another method and I cant see any reason why he 
couldnt do this, it seems he chose not to make his payments because his account balance 
was larger  than it ought to have been.  I can appreciate why Mr G took this position because 
his account balance was bigger than he accepted because of additional fees and charges. 
However, I dont think not making any payments was reasonable  in the circumstances.  
Ref: DRN02874023And the information  from Drafty shows he hasnt made any payments since  the issue  with 
his account. The obligation is on a customer to make payments in order to keep their 
account up to date. And failure to do so, can result in adverse information being recorded  on 
the customers credit file as well as charges and collections action. 
As soon  as Mr G received  arrears letters and default notices about his account, I think it was 
an opportunity for Mr G to have continued making  his payments in order to prevent any 
further action  on his account. But this didnt happen.  A complaint doesnt automatically mean 
a lender should stop collections actions on the account where there  are arrears. Ultimately, 
its encouraged for customers to continue making  their payments on time, in order to prevent 
adverse credit file information being  reported.  
So, Im not going  to ask Drafty  to remove any adverse information on Mr Gs credit file from 
21 October 2018 onward because this was the point that Mr G found out there  was an 
ongoing issue and was provided with alternative  repayment means.  I appreciate that Mr G 
had reservations  about making repayments  on an account with a higher  balance (that it 
ought to have had) but he did have an obligation to continue to at least  pay the minimum 
repayment. And finally, Drafty has a duty to report accurate information on a customers 
credit file and this needs to reflect how the account  was managed. 
However, Ive not seen  a copy of Mr Gs credit file and Drafty hasnt provided any 
information it is recording, so I dont know exactly what  Drafty  is currently  reporting to the 
credit reference agencies. But given no payments have been on the facility  for a significant  
amount of time, its more than likely the account has been recorded as being  in default. 
I also understand that Mr Gs credit  limit was also decreased  from £940  to £710 around  two 
months after he stopped making his repayments.  I understand  that Mr G feels the changes  
to his credit  limit were  as a result of the repayment  problems.  And I agree that this is the 
most likely cause for the decrease,  given before this issue Mr G hadnt had any repayment 
problems. And due the credit limit decrease, Mr G says that this led to Drafty having 
problems trying to sort the account out. This is entirely likely  and wouldve added  to the 
trouble and upset  Mr G wouldve already been experiencing as a result of the broken 
promise by Drafty. 
I can see Mr G contacted  Drafty on 21 November 2018 to discuss his account. And there 
appears to have been a conversation about Drafty waiving interest accrued on Mr Gs 
account. Drafty has provided this service with a statement of account which shows  an 
amount of £34.57 was waived in interest  on the same day. It also appears a total of £139.65 
has been waived  from Mr Gs balance  since the start of the lending  relationship  but we have 
no further information about what this was for. It seems  that while Mr G may have  been  
aware Drafty  adjusting  the balance, he does suggest that he was told the account balance  
couldnt be updated.
Given what Ive seen  there has been a number of broken  promises  from Draftys side. It 
seems Drafty has made a number of arrangements to contact Mr G but had failed to do this 
on more occasion.  I can understand  Mr Gs frustrations with the delays he has experienced 
in dealing with his case.
In Mr Gs circumstances,  I think Drafty could have done more to contact Mr G as it agreed. I 
can see Drafty responded to Mr G promptly when he emailed them  from another email 
address which  wasnt  registered to his account.  Drafty asked  Mr G to verify  he was the 
Ref: DRN02874024account holder.  But when  it came  to aspects of the complaint, it seems there were significant 
delays.
I also acknowledge that Mr G made a Data Subject Access Request (DSAR) request in 
November 2018  but he didnt receive the information Drafty held about his account until June  
2019. And Mr G says the information Drafty has provided is still not satisfactory. Its not our 
role to fine or punish the lender for any errors  that may have been made while carrying out 
the DSAR. If Mr G is unhappy with the information provided by Drafty  he is free to take this 
up with the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). But I do recognise  that trying  to obtain 
his information  was more difficult than it should have otherwise have been.
Having thought about all of the circumstances in this case,  I think  there has been a number 
of delays and problems with Mr Gs complaint as a result of Drafty not contacting him to 
resolve his complaint. And these problems all started  because  of an issue  with Draftys 
systems which meant it wasnt able to accept Mr Gs new card details.  I acknowledge the 
adjudicator made an award of £150, and given what has happened I dont consider that to 
be unreasonable amount to reflect the trouble  and upset  that has been caused. 
putting things right  what I think  Drafty needs  to do
As I said above, there does appear to have been  some interest  adjustment  made  in 
November 2018.  But if Drafty hasnt already done so it needs  to do the following  
considering the debt may have been  sold to a third party, so it will need to liaise with it in 
order to achieve  the below;
remove from the outstanding balance all interest,  fees and charges applied  to the 
facility between 21 September 2018 and 21 October 2018 (if this has not already 
been done).
If Mr G has already  repaid  the outstanding balance, then the above refund  should be 
paid directly to him along with 8% simple  interest from the date the facility  was repaid 
to the date of settlement*
.
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr Gs credit file between  21 
September 2018 and 21 October 2018 (if this has not already  been done) and
Pay Mr G £150 for the trouble and upset  caused  by Drafty. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Drafty to take off tax from this interest. Drafty must give 
Mr G a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partly  upholding Mr Gs complaint.
Gain Credit LLC should  put things right for Mr G as set out above
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2020.
Robert Walker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0287402