K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs T say Nationwide  Building Society  mis-sold them  a payment protection
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs T bought the policy in 2001  at the same time as taking out a personal
loan. The loan included  an amount to pay for the policy.  The policy provided cover for Mr T
if he couldnt work because of disability or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs T disagreed  with the adjudicators
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my decision on the balance of
probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened  in light of the available
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ts case.
Mr and Mrs T say they applied for the loan and PPI by post. But Nationwide  says the 
application was made in one of the societys  branches.  Having considered all of the 
evidence, Im not persuaded that the method of sale makes  a difference to the outcome of 
this complaint. Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint and Ive set out my 
reasons below:
I think Nationwide made Mr and Mrs T aware  the PPI was optional and that they
chose to take it out. I say this because on the loan agreement Mr and Mrs T signed,  I 
can see that the PPI was described as Optional Credit Insurance . So I think its 
likely Mr and Mrs T would have realised the PPI was optional,  and that they had a 
choice about whether  or not to take the cover.
Nationwide didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr T so it didnt have  to check  if it was
suitable for him. That means it didnt have  to check whether Mr and Mrs T had any 
other means  of covering  their loan repayments  if Mr T wasnt  working.
The cost of the policy was shown on the loan agreement  including  the amount of
the premium, the interest payable on the premium and the total cost. So I think  
Mr and Mrs T would  have  understood  how much the PPI would cost if they kept the
policy for its full term. Ive also seen nothing  to suggest that the policy wasnt
affordable.
Its possible Nationwide didnt point out the main things the policies didnt  cover. But
Mr T wasnt affected by the exclusions  such as those affecting  the self-employed
or people  with pre-existing medical conditions. As he could have benefited  from the
full extent of the cover  I dont think he and Mrs T needed better  advice or information
about the policys exclusions and limitations.
Ref: DRN03706552From everything Ive seen, Im not persuaded that the PPI policy  was mis-sold.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 January 2020.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0370655