K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains about the advice he was given  by Insight in 2008 to switch  his existing 
pension to another personal pension. His representative says that the existing pension  had 
waiver of premium benefit  which was important to Mr R because  he was self-employed and 
had dependents. It said he had no capacity  for loss or risk. It said the charges  were higher 
under the new plan and switching funds within his existing plan was not considered.  
background
Insight did not uphold the complaint. It said that the funds within the existing pension  
presented the same  kind of risks that the new pension funds presented.  The attitude to risk 
questionnaire he completed indicated that he was prepared to take a medium  level of risk  
and the funds selected matched this profile. The existing pension  did supply waiver  of 
premium benefit but Mr R confirmed that this was no longer required. The charges for the 
existing and replacement  pension were set out and discussed at the time. It said that one of 
the reasons for switching pensions was a wider class of funds that Mr R could choose  from.
Mr R referred  his complaint to this service. At this point Insight said that he had complained  
too late  later than the applicable six and three year time limits allowed. The complaint was 
then considered by an investigator at this service  who said that the complaint had been 
made in time. Whilst it was more than six years  since  the act that Mr R complained about, 
the investigator thought that Mr R had complained within the three  year time limit. He could 
see no reason why Mr R should  have known  he had cause  for complaint more than three 
years before he complained. 
Insight asked for an ombudsman to review whether Mr R had complained in time and I 
issued a decision setting  out that I did believe the complaint had been made in time. 
The investigator then went on to consider the merits of the complaint. He thought it should 
be upheld. He said that the new pension  plan had higher charges than the existing pension 
plan and the recommendation report Mr R was supplied with didnt make this clear.  The 
existing plan did provide a wide range of fund options so if Mr R did require a different blend 
of funds, fund switches  could have been  made,  rather the switching the entire pension to a 
new plan. He didnt  believe  the switch was in Mr Rs best interests. 
Insight did not agree. It said it would have considered a fund switch  before recommending 
an individual move pension. It said the recommendation report  did show the charges for the 
existing and new pensions and a Replacement Policy Questionnaire gave a comparison of 
charges between the two plans. Mr R had also been supplied with an illustration. It asked 
that the complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R has lodged a separate complaint with this service  which  I have also considered. This 
concerns the advice  he was given by Insight in 2011. I will issue a separate final decision in 
respect of that complaint.  This complaint will be relevant in terms of any redress I award on 
both complaints.
Ref: DRN03101532It is noted at the time the advice was given that Mr R was a self-employed  painter and 
decorator earning £20,000  a year. He had an existing pension worth  about £31,000. This 
was invested in several equity based funds. A risk assessment was undertaken which 
resulted in a medium risk grading.  Although it is not indicated that Mr R held any other risk 
based investments  and his savings were limited,  because  of that risk assessment  and the 
fact that he invested  in equity funds previously, I believe he was more likely  willing  to take 
investment risk with his new pension plan. That would be generally  advisable anyway  so 
that his pension had chance  to benefit  from a reasonable  level of return.  So, I do not uphold 
the complaint  on that basis.
Another material issue that has been raised  is that of the charges for the switch  and whether 
the switch was necessary. The investigator  considered this, noting  that the charges were 
higher on the new plan and therefore the sum projected at retirement (based on a similar 
level of performance)  was less. I agree with his assessment.
Although not excessive,  the documentation  from the time does indicate that the charges 
would be somewhat higher on the new plan,  resulting in significantly less value at the 
projected retirement date.  So without  an improvement in investment performance  through 
the new plan,  which the adviser said himself at the time he gave the advice could not be 
guaranteed, Mr R would  receive less at retirement. 
Insight has said that the difference in charges  was set out. I do note that the Replacement  
Policy Questionnaire  sets out the existing plan had annual management charges of between  
1 and 2% a year plus a marginal additional of, at most, 0.2%.  The total charges for the new 
pension were higher  than this plus there  was a 5% initial charge of the amount invested  
both for the lump  sum switched from the existing pension and the future regular  
contributions. The 5% charges equated  to a reduction in the amount switched of about 
£1,500. 
At the time the reasons for replacement of the existing pension  is noted as: 
 
Great Fund  Choice and diversification
Option to use an exceptional range of external funds
Historically superior performance 
Financial Strength of Skandia/Selestia
And in the in the advisers recommendation report of 10 March 2008  it is recorded that:
Reasons for my Recommendation
The reasons  that I have  recommended switching from your existing provider
to a Personal Pension with Selestia is because you will have access  to a
wider range  of internally  and externally managed pension  funds. This will
provide even greater  flexibility  with regards  to reviewing your pension  planning
moving forward, which in turn can help with the potential  for future  growth.
The type of pension plan that you currently hold
You currently have a Personal Pension with Standard Life other comments
include:
You liked the idea of switching from some of the funds you were
currently invested in so that you have  more fund diversity and greater growth
Ref: DRN03101533potential.
And 
Why Transfer?
The rationale for transferring is that you will have the potential for greater
investment growth  in your new plan up until your selected retirement  age
although this is not guaranteed.
We have seen a good upsurge  in equity markets and market  conditions as a
whole, over the past couple of years, and although  I pointed out to you that
this is not guaranteed to continue and we have seen extremely  volatile
movements over the past few months, you felt that you would like to increase
your exposure to further proven  actively  managed  equity, property and fixed
interest funds to potentially improve the performance of your pension fund.
These external  funds  do though have  a higher annual  management  charge.
During our discussions we talked about  the way forward and what  we would
like to do with your current pension investments. What we would recommend
is to create  a good diverse portfolio with good diversification of the asset
classes. An asset  class  is a type of asset  you hold within  your investment
portfolio i.e. equity,  cash, bonds  etc. The different  asset classes  growth  is
affected differently  by economic changes, which rebalance your portfolio.
We believe that your investments should  offer you flexibility so that when a
fund manager  leaves a fund or when economic climate changes you can
change your investment  accordingly with ease and minimum expense.
Charges are important within a contract but equally so is the quality of the
fund management  and consistency of performance. Stakeholder pensions  are
generally the cheapest contracts  but have a more  limited fund choice due to
the charging restrictions.
The advisers recommendation  report doesnt set out in plain  English  that the switch to the 
new plan resulted in increased charges and it doesnt provide a like-for-like comparison 
between the benefits of the existing and new pension plan. It also does  not discuss  the 
obvious alternative which was, if Mr R did require it, a switch to different funds  within his 
existing plan. Mr Rs existing plan did provide  a wide range of funds so there was no reason 
why a suitable range of funds could  not be chosen within his existing scheme.  
I note that on the Replacement  Questionnaire there is the following question:
Any internal switches considered, compared and robustly discounted
To which the answer is: 
Using Platform with Selestia. 
That does not seem to me to be an answer to that question  and it does  not suggest that fund 
switches within the existing pension had been  actively considered.  I have not seen any other 
evidence that would  suggest  that matter was considered.  
Ref: DRN03101534 
In my view there was insufficient  justification for the pension switch  and incurring  the higher 
fees  - including the sizable fee for the switch  itself. I also do not believe that Mr R was given  
a clear and balanced picture of the potential disadvantages of the switch and that he could 
likely achieve his investment and diversification needs within his existing scheme. I do not 
therefore believe that the advice was suitable  and I think  it also unlikely Mr R would have 
switched if fully informed  and given a balanced picture. I therefore uphold the complaint.
I appreciate that there is a further point of complaint about the loss of waiver  of premium 
benefit. But as I believe the complaint should  be upheld in any event, I will not go on to 
consider that issue. 
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr R should be put as closely  as possible into the position  he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
But for the advice  Mr R may well have  retained  his existing pension but it is unclear what  
fund switches may have been  made.  So I think it would be a fair approach to follow the 
suggestion by the investigator that and compare the new pension with an appropriate 
investment index. Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given 
Mr R's circumstances  and objectives when he invested. 
What should Insight  do?
To compensate Mr R fairly, Insight must:
Compare the performance of Mr R's investment with that of the benchmark  shown  
below. If the fair value  is greater  than the actual value there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value , no 
compensation is payable.
Insight should  add interest  as set out below. 
If there is a loss, Insight  should pay into Mr R's pension plan to increase its value by 
the total amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should  allow 
for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. 
If Insight is unable to pay the total amount into Mr R's pension plan, it should  pay that 
amount direct  to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have  
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount  should be reduced to 
notionally allow  for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr R's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected  retirement  age. 
For example, if Mr R is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected  retirement  
age, the reduction  would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr R would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
Ref: DRN03101535of the compensation.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Insight deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr R how much has been  taken off. Insight should give Mr R a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
Selestia  
pensionstill existsFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  Indexdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple  per 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within  28 days  
of the business 
being notified 
of acceptance)
Actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
Fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there  is a large  number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Insight totals all those payments and deducts that figure at 
the end instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mr R wanted capital  growth and was willing to accept  some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. It would be a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher  return.  
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the index 
is close enough to allow  me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison given Mr 
R's circumstances  and risk attitude.
It should be noted that because I have also upheld Mr Rs complaint about the advice in 
2011, the redress calculation should be run until the date of this decision. I will not make an 
Ref: DRN03101536additional award in respect  of the 2011 advice because of that. 
I have also considered that if Mr R had retained  his existing pension he would have  retained  
the waiver of premium  benefit. However that benefit  does  not normally apply after age 60 
and there  is also no evidence that a claim on such a policy would have been made and 
would have been payable. 
My final decision  
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Insight  Financial  Associates Limited  should  pay 
the amount calculated  as set out above.
Insight Financial Associates Limited  should provide details of its calculation  to Mr R in a 
clear, simple  format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr R either to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 February  2021.
David Bird
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0310153