K821x#15complaint
Mr O complains that PDL Finance Limited  (trading  as Mr Lender) was irresponsible to lend 
him money  he couldnt afford to repay.
background
This complaint is about three loans Mr Lender provided to Mr O between  December  2013  
and February 2015. 
Heres a table with more  information about the loans:  
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Repayment Deferrals
1 28/12/2013 18/07/2014 1 £250.00 £337.50 3
2 28/07/2014 09/01/2015 4 £400.00 £220.00 0
3 17/02/2015 Not repaid 6 £350.00 £121.33
Mr O complained that Mr Lender didnt  carry out the checks  it shouldve done before 
agreeing to lend to him. He said had it done  so, Mr Lender wouldve realised Mr O was 
reliant on payday lending and couldnt afford  to repay the loans  sustainably.  
Mr Lender says that before the loans  were provided it carried out thorough affordability, 
credit and employment checks. Mr Lender said based on the information it gathered the 
lending was affordable for Mr O. 
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint in part  he felt he hadnt seen enough to say it was 
unfair for Mr Lender to provide loan 1 to Mr O, but that loans 2 and 3 shouldnt  have been 
lent after the repayments problems hed had on loan 1.
Mr Lender didnt accept  our adjudicators view and said it lacked detail and reasoning.
Mr Lender asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.  
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr O 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
Ref: DRN03366342But certain factors might  point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Mr Lender was required to establish whether Mr O could sustainably  repay his loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to 
be able to make their repayments  without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Os complaint.
Mr Lender told us about the checks it did before  lending to Mr O. It asked Mr O to provide 
details of his income  and to tell Mr Lender what he normally spent each month  including 
what he paid towards any other credit  arrangements  he had set up. Mr Lender carried  out 
checks on Mr Os credit file. 
Im sorry  Mr Lender  feels our adjudicator didnt investigate the complaint thoroughly or 
explain his view as well as he couldve done.  Id like to reassure Mr Lender that Ive looked 
at the complaint afresh  and Ive independently reached the same conclusions  as our 
adjudicator. Heres why I say this.
Ive seen a summary  of the results  of the checks Mr Lender did and they dont show 
anything that I think  should reasonably have made Mr Lender think  loan 1 wasnt affordable 
for Mr O. I appreciate  that Mr Os circumstances might not have been reflected in the 
information Mr Lender had. But, looked at overall, given the loan repayment  amounts, what 
was apparent about Mr Os circumstances  at the time and his borrowing history  with the 
lender at that stage, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for Mr Lender to ask him for 
the amount of information that wouldve been  needed to show the lending was unsustainable 
before agreeing the first loan.
Ref: DRN03366343And as Mr O hasnt disagreed with the adjudicators recommendation in relation to this loan, 
I dont think I need  to say any more about  it.
So I dont  uphold Mr Os complaint about loan 1  even though it turned out that he had 
problems making all the repayments on time.
But by the time he asked  for loan 2, Id expect Mr Lender to have taken into account  Mr Os 
repayment record on loan 1. 
Mr Lender gave Mr O loan 2 just ten days after he repaid  his first loan  which  I think 
suggested that he urgently needed the extra cash. 
And I think a reasonable lender ought to have realised that his record of payment problems 
on loan 1 indicated  that Mr O had money problems as hed found  it difficult  to afford to pay 
for the borrowing hed taken  out. As our adjudicator  pointed out, loan 1 was originally  due to 
be paid in around one month but it eventually  took Mr O around seven months to repay. Hed 
had to roll over loan 1 three times  which also added  to the overall  cost of the loan. And 
loan 2 was for a significantly bigger  amount than hed already shown he had a problem 
repaying.
I dont think it was reasonable  for Mr Lender to conclude  that it was likely Mr O would be 
able to repay loan 2 in a sustainable manner.  Mr Lender shouldve  realised that this loan, 
and further lending was likely to be unaffordable for Mr O. 
So, overall, Im upholding the complaint  about loans 2 and 3.
putting things right  what Mr Lender  needs to do 
If Mr Lender sold the outstanding debt it should  buy this back if able to do so and then take 
the following  steps. Otherwise, Mr Lender should  liaise with the new debt owner to achieve  
the results outlined below.
Refund all interest  and charges Mr O paid on loan 2 
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement
remove any interest and charges still outstanding on loan 3 and treat any payments 
Mr O made  towards this loan as payments towards the capital
when Mr Lender works out what it owes Mr O, it can first apply this towards offsetting 
any outstanding  capital balance Mr O owes on loan 3. 
If there  is a surplus then it should return this to Mr O. (in the event that there is still an 
outstanding capital balance then I remind Mr Lender that it should  take a sympathetic 
view when seeking to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr O)
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr Os credit file in relation to loan 2 
and from loan 3 when it is repaid
Ref: DRN03366344 HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender  
must give Mr O a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold Mr Os complaint about  loans 2 and 3 direct  PDL Finance Limited  (trading as 
Mr Lender) to put things right for Mr O as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2020.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0336634