K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that a car he has been financing through an agreement  with 
Specialist Motor Finance Limited  (SMF)  has been  of unsatisfactory quality.
background
Mr M took receipt of a used car in May 2018.  He financed the deal through  a hire purchase 
agreement with SMF. At the point of supply the car had already  completed 78,887  miles and 
was about five years old.
In June 2018 Mr M returned the car to the dealership. He said the car was drifting to one 
side of the road when  travelling at speed.  He was referred to a garage who replaced the 
brake pads  and discs  and who also replaced the shock absorbers.  Mr M paid this bill 
himself.
But the problem  didnt go away and when the dealership failed to allow  Mr M to reject the car 
and further visits  to different garages  recommended by the dealership also failed to rectify  
the problem, Mr M complained to SMF.
They arranged an independent inspection in September  2018.  The inspector noticed  some 
transmission judder under acceleration and his view was that this was likely to have been  
developing at the point of supply. 
The car was returned to the credit broker and they referred it to a garage  and for a further 
independent inspection. Neither organisation were  able to replicate the issues Mr M 
complained of and SMF  therefore refused to allow Mr M to reject the car as they said there  
was no proof  of a problem.
Our adjudicator was persuaded by the first inspection that there was a fault with the car. He 
suggested that SMF allow Mr M to reject the vehicle and return  his deposit.  He also thought  
they should refund any instalments Mr M had made towards his credit agreement  since  
October 2018 when  he had given the car back to the broker. He said they should refund 
10% of any payments Mr M had made before  that, as his use of the car had been impaired. 
He noted Mr M had been inconvenienced by these  matters  so he suggested SMF pay him 
£150 in compensation.
But SMF didnt agree with the adjudicators view. They didnt agree that a judder was 
reasonable grounds under which to reject the car and they therefore asked for a final 
decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint SMF so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ref: DRN02817582Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr M acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. The hire purchase agreement is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then SMF, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Mr M. The car here 
was around five years old and had travelled nearly  79,000 miles. Id expect  some  wear and 
tear on a vehicle of that age and mileage but I would  not expect it to drift when being driven 
at speed. I think its fair to say that could  be dangerous and I dont think a reasonable person 
would think that was acceptable.
I take account of relevant law when deciding what is fair and reasonable. On this basis  if I 
thought the car was faulty when supplied and this fault made the car not of satisfactory  
quality, Id think it fair and reasonable to ask SMF to put this right.  
Legislation would encourage  us to assume that if a car developed  a fault in the first six 
months it was likely to have been  there  from the point of supply. The relevant legislation 
says that:
goods which  do not conform  to the contract at any time within the period  of six months 
beginning with the day on which the goods  were delivered to the consumer must be taken 
not to have conformed to it on that day.
Mr M reported his fault to the dealership and to SMF  within  six months so I think it was for 
them to demonstrate any fault wasnt present at the point of supply.
The independent inspection they commissioned noted a fault. It identified juddering from the 
transmission and said this was developing at the point of supply. The inspector wasnt  able 
to replicate the drifting Mr M complained of as the adverse  weather  conditions prevented a 
more extensive  test drive. But Im persuaded transmission  juddering  could be a reason for 
the car to drift and regardless, I dont think a reasonable  person would think transmission 
juddering was acceptable in a car of this age and mileage. 
I think its fair to allow Mr M to reject  the car because:
he had a short term right to reject it if a fault occurred within the first 30 days. It 
seems that was the case as a garage  attempted a repair. So he could have rejected 
the car at this point but instead  accepted a repair;
Im persuaded that repair failed as Mr M had to return the car to the dealership  again 
and he says he was referred to other  garages. Legislation allows  a business one 
chance to repair  a car but if the repair fails it should  allow the rejection of the vehicle. 
Ref: DRN02817583So Mr M should have  been given an opportunity to reject the car at this stage  but 
he wasnt;
the first independent inspection in September identified a problem that they said was 
most probably present at the point of supply.  I think its likely this refers to the initial 
problem Mr M was complaining about.
but, even if this was a new issue,  relevant legislation does not allow  the business one 
opportunity to repair each new problem that arises. It allows  the business one chance  
to repair  the car as a whole and indeed the more faults that occur  the more  likely it is 
that the car hasnt been of satisfactory quality.
I think SMF should have allowed Mr M to reject  the car in September when the first 
inspection was completed as there was, as Ive highlighted, enough evidence  at that time to 
support a rejection.
I understand that subsequent investigations  have failed to identify a fault but I dont think its 
fair to keep repeating inspections until one is provided that supports the business position. 
The decision  should  and could have been made after the first investigation  or even  in June 
when Mr M first complained or later in June when the repair failed.
In those circumstances I think SMF should  now allow Mr M to reject the car; refund his 
deposit with interest  and refund any payments hes made since the car was returned to the 
broker in October 2018. 
They should  also refund  10% of payments Mr M made to them to compensate Mr M for the 
impaired use he had from the car. So this payment should be calculated from the start of the 
agreement to the point at which the car was returned to the broker.  
I think its also fair to refund the costs  Mr M incurred having the car repaired in June. The 
repairs didnt work  and may not even have  been  necessary.
Mr M has clearly  been inconvenienced  by matters. Hes had frequent  visits to different 
garages to have these  problems  looked  into and matters should  have  been  resolved earlier. 
In those circumstances I would agree that SMF  should pay £150  to compensate him for his 
experiences.
 
Ref: DRN02817584my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Specialist  Motor Finance 
Limited to:
cancel the finance agreement with nothing more to pay;
pay £128.68 (10% of payments) to compensate Mr M for the impaired use of the car 
he had between May and October  2018;
refund  all payments  made since October 2018;
return Mr Ms deposit and add 8% simple  interest from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Ms credit file in relation to 
this issue;
pay Mr M £150 compensation in respect  of the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced;
refund  £216.94  for the repairs completed  in June 2018.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0281758