K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains that J D Williams & Company  Limited (JDW) increased his borrowing limits 
and then increased the rate of interest  he would be charged.
background
Mr E has a catalogue account  with JDW and his credit limit was increased from £250 to 
£1,250. Four days later he received a letter notifying  him his interest rate had been  
increased. He complained  and the business said that it had introduced risk based pricing. It 
said that it carried out frequent reviews of customer accounts and this was done 
automatically by its computer system. 
Mr E brought his complaint to this service where  it was considered  by one of our 
adjudicators who didnt recommend it be upheld. He noted  the agreement  Mr E had signed  
allowed JDW  to alter the interest rate it charged  and this service wouldnt interfere with a 
commercial decision such as this. It had given him due notice of the change  and he didnt 
think JDW had done anything wrong.  
Mr E didnt agree and asked why JDW had felt it was reasonable to increase his limit despite 
him being deemed to be a higher risk. The adjudicator put this to JDW which responded to 
say that Mr E didnt  have  to make use of his increased limit. It added that the interest  rate 
was increased as a result  of a review which  takes into account an increase in the cost of 
credit for that customer (based on the factors considered as part of the review) and as 
opposed to an unwillingness  to lend. The two areas (lending and rates)  are assessed 
separately and at different times.
Mr E asked that the matter be passed  to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate why Mr E feels aggrieved. On one hand his limit is increased and then his 
interest also goes up and he feels this is sending two different signals. One suggests  he is a 
higher risk and the other that he is not.
However, I have to say that it is open  to JDW  to make such  decisions  in the running of its 
business. It has operated  within the terms and conditions of the agreement which Mr E 
signed. As such I cannot interfere with those decisions. 
It is also the case that the willingness to lend and the risk that lending carries are two 
different matters, albeit  they are connected. It is possible for a lender to consider an 
increased limit while deciding the customer carries an increased risk. However, that risk is 
not such that it considers them unsuitable  for a loan. 
I would also say that Mr E is not required to keep his account open if he feels the rate is too 
high or the limit is too high.
Ref: DRN09972772my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or reject my decision before 
28 June 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0997277