K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc were  irresponsible in allowing him to increase his 
overdraft. He says this incurred significant fees and charges that, in turn, contributed  to his 
financial difficulties and hed now like these refunded.
background
Mr P says that between  July 2013 and February  2017 the authorised  overdraft on his current  
account went up from £600 to £5,000. But he was running his account at the maximum of his 
overdraft at this time, and occasionally going  over, and says it should have been  clear from 
this that he was in financial  difficulties. He feels HSBC  was irresponsible in allowing these 
increases.
During this time Mr P incurred just over £5,000  in fees, charges and interest. He feels  this 
was unfair  and excessive.  And he says the way they were  calculated and collected meant 
they regularly  pushed him over his overdraft limit, incurring  yet more fees. He says the 
amount charged  has contributed to his financial problems and hed now like them  refunded.
HSBC said Mr P had complained in 2017 about the legality of the fees and charges  added to 
his account and it had sent its final response to this to him in October  2017. This gave Mr P 
six months in which he could refer his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. He 
hadnt done so and for that reason,  it considered this part of his complaint to be out of time. 
And with regard to the charges applied after that date, these had been  in line with the 
accounts terms and conditions so it didnt agree they were unfair.
It said Mr P had applied online in July and October 2013 and again in February  2017  to 
increase his overdraft.  Each application was individually reviewed and credit  checked but, 
based on the figures hed supplied, the increases had been  affordable.  And while  the 
increases in 2015 and 2016 were  offered  automatically based on Mr Ps account usage  and 
management, these  wouldnt  have been offered if thered been any concerns about his 
ability to afford them.  It noted  that his application  in January 2014 had been declined.
HSBC said it hadnt known about  Mr Ps financial problems until July 2018 at which  point it 
had offered a review  of the account to see what could be done. Mr P hadnt responded. It 
didnt agree it had acted  irresponsibly but said, as a gesture of goodwill, in 2018 it had 
refunded £415  and £90 in charges and fees.
Our investigator said Mr P had made  a number of applications between July 2013 and 
February 2017 to increase his overdraft  from £600 to £5,000. HSBC had a responsibility to 
ensure each application was affordable and looking at the information available, she felt it 
had done so. It had carried out appropriate  credit checks  and when it didnt consider an 
increase was affordable - as in January 2014 - it had said so.
Based on the income and expenditure figures  provided by Mr P, and his disposable income, 
the increases  were  affordable. And although Mr P now said the figures werent  correct,  
HSBC hadnt been aware  of this at the time and looking at his account,  she didnt feel the 
way it was being run would  necessarily have indicated Mr P was in financial difficulty at the 
time. Shed seen  Mr P had said hed contacted  HSBC about  his problems as far back  as 
2008 but although shed  made enquiries,  there  was no record of Mr P telling HSBC about his 
financial problems until last year. In the circumstances  she didnt think  HSBC  had acted  
unreasonably.
Ref: DRN01320382As Mr P hadnt brought his earlier complaint about the charges to this service  within  the six 
month time limit, the charges before 13 October 2017 were now out of time. Shed 
considered the charges raised after that date but could see these had been applied  in line 
with the terms and conditions of the account. On that basis she couldnt; say they were  
unfair or ask HSBC  to refund them.
Mr P disagreed and said, in summary,  hed told HSBC about his financial issues  many  times 
over the years but it hadnt  taken any notice.  He felt it would have been obvious  though  that 
he was struggling  and that this should  have been  taken into account when assessing his 
applications. He said he hadnt been  aware  of the six month  time limit and felt it was unfair to 
apply it so strictly in this case. He asked for his complaint  to be referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where there is no information  on any 
particular point or the information available is disputed then Ive made my decision on the 
balance of probabilities, in other words whats more  likely than not to have happened.
Mr P has raised two issues, the level of the charges and fees applied to his account and the 
increases in his overdraft  limit between 2013 and 2017. I realise Mr P may be disappointed 
but having looked at the issues, Ive come  to the same conclusion as the investigator and for 
the same  reasons, as Ill now explain.
Charges applied to the account
Mr P has set out very clearly why he considers the fees and charges applied  to his account  
going back many years- are unfair and excessive. However for the reasons given above, I 
can only consider  those charges applied after 13 October 2017.  As has been set out Mr P 
first complained about these charges in 2017  and HSBC  sent its final response to that 
complaint on 13 October 2017. In that letter HSBC explained that if Mr P wanted  to refer his 
complaint to this service,  hed need  to do so within 6 months of the date of the letter. Mr P 
didnt do so until June  2018.
Ive seen what Mr P says about the time limits but I have  to follow  the rules  that set out what  
complaints we can accept  and that includes the time limits that apply to such  complaints. 
And although Ive given  very careful  consideration to the circumstances of this complaint, I 
havent seen any exceptional circumstances that would justify extending the time limits. For 
that reason I will only be looking at the charges applied after 13 October.
Mr P is clearly  unhappy about the amount of charges  hes had to pay. But following  a 
decision of the Supreme  Court in 2009, its not possible to challenge the charges simply on 
the basis theyre too high. Instead Ive looked  at the terms and conditions  for Mr Ps account 
and I havent seen any thing to show the charges havent been  properly applied in line with 
these. For that reason  I cant agree  theyre unfair or reasonably  ask HSBC to refund them.
Increases to the overdraft limit.
Mr P applied four times between 2013  and 2017 to increase his overdraft.  Three of these, 
July and October 2013 and February 2017, were approved and one, in January 2014, was 
refused. In addition there were two automatic  increases  in January 2015 and April 2016.
Ref: DRN01320383Ive seen Mr P feels it must have been obvious he was in financial difficulty  and that allowing 
the increases  was irresponsible.  But with the exception of the one that was refused, the 
income and expenditure figures  provided  by Mr P in his applications suggested he had just 
over £700  disposable income available. That would have been more  than sufficient to meet  
any extra  costs incurred  by the higher limit and on that basis I cant agree  the loans were  
clearly unavoidable.
Ive seen Mr P now says the figures  werent correct but were  changed  to ensure the 
applications were  approved.  But HSBC  couldnt reasonably have  known that and without 
some other waring that this was the case,  I think it was entitled to rely on the information 
provided to it by Mr P. Its clear Mr P was running  his account with a significant overdraft but 
in general he was doing so within his agreed  overdraft and I dont think  HSBC  would 
reasonably have known he was in difficulty.
Ive also taken into account that Mr P says he specifically told HSBC  of his problems at 
various times after 2008. If that were  the case, Id have expected HSBC to have taken 
positive steps  to help Mr P. However  despite  making  enquiries  with HSBC, it hasnt been  
able to trace  any calls where this was raised.  Without this it seems the first HSBC knew 
about Mr Ps financial situation  was in July 2018 and if thats  the case, then it couldnt have 
taken this into account at the time of the applications before that.
Ive seen that when it was told last year, HSBC responded positively and sympathetically. It 
offered a review of Mr Ps account to see what options were available  and has also refunded  
£515 in charges as a gesture of goodwill. I consider that to be reasonable.
Ive every sympathy for the situation  Mr P now finds himself in. It is clearly a difficult  time. 
However on what Ive seen I cant agree HSBC has acted unfairly wither with regard to the 
charges applied to his account o to the increases in the overdraft limit. For that reason I 
wont be asking it to do anything more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2019.
Cerys Jones
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0132038