K820x#14complaint
Miss T complains that Newcastle Building  Society mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Miss T took out PPI in 1994 when she applied for a mortgage to buy a house. The policy  
covered her mortgage  repayments in the event of accident, sickness  and unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss T disagreed with the adjudicators opinion.
Miss T mainly feels the policy  was mis-sold  as she was in secure employment with good  sick 
pay so she wouldnt have  needed PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ts complaint. 
Miss T took out her mortgage  with PPI in a Newcastle Building Society branch and I've seen  
some of the paperwork Miss T completed  to take out this borrowing and the PPI. It wouldnt 
be reasonable to expect  Miss T to recall exactly what was discussed  at the time. This means 
that what Miss T says now isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold  her complaint. 
I have to look at everything  and decide  what I think is most likely. 
On her mortgage application theres  a section  where  it says:  We recommend that you cover 
your mortgage payments  for a specified  period in the event of accident, sickness  or 
unemployment 
There are YES and NO options  next to this and theres a tick next to YES on the form 
Miss T signed. 
I dont know what was discussed about the PPI. But I think Miss T wouldve seen  from the 
paperwork she had to complete that it was up to her to say if she wanted  PPI. And she 
couldve ticked the NO option if PPI wasn't  something she had wanted  at the time.
Miss T would've  had to fill in a separate PPI application to take out the PPI  and it looks like 
she must have done this. I've seen  a copy of Miss Ts mortgage offer which shows  that PPI 
was included. If she hadnt taken out PPI, or shed changed her mind about having  it, Miss T 
couldve taken this up with Newcastle Building  Society when she received  her mortgage 
offer  it says on the form that she should contact her local branch if she has any queries. 
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  that Miss T did this.
Miss Ts mortgage was a significant financial commitment and her home couldve been  at 
risk if she hadnt been able to make her mortgage monthly repayments in full and on time. 
So I can understand that protecting her repayments wouldve been an important 
consideration for her at the time.  Despite  what she says, I think  its more likely that Miss T 
wanted to have the benefits that PPI offered her and she decided  to buy the policy.  
Ref: DRN01306182On balance, I think its likely that PPI was added to Miss Ts account  when,  knowing it was 
up to her to say, she indicated she wanted  the insurance and filled in a form to have it put on 
her account.
Newcastle Building  Society says it didnt recommend the policy  to Miss T. And even if Miss T 
feels PPI mightve been recommended  to her, I dont think  a recommendation to have PPI 
wouldve been unsuitable  so this doesn't affect  the outcome of her complaint. But Ive 
looked carefully at whether Newcastle Building  Society gave Miss T enough information to 
make a proper decision  about whether PPI was right for her  and if it didn't do this, Ive 
thought about whether that makes any overall  difference  to what  happened.
Newcastle Building  Society doesnt any longer have a policy  document  from the exact  date 
Miss T took out PPI. But it has provided  policy documentation  which  was in use around  this 
time  so I think its likely  that in all main  respects the policy  that Miss T took out wouldve 
had similar terms  and conditions.
Based on what Miss T told us about her circumstances at the time it appears  that she 
couldve benefitted from the PPI. The policy wouldve covered her mortgage repayments  and 
paid out on top of any work benefits for up to 12 months  per claim if Miss T was unable to 
work as a result of accident or sickness. This couldve been a useful benefit  in what mightve 
been difficult circumstances  for Miss T if shed needed to make  a claim - especially as she 
would've been on half pay only after being  off work  sick for 6 months and bearing in mind 
that her contractual sick pay wouldve stopped altogether after 12 months off work.  
No job can be guaranteed  to be secure indefinitely. The policy  wouldve also paid out if she 
lost her job and became  unexpectedly unemployed. Miss T couldve made repeated  claims 
on the policy giving her long term cover  for her mortgage. 
She told us that she didnt  have any other  means  she couldve relied on if she wasnt 
working. So it seems to me that PPI provided  better cover than Miss T wouldve had if shed 
just been relying  on her work benefits.
Its possible  some of the information  Newcastle Building Society  gave Miss T about  the PPI 
wasnt as clear as it shouldve been.  There were  some things the policy didnt  cover. But it 
doesnt look as if that applied  to Miss Ts situation.  So, I dont think  having  more information 
about policy exclusions and limitations  wouldve affected her decision to take out the PPI. 
Possibly there may have been failings in the way the cover was sold. But it appears that 
Miss T chose to take out the policy and wanted this type of cover. Ive seen nothing to 
suggest Miss T wasnt  eligible for the policy. It seems to have been  affordable  for her  and 
she took it out when she didn't have to. So it seems  she was happy  to pay to have it at the 
time  even  if shes forgotten this now. For these  reasons, I dont think better  information  
wouldve stopped  Miss T buying PPI.
This means  I dont  find that Miss T has lost out as a result of anything that Newcastle 
Building Society did wrong. So it doesnt need to do anything  to put things right.
Ref: DRN01306183I understand that what Ive said will come  as a disappointment. But I hope that setting out 
the reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision.  
my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0130618