K820x#14complaint
Mr V is unhappy with how esure Insurance Limited  handled a claim  he made for damage to 
his kitchen under his buildings insurance  policy.
background
In July 2018 Mr V made a claim under his buildings  insurance policy  for water damage to his 
kitchen and utility  room. esure declined the claim. 
Although esure declined  the claim they said that they would consider a trace  and access 
claim to find the cause of the damage as this is covered by Mr Vs policy. And they offered 
Mr V a cash  settlement based on the original  schedule  of works produced at the time the 
initial claim was made.  Mr V was unhappy  with the amount offered.
Mr V complained to esure. They didnt uphold this complaint as they said the offer made  was 
based on an experts report.  They  suggested to Mr V that he could provide his own report to 
support his claim if he wanted to, at which time they would re-assess the cash  settlement 
offered.
Mr V was unhappy with this and complained to our service. Our investigator  felt that esures  
cash settlement offer was a fair one based on everything that he had seen.
Mr V didnt agree so its been passed  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I wont be asking esure 
to do anything else. Ill explain why.
Ive looked at Mr Vs policy and he is covered  for trace and access. His policy definition is:
Trace and access
What is covered?
If the Buildings are damaged due to water escaping from water tanks, pipes, equipment or fixed 
heating systems in the Home, We will pay for the reasonable cost of removing and replacing any 
part of the Buildings necessary to find and repair the source of the leak and making good the 
removed or replaced elements of the Building.
In order for esures engineers to locate the leak in Mr Vs kitchen they needed  to remove  
some of the linoleum (lino) flooring and access a pipe under the floor. The trace and access  
part of Mr Vs policy means that any work  done  to locate and repair  the leak will be paid for. 
So I have  to decide if esures cash settlement offer is reasonable to repair and replace the 
parts of the kitchen affected. Im satisfied that it is.
esures cash settlement  offer was based  on the original  schedule of works  produced  when 
their expert initially visited Mr Vs house in July 2018. Mr V has seen the list of works  to be 
settled. The cash settlement also included the cost for removing the lino in Mr Vs utility 
room too, as esure had mistakenly told Mr V this would also be covered. 
Ref: DRN09963702Mr V hasnt provided anything to suggest that the schedule of works provided  is inadequate 
or that the work cannot be completed for the cash  settlement  offered. And Im persuaded by 
the schedule of works. It clearly outlines  the work to be done and the cost for each  element. 
In the absence of anything  to the contrary Im satisfied  that its reasonable for esure to rely 
on this when offering  Mr V the cash settlement.
I know Mr V is unhappy as he feels that worktops and cabinets should also be included.  
These items  were dealt with as part of the original claim  that was declined  and a decision 
from our service has been made about  that. I wont comment on that here. 
esure have  said they would  re-assess the trace and access claim if Mr V provides them  with 
his own report.  I think  thats a fair thing to do so I wont be asking  them to do anything else. 
my final decision
For the reasons  above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 September  2019.
Kevin Parmenter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0996370