K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc irresponsibly  allowed him to open a credit card 
account with a limit that was unaffordable
background
Mr W opened the account in 2016  with a credit  limit of £5,500 and says HSBC shouldve  
checked his credit file as the account  was unaffordable. He says he had taken  out loans with 
payday lenders  and had defaulted on another credit  agreement. In summary he says it was 
obvious by looking  at his financial position that HSBC shouldnt have allowed him the credit 
card.
HSBC doesnt  accept making a mistake and says it carried out checks  on Mr W before 
approving his application. It says Mr W told it he was in full time employment earning over 
£22,000 a year.
Mr W brought his complaint to us but our adjudicator didnt  think HSBC had made a mistake  
or acted  unfairly.  The adjudicator looked at Mr Ws credit file in detail and thought  that the 
default was in 2014 for a mobile telephone contract. And whilst Mr W did have other debts 
he was making regular payments and hadnt  exceeded  his overdraft. The adjudicator 
thought Mr Ws total credit  at the time he opened  the HSBC  account was under £3,000. He 
also thought HSBC had carried out all reasonable checks  and considered Mr Ws position.
Mr W doesnt accept that view and has asked that it be reviewed. He would like his credit 
card balance written off and all interest refunded  to him as well as any payments he has 
already made.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the adjudicator for the same reasons. I realise Mr W will be disappointed by 
my decision.
Im satisfied that Mr W applied for the credit card account and provided information to HSBC 
about his address and income.  Im also satisfied that HSBC  carried out its own checks and 
verified both of those  details and considered Mr Ws credit file and the affordability of any 
credit. Ive also looked at the information Mr W provided and his credit file and Ive come to 
the overall view that HSBC hasnt made  a mistake or irresponsibly allowed Mr W the credit  
card.
Ive looked at Mr Ws credit file at the time he made  the application to HSBC.  I can see that a 
default had been registered  in 2014  for a telephone contract but Mr Ws overall  credit  was 
under £3,000 and relatively  low in relation to his income. I can also see that Mr W appeared 
to be making regular payments for other  credit cards.  So I dont think Mr Ws credit  file 
suggested the HSBC credit  card was unaffordable and I can see that Mr W made regular 
monthly payments  until the middle of 2017.  I think that shows  that the credit card was 
affordable at the time but that Mr Ws position may have changed some considerable time 
later.
I appreciate that Mr W says he had payday  loans. But having looked  at his bank statements 
and credit file Im satisfied  that Mr W took out this borrowing some time before his HSBC 
Ref: DRN03113582application  in 2014 and 2015. So I dont think HSBC made a mistake  by allowing the 
application as I think those loans were repaid nearly  18 months before.
I also agree  with the adjudicator that Mr W has had the benefit  of the money  and that it 
would be unfair  in any event  even  if I thought  the lending was unaffordable  , to order that 
the balance be written off.
Banks and building societies should treat cases of financial  difficulty  positively and 
sympathetically. If Mr W is in such difficulties  I hope  he will approach  HSBC  and it should act 
in such a way.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0311358