K820x#14complaint
Miss K complains  that Advantage Insurance Company Limited wont pay her enough under 
her motor insurance policy for her cars repair. Shes  also unhappy with its level of service 
during the claim. She wants it to pay for the repair and compensation, refund her policy  
premium and cancel  her policy. Miss K is represented in this matter  by her father,  Mr K. 
background
Miss Ks car was damaged in an accident  and she made a claim. Advantage then found that, 
unbeknown to Miss K, the car had been  a previous total write off. It offered Miss K cash  in 
lieu in settlement for what it said was the cost of repairing her car to its pre-accident 
condition. Mr K thought  Advantage should repair the damage  completely. They  were  also 
unhappy with delays in responding and with confusing information.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought  
Advantages cash in lieu offer was fair and reasonable as it was based on expert 
engineering evidence and in line with the policy terms and conditions. She thought 
Advantage had tried to provide Miss K with alternatives in her best interests,  though this may 
have led to confusion. And she thought it had already compensated Miss K for small delays 
in responding  to her.
Mr K replied  that a damaged wing on the car needed to be replaced and he didnt think  this 
was betterment. He said Advantage hadnt  inspected the car. He said its approved repairer  
had told him it couldnt repair the wing. He provided  a report  from the repairing garage. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K has raised concerns about  the actions of a claims  management  company  in regards to 
Miss Ks claim. This is a separate company  to Advantage and I cant consider its actions 
here. As the investigator  has already explained, he will need to raise those concerns directly  
with the claims management company. But I can consider Miss Ks complaint about 
Advantage. 
Mr K said that Miss Ks car was in an immaculate condition before the accident. He said the 
only damage on it was caused by the accident.  After four months of dispute, he had the car 
repaired at his own cost.  And so Mr K said Advantage should pay for the full cost of repairing 
the wing of Miss Ks car. 
Were not engineers. We dont assess whether or how damage to a vehicle would  be caused 
as this is a matter for the experts in these situations,  the insurance  companies and 
engineers. Our role in these complaints is to determine whether an insurance company has 
considered all the available evidence and whether  it can justify its decision to not pay for 
additional repairs.
Ref: DRN06593962Advantage said it wouldnt replace the cars wing due to the previous repairs  that had been  
poorly carried out. It said these had made  the area less structurally  stable and so contributed 
to the damage. I can understand Mr Ks feelings on the matter,  but Advantage is only 
required by the terms and conditions of Miss Ks policy  to repair  the damage caused by the 
accident. 
From what  Ive seen, I think the car had previous damage in the same  area that had been 
poorly repaired. I havent seen expert  evidence  that the cars wing would need  replacing 
regardless of this damage. 
Replacing the wing, or making good the previous poor repairs, would be betterment  as it 
would improve the cars  pre-accident  condition.  And I think Advantage is correct  in saying 
that it shouldnt  be responsible for this. This is set out in the policy booklet on page  13. 
And so I think Advantage is entitled by the policy terms and conditions  to offer cash  in lieu 
for the cost of the repairs  for the damage that it thought  was caused in the recent accident.
I can see that when  Advantage  first offered its cash in lieu settlement of the claim, it attached 
a detailed engineers estimate report for making  the repairs. It also said that it would 
consider an estimate  from Mr Ks own garage. I can see that this was provided but it didnt  
distinguish between the previous damage and the current damage.  It was based on 
replacing the wing. Advantage declined to do this as this would result in betterment.  
Mr K said that Advantage hadnt  physically  inspected  the car. But I think this isnt always 
necessary in the case of estimating repair costs. I can see that Advantage relied  on high-
quality photographs provided by Miss K. Its qualified  engineer used these to estimate the 
cost of repairing  the cars wing. The repair estimate was made by a qualified engineer and 
so I think its reasonable  for Advantage to rely on this. 
Mr K said Advantages  approved repairer  had inspected the car. He provided a report  from 
this garage and from the repairing garage  saying that the damaged  wing needed replacing. It 
wasnt possible to now instruct an independent engineer as the car had already been 
repaired.
I think both reports lack detail and dont say that the repairs were  needed  due to damage 
caused by Miss Ks accident rather then the previous damage. Advantage considered  these 
reports but found that the first garage hadnt  determined what damage was accident-related. 
It said that the previous poor repairs had made  a replacement  necessary. 
And so I think Advantage reasonably considered the evidence  available  on the damage to 
Miss Ks car to decide what  costs  it was responsible for. And so I think  its justified its 
decision not to pay for additional repairs. 
Advantage did agree that it could  have communicated  better with Miss K and it offered her 
£35 compensation  for this. I think thats  fair and reasonable as its what  Id require in similar 
circumstances. I dont  require Advantage to do anything further.   
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Ref: DRN06593963Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 February  2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0659396