K820x#14complaint
Mrs B, and subsequently  her executors, complained  about Paymentshield Ltd via their 
representatives, C, about its unfair avoidance  of her policy (treating it like it never  existed) 
and its refusal to meet Mrs Bs claim for subsidence. 
background
Paymentshield handled the sale and administration of the policy and as the complaint relates 
to actions that happened during the policy inception the complaint is against Paymentshield. 
C said it had already submitted a complaint against  Mrs Bs previous insurer for its handling 
of a subsidence claim Mrs B made for damage  to her home. C said the subsidence damage 
caused by leaking  drains wasnt stabilised and monitored correctly  by that insurer,  as the 
same damage reoccurred. 
Mrs B moved her policy to Paymentshield  in 2013 and made a claim in 2018  when cracks 
appeared in her home again.  Paymentshield  sent its loss adjusters to investigate and they 
said that the previous subsidence claim from 2006 hadnt been  disclosed when the policy 
was taken out. Paymentshield avoided  the policy back to the start and repudiated the claim. 
It decided the misdeclaration  wasnt deliberate and refunded Mrs Bs premiums.
Paymentshield said it gathered information from Mrs B when the policy  was taken out, but 
doesnt keep call recordings  for more than four years. C said Mrs B didnt recall being  asked 
about previous  claims for subsidence.  C said Mrs Bs family requested  details of how the 
information was obtained and sent to Mrs B to check, but Paymentshield hadnt responded. 
Paymentshield provided a copy of the record of questions asked of Mrs B and her responses 
from when the policy  started, this is called an inertia  statement. 
Paymentshield said its call handler  asked Mrs B: 
Does  the property  have signs of, or has it ever had any damage  caused to it by:
landslip, subsidence or heave?
It said Mrs B answered: No.
C said Mrs B may have thought that the damage  to her home had been caused  by leaking 
drains (as that was the cause of the previous  damage), and so she may have been 
confused. Paymentshield explained it hadnt  received any new information since  the policy 
was taken and it continued to auto-renew  each year.
The investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  She said the inertia statement 
was generated  from Mrs Bs information  at the point of sale and these questions required  a 
yes/no response.  And Paymentshield had said that if Mrs B had advised it of subsidence it 
would have automatically declined the policy. The investigator  said the question was specific 
and the cover was offered on the basis of the incorrect answer  from Mrs B. 
The investigator said the question about  subsidence  or historic claims should have explicitly 
been asked again at renewal. But she thought Mrs B wouldve given the same answer as 
she may have been under  the impression that her home suffered from drainage problems. 
She said Mrs B had misrepresented her circumstances, but not deliberately.
C disagreed with the investigator and requested an ombudsman review  the complaint.  C 
asked about rules on retention of records and said the complaint  was within  six years  of the 
Ref: DRN04950702policy starting. C asked what information went to Mrs B to check  after the inertia  statement 
was taken and said she should have been  asked about subsidence again at renewal.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Mrs Bs complaint about her previous 
insurer has been considered separately.
The relevant  law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers  to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard  
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what  CIDRA  describes as - a qualifying  misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show  it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt  made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding  whether  the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying  misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Paymentshield thinks Mrs B failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
in 2013 when she answered  its question  about whether her home had ever had signs of 
subsidence damage in the negative.   
Ive looked at the question  as recorded on the inertia statement (see above) as part of 
Mrs Bs Application for insurance. I think the question was sufficiently clear and specific  and 
required a yes/no answer. I thought about whether Mrs B may have been unsure about the 
link between  her previous claim and subsidence.  But Ive seen  that the letters  to her from the 
insurer and loss adjuster for her previous claim were headed subsidence  damage  and she 
referred to her previous subsidence  claim  on her complaint form. So, I dont think  she ought 
to have been confused  and if she was it was information available  to her if she checked. 
I dont think Mrs B took reasonable care to provide the correct  answer to Paymentshields 
question and so I next need  to decide  whether the this was a qualifying misrepresentation, 
in other  words did it make a difference to the insurer.
Paymentshield explained it wouldnt have offered a policy  to Mrs B if she had informed them  
of a historic subsidence  claim and so it wouldnt have proceeded with the application if the 
subsidence had been disclosed. Paymentshield said the policy automatically renewed on 
that basis from then on and no updated information was provided  by Mrs B.
From the evidence Ive seen Im satisfied Paymentshield wouldnt have offered Mrs B cover 
for her home had it known of the previous subsidence claim. Its ability to decline her cover  
was prejudiced by her response to its question, and so, Im satisfied Mrs Bs 
misrepresentation was a qualifying one. 
Paymentshield didnt  ask Mrs B on renewal  any further questions  about previous 
subsidence, but I agree with the investigator that even  if it had this would have been unlikely 
to elicit a different answer to the one she provided  at inception. 
Ref: DRN04950703Paymentshield has treated Mrs Bs misrepresentation as careless  rather than deliberate  and 
reckless and returned the premiums paid towards her cover. I agree her misrepresentation 
was careless as she was in ill health and elderly  and may not have appreciated the 
importance of the inception  process.  I am satisfied that Paymentshield has acted  in 
accordance with the remedies detailed in CIDRA  for careless  misrepresentations.
Paymentshield doesnt have records of its communications  with Mrs B from 2013.  Im not 
aware of any regulations  that Paymentshield  has broken concerning its maintenance of 
records. In the light of what I have seen I think  Paymentshield treated Mrs B fairly and 
reasonably in its decisions about  her policy and claim and I dont require it to take any further 
action. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given above it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the executors of 
Mrs Bs estate  to accept or reject my decision  before 23 November 2020.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0495070