K821x#15Complaint
Ms H complains that Nationwide Building Society are holding  her liable for an overdraft 
which was set up on a joint account  she had with her ex-husband. Shed like for Nationwide 
to stop chasing her for the debt and any record to be removed from her credit  file. 
Background
Ms H and her ex-husband had a joint account with Nationwide.
On the 26 February  2018 a phone call was made to Nationwide from someone  claiming  to 
be Ms H. The caller  passed security and then asked for a £3,000 overdraft  the advisor  
explained that they couldnt approve this overdraft but theyd put an application through  for 
£2,000, which was then approved. In September 2018 four bank transfers  were  made  
totalling £1,870, utilising  funds from the overdraft, to an account not in Ms Hs name.
Ms H complained to Nationwide that shed previously asked to be removed from the joint 
account and for the account  to be closed  but this didnt happen. She also explained that 
she didnt consent  to the overdraft being added to the account,  and thinks  her ex-husband 
added it without her approval. 
Nationwide looked  into Ms Hs complaint but didnt uphold it. They said that Ms H made  the 
phone call to request the overdraft and any overdraft taken out on a joint account leads to 
both parties being  joint and severally liable.
Ms H wasnt  happy with Nationwides response  so complained to our service.
One of our investigators  looked into Ms Hs complaint.  He didnt think that Ms H should be 
held liable  for the debt. He explained that although  a joint account debt was usually joint and 
several, hed seen a copy  of a Court ordered  report in which  Ms Hs ex-husband accepted 
he applied  for the overdraft without Ms Hs consent.  For this reason he didnt think Ms H 
should be held liable  for the debt. 
Ms H accepted our investigators opinion. 
But Nationwide didnt agree. In summary  they said:
-The report is based on Ms Hs version  of events  which were not taken  under  oath.
-Theres no evidence that the account being  referred to is Ms Hs joint account held 
with Nationwide. This includes no date for when the overdraft was taken out and the 
report indicates an agreement to repay  the debt was organised  with Nationwide, but 
at the time of this report that wasnt  the case. 
-Theres no confession from Ms Hs ex-husband that he took out the overdraft.
-Any account holder can take out an overdraft on a joint account without getting 
approval from the other  account holder. 
-They believe that Ms H made  the call to take out the overdraft on the 
26 February 2018. 
-Whether Ms H had the benefit  of the overdraft doesnt impact on the terms and 
conditions of the account which state that all parties will be joint and severally liable. 
As Nationwide  didnt agree its been passed to me for a decision. 
Ref: DRN00876522My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator for broadly the same  reasons. And Ill explain why below. 
Its important for me to first consider whether I think Ms H took out the overdraft herself or 
had knowledge  of it being taken out. Ive thought about what  I think  most likely  happened 
here. And I think on balance its more  likely  than not that Ms Hs husband  took out the 
overdraft without Ms Hs consent or knowledge. I say this because:
-Ive listened  to the call made on the 26 February 2018 when the overdraft was 
applied for, and its clear the caller identifies themselves as Ms H before  passing  
security. Theres also a discussion about  adding  an overdraft to the account, and 
once the bank explains to the caller £2,000 can be added  the caller agrees. Ive 
compared this call with those made  to the service by Ms H. And on listening to the 
different calls Im satisfied the callers voice seems noticeably different. For this 
reason on balance I dont think it was Ms H who phoned Nationwide  on the 
26 February 2019 to apply for the overdraft.
-Ive seen a copy  of a Court ordered  report dated January 2020,  in which  the report 
author states  that Ms Hs ex-husband  accepts  that he made an application  for an 
overdraft/loan on the joint account  without  Ms Hs agreement   He also accepts 
that he took all of the money out of the bank  account  leaving Ms H without any 
monies to pay the rent and buy food.  Im satisfied that this official  Court  report  is 
strong evidence Ms H wasnt aware and didnt consent to the application of the 
overdraft.
-Ive thought about how Ms Hs ex-husband could have made the application without  
Ms Hs knowledge. To make  the phone call on the 26 February 2018 the caller 
needed to pass  security. Ive considered how they could  have impersonated Ms H 
and I think its highly  likely Ms Hs ex-husband  would have either known or had 
access to security  details to enable the caller to pass security. And then proceed to 
agree the overdraft.  
Nationwide have argued that the Court ordered  report doesnt refer to a particular joint 
account, theres no date as to when the overdraft was taken out and it wasnt taken under 
oath. Therefore its not possible  for them to be sure the overdraft being  referred  to is the 
Nationwide one  or that the account  is completely accurate. Ive considered Nationwides  
points here but overall Im afraid I dont agree. Its clear some of the points are valid  in that 
within the report there are no specifics about what account is being referred to or when the 
overdraft was taken  out. But, this doesnt change my overall conclusion. On balance I think 
its unlikely Ms H and her ex-husband have another joint account with a disputed overdraft, 
therefore I think the report likely refers to their joint account with Nationwide.  I agree with 
Nationwides other point which is the evidence  wasnt taken under oath  and hasnt been 
challenged under cross examination. But, this is something Id need  to reach my 
conclusions. And Im unable to see what benefit Ms Hs ex-partner would achieve from 
telling the report  author theyd taken out the overdraft without Ms Hs consent or knowledge, 
if this wasnt the case. 
Nationwide have also argued that any account  holder can take out an overdraft without 
getting approval from the other account holder.  Ive thought about  Nationwides  point here, 
Ref: DRN00876523but I dont think  its fair for this term to apply in Ms Hs case. Im satisfied that its more  likely 
than not Ms Hs ex-partner made efforts  to apply for the overdraft without Ms Hs knowledge  
and also proceeded to spend the funds without her being aware. Ive further seen no 
evidence to indicate that Ms H benefited  from the funds. For these reasons I dont think its 
fair or reasonable  for Nationwide to pursue Ms H for this debt. 
In conclusion for the reasons Ive explained above I dont think Nationwide should hold Ms H 
liable for the overdraft debt  and due to Ms Hs lack of knowledge  and consent  for the 
application they should remove  any reference to the overdraft from her credit  file. 
My final decision
My final decision is I direct Nationwide Building  Society to:
-Remove Ms Hs liability for the overdraft debt and stop any debt collection activity. 
-Remove any reference to the application  and overdraft debt from Ms Hs credit file.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 October  2020.
Jeff Burch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0087652