K820x#14complaint
Mr K complained about Aviva Insurance Limiteds decision to decline a claim he made under 
his buildings insurance policy. 
Mrs T has brought a complaint to this service on behalf of Mr K. To keep things simple, I will 
refer to both Mr K and Mrs T as Mr K, unless stated otherwise. 
background
In October  2018, Mr K said his garage was damaged when a third party  vehicle collided with 
it. Mr K said his neighbours  vehicle slipped down the shared drive  and collided with the front 
of the garage. He said it caused  damage to the front and rear of his garage. 
There was a short time between the loss occurring and Mr K reporting the claim to Aviva  due 
to his ill health. But Aviva  agreed to consider the claim.  
Aviva assessed the damage but didnt  agree  the main cause of the damage  claimed  for to 
the garage was by a vehicle collision. It said it considered the garage wasnt  well maintained  
and showed signs  of deterioration and possible  subsidence. And this is what  had caused 
damage to the rear of the garage. This was on the basis  that an independent  surveyor said 
the garage was in a poor condition and the damage presented wasnt  consistent with a 
vehicle collision. So Aviva  didnt agree pay the claim, but said it would consider a 
subsidence claim for the garage movement.
 
It also noted that repairs to the front of the garage had already been carried out by Mr Ks 
neighbour where its said the vehicle had collided.  
Mr K was unhappy and so he brought a complaint to this service  for investigation. Our 
investigator looked into everything but didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. 
She didnt  think Aviva  had acted  unfairly by relying on the opinion  of the independent  
surveyor to decline the claim. She accepted a vehicle may have collided with the garage,  but 
she was more persuaded that the garage was in a poor condition and so the main  cause of 
the claimed for damage  wasnt  a vehicle collision. 
Mr K disagreed with our investigator. He said the third party  vehicle that collided with the 
garage had been written  off and considered this showed a high impact  had occurred and 
caused the damage. He provided his own independent report  from a surveyor which said the 
central party wall between  Mr Ks garage and the neighbouring garage had moved back. The 
report also said that the garage hadnt  been well maintained, but there was no specific  
evidence to suggest foundation failure or subsidence in the garage.  
Aviva looked  into the report  provided  by Mr Ks independent  surveyor  and provided a second  
independent report. The report said there was a lack of evidence  of impact damage  but 
repair work had been  carried  out prior to an inspection  taking  place. It also reiterated the 
garage wasnt well maintained and there were defects present that couldnt be attributed to 
movement caused  by an impact which Mr K was claiming for.  
Our investigator considered the independent  report Mr K provided, and the additional  
independent report  later provided by Aviva. She remained  of the opinion that the complaint 
shouldnt be upheld. She wasnt persuaded that the damage was attributed  to a vehicle 
Ref: DRN03954032collision and was due to poor maintenance. She also said that the repair work that had been  
needed because  of vehicle damage  had been carried out by Mr Ks neighbour and not at his 
expense. So, he hadnt suffered a loss by the collision. 
Mr K remained unhappy.  He said that Avivas additional independent report had incorrect  
information. He maintained that the cause of the damage was a vehicle collision  which 
caused the garage to move backwards. As he remained  unhappy, the case was passed to 
me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, and whilst I appreciate 
this will disappoint Mr K, I wont  be upholding  this complaint and will explain why. 
Theres no dispute that Mr Ks policy provides cover for damage caused by a vehicle 
collision. But whats in dispute is whether the vehicle collision was the main cause of the 
damage Mr K is claiming for.  
Under the general conditions of the policy, it states:  
2. Your duty to prevent loss or damage
You and any other person this insurance  applies to must take all reasonable precautions to 
prevent accidents,  loss or damage. 
You must keep  property  that is insured under your  policy  in good condition. 
Our policy is intended to cover you against unforeseen events like fire or theft.  It does not 
cover wear  and tear or damage which happens gradually over a period of time. 
Given the above, Im aware that if the damage  was caused by wear and tear, or happened 
gradually over time, the damage  to the garage wouldnt be covered by the insurance policy.  
Aviva and Mr K had conflicting opinions about the cause of the damage. So Aviva appointed 
an independent surveyor to inspect the damage. The surveyor said:  
Upon inspection I was able to inspect the garage internally & externally, the garage is in an 
overall poor condition especially the workshop area.  
The workshop is situated at the rear of the garage, this is where the majority of the damage 
is, however the damage presented is not consistent  with the impact peril. 
The report  goes on to say: 
There is slight damage to the front of the garage however I would expect to see more 
damage around this area as a result  of the impact from a vehicle, there was no evidence of 
paint from the vehicle on the front of the garage  to evidence that the vehicle has impacted 
Mr Ks garage. 
Ref: DRN03954033As Mr K disputed the information  within the report,  his representatives partner,  Mr T, said 
he thought that the vehicle collision to the front of the garage caused the party wall to move  
back and cause damage to parts of the garage, including  the back  where  the workshop is. 
Mr K later employed  his own independent surveyor to provide further clarity about potential  
causes of damage to the garage. The surveyor said it was difficult to determine the exact 
cause of the damage, particularly as the works to repair the damaged front pillar  of the 
garage had been completed  prior to their inspection. Both Mr K and Aviva  agree works have 
now been completed so this isnt something  thats in dispute.  
The report  also notes that significant  force wouldve been required to move the party  wall 
back along the slip plain. It doesnt say the force of the car in this situation  caused such an 
impact that it moved the party wall. Mr K had advised the surveyor that the third party vehicle 
involved in the collision  was written off as a result. The report  also disputed Avivas  
suggestion that the garage may be subsiding. But this is something  that would require 
further assessment  as expert opinions conflict here. 
Ive considered the reports from independent experts and found  that all reports  are 
consistent in saying that Mr Ks garage  wasnt well maintained over the years.  Im not 
persuaded by the information  available to me that the third party vehicle being written off 
evidences a significant force occurred, which caused the particular damage being claimed 
for. 
There are no witnesses  to the collision. The independent  report  says although there was 
some damage present, the expert wouldve expected to see more damage around the 
impact area as a result of a vehicle  collision. Ive seen the photos of the damage and agree 
there is some damage present. But Im not persuaded that the vehicle collision  is the main  
cause of the damage  particularly to the back part of the garage where the workshop  is. 
Given all expert reports  have  said that the garage wasnt well maintained,  Im more 
persuaded the damage is consistent with general deterioration and wear  and tear. 
Something, as above, that is not covered  under the policy. 
Repairs have now been carried out to the point  of which Mr K has said the vehicle collided 
with his garage. My understanding is these repairs werent completed at a cost to him. So he 
has suffered no loss as a result of the collision. And based  on the above, Im not in 
agreement Aviva should be required to accept the further damage  Mr K has claimed for 
because Im not persuaded these were  caused  by a vehicle collision.  
I appreciate this will disappoint Mr K, but having  looked at everything available to me, Im not 
in agreement with him that Aviva acted unfairly by declining the claim. So I wont be requiring 
Aviva to do anything else.  
Ref: DRN03954034my final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 December  2019.
Liam Hickey 
Ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0395403