K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1999. Mr and Mrs B say Northern Rock  (Asset Management) Plc (NRAM)  mis-sold them  
the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Mr and Mrs B say NRAM did not explain to them the policy  was optional. NRAM says it 
wouldve made the optional nature of the PPI clear and sought Mr and Mrs Bs consent 
before adding it to the account. Neither  NRAM nor Mr and Mrs B have been able to provide 
all the documents  from the time of sale. But thats  not unreasonable given how long ago the 
policy was sold. But where  there  is a dispute like this, I have to decide what I think is more 
likely based  on all the evidence available including Mr and Mrs Bs testimony in addition  to 
the documents that are still available. 
Ive seen a copy  of a welcome letter sent to Mr and Mrs B which  made it clear theyd taken 
PPI with an insurance schedule attached setting out the cost and benefit of the policy.  Ive 
also seen an introductory letter  sent form the underwriters of the policy explaining they had 
an offer of the premium being free for 6 months.  Had they not agreed to take the policy, I 
wouldve expected  them to have raised this on receipt of one of these letters. 
While Mr and Mrs B feel that NRAM didnt make it clear the policy was optional, they havent 
said much  more than this  and I have to bear in mind this policy  was sold around 20 years 
ago. And even the best of memories  can fade over that timeframe. So I dont think itd be 
reasonable to uphold  a complaint  solely  based on limited recollections from 20 years ago. 
Bearing in mind everything Ive seen, I think its more likely NRAM  made it clear  
Mr and Mrs B didnt  have to take out the PPI and they chose to take it out. 
NRAM recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs B so it had to check the PPI was right for them 
 and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances  at the time,  I think that it was. For 
example, they were  eligible  for the policy and they werent affected by any of the exclusions 
to or limits on the PPI cover. 
Based on what Ive seen,  Mr and Mrs B also seem to have had a need for the cover. 
Mr and Mrs B told us they each had six months  full sick pay followed by six months  half sick 
pay provided by their employers. Theyve added they were  in secure employment and 
wouldve received  redundancy pay had either one of them lost their jobs.  Theyve also 
mentioned they had some savings and their families couldve helped them too.  
But this policy wouldve paid out on top of their employee benefits  for up to 12 months if 
either Mr or Mrs B were  unable to work because illness or injury  so potentially longer than 
their full sick pay wouldve  lasted.  It also provided up to 12 months of cover  for 
Ref: DRN07917812unemployment. And having the policy wouldve left their other  means available for them  to 
use on other essential expenditure. And while I have no doubt their family wouldve wanted  
to help them, their ability to help wouldve depended  on their circumstances at the time 
which couldve changed. 
I understand Mr and Mrs B felt their jobs were secure, but insurance is taken out to protect 
against the unexpected.  So, overall,  I still think the PPI couldve been useful for them. 
 
Its possible the information NRAM gave Mr and Mrs B about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But I think  they chose to take it out - so it looks  like they wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful  for them  if something  went  wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. 
A mortgage is a long term and significant commitment  the consequence  of not being able 
to make repayments can be serious.  Based  on everything  Ive seen, I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put them off taking out the cover. 
Which means NRAM doesnt  have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs B.
But NRAM will pay back  some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs B because: 
NRAM got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs B about that. Because NRAM didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs B, that was unfair. 
To put that right, NRAM has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
NRAM has to pay back to Mr and Mrs B any commission and profit  share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. NRAM  should also pay back  to Mr and Mrs B any extra  
interest they paid because of that.
NRAM should pay back to Mr and Mrs B the extra  they paid each month  because  the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. NRAM should also 
pay Mr and Mrs B 8%* simple interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs B can claim back the tax if they dont  pay tax.
Ref: DRN07917813my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Northern Rock (Asset Management)  Plc does not have 
to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs B.
But Northern Rock  (Asset  Management) Plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs B any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 March  2019.
Asma Begum
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0791781