K820x#14complaint
Mrs M is unhappy  with Santander  Cards  UK Limiteds (Santander) response following her 
complaint about  the commission it got on her payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  
that was attached to a store card.
The policy was sold by a different business so I havent looked at the sale of the PPI policy 
in this decision.
background
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some new rules about  how businesses should deal with complaints about PPI.
The FCAs rules and guidance set out how firms,  that are lenders, should assess a 
complaint to establish whether failure  to disclose commission gave rise to an unfair 
relationship under section 140A of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 (CCA). And also how 
businesses should  determine the appropriate  compensation  (if any) to offer to a consumer.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit  share from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium   and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right,  the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission  and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
Santander, in its role as a lender, wrote  out to Mrs M in April 2018 explaining that it was 
looking into what the FCAs rules  and guidance meant in Mrs Ms case. 
As Mrs M didnt hear from Santander again, she referred  the complaint to our service.
While the complaint was with our service, Santander got in touch. It explained that it had 
looked at Mrs Ms account to determine whether she was owed any compensation for the 
level of commission and profit share it received. It said that as Mrs M hadnt paid any 
premiums after 6 April 2007  it didnt have to pay her any compensation.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. They explained that we can only look at whether 
Santander treated  Mrs M unfairly about commission  from 6 April 2007  and as it didnt look 
like Mrs M had paid any PPI premiums after 6 April 2007, they didnt think Santander had to 
refund any of the commission Mrs M paid.
As Mrs M disagreed, the matter has been passed  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ms complaint  and Ill explain why.
In this decision Ive only considered the complaint about the commission and profit  share 
Santander (as the lender) got due to the PPI. 
Ref: DRN04500692why 6 April 2007  is an important date
We can only look into complaints where we have the power to. The rules  we follow (set out 
in FCA handbook)  gives a list of activities that we can look at complaints about.
Before the 6 April 2007, we couldnt look at complaints about some  consumer  credit  
activities, including complaints about  store cards. On 6 April 2007  our powers were extended 
and complaints about store cards, like Mrs Ms, became something we could look at. But 
only about things  that happened  on, or after 6 April 2007.
Put simply, this means I dont have the power, in this case,  to look at what  happened  before 
6 April 2007. I can only look at what happened  from 6 April 2007 onwards. 
what does this mean for Mrs M.
This means  that I can only look at whether Santander treated Mrs M unfairly in relation to the 
commission and profit share it received  after 6 April 2007  and not before.
Santander has said that Mrs M wasnt charged  any premiums  after this date so no 
commission was received. So as Mrs M didnt  pay anything,  there is nothing for it to consider 
giving back. 
Santander has provided information to show Mrs Ms store card account opened in 1992.  
PPI was added on 23 February 2001 and the last PPI premium  was charged on 
18 December 2004. The insurance was cancelled on 22 December 2004. Mrs M wasnt 
charged for PPI after this date, although  I can see her store  card account did carry on.
Having considered the evidence provided by Santander, Mrs M didnt pay any PPI premiums 
after 6 April 2007.  That means I cant tell Santander to pay Mrs M back  any of the 
commission or profit share she paid for the PPI sold with her store  card.
While the complaint was with our service, Mrs M tried to obtain some further information 
about her accounts  from Santander. I note Mrs M was frustrated that she received two 
different letters  from Santander.  It appears  that they were from two different departments.  
And from reading them I can see that they do appear to give conflicting information so I can 
see why Mrs M is unhappy and frustrated.
One letter states that it couldnt locate Mrs M  but this letter  seems  to be from the 
Consumer Finance department. As Mrs M didnt have this type of finance  agreement,  I think  
explains why she received a response  saying it couldnt locate her. 
The other says that the account  numbers  Mrs M had provided had been passed on to 
another credit provider  in 2014  and that Mrs M should contact them  for more  information. 
I dont think Santander  dealt with Mrs Ms concerns well and its responses didnt help 
matters. Mrs M was clearly trying to work  out what had happened to her accounts and obtain 
more information  about them. But I dont think there has been such an inconvenience that I 
would consider awarding additional compensation. I say this because Mrs M already had her 
complaint with our service  about  the store card account in question.
Ref: DRN04500693my final decision
For the reasons  given  above I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 May 2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0450069