K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold him a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy  on a personal  loan taken out in 2011.
Mr B has been represented  throughout his complaint.
background
I issued my provisional decision on 25 June 2019. A copy  of my provisional decision is 
attached and forms part of my final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background to this complaint. It explains why I 
provisionally decided  the complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
Broadly summarised:
I didnt think the PPI policy was mis-sold. Which meant I didnt  think  Santander had to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI policy to Mr B. 
But I was of the opinion that Santander should pay back  some  of the cost of the PPI 
to Mr B. This was because Santander got a high level of commission  and profit share  
(more than 50% of the PPI premium)   which it should have  told Mr B about. 
Because Santander didnt tell Mr B, that was unfair. To put that right,  Santander 
basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and profit share  that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium  and I thought that was fair in this case.
Neither party responded to my provisional  decision with any further  comments  or information 
that they wished for me to consider.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
As neither party has given  me anything else to consider, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional findings. So I now confirm those findings.
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold. So Santander  does not have to pay back all of the cost of 
the PPI to Mr B.
But Santander does  have to pay back to Mr B any commission and profit  share it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
what the business needs  to do
Santander, in accordance  with the FCAs rules  and guidance, has to pay back  to Mr B any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. Santander 
should also pay back to Mr B any extra interest  he paid because  of that.
Ref: DRN04550572Santander should pay back to Mr B the extra he paid each month because the commission  
and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Santander should also pay 
Mr B 8%* simple interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr B can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay 
tax.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above and within my provisional decision,  the PPI policy  wasnt mis-
sold. So Santander  UK Plc does not have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr B any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 September 2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN04550573Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
Mr B complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
Mr B has been represented  throughout his complaint.
background
Mr B took out a personal loan with Santander in 2011. The application was completed over the 
internet. At the same time Mr B was sold a PPI policy  which would have covered  the repayments on 
his loan for up to 12 months if he couldnt  work due to accident,  sickness or unemployment.  The 
policy also included life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. As Mr B disagreed, the complaint has been passed to 
me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken this into 
account when deciding this case. 
Having done so, Ive decided  not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Santander had to make it clear that the policy  was optional and Mr B had to agree to take it out. And I 
think it did. I say this because Santander has provided screen shots of the internet pages that it says 
Mr B would have seen  when he was making his application for the loan. I can see that the pages  
include a section about PPI. 
In this section  it asks Mr B to confirm if he would  like to protect his payments with this cover and there 
is a yes or a no option to select. As it is quite clear that the cover can be refused  I think Mr B 
would have known he didnt have to take it out if he didnt want it. And Mr B couldnt  have progressed 
any further until an option had been chosen.
As this policy  was sold over the internet, Santander didnt recommend the policy  to Mr B which means 
it didnt have  to check if it was right for him. But it did have to make sure that it gave Mr B clear  
enough information to decide for himself if he wanted  this type of cover based on his own 
circumstances.
Within the section for PPI I can see that it provides  a brief explanation of the PPI policy. It states  that 
the PPI is an optional  product and is separate to the loan. It also goes on to include information such  
as the waiting period before  you can make a claim, the maximum number of months that will be paid 
for each claim for unemployment, carer  or accident  and sickness.  
From looking  at this summary I think Mr B would have had an understanding that the PPI was optional 
and wasnt a condition of getting the loan, and he would have broadly  understood what  the policy  
provided cover for and what he could expect to receive  if he was to make a claim. 
Ref: DRN04550574But from reviewing  the online process I see that it does not include information  about  the cost of the 
policy. As Mr B would need this information before  making a decision on whether  the cover provided 
value for money I would normally consider that Santander hadnt done enough  to make this clear. 
However, I have also been provided with a copy of Mr Bs credit agreement  which was sent to him 
following his successful application for the loan.  
On this document I can see that it details  the breakdown of costs for the loan and in a separate 
section, the monthly premium Mr B would pay for the PPI and the overall amount he would be paying 
in premiums if he kept the policy for the full length of the loan. Immediately  below the information  
about the PPI costs,  there is a section in which  Mr B had to tick to confirm he wanted  this cover and 
also a box to sign to confirm his agreement  and this was separate  to signing for the loan.  
If Mr B had decided that the cost wasnt acceptable to him, and hadnt ticked  and signed to confirm he 
wanted the cover, I dont  think the PPI would have been added  to the loan. So I think  Mr B could have 
declined the PPI at this point  if he was unhappy with the costs and proceeded  with the loan.
Its possible that not all of the information  Santander gave Mr B was as clear as it should  have been. 
But I think Mr B chose  to take it out  so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  And it doesnt look 
like he would have been affected by any of the main exclusions or limitations  such as having 
unusual working arrangements. So I dont think that better  information about the PPI would  have put 
him off taking out the cover.
I note Mr B says he received sick pay from his employer  if he was unable  to work because of an 
accident or sickness. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to and for longer than Mr B received 
sick pay. The PPI protected Mr Bs loan repayments  for up to 12 months per claim, if he was unable 
to work  due to an accident or sickness if he lost his job. 
I appreciate that Mr B says that he had some savings that he could have used to help meet his 
repayments. But having the PPI meant that he wouldnt have had to rely on his savings.  I also think  
that his savings would have provided him cover  for a limited amount of time. So I think that if Mr B, 
was out of work for a lengthy  period,  he would have struggled to meet  his monthly  repayments.
All things considered, I think the cover could have provided a useful benefit to Mr B.
Which means Santander doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Santander  will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because: 
Santander got a high level of commission  and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - 
so it should have  told Mr B about that. Because Santander  didnt tell Mr B, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Santander has basically  offered to pay back  the amount  of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think  that offer is fair in this case.
Mr Bs representative says there have been other court cases in relation to non-disclosure of 
commission where consumers have received  everything back. So they say Mr B should receive more  
in compensation. 
Ref: DRN04550575The Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA) published rules and guidance about how firms that are 
lenders should assess a complaint  to establish whether  failure to disclose commission  gave rise to an 
unfair relationship  under  section 140A  of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974  (CCA). And how they should 
determine the appropriate redress (if any) to offer to a consumer.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit  share from the PPI policy  
more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could create an unfair 
relationship between  the parties. So to put that right, the FCA said that businesses should pay back 
the amount of commission  and profit share that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium.
Santander, in light of the FCAs rules and guidance, looked at Mr Bs PPI policy. Santander  said that 
the level of commission and profit share it received did create an unfair  relationship.  So to put things 
right it offered to refund the extra Mr B paid each  month for the time the commission  and profit share  it 
received was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Its offer also includes 8% per year simple interest to 
compensate Mr B for any time he was out of pocket.  
Mr Bs representatives  say that because there have been other court cases where consumers have 
received everything  back, Mr B should  receive more in compensation. 
One of the things we take into account when  deciding  what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of a complaint is the law. But we also need to take into account relevant regulators 
rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and (where appropriate)  what  we consider to be 
good industry practice at the relevant time.
In this case, Santander has made Mr B an offer of compensation  in relation  to the level of commission 
it received that is in-line with the methods set out by the FCA. But Mr Bs representatives want 
Santander to do something different than the rules and guidance as set out by the financial  regulator. 
We do look at the particular circumstances of each complaint and each consumer to see if theres 
anything about them that would mean the business should do something different  if the remedies 
set out in the FCAs rules  wouldnt lead to fair and reasonable redress for that individual consumer. 
But there isnt anything about Mr Bs complaint that suggests the redress offered  by Santander isnt 
fair or reasonable.
I accept that if Mr B went to court and it was decided  there was an unfair relationship under section 
140A of the Consumer Credit Act, he might be awarded a full refund  of the premiums he paid  this 
would be a remedy  available. And this is a route thats available to Mr B if he doesnt accept my 
decision. 
In this case I think Santanders offer is a fair way to resolve this case.
what the business needs to do
Santander has to pay back to Mr B any commission and profit  share  it got that was more than 50% of 
the PPI premium. Santander should also pay back  to Mr B any extra  interest he paid because of that.
Santander should pay back to Mr B the extra  he paid each month because  the commission and profit 
share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Santander should  also pay Mr B 8%* simple  
interest on each payment.
*Businesses have  to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr B can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
Ref: DRN04550576my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, I am of the provisional opinion that the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so 
Santander UK Plc does not have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Santander  UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr B any commission  and profit share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
I invite both parties to provide me with anything further they wish for me to consider  by
25 July 2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0455057