K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) unfairly refused his 
buildings insurance  claim for storm damage.  
background
In June 2018 decorative panelling on Mr Gs home  fell away. He claimed  for the damage  
under the storm  section  of his home insurance  policy. But Lloyds refused to pay. It felt the 
cause of the damage was deterioration  of the panels  bonding  - rather  than storm. It also 
refused to cover further damage  caused by the falling panel. It said that wasnt  covered as 
Mr G didnt have accidental damage cover. 
Mr G believes  storm conditions did cause the damage. Hes paid about £1,400 to repair  the 
damage. He thinks  Lloyds  should  cover this. Our investigator said he thought  storm probably 
wasnt the main cause of the damage. He was persuaded by Lloyds view that the mortar 
had deteriorated  over time. So he didnt recommend it pay the claim.  Mr G didnt accept that. 
So the complaint has come  to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not making Lloyds  
pay Mr Gs claim or do anything differently.  
As our investigator said, our approach in storm cases is to ask three  questions:
was there a storm on or around  the date of loss?
is the nature of the damage claimed for consistent with storm damage?   
and were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Its only if we can answer  yes to all three  questions  that we say the insurer  is liable to pay 
the claim. 
Its seems there was heavy rainfall in Mr Gs area around the time of the damage. So I 
accept that there were  storm  conditions around  the date of loss. But I dont think storm 
conditions were the main  cause of the damage.  
Mr G says the high rainfall washed  the mortar behind the panel away   causing it to fall 
away. But, based on its surveyors  opinion, Lloyds  think the mortar must have been in a 
poor state of repair having deteriorated  over time.  It feels  it had de-bonded before those 
heavy rain conditions.  And that weather just highlighted  the deteriorated mortar. So storm 
wasnt the main cause of the damage. 
Ive considered everything Mr Gs provided. I accept there was heavy rainfall. But if 
everything had been  in a good  condition I wouldnt expect it to get in behind  the panel  and 
wash the mortar away. 
Photos show a fair amount  of mortar  still on either the building  or the fallen panel. This 
supports Lloyds view that it had de-bonded  rather than washed  away.  So it seems the 
mortar probably had deteriorated over time, losing some of its bonding effectiveness.   
Ref: DRN09956872Overall it was reasonable of Lloyds to conclude  the main cause of the damage wasnt a one 
off storm event  but instead bad weather highlighting an already existing problem. 
Mr Gs said that if the recent  weather had included  high winds,  rather than rain, the claim 
would have been paid. Its difficult to speculate  what might have happened in different 
circumstances. But even  with very high winds it would still need to be accepted that the 
storm conditions were  the main cause  of any damage. 
So its reasonable for Lloyds to refuse to pay for the repairs under the storm part of Mr Gs 
policy. It refused to pay for damage caused by the falling panel as accidental damage.  
Mr Gs policy  does provide some limited accidental  damage cover. But it doesnt cover his 
roof. He doesnt  seem to have  extended  accidental cover. So Lloyds doesnt need to pay for 
any repairs under  that type of cover. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im not making Lloyds Bank General Insurance  Limited pay 
Mr Gs claim or do anything differently.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2019.
Daniel martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0995687