K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 2001 alongside  a credit card. Ms Q says Canada Square Operations  Limited  (CSO 
Limited) mis-sold  her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Q case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think CSO Limited made it clear that Ms Q didnt have to take out the PPI and that she 
chose to take it out. Miss Q has said that she was sent forms to complete and had a 
follow up call to confirm the application.  However, CSO have provided records  to show 
that the sale took place online. So I think its unlikely that Miss Q would have spoken to 
someone during  the process. The PPI sales process Ms Q went  through would have  
required her to either select or refuse  PPI with both options being equally prominent  
she wouldnt have been able to progress past this stage if she didnt make  a selection. 
The applications report relating to the sale confirms that PPI had been selected. I 
appreciate that Ms Q thinks that the option  to take PPI may have been pre-ticked. 
However, the information Ms Q has relied on is not specific to this sale. Although  its right 
that there were  some instances  of PPI being  mis-sold because  PPI had been pre-
selected, from my experience and understanding of how Ms Q was sold PPI, neither 
option would  have been pre-ticked and I havent  seen any specific  evidence  which  would 
lead me to conclude  otherwise. CSO has provided screen shots  of their sales  process  
and this supports  my understanding  of these sales. 
CSO  Limited didnt  recommend the PPI to Ms Q so it didnt have to check  if it was right 
for her. So, for example, it didnt have to take into account the existing repayment 
provisions Ms Q has told us she had available to her at the time of the sale. But it did 
have to make sure Ms Q got the information  she needed to decide if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information CSO Limited gave Ms Q about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type 
of cover.  Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like 
she was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so it would have  
been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So 
I dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have put her off taking out the cover. 
Which means CSO Limited doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Ms Q.
But CSO Limited has paid back some  of the cost of the PPI to Ms Q because:  
When the policy was sold,  CSO  Limited  got a high level of commission and profit  share 
(more than 50% of the PPI premium)  - so it should have told Ms Q about that. Because 
CSO Limited didnt  tell Ms Q, that was unfair.  
Ref: DRN04823142To put that right, CSO Limited has paid back the amount of commission and profit  share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Ms Q has said - including  what  shes  said about her employee 
sick pay and savings.  But these points dont change my decision. As Ive already mentioned,  
it would  have been up to Ms Q to decide  whether to take PPI despite her existing provisions 
and it appears that she still felt she could make use of this cover despite her existing 
provisions. In any event,  the PPI policy would have  paid out in addition  to Ms Qs sick pay 
and would also have  paid out if she lost her job  for up to 12 months per claim. 
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada Square  Operations Limited does not have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms Q.
But Canada Square Operations  Limited  does have  to pay back to Ms Q any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms Q to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 March 2020.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0482314