K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that the information National  Savings  and Investments (NS&I) provided  to 
him and other customers about interest rates  is misleading and that when he has 
complained NS&I has failed to acknowledge this.
background
Mr H had a three year bond with NS&I that was due to mature in January 2018. In December 
2017 NS&I sent him a letter to say that the bond was about  to mature  and set out the options 
available to him. The options were  to re-invest into another three year bond, take an 
alternative bond (with terms  of one, two or five years) or cash  in the bond.
Mr H reinvested  into another three year bond. At the same time though  he complained  to 
NS&I that the information it had provided was misleading. He calculated  that if he took a 
three year bond and surrendered it early,  even accounting for the interest  penalty,  the return  
would be better than a one or two year bond.  He asked NS&I to confirm  his calculations  
were correct and, if they were, send a letter of apology to all customers that were offered this 
deal.
NS&I responded  to say that the interest rates  reflected current market  conditions and 
investors made their choices based on their own individual circumstances. Mr H was 
unhappy with this response so brought his complaint to our service.
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold his complaint. She said that it was up to NS&I 
what interest rates it chose to set and it did not appear that NS&I  had given Mr H, or any 
other customers, advice  about which bond  to take so she couldnt  see that NS&I had done 
anything wrong.
Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed  to me to 
decide. Some of the points  Mr H wanted  our service to address was whether we thought  it 
was acceptable  that NS&I  hadnt  responded to confirm if his calculations were correct  and 
whether we thought it acceptable that NS&I promote the one and two year bonds which were 
not in customers  best interests.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  My role is to look at the circumstances of 
the individual complaint  presented to us, consider whether there  has been an error and 
whether this has caused any financial  loss. A lot of what  Mr H wants us to consider  is around 
how NS&I communicates  more widely with customers, which isnt something we would 
normally look into. However I have tried to address his concerns here,  in reference to his 
own experience.
In its submissions to our service  NS&I has acknowledged that Mr Hs calculations are correct 
and that in comparison with the two year bond, surrendering a three year bond after two 
years would give a slightly  higher return.  It has pointed out though that there are other 
factors to take into account when choosing  a bond.
Ref: DRN02816502I understand Mr Hs point about  the shorter term bond and appreciate what he is trying to 
say  that regardless of circumstances or movements in the underlying interest  rate the 
option of taking a three  year bond and surrendering early would appear to be more 
beneficial, in terms of return  at least.
But that doesnt mean that I think NS&I has done  anything wrong here.
It is down to the judgement of a business,  such as NS&I, as to what  interest rates  it wishes 
to offer.  Our service wouldnt usually interfere with that. So I cant say that it has done 
anything wrong  in setting the interest rates that it has, at the levels  that it has for its different 
products. I also cant say that it has done anything wrong by offering  these  bonds  to its 
customers. 
Looking at what has happened in Mr Hs case, NS&I  didnt provide advice regarding  which  
option should be chosen when his bond matured;  it simply gave Mr H the option to choose. 
The information given  didnt promote one bond  over another  or suggest that one of the 
options was better than the other. Nor did it say or suggest that the returns on the one or two 
year bonds  would be higher than cashing  in a three year bond before maturity.  It simply gave 
the interest rate applicable to each bond  dependent on their intended  term. It also set out 
what the penalty would be for cashing  in a bond  early. 
I dont think there was any requirement on NS&I to give examples of what the return  would 
be if a bond was cashed in early. And, as NS&I has said, return  isnt the only factor taken  
into account when  taking out a bond. So I dont think NS&I has given any misleading 
information about these products to Mr H. And I havent seen anything  that suggests  the 
information given  to him was different to that given to other  customers.
Mr H chose to take another three  year bond  and I understand that this is what  was set up for 
him - so it looks like NS&I has acted in line with his instructions. So in terms of the bonds 
offered to Mr H and the option he chose, I cant say that NS&I has done anything wrong.
As I mentioned, in its submissions to our service NS&I acknowledged  that Mr Hs 
calculations were correct.  But I cant see that this acknowledgement  was made  to Mr H 
when he first raised concerns  which probably wouldve been helpful.  So I think  the 
response NS&I initially  provided couldve been  better.  But as I dont think it has done  
anything wrong  regarding his bond, I dont think it would be reasonable to require it to pay 
any compensation here.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
Ben Stoker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0281650