K822xcomplaint
Mr B has complained about the service he received from Covea Insurance  plc and the 
market value offer it made when he made a claim under his car insurance policy.
background 
In July 2018 Mr B was involved in an incident  and he made  a claim to his insurer,  Covea. An 
engineer reported that it wasnt economical  to repair Mr Bs car. Covea offered Mr B a final 
market value for his car at £1,095. 
Mr B said his car was rare and he believed it was worth more.  He was also unhappy with 
delays he said Covea  had caused in dealing with his claim. He provided adverts of cars of 
the same  make and model for sale. 
Mr B said he had carried out considerable work to the car since  buying it in 2016. Covea 
maintained its offer to pay £1,095 and said it would review its valuation  on receipt of the 
cars service history. Mr B said documents including the V5 registration document  which 
Covea requested were  left in the car. In August 2018 the salvage agent checked  the car and 
told Covea there were no documents in it. Mr Bs partner told Covea in September 2018 they 
didnt have the cars service history as it hadnt been  serviced at a dealership  garage. 
In September  2018 Covea said it had reached  its valuation correctly and in line with the 
policy. It said Mr Bs car was in average condition and had pre existing  damage  which  
affected the valuation. It said the adverts  Mr B provided werent for cars comparable  to his. 
Covea relied on the motor  trade  guides to reach  its valuation.
Covea accepted it had failed to call Mr B back when promised and caused some delay. For 
this it paid Mr B £100 compensation  for the distress and inconvenience  caused.
Mr B remained unhappy.  So he asked us to look at his complaint. 
Our adjudicator initially thought Mr Bs complaint should be upheld in part. He thought Covea 
had paid a fair award of compensation for its delay. But he checked  an additional motor 
trade guide and it gave  a retail valuation for Mr Bs car of £2,776. It provided the same 
valuation for the car being in both poor and good condition. Mr Bs car was over 20 years 
old. 
Covea hadnt  shown how it reached its valuation.  And it hadnt provided an estimate of the 
costs to repair the pre existing damage. The adjudicator acknowledged that Mr Bs car 
wasnt in the same condition as the adverts provided. But as these ranged between  £5,000  
and £10,000,  he thought  a fairer outcome was for Covea to increase  the settlement it pays  
Mr B to £2,776. 
Mr B accepted the adjudicators recommendation.
Covea didnt agree. It said it would increase the settlement to £1,882  which was the trade  
valuation provided  by the additional motor trade guide the adjudicator  checked. It provided  a 
detailed estimate from its engineer which showed  the costs  to repair  the pre existing  damage  
came to £2,275.56.  
Ref: DRN02770922Our adjudicator followed our approach  in these types of cases. We generally think it isnt 
reasonable for a business to deduct  all of the estimated repair  costs  from a total loss 
settlement on a second hand car for pre existing damage.  This is because the valuation will 
take into account some wear and tear for a cars  age. But we think its generally reasonable 
for an insurer to deduct half the estimate from the settlement.
In this case, this reduced the valuation  the adjudicator recommended  of £2,766  to 
£1,638.22. (deducting half of £2,275.56). This meant  Coveas offer to pay £1,822  was more. 
Covea said its offer still stood. So the adjudicator thought this was fair and reasonable. He 
recommended Covea pay interest  on the difference from the date it made the original offer to 
the date it pays.  
Mr B didnt accept Coveas offer. Mr Bs partner  on his behalf acknowledges the car wasnt 
in retail condition.  But she said theyve provided details of the work carried out to the car. So 
she believes  a fairer  starting point to reach  a valuation for Mr Bs car is £6,000. Similar cars 
for sale in retail condition  online range between £6,995 and £156,000. Only then might  it be 
fair to make a deduction for pre existing damage. She said the car was very rare, going up in 
value, and worth more because of its colour. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B reported the incident in July 2018. In August 2018 Covea and Mr B with his partner 
discussed the valuation as Mr B didnt accept it. In August 2018 the salvage agent advised  
Covea that there were  no service documents in the car to support an increase in the offer 
Covea made. 
In September  2018 Covea accepted that there were times when  it should  have called Mr B 
back but it didnt.  I think  the compensation it paid for its poor service in failing to call Mr B 
back was a fair sum.  Its in line with awards  we give for similar  cases. 
We dont decide  a valuation. But we can look at whether an insurer had reached its valuation  
reasonably and in line with the policy. 
Mr Bs policy  says the most it will pay in the event of a claim is the market  value. It defines 
the term market value as: The cost of replacing  your car with one of the same make,  
model, specification, year,  mileage and condition. In deciding  the market  value of your car, 
we will refer to insurance industry recognised guides  as well as searching for available  
vehicles being  offered  for sale to the public.
There are different insurance policies available to consumers to suit their needs. Mr Bs 
policy with Covea isnt a classic car policy. And Covea didnt provide advice to Mr B as to its 
suitability. So I think its reasonable for Covea to settle Mr Bs claim by paying  the market  
value for his car. 
We generally find the main motor  trade  guides are a reliable way to decide  a fair market  
value for a car. They  provide averaged values based on likely selling prices for a similar car 
in the month  of loss. 
Ref: DRN02770923Adverts tend to be less reliable as they are a starting point as to what a seller believes the 
car is worth. So they tend to vary widely and  as Mr Bs car is rare  it isnt possible to find a 
car in similar condition  to Mr Bs to compare  it with. They also tend to be a starting  point to 
negotiate a lower price. 
One of three main  motor trade guides  available provided a retail  valuation of £2,776  for a car 
similar to Mr Bs. This is higher  than the higher motor trade guide Covea used. Wed 
generally say  where there are many cars available for sale similar to Mr Bs  that its 
reasonable to use the average of the available motor trade  guides.  But in this case I think  
the higher valuation of £2,776 is a fair starting  point in this case given the rarity of Mr Bs car 
and the gap between the guides and the advertised prices online.
The condition of an older car makes a big difference as to its value. Images of Mr Bs car 
show that it wasnt in retail condition. Similar cars in good condition with lower  than average 
mileage may be worth  more. As Mr Bs partner said, there  are few examples for sale.  From 
the range  she mentioned, the advertised prices  vary enormously.  
Mr B has listed the repairs carried out to the car since he bought  it in 2016. But I havent  
seen any evidence to support this. In September 2018 Mr Bs partner told Covea she didnt 
get the car serviced at a dealership garage so there was no service history.  But I dont think 
this is what Covea asked  for. It required proof of the history of work  carried out to work to 
consider its valuation. Having a full service history for an older car also affects its value.
But its also reasonable to pay for the maintenance of a car to ensure its roadworthy. And 
weve used the retail valuation rather than the trade valuation. The guide we checked  
provided the same value  at retail for a car similar to Mr Bs in both poor and good  condition. 
Covea has provided  an estimate of the costs to repair the pre existing damage to Mr Bs car. 
I think it would have  been helpful if Covea  had provided this sooner. However, in applying  
our approach of deducting 50% of the estimate,  this means an offer in the region of £1,638  
following our approach  would  be fair. 
As Covea  has offered  to pay a market value  of £1,882 (on receipt of the validation  
documents it requires), I therefore think this is reasonable. I think  Covea should pay interest 
on the difference from the date of the interim payment offer to Mr B to the date it pays  at a 
rate of 8% simple interest a year. 
I understand Mr B will be disappointed.  But I think this is a fair outcome in line with his policy 
and our approach.  
Ref: DRN02770924my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Covea to do the following:
pay Mr B a total loss settlement of £1,882,  increasing it from £1,095  subject to 
receipt of the validation documents Covea requires.
Pay interest on the difference from the date of the interim payment offer to the 
date it pays Mr B at a rate of 8% simple interest a year.
Covea Insurance  plc must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell 
it Mr B accepts  my final decision.  If it pays  later than this it must  also pay interest  on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple  rate of 
8% a year.
If Covea considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Mr B how much  its taken off. It should also give Mr B a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2020.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0277092