K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that Santander Cards UK Limited (Santander)  mis-sold him a monthly premium 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mr H took out a credit card on line in 2006 and at the same time PPI. 
The PPI cost 1.5p per £1 of the monthly outstanding balance. The policy  wouldve paid the 
statement balance up to £5,000 for an accident and sickness  claim and up to £15,000 for an 
unemployment claim if the customer was off work  for at least  30 days in a row. 
Our adjudicator thought Mr Hs complaint should  be upheld because  he didnt think Santander  had 
made the costs  and benefits of the policy clear to Mr H. Had it done  so, he thought  Mr H wouldnt 
have taken the PPI out, because it didnt appear to offer him good value for money  in his particular 
circumstances. 
Santander didnt  agree with our adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide. It said, in summary:
it didnt give Mr H any advice, so it was up to him to decide if the policy  was right for him, he 
self-selected PPI;
after Mr H completed the on-line application he was sent documents in the post giving him 
more information  about the PPI. He had 30 days to cancel and he wouldnt have been 
charged any premiums if he had.
he couldve cancelled the PPI at any time after that.
the PPI premiums were shown  on his credit card statements.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive 
taken this into account in deciding Mr Hs case.
Having done that, Ive decided to uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Santander had to provide Mr H with clear, fair and non-misleading information  about the PPI so 
that he could make an informed decision about whether or not to take it. But I dont think Santander 
gave Mr H enough clear  information about the costs and benefits so that he could make an 
informed choice about the PPI at the time he completed the on line application.
I cant know whether he got or read the paperwork Santander sent in the post afterwards, so this 
doesnt change  my view.  
I think if Mr H had been given clearer information, he wouldnt  have  taken the PPI out. This is 
because of Mr Hs circumstances at the time of the sale. Hes told us he wouldve got a  generous  
amount of sick pay from his employer,  up to 12 months, and also had sufficient  savings (between  
6-12 months  of salary) so that he could meet his repayments without the need  for PPI cover. 
Ref: DRN02159752So, I think Santander mis-sold Mr H this PPI policy and it should compensate Mr H as set out 
below.
fair compensation
Santander should put Mr H in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. The 
policy should be cancelled if it hasnt been cancelled already and:
A.Santander should find out how much  Mr H would  owe on his credit card if the policy hadnt 
been added  to it.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the PPI  as 
well as any interest added to those charges.
Santander should then refund the difference between  what Mr H owes and what  he would have 
owed.
If Mr H made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Santander can take off what he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.
B.If  when Santander works out what Mr H would have owed each month  without PPI  Mr H 
paid more than enough to clear  his balance, Santander should also pay interest on the extra Mr 
H paid. And it should carry on paying  interest  until the point  when Mr H wouldve owed 
Santander something on his credit  card.  The interest rate is 8%.
C.Santander should tell Mr H what its done to work out A and B.
D.If Santander has already paid Mr H back some  of the money he paid for the PPI (in relation to 
the commission and profit share  it received) it can take that off from the amount it owes him.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander  must  
give Mr H a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold Mr Hs complaint  against  Santander Cards UK Limited  and require them to pay     Mr  H 
the compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject 
my decision  before 4 February 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0215975