complaint
Mr B and Miss P complain  about  the amount they owed when their loan with Elderbridge  
Limited came to an end and about the lenders failure to explain clearly  how the amount was 
calculated.
background
In February 2007  Mr B and Miss P took out a loan for around £19,500 which  was secured on 
their property. The term of the loan was 124 months  but the start of their payments was 
deferred. They agreed to make 120 monthly repayments starting in July 2007 to repay the 
loan by June 2017. The interest  rate was variable. Their contractual monthly payment (CMP)  
started off at around £255 and was around £275 by the end of the term.
The original  lender transferred the loan to Elderbridge Limited on 4 July 2016. And 
Elderbridge took on all of the original lenders  rights and responsibilities under  the loan 
agreement.
Charges for late and missed payments  were  added to Mr B and Miss Ps loan account in
2009 and 2011 when  the loan was owned  by the original  lender. And additional interest  
accrued to the account as a result of the late and missed payments as well.
Mr B and Miss P thought their loan would  end in June 2017.  But Elderbridge told them  theyd 
need to make payments  after that date to clear  the loan. Mr B and Miss P said they hadnt 
been kept informed about what  theyd owe at the end of the term. And they were  unhappy  
Elderbridge hadnt properly explained  how the amount outstanding at the end of term was 
calculated.
Following our investigators enquiries,  Mr B and Miss P agreed thered been  some late 
payments and the charges the original lender had put on their account had been applied  in 
line with the terms  and conditions of the loan.
Initially our investigator felt some of the final payment  Elderbridge was asking for was unfair 
as it hadnt been fully explained and should be reimbursed. But he accepted Elderbridges  
explanation this was additional  interest  due on the loan because  of the late and missed 
payments. And, on reflection, he felt this amount had been  correctly charged.
Ref: DRN0095310Mr B and Miss P were  still unhappy  interest  had been applied  and argued the charges and 
additional interest theyd incurred shouldve  been collected as part of their monthly  payments 
or they shouldve been given the chance  to pay sooner so there  was no balance  outstanding 
at the end of the term. And theyd found  it stressful to find out they owed money when they 
thought theyd paid off the loan.
Since Mr B and Miss P didnt accept our investigators revised  opinion  their complaint 
shouldnt be upheld, I reviewed everything  afresh and recently issued a provisional decision, 
an extract  of which follows:
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The original  lender and Elderbridge wrote to Mr B and Miss P in July 2016 to tell them their 
mortgage with the original lender was being transferred to Elderbridge and would continue  
on the same  terms and conditions as before.
In April 2017  Elderbridge  sent Mr B and Miss P an annual statement showing they still owed 
over £1,600 on the loan which they were  expecting to pay back in full by June that year.  This 
was much higher  than they thought it should  be and more than theyd be able to pay off by 
June 2017 making  their usual contractual monthly payment (CMP)  of around £275.
Miss P spoke to an Elderbridge adviser  who explained broadly there  were  charges and 
additional interest on the account due to some late payments but would need to ask for a full 
investigation to find out why.
In early June 2017 Elderbridge wrote  to Miss P advising the interest rate had gone down in 
January 2017  and their direct debit payment would be changed to reflect this. Even  though 
the interest rate had reduced,  the letter said their next and subsequent monthly payments 
would be for almost  double their usual CMP so they could pay off charges  and interest on 
their account. It said the next payment was due on 1 July 2017.
Mr B and Miss P say they werent  aware of any arrears or charges and interest on their 
account. They complain  Elderbridge couldnt  explain properly how the amount it said they 
owed was calculated.  They  were also unhappy they wouldnt have paid everything  they 
owed by June  2017 as theyd expected.  And they were worried  about finding the extra
money to pay the monthly payments of around  £490  Elderbridge  were asking for to clear the 
loan.
Miss P spoke to Elderbridge again  to try to understand things. An Elderbridge  adviser 
provided a more detailed explanation on a call in the middle  of June  2017  but made it clear  
he was giving his thoughts about what may have happened rather  than what  had actually 
happened.
From the information Ive seen, I think the adviser  was right to say Mr B and Miss P made 
some late payments in 2009 and 2011  and incurred £200 in default fees as a result;  and 
because theyd paid late, interest,  which was charged at a daily rate, was being  added to a 
higher balance than it would otherwise have been  - so they were  liable to pay additional
Ref: DRN0095310interest. The adviser mentioned Elderbridge didnt add interest to charges. But he explained 
he wasnt qualified to say how the additional interest  had been worked out.
I dont think the adviser explained clearly why Elderbridge  was saying the end of the term was 
July 2017 rather  than June 2017 as Mr B and Miss P thought. From  what  Ive seen, it looks  as 
if the term of the loan was extended  by a month because  the payment date was changed  
from the 14th of the month  to the 1st of the month in August  2009.  As a result  of this change  no 
payment was made in the August and the next payment was made on 1st September 2009. 
So an additional month was needed  at the end of the term to repay  the balance of the loan, 
though still over 120 monthly payments.
Overall I dont think  the explanation Elderbridge provided on the June call gave Mr B and 
Miss P all the information they needed to understand things fully. And I dont  think  
Elderbridge has clearly explained  to this service  what  the interest on Mr B and Miss Ps 
account is for  whether interest on charges or on arrears due to late payments or both  or 
how it was calculated. So I understand why Mr B and Miss P have found it confusing.
I think the terms  and conditions of the loan allowed  the lender to apply the charges it did for 
the late payments.  Mr B and Miss P have  accepted  this. I can see Mr B and Miss P were  in 
contact with the original  lender during 2009  and it seems  likely the change  they made  to their 
payment date was to avoid the difficulties theyd been having in paying in the middle of the 
month rather than at the beginning of the month.  From what Ive seen I think  the charges were 
fair.
But Mr B and Miss P think its unfair  additional interest has been  added to their account when 
they only made payments a few days late. And they say they didnt  realise theyd missed a 
payment altogether. They think  they shouldve been given the chance to pay off what they 
owed sooner. And they say the lender shouldve been collecting the charges over the term of 
the mortgage so that everything was paid off by the end of the term.
Lenders are obliged, under Financial Conduct Authority rules, to communicate with their 
customers in a way that is clear, fair and not misleading.
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont  think  Elderbridge  has explained things clearly since  
Miss P raised her queries and complaint in April/June 2017. And I dont think the original  
lender or Elderbridge communicated in a way that is clear, fair and not misleading leading  up 
to April 2017  either.
The Elderbridge adviser Miss P spoke  to in June 2017 commented that if customers didnt 
query things  on their account,  the original lender didnt explain them. And I havent seen any 
evidence the original lender gave Mr B and Miss P any explanation, other than annual 
statements, about what was happening on their account as a result of the late payments  or 
the change to the payment date.
Mr B and Miss P say the statements they got from the original lender in 2009 and 2011  when  
charges were added  to their account  didnt make it clear theyd incurred charges and that 
interest would  be applied to them.
I think the annual statements Ive seen were  clear enough for Mr B and Miss P to have 
understood theyd  incurred  some  charges. In 2009  charges were shown in the transaction 
history. From at least 2012  onwards the statements set out - separately  from the
Ref: DRN0095310transactions that had taken place in each  year  the total charges Mr B and Miss P owed 
from the beginning of the loan and showed  they hadnt made  any payments towards them.
The statements  didnt explain what the charges were for or show the account was a month in 
arrears due to the change in the payment date. The statements said interest  was charged on 
the daily balance  outstanding on the loan, including any unpaid interest and charges. But the 
information about the charges suggested interest wasnt  being  added to them. And although 
the transactions history listed some very small sums described as additional interest 
separately from the contract  interest  charge, I dont think its clear what  that additional 
interest was for. So overall  I think the statements were unclear.
The original  lenders statements said about the charges:
If these are not cleared, they will be added to your balance, be charged  interest at 
the contractual rate and collected via increased monthly instalments to ensure they 
are repaid  within the remaining  term.
You have  the option to pay these  in part or full if you are up to date with your monthly  
instalments.
Elderbridge has pointed out correctly,  the terms and conditions of the mortgage give the 
lender the option, but not the obligation, to collect  the charges  in this way. And the 
statements showed Mr B and Miss Ps monthly payment didnt change  from 2009  onwards 
which suggested it wasnt collecting the charges by increasing the monthly payments. But 
since it wasnt, Id expect  the original lender to have done more  to tell Mr B and Miss P they 
owed more than the original loan,  and give them the chance  to pay it off sooner.  I havent 
seen any evidence this was happening.
Apart from 2009 and a late payment in around  2011  I havent seen any evidence Mr B and 
Miss P were finding it difficult to pay their CMP. So I think theyd have been able to make what 
wouldve been a fairly modest  increase in their monthly payment if the charges, and the 
months arrears, had been added to their account  when they were incurred and collected
over the remainder of the term. To put things right, I think Elderbridge should restructure the 
account as if this had happened.
I think Elderbridge should also have  done  more, sooner, to let Mr B and Miss P know theyd 
need to make higher  payments to pay off the loan by the end of the term. Elderbridge took 
over the mortgage  in July 2016.  It wasnt until April 2017 that it sent Mr B and Miss P a 
statement setting out what they had left to pay, which led Miss P to call Elderbridge to query 
the position. I dont  think Mr B and Miss P realised, or shouldve realised, until April 2017 they 
still owed charges and additional interest.
I think it wouldve been fair and reasonable for Elderbridge to contact Mr B and Miss P much 
sooner, as early  as when they took over the mortgage in 2016, to explain theyd need to make  
higher payments to pay off the loan by the end of the term.  I think  they shouldve  provided a 
clear explanation of what they owed when  Miss P made her first call, or shortly afterwards, to 
avoid her having to ring again.  I still dont think Elderbridge has provided a clear explanation. 
And although the amount  they owed in addition  to the balance of the loan was relatively 
modest, Miss P was worried about  finding  the money to make the increased payments 
Elderbridge said were needed  in early June 2017. Elderbridge behaved reasonably  in 
agreeing to the final balance on the loan being paid over a few months. But
Ref: DRN0095310K821x#15Mr B and Miss P had to make several  payments and incurred  additional interest beyond the 
end of the term. So I can understand it will have been stressful for them.
Bearing everything in mind, I think Elderbridge should pay Mr B and Miss P £150 for the 
distress and inconvenience they suffered.
I can see an issue was raised by Elderbridge and considered by our investigator about 
whether any adverse entries appeared on Mr B and Miss Ps credit files as a result  of what 
they owed at the end of term. I understand Elderbridge confirmed  theyd arranged  for any 
entries to be removed from July 2017. I also understand that, although there were some 
practical difficulties in Miss P making the final payments  to finally  pay off the loan,  this was 
sorted out in 2017. So Im not commenting  on these points any further.
my provisional decision
My provisional decision is Elderbridge should
(1) Restructure the loan as if
a.  the charges incurred  in 2009 and 2011 had been added  to the loan and 
collected through increased monthly  payments from the dates they 
were incurred  to 1 June  2017
b.  the arrears  of £274.80 were added to the loan and collected 
through increased monthly payments from 14 August 2009 to 1 
June 2017
(2) Pay to Mr B and Miss P any overpaid interest  plus interest at 8% simple  from 1 June
2017 to the date of payment
(3) Pay to Mr B and Miss P compensation for distress and inconvenience of £150  within
28 days of them accepting my final decision. If payment isnt made  within 28 
days pay, from then on, in addition, interest  at 8% simple until payment is made.
developments
Mr B and Miss P have accepted my provisional  decision. Elderbridge  doesnt agree with my 
provisional decision but hasnt provided any new information or reasons for me to consider.  
So I see no reason  to change my view.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decision I uphold Mr B and Miss Ps complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr B and Miss Ps complaint and I direct Elderbridge 
Limited to 
(1) Restructure the loan as if
Ref: DRN00953106a.  the charges incurred  in 2009 and 2011 had been added  to the loan and 
collected through increased monthly  payments from the dates they 
were incurred  to 1 June  2017
b.  the arrears  of £274.80 were added to the loan and collected 
through increased monthly payments from 14 August 2009 to 1 
June 2017
(2) Pay to Mr B and Miss P any overpaid interest  plus interest at 8% simple  from 1 June
2017 to the date of payment
(3) Pay to Mr B and Miss P compensation for distress and inconvenience of £150  within
28 days of them accepting my final decision. If payment isnt made  within 28 
days pay, from then on, in addition, interest  at 8% simple until payment is made.
If Elderbridge Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs  to withhold 
income tax from the interest, it should tell Mr B and Miss P how much its taken off. It should  
also give Mr B and Miss P a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs  if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B and Miss P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 August 2019.
Julia Wilkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0095310