K820x#14complaint
Mr J2 has complained  that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) avoided his insurance policy from 
inception and declined  a claim on a home insurance policy  following a burglary. UKI also 
then cancelled other policies that he had with them.
Mr J2 is the policy holder  and owner of the property, but hes been represented in this matter 
by his son (who Ill refer to as Mr J1). 
background
Mr J2 tried to make a claim on his insurance  policy following a burglary at a property that 
was insured. 
During their investigation UKI said that there was a misrepresentation of information about  
criminal convictions when  the policy was taken out in 2017. Theyve said had the question 
been answered correctly at the time of taking out the policy, they would have declined to 
offer a quote for insurance. UKI avoided this policy from inception, didnt pay out on the 
claim and also cancelled  other insurance  policies that Mr J2 had with them.  
Mr J2 was unhappy  with UKI and referred  his complaint to our service.  Our investigator 
didnt uphold  this complaint. In summary,  they found  that there was a misrepresentation by 
Mr J1 at the time of the policy being sold and that it was deliberate  misrepresentation. The 
investigator didnt  think  that UKI had acted unreasonably  or unfairly.  
Mr J2 didnt accept the investigators  findings so the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J1 arranged the policy on Mr J2s behalf  in 2017. Ive heard  a recording of that phone 
call. 
In making my decision, I have to take into account the relevant legislation  in particular, the 
Consumer Insurance  (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA).
CIDRA says that if a consumer provides inaccurate information when buying or
renewing a policy,  the insurer  will be able to take certain actions if that misrepresentation 
was either:  (a) deliberate  or reckless;  or (b) careless.
If the misrepresentation was deliberate, the insurer can avoid the policy and refuse all claims 
and need not return the premiums, unless it would be unfair  to the consumer  to retain them.
UKI have  said that Mr J1 made a deliberate misrepresentation at the time of sale. In the call, 
the UKI adviser  asked: "Have you or anybody else wholl be living  at the property had any 
criminal convictions including pending  prosecution?" 
Mr J1 responded No to this question. 
Ref: DRN00825462Its not in dispute  that Mr J1 had a criminal conviction and hes accepted that he knew about 
it. Therefore,  Im satisfied  that he made a misrepresentation. I need to decide if Mr J1 took 
reasonable care not to make  a misrepresentation. As the adviser asked what I think  is quite  
a clear question,  I think that Mr J1 did not take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when answering.
Mr J1 initially told our investigator  that hed answered no because he didnt think it would 
matter and that he didnt think anything of it. At another point hes told us that as he was 
acting on behalf  of his father and thought the question was just about  Mr J2. But even if this 
was the case,  the question referred  to you (ie Mr J2) or anyone living at the property (ie Mr 
J1, as he was going  to be living at the property with his wife and children). So Im not 
persuaded that Mr J1 answering No to this question was because  he was answering as his 
father would have done.
I then have to decide  if the misrepresentation was a qualifying one. This means Ive to check  
if UKI would have either not sold Mr J2 a policy at all, because of the misrepresentation, or if 
it wouldve  done so on different terms.  UKI has shown us part of their insurance  underwriting  
guide. This document shows that UKI wouldnt have sold Mr J2 the insurance policy  if it had 
known about Mr J1s criminal conviction  as it wouldnt have been treated as a Spent 
Conviction. So therefore, there was a qualifying  misrepresentation. 
CIDRA says a qualifying  misrepresentation  can be considered as careless, deliberate, or
reckless. In this case UKI has said Mr J1 made his misrepresentation deliberately.  So it is for 
UKI for to demonstrate  that it was deliberate. CIDRA defines  the qualifying  
misrepresentation as either deliberate or reckless  if a consumer:
(a) knew that it was untrue or misleading, or did not care whether or not it was untrue or
misleading, and
(b) knew that the matter  to which the misrepresentation related was relevant to the
insurer, or did not care whether or not it was relevant to the insurer.
Having carefully considered what Mr J1 has told us and from what Ive already said,  Im
persuaded UKI has acted fairly in classifying the misrepresentation as it has. 
Mr J1 has accepted  he knew about  his own conviction, and that he answered no. Im 
persuaded this shows that he knew the answer he gave was untrue. Mr J1 provided two 
explanations as to why he answered No to the criminal conviction  question.  But neither of 
them changes my opinion. 
I say this because,  if Mr J1 genuinely thought  the answer to the criminal conviction  question 
didnt matter he could  have easily answered  Yes rather than No. If I consider the other  
explanation that Mr J1 was answering  as his father  would have, the question  did refer to 
anybody else wholl be living at the property. As Mr J1 was going to be living at the property, 
again he misrepresented  his response.  
In fairness to Mr J2, even  if I was to consider that Mr J1 didnt answer  this question 
incorrectly deliberately,  I would still consider his actions to be reckless.  I say this because  
Im satisfied Mr J1 gave an incorrect answer  to the question without care as to whether or 
not this information was relevant to the insurer. Mr J1 has said at one point that he didnt 
think the conviction mattered when making this application. But he didnt make any attempt 
to clarify this uncertainty,  if it was that, with UKI. And whether the misrepresentation was 
reckless or deliberate,  UKI is entitled  to take the same action.
Ref: DRN00825463As Ive already  said, where misrepresentation is found to be deliberate, CIDRA allows  
insurers to avoid a policy refuse all claims and retain all premiums  paid.  This is what UKI has 
done in this case. And Im satisfied it has done so fairly  and reasonably and in line with the 
relevant law. 
I also note that UKI cancelled other  policies Mr J2 had that were underwritten  by them. UKI 
have said they take a zero-tolerance approach to some of the issues  that have been  raised  
in this case and I dont think that they have acted unfairly  or unreasonably. UKI have a right 
to cancel policies  in circumstances such as those  that have occurred here.  So, in this 
particular case I dont  think theyve  done anything wrong by cancelling  Mr J2s other policies.  
Mr J1 has referred to other  people  he knows that have criminal  convictions  and says they 
can still get insurance. UKI offered Mr J1 an opportunity to provide names of people  he knew  
so they could investigate but he declined to do so. In any case, my decision is not about any 
other underwriting decision made  by any insurance provider to insure other customers  based 
on the information theyve been  given. 
summary
I dont think that UKI have  treated Mr J2 unfairly or unreasonably by avoiding the home  
insurance policy or cancelling Mr J2s other insurance policies. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J2 to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 November  2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0082546