K820x#14summary and background to complaint
Mr and Mrs P have  complained about the sale of a payment protection insurance (PPI)  
policy taken out in November 2006  in connection with a loan.  
Loans.co.uk Ltd (LCUK)  says that a different business  Business A  was responsible  for 
the sale of the PPI. So LCUK says that it was not responsible  for selling  the PPI.
An adjudicator has looked at the case and agreed  that LCUK  wasnt responsible for the sale 
of the PPI. Mr and Mrs P disagree with this so the case has come to me to make a decision. 
I set out in my provisional decision dated 19 March  2019 why I was minded to find that 
LCUK wasnt responsible for the sale of the PPI. I invited both parties to let me have any 
further comments and evidence. 
No further submissions have been provided  by either LCUK  or Mr and Mrs P.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I set out the following:
The first thing I need  to decide is whether LCUK is responsible for the sale of the 
policy. If I decide it is, then I can decide  whether  the sale happened as it shouldve  
done. If I dont think LCUK was responsible for the sale of the policy to Mr and Mrs P, 
then Im not going to be able to uphold  a complaint about the PPI sale against LCUK.
Ive looked  at all the evidence provided  and at what LCUK  and Mr and Mrs P have 
told us about the sale.
Mr and Mrs P say that they were sold the loan and PPI over the telephone. They 
have provided   through their representative  a letter  from Business A in which  
LCUK  is named in the field titled Broker Details. Therefore they say that LCUK  sold 
the loan.
LCUK  says that it did not broker a loan for Mr and Mrs P. It says that Mr and Mrs P 
made an application but that it was unable to provide a loan based on their 
circumstances at the time. LCUK says that its system notes show that the application  
was referred to Business A and that it is unable to confirm whether  a loan was 
completed with Business A or whether PPI was sold. I have seen the system notes 
which have an entry at 6:13pm on 2 November 2006 showing that Mrs P called  and 
wanted a quote. There is then an abbreviation which  LCUK  say indicates the loan 
was passed  to Business A. There  is one further entry at 6:19pm on 2 November 
2006 indicating  that the case had been referred to Business A. Under the Loan 
Status field on the notes there is an entry indicating  that the loan was passed  to 
Business A.
LCUK  says that these are the only notes it has and that, if it had sold the loan, the 
notes would  have  been much lengthier.  It says that as brokers  it used a handful of 
Ref: DRN07292262lenders but when  the applicants wouldnt have been successful with these lenders 
they would then pass the information on to Business A.
Mr and Mrs Ps representatives have forwarded to this service some  documents 
which they received from Business A. These  include  the loan agreement from 
Business A showing  the PPI. There are some  account notes which  refer to LCUK 
under both the Source ID field and Source  Branch field.  Next to this under Date 
it shows 2 November 2006 and under Time it shows  18:17:04. This timing 
appears to be consistent  with what LCUK say about when they referred the case to 
Business A. This document also contains  details  about Mr and Mrs P including their 
employment, income and outgoings.  
I have also seen  Business As System Diary Notes.  The first entry  is made on 2 
November 2006 at 18:34. It states  mrs needs to check net profit  for her husband 
arranged to call firday [sic] evening.  There are then various further entries  showing 
contact with Mrs P regarding the application and issuing of cheques. So it appears  
that Business  A took details from Mrs P in relation to the application and that it was 
Business A who dealt with the administration  of the loan.
Business As System Diary Notes also have an entry dated 4 March  2013 stating P 
Cus called re the PPP letter  and wanted  me to explain it, advised just a letter where  
by [sic] if the customer does feel that the insurance was mis sold the route to take to 
make  a claim S Cus does not feel she was mis sold A noted. This suggests to me 
that Business  A sent Mr and Mrs P a letter advising them that their PPI could have 
been mis-sold and how to make a claim. It seems unlikely to me that Business A 
would have  sent Mr and Mrs P a letter  informing them  of a potential problem with the 
sale of the PPI if they hadnt actually been responsible for selling the PPI. 
In light of the above, I am satisfied on balance that LCUK was not responsible for the 
sale of the PPI. I say this because the notes  on LCUKs  system show  that it referred 
Mrs and Mr P to Business A. The timings on LCUKs notes are supported  by the 
timings  on Business As notes. Business As notes suggest that it gathered the 
information from Mr and Mrs P for the loan application and had ongoing contact with 
them both before and after the application  was complete. Business A also appears to 
have sent a letter regarding the potential mis-sale of the PPI to Mr and Mrs P many  
years  after the sale. I therefore  think it is most likely that LCUK took the initial  call 
from Mr and Mrs P but then passed the application on to Business A, and that 
Business A then sold the PPI.
As LCUK didnt sell the PPI (and wasnt responsible  for the business  who did sell it), 
Im minded to find that LCUK wasnt responsible for the sale. It follows that it wasnt 
responsible for carrying  out the sale properly. So, as I dont think  it did anything 
wrong, Im intending  not to uphold the complaint against LCUK.
As neither party has provided any further evidence  or arguments  for consideration, I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision.
I know Mr and Mrs P will be disappointed that Im reaching this conclusion. Im sorry we cant  
help them on this occasion.
Ref: DRN07292263my final decision
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decision and above,  my decision is that is that 
Loans.co.uk Ltd wasnt responsible for the sale of the PPI and therefore  I dont uphold this 
complaint against  it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 May 2019.
Rachel Ellis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0729226