K821x#15Complaint
Mr T has complained that Gain Credit  LLC (trading as Drafty) irresponsibly provided him 
with an unaffordable open-ended  credit facility.
Background
Drafty provided Mr T with an open-ended credit facility. This was a running account facility  
where a consumer could request funds up, to their credit  limit, which would then be 
deposited into their bank account. The facility  was provided to Mr T in April 2016. 
One of our adjudicators looked  at Mr Ts complaint. He thought  that Drafty shouldnt  have 
provided any further funds  from August 2016  onwards. Drafty disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsman to look at the case. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
Having carefully thought  about everything  Ive been  provided with, Im upholding Mr Ts 
complaint in part. Id like to explain the reasons  for my decision.
The relevant regulations in place  at the time Mr T was given his running account 
credit facility 
I think it would be helpful for me to start by explaining that Drafty gave Mr T this facility when 
it was regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). And the relevant regulatory 
rules in place at the time were  set out in the Consumer Credit  Sourcebook  (CONC)  section 
of the FCA Handbook of rules and guidance.
Section 5.2.1(2) of CONC set out what a lender needed to do before agreeing to give a 
consumer a loan of this type.  And it says a firm had to consider the potential for the 
commitments under  the regulated credit agreement to adversely impact the customers 
financial situation  as well as the ability of the customer  to make repayments  as they fall due 
over the life of the regulated credit agreement, or for such  an agreement  which  is an open-
end agreement (like Mr Ts facilities), to make  payments within  a reasonable period.
CONC 5.2 also includes some guidance  on the sorts  of things a lender  needs to bear in 
mind when considering  its obligations  under CONC 5.2.1.  Section 5.2.4(2) says a firm 
should consider  what  is appropriate in any particular circumstances dependent on, for 
example, the type and amount of credit  being  sought and the potential  risks to the customer.  
The risk of credit not being sustainable directly  relates to the amount of credit  granted and 
the total charge for credit relative to the customers financial  situation.
And CONC 5.3 contains further guidance on what  a lender should bear in mind when 
thinking about affordability. CONC 5.3.1(1) says In making the creditworthiness assessment 
or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1), a firm should  take into account more than 
assessing the customers ability to repay the credit..
Ref: DRN04724372CONC 5.3.1(2) then says The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required 
by CONC 5.2.2R (1) should include the firm taking reasonable steps to assess  the 
customers ability to meet repayments under  a regulated credit  agreement in a sustainable 
manner without the customer incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant 
adverse consequences..
In practice all of this meant that a lender  had to take proportionate steps to ensure a 
consumer wouldve been able to repay what they were borrowing in a sustainable  manner 
without it adversely impacting on their financial situation. Put simply the lender  had to gather 
enough information so that it could make an informed decision on the lending.
Although the guidance  didnt set out compulsory checks it did list a number of things a lender 
could take into account before agreeing to lend. The key thing was that it required a lenders 
checks to be proportionate.  And any checks  had to take into account a number of different things, 
such as how much was being  lent and when  what was being borrowed was due to be repaid.
Ive kept all of this in mind  when thinking about whether Drafty did what it needed to before 
agreeing to Mr Ts Drafty  facility. As explained, Mr T was given what was an open-ended  
credit facility. So overall I think that this means  the checks Drafty carried out had to provide 
enough for it to be able to understand whether Mr T would be able to both service and then 
repay his facility within a reasonable  period of time. Draft also needed  to monitor  Mr Ts 
repayment record for any sign that he may have been experiencing financial difficulty.
Why I dont think that it was unfair for Drafty to have provided the initial  facility  to Mr T.
Having carefully thought  about everything  provided, I do think  Draftys checks  before 
providing this facility to Mr T were  proportionate  taking all the circumstances into account.
As explained, Mr T wasnt given a payday  loan where he had to repay all of what  he 
borrowed plus the interest due when he next got paid. He was given a facility where there  
was an expectation  that hed repay what he borrowed plus the interest due within  a 
reasonable period of time.  CONC doesnt set out what a reasonable period of time is. So I 
think its important to note that a reasonable period  of time will always be dependent  on the 
circumstances of the individual case. 
In any event, in this case, Mr Ts credit agreement contained a hypothetical  repayment  schedule 
(should the total amount  available have been drawn down) requiring monthly  payments of just 
over £50 in order for the facility to be repaid within a reasonable  period of time. So, in these 
circumstances, I think  that Drafty  needed to carry out proportionate and sufficient checks to 
reasonably understand whether Mr T could make monthly repayments of £50.
Drafty says it agreed to Mr Ts application  after hed provided details of his monthly  income 
and expenditure  and looked at his credit  score. It says the information it gathered showed 
that Mr T would be able to comfortably  make payments of £50 a month.  And in these 
circumstances it was reasonable  to lend. 
The first thing for me to say is that this was Mr Ts first loan with Drafty. The information 
provided does  suggest  that Mr T was asked to provide details of his income and 
expenditure. Bearing in mind the amount  of the monthly repayment, the questions Drafty 
asked Mr T, this was Mr Ts first loan and the credit  score recorded,  I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Drafty  to rely on the information Mr T provided.
Ref: DRN04724373I accept Mr Ts actual  financial position  wasnt reflected either in the information provided, or 
the information Drafty obtained. But Drafty could only make its decision based  on the 
information it had available  at the time.  And, at this stage of the lending  relationship  between  
the parties, I dont think proportionate checks wouldve extended  into Drafty asking Mr T to 
evidence what he was declaring, or it asking him for his bank statements.  So  overall I dont 
think that Drafty treated Mr T unfairly  or unreasonably when it initially provided  him with an 
open-ended credit facility  in April 2016.
Why I think Drafty needed to do more  before  agreeing  to provide Mr T with further  funds in 
August 2016
By this stage Mr T was drawing down the maximum amount of funds available  to him shortly 
after making a monthly repayment. This was indicative of a consumer who may have  been  
borrowing to make their payments. And as Ive already mentioned,  Drafty had an obligation 
to monitor Mr Ts repayment record and offer assistance should it have been apparent that 
he may have been experiencing financial difficulty.  
In these circumstances, I think that Drafty needed  to get a more thorough understanding  of 
Mr Ts financial circumstances before agreeing to provide him with his further funds. And as 
Drafty didn't do this, I don't think that it did enough  to establish whether Mr T would be able 
to sustainably repay any further  funds.
What I think Drafty wouldve most  likely found  out if it had asked further questions  
Even though  I think that Drafty shouldve asked Mr T further questions  before any further 
funds from August 2016 this doesnt, on its own, mean Mr Ts complaint should be upheld. 
After all if further checks wouldve simply shown  Drafty that Mr T would most likely have 
been able to repay what he borrowed  within a reasonable period of time (and so there was 
no reason why Drafty shouldnt have lent to Mr T), then further enquiries wouldnt have made 
a difference. This is because Mr T wont have  lost out because  of Draftys failure to offer 
assistance and so thered be no reason for me to uphold the complaint. 
But if further checks would most  likely have shown Mr T was unlikely to have been able to 
repay further funds  then Drafty wouldve seen that it shouldnt have lent to him. And this 
would mean  that Mr T lost out because of Draftys failure to meet  its obligations.   
As further  proportionate checks werent  carried out I cant know what exactly  they would 
have shown. But Mr T has provided  us with more information on his financial circumstances. 
So Ive been  able to get a picture  of what they were  like. 
Of course,  I accept this isnt perfect as different checks show  different  things. And just 
because something  shows up in the information Mr T has provided it doesnt mean it 
wouldve shown up in any extra checks Drafty mightve carried out. But what  Mr T has 
provided is the best indication I have of his financial  circumstances at the time. And in the 
absence of anything  else I think its perfectly reasonable to rely on it. 
Ive carefully looked through everything Mr Ts provided and Ive also thought about 
everything both parties have said. Having done  so, I dont think Mr T had the capacity to take 
on any further funds.  
Ref: DRN04724374As our adjudicator explained, it is clear  that Mr T was using these funds,  as well as others 
from many  other short-term lenders, to gamble. And I think  that further proportionate checks 
would more likely than not have shown Mr Ts ability to make his payments was going  to 
come down to, in large part, his success as a gambler. 
In these circumstances, I dont think its reasonable to conclude that Mr T would more  likely 
than not have been able to make his payments  without borrowing further  or experiencing 
financial difficulty. And, in these circumstances, Im satisfied that the credit provided from 
August 2016 onwards was unsustainable for Mr T.  
Overall I think  not only did Drafty  fail to carry out further proportionate checks  before 
advancing further funds in August 2016, but that Mr T also lost out as a result  of this.
What Drafty should  do to put things right
To put things right for Mr T, Drafty  should:
all interest and charges  added to the facility from August 2016 onwards  should be 
removed. Any payments Mr T has made should be deducted from the adjusted  balance 
 in order words, Mr T should only have  to pay any interest that accrued, on the account, 
before August  2016. The payments Mr T made after this date should then be deducted  
from the adjusted  balance. If the payments Mr T made  would have cleared the adjusted 
balance any extra  should be treated as overpayments and refunded to him; and
add interest at 8% per year simple  on any overpayments, if there were any, from the 
date they were made to the date of settlement ;
if the outstanding balance is cleared  once  all adjustments  have been made then any 
adverse information recorded as a result  of this facility should be removed  from  Mr Ts 
credit file. 
if, after all adjustments have been  made,  an outstanding balance remains  Drafty can 
collect this from Mr T should it wish to do so. However, I would remind  Drafty of its 
obligation to exercise  forbearance should  Mr T be experiencing financial difficulty  and it 
choose to collect  any potential outstanding balance.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Drafty to take off tax from this interest. Drafty must 
give Mr T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Ts complaint. Gain Credit  LLC 
should put things right in the way that Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0472437