K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that TSB Bank  plc cant provide him with sufficient information to calculate  if 
hes been paid the correct  interest  and also hasnt given him appropriate customer service.
background
Mr S says he has a number of TSB savings accounts. And asked TSB to check the interest 
rates he had been receiving and check if it was meant to contact him about the best interest  
rates available when the account interest  rate ended. Mr S says he received  conflicting 
information and that TSB didnt answer  his questions in its final response  letter.
TSB says its up to a customer  to renew  the accounts when the present interest rate ends 
and that over the years since 2009 Mr S had renewed the accounts  interest  rates. It says it 
would be up to Mr S to check which interest rate account to select but accepts  its didnt deal 
with part of the complaint as it should and has paid £150 compensation.
Mr S brought his complaint to us and two investigators have looked at the complaint. The 
first investigator thought  overall TSB had dealt appropriately with the complaint and thought 
there was evidence on TSBs records about Mr S contacting  it about  the interest rate and of 
TSB speaking to Mr S.
Mr S didnt accept that view and said in summary  that its not clear which party  ought  to have 
made contact about the pending  interest changes and the options for a new interest rate 
period.
The second  investigator accepted TSB hadnt dealt with all of Mr Ss questions in its 
response but thought the compensation  payment fairly reflected what  took place. He thought 
TSB was obliged to tell Mr S about the various pending interest rate changes  but thought 
TSB had done so. The investigator thought there  were records  of calls between  the parties 
at the time of the interest  rate changes and that TSB had sent end of year statements.
Mr S doesnt  accept that view and in summary  says there is no evidence to say TSB has 
given him the correct  interest. He says the compensation  amount is not enough and would 
like TSB to provide a spreadsheet of the interest paid over the last few years.  Mr S has 
prepared a calculation  himself based on what he says he may have lost and accepts  he may 
not have lost anything but believes he has. He estimates the potential  loss between £1,000 
and £2,300 and doesnt recall receiving some  of the required  letters.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I have come  to a similar 
overall view as the investigator and for very similar  reasons. I realise Mr S will be 
disappointed by my decision and I appreciate how strongly he feels  about  whats  happened.
Mr S is aware of the reasons why TSB cant  provide  all of the information he would like 
about the various letters that it says it sent to him. I appreciate his frustration  in those 
circumstances but as the investigator has said that it is not our role to punish  a business as 
we are not the regulator of banks  and building societies. I also make  clear that we are not an 
auditing service and so its also not our role to check as in this case if interest calculations  
are correct. I accept that what Mr S would like is a spreadsheet from TSB showing the 
interest calculations  since  the account  was opened. But that is not something I can fairly 
Ref: DRN06751302order in these circumstances  as I have not seen any evidence that TSB has made a mistake 
in calculating the interest amounts here for the reasons I will explain.
Im satisfied that its up to TSB to tell Mr S when the interest rates  on his accounts was due 
to change and that it was then up to Mr S to decide which  interest rate account he wished to 
take advantage of. And I can see that Mr S accepts that he did receive letters  from TSB 
telling him the bonus interest rate was expiring.  So I think on balance  that TSB did send the 
appropriate letters and I also think  it likely,  based  on TSBs records,  that end of year account 
statements were sent as well as copy statements. Im satisfied that Mr S ought to have been  
aware of the way in which the accounts worked as they had been open in the case  of one 
since 2009. And that Mr S had attended  his local branch to make account  decisions which  I 
think suggests he knew that he had to make  regular account decisions and select  the 
product he wanted..
I can see that Mr S accepts that he doesnt have any evidence  to show  that he was 
underpaid interest and says he was unaware of the interest rates  on the accounts. But in 
those circumstances  I would have expected Mr S to have monitored  his accounts and 
checked with TSB at the time of renewal to check the rate for the next period. I think  if Mr S 
believes a mistake has taken place then he could instruct an expert to look at his statements 
and or make  the necessary  checks with Her Majestys Revenue and Customs as it may be 
able to provide  some  assistance if its been notified  of any tax paid on the accounts.
There is no question that TSB didnt  deal with parts of Mr Ss complaint as it should and 
didnt give Mr S clear information when  he spoke with it. But Im satisfied that its paid what  I 
think is a fair and reasonable level of compensation. 
Overall I cant  fairly conclude that TSB has made a mistake or acted unfairly here. And I 
think this brings an end to what we can do to in trying to resolve  this complaint informally can 
do. I appreciate  Mr S will have unanswered questions here that we cant assist him with.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 March  2020.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0675130