K822xcomplaint
Miss D and Mr G complain that the Hood Group Limited have refused to pay their insurance 
claim for alternative flights  booked when  their flights were cancelled.
background 
Miss D and Mr G were  due back from holiday in January 2018 when their flights were 
cancelled as a result of bad weather.  The airline offered them alternative flights back  but 
these were for four days later. Miss D is a teacher  and needed to be back  within two days.
Miss D contacted the insurer  and was told that cancellation claims were covered up to the 
value of £1000 per person. She proceeded  to book an alternative  flight home at a cost of 
over £1800 for both Miss D and Mr G. 
Hood refused her claim saying the cancellation  cover in the policy didnt apply  in this case  
and that the relevant policy term was delayed  departure which  had a maximum cover of 
£150 per person. They agreed to pay the claim under delayed  departure.  
The investigator at this service didnt  uphold the complaint and said Miss D and Mr G would 
have booked alternative return flights anyway as Miss D had to be back to work as a teacher 
within two days.
Miss D and Mr G didnt  agree with the investigators  view and say they contacted
Hood to ensure  they were covered under the policy and were given misleading information.
I issued a provisional decision in January 2019.  In my provisional  decision I looked at the 
policy terms in detail,  explaining cancellation  and delayed departure as defined  in the policy. 
I concluded that delayed departure is the relevant section that applies to Miss D and Mr Gs 
situation. 
I said it is important to establish whether Hood gave Miss D and Mr G incorrect  or misleading 
information. And then whether relying  on that information they have booked the alternative 
flight home they otherwise wouldnt have. I said that in her call to the insurer  Miss D wasnt  
told that the cancellation term wouldnt apply  in her case and wasnt  given any clarification 
around what the distinction is between delayed departure and cancellation. The information 
given was misleading and so I think its reasonable for her to have believed the flights  would 
be covered. 
Miss D is a teacher and needed to be back at work  within  two days. The flights the airline 
offered were  for four days later. If they hadnt booked  the alternative  flights,  Miss D would 
have been back  to the UK two days late for work. I also said that the financial implications of 
paying over £1800 to book  new flights have  clearly been a consideration for them resulting in 
the calls to the insurer prior to booking the flights. It suggests to me the costs  implications 
where significant enough that she had to ensure she wouldnt be out of pocket.
Looking at the information available  to me, I cant  say that Miss D and Mr G could have  done  
more to confirm their position  at the time. I am not persuaded that Miss D and Mr G would 
have booked those  flights anyway despite needing  to be back in the UK within two days   
particularly considering the cost involved. I am also satisfied that the information provided by 
the advisers was misleading and it was reasonable for Miss D and Mr G to have relied on 
Ref: DRN03107692the information when booking their alternative flights. As such, I think  its fair to hold Hood 
responsible for the expense incurred.
I provisionally upheld  the complaint against Hood and asked  them to pay Miss D and Mr G 
the cost of their flights up the value of £1000  per person less the £30 already paid to them. I 
also said Hood should pay them  £100  for distress and inconvenience in addition to the £100 
they have already paid. 
Both parties  accepted my provisional decision with no further comments.  Hood has now also 
confirmed that they didnt  pay £100 to Miss D and Mr G as they rejected this offer.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Neither party  had any comments or 
further information to add to my provisional  decision and accepted  my conclusions. So I see 
no reason to depart from conclusions I reached  in the provisional decision.
I said that I wasnt persuaded  that Miss D and Mr G would have booked those flights anyway 
despite needing to be back in the UK within  two days  particularly  considering the cost 
involved. I also said I was satisfied that the information provided  by the advisers  was 
misleading and it was reasonable for Miss D and Mr G to have relied on the information 
when booking their alternative flights.  As such,  I think it was fair to hold Hood responsible  for 
the expense incurred.
Provided they evidence the expense incurred, Hood should pay Miss D and Mr G the cost of 
their flights  up to the value of £1000 per person less anything already paid to them  in respect  
of their claim. I am satisfied it would have  been upsetting for them  to find out they would lose 
the cost of the alternative flights they had booked when they thought  it would be covered by 
Hood - particularly as they had made  efforts to check this information beforehand.  So Hood 
should pay Miss D and Mr G £200  for the distress  and inconvenience  theyve suffered.
my final decision
For the reasons  I set out in my provisional  decision and above,  I uphold  this complaint 
against Hood  Group  Limited.
They should  pay Miss D and Mr G the cost of their flights up to the value  of £1000 per 
person less the £30 already paid to them and £200 for distress  and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D and Mr G 
to accept or reject my decision before 8 April 2019.
Naima Abdul-Rasool
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN03107693
Ref: DRN0310769