K820x#14complaint
In summary,  Mr H has complained that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited didnt action an 
investment switch instruction in respect  of his personal pension when he asked it to.
background
Mr H made  a switch instruction in March 2018. In September 2018 he complained  to Aviva 
when he discovered  that his switch instruction hadnt been  actioned.  
Aviva explained  to Mr H that it had experienced some technical difficulties in February  / 
March 2018. It apologised and said that Mr Hs switch instruction had been backdated to the 
date he made the request in March.  It also paid him £250  for the upset and inconvenience  
he had been caused. 
Mr H checked his pension  account in March  2019, when he discovered  that the switch 
instruction still hadnt been actioned.  He complained again  to Aviva.  It wrote  to him on 
22 March 209 and confirmed to him that the switch had now been  actioned.  It also 
apologised for not having  actioned the switch  in September 2018  and offered a further £100 
for the inconvenience  and upset he had been  caused.
Mr H felt that £500 compensation was more  appropriate  to take into account Avivas  failings 
and his inconvenience. Aviva didnt agree so Mr H brought  his complaint to this service to 
look into.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint.  He was satisfied from the information 
provided by Aviva that the switch had been completed and that Mr H hadnt  suffered a direct 
financial loss. He thought that the total of £350 Aviva  had offered  was enough to 
compensate Mr H for the trouble  he had been caused.
Mr H didnt agree so the case has been passed  to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute  that Aviva caused  delays in carrying  out Mr Hs switch instruction. And its 
also accepted  that it caused a further delay when it didnt remedy the situation as promised 
when Mr H had told it about the problem in September  2018.
Im satisfied from the information  Ive seen that Mr Hs switch  instruction has now been 
carried out and that he has been put back into the position he should  have been in if the 
switch had been carried out in March 2018. 
So the issue  I need to decide  is whether  the total compensation of £350 offered by Aviva  is 
sufficient to compensate  Mr H for the distress  and inconvenience he has been caused. 
Ive thought very carefully about what Aviva and Mr H have said. I think Aviva  compounded a 
very frustrating situation for Mr H when it didnt action the switch as promised after Mr H 
Ref: DRN06005192brought the problem to its attention in September 2018. So I can understand why Mr H is 
very frustrated by what has happened. 
In cases such as this it is difficult for monetary  awards to fully compensate an individual  for 
any upset they may have  suffered. But it does  recognise and reflect  the impact on them.  Its 
important I make clear that its not my role or the role of this service to punish Aviva for what  
its done. That is a matter for the regulator  to determine if appropriate.
Ive thought very carefully about what Mr H has told us about the impact all of this has had 
on him. And I do understand that he has had some inconvenience in having to raise this 
issue with Aviva and our service. When making a complaint,  a consumer will inevitably  suffer  
some inconvenience  spending time in having  to deal with a complaint and the frustrations 
that can entail.  But I dont think that in itself necessarily warrants an additional monetary 
award.
However I do accept that this issue has caused  Mr H some frustration and upset. And as Ive 
explained above I think Aviva have compounded the problem with its subsequent inaction. 
But Ive also taken into account that Aviva  has belatedly rectified the situation and that Mr H 
hasnt suffered a direct  financial  loss as a result  of Avivas mistakes.  So for the reasons Ive 
explained, I think the total compensation  of £350  offered  by Aviva is fair and reasonable. 
my final decision
My understanding is that Aviva Life & Pensions  UK Limited has already paid Mr H £250  
compensation. I consider its offer of a further £100  to be fair and reasonable. And I direct it 
to pay Mr H a further £100 if he accepts this decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 July 2019.
Simon Dibble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0600519