K821x#15complaint
Mr M has complained that he was mis-sold  a number  of different insurances by 
HSBC Bank  Plc (HSBC) alongside  a mortgage.
background
In 2003 Mr M was given  advice by HSBC about a number of insurances. He was taking out a 
mortgage and took out life assurance (LA) to cover  the outstanding  mortgage balance. 
HSBC recommended he take out a plan that would have paid out a decreasing  amount over 
the term of the policy starting at £100,000 cover. It paid out the benefit  if he died or was 
diagnosed with a critical illness and cost £22.37  a month.
Mr M was also advised to take out payment protection insurance (PPI) that would  have 
paid out £600 a month to cover his mortgage  payments  if he was unable  to work due to 
accident, sickness or unemployment. This cost £17.82 a month for the first 12 months before 
increasing to £33.64  a month.  It would  have paid out for up to 12 months in any one claim.
Finally, Mr M was advised to take out an income  protection (IP) policy.  This cost £12.48 a 
month and paid out a benefit of £773  a month if Mr M was incapacitated through  accident or 
sickness for 52 weeks. So it didnt  pay out for the first year of any incapacity.  It would  have 
paid out until Mr M was able to return to work  or turned 60, whichever was earlier. All three 
insurances were cancelled in 2007.
Mr M complained the advice was unsuitable. He said he was told that he had to have the 
insurances to get the mortgage.  He also thought  the fee he paid to receive advice from 
HSBC should  be refunded.
One of our adjudicators looked  into Mr Ms complaint  and thought some of it should be 
upheld. She said, as Mr M had two jobs, he might have found it hard to claim under the PPI 
policy and might not have been entitled to the full benefits if a claim did succeed.  And 
because HSBC didnt  point this out to Mr M, she thought PPI was mis-sold. But she thought  
the advice to take out IP and LA was suitable.
Mr M responded to say he agreed with our adjudicators conclusions  about PPI, but not 
about IP or LA. He pointed out that he had private  healthcare, occupational life cover,  no 
dependants and was in good health,  so he didnt think he needed these insurances. He said 
he had some savings  that could have covered his mortgage payments and he was worried  
he paid advice fees upfront that he shouldnt have  done.
HSBC said it agreed  with our adjudicators view and made Mr M an offer to settle his 
complaint about  PPI. So it agreed  to refund the premiums paid along with 8% per year 
simple interest on those premiums for the time he was out of pocket.
As Mr M didnt agree with what our adjudicator said about IP or LA, the complaint was 
passed to me for a decision. In December 2018 I issued a provisional  decision setting out 
my thoughts.  I agreed with what our adjudicator had said and gave Mr M the chance to send 
me anything  further  he wanted me to think about.  A copy of that provisional decision is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.
HSBC responded  to say it had nothing further to add to my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN08947162Mr M responded to say he didnt agree with what Id said. He provided further evidence that 
he feels shows he didnt have a need  for the policies. 
Mr M explained that he needed  to get the mortgage  very quickly  so the sale could be 
completed. He says HSBC agreed to arrange  the mortgage quickly, but on the condition 
various insurances were  taken out by Mr M.
Mr M has also asked  whether he is entitled to the return of any of the commission  that may 
have been paid to HSBC  through the IP or LA policies.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
I understand Mr M feels very strongly that all of the insurance policies he took out with HSBC  
were mis-sold. Although Ive thought about  everything hes said,  I havent changed my 
provisional conclusions.  Ill explain why.
was Mr M given  a choice to take out the insurances?
Mr M has given  further information as to why he thinks he wasnt given a fair choice whether 
to take out all of the three insurances  PPI, LA and IP. Hes said he was told he needed to 
take them to get the mortgage  and that he needed  a mortgage quickly and didnt have time 
to shop around.
But I said in my provisional decision why I thought the insurances were  presented  as 
optional. And I havent seen anything that makes  me think  differently. I appreciate Mr M 
wanted to obtain a mortgage quickly, but Id still have expected him to look at the documents  
he signed at the time.  And I think  those documents made it clear  enough  the insurances 
were optional products.
I think HSBC recommended  Mr M take out the insurances. So its just as likely he was told 
he should consider taking  them out rather than that he had to. And I dont  think  HSBC would 
have considered whether the policies  were suitable for him if it was always going to say he 
had to take them out, no matter what his circumstances were. Based on all the available 
evidence I cant say he wasnt  given  a real choice whether to take out the insurances.
was Mr M given  suitable advice to take out LA and IP?
Mr M has provided more information that he says shows the advice to take out these two 
policies wasnt suitable. In summary, hes provided:
a completion statement that showed  he needed just under £43,000 to complete the 
purchase of his property. 
a current account statement  that shows he transferred just under £43,000 in 
June 2003, but three  days later his account was overdrawn.
various statements  showing savings,  predating  the purchase of the property in 
June 2003.
a statement showing around  £1,500  in a savings account that was closed in 
September 2003.
Ref: DRN08947163a statement for a separate savings account  showing  around £2,300  in savings in 
January 2004.
details of his employed income  from his second job.
an extract from his contact of employment showing a personal  accident insurance 
scheme.
information about his work place pensions.
details of the size of his fathers estate  when probate was granted  following his 
death.
Ive thought carefully about this extra information. But I dont think this means the LA or IP 
policies were unsuitable for him. 
The LA policy paid out a lump sum if he was diagnosed with a serious illness  or paid a lump 
sum to his estate if he died. And the IP was set up to pay an income if he had been out of 
work due to incapacity for over 12 months.  I dont think any of the information  provided 
showed these  were either unnecessary  or that his other benefits, income or resources 
duplicated the benefits the insurances would  have paid.
Ive seen a copy  of a page of what appears to be a contact of employment from Mr Ms main  
employer. It says there was a personal accident insurance scheme in place, but it doesnt 
say what benefits  were available or when the policy  was in force. It says the insurance was 
paid for free by the employer, wasnt part of the terms or conditions of employment and the 
benefits were paid at the discretion of the employer.  So I cant  see that replicated what  either  
the LA or IP would have offered.
Mr M has pointed  to his second  employer offering an ill-health pension that could have paid 
out if he was retired  early due to permanent ill health. But this information  appears to be 
about a change to the pension that happened  in 2004, after he had started the insurances. 
And it appears that he wouldnt be able to take an ill health  pension  unless the scheme  
trustees agreed and it was likely  he wouldnt ever return  to work. 
Im not sure of the pension scheme rules at the time Mr M took out the IP and LA, but at that 
point he was 26 years old, so some years  away from retirement.  And what  his work place 
pension would have  paid out depended on how long he had worked there and what his 
pension entitlement  was. Its unclear  that his pension would have paid out enough to support 
him if Mr M was permanently unable to work  at the time he needed help.
Ive seen that his second  employer also offered life assurance of three times his salary,  but 
in 2003 this would have  amount to around  £8,200 which wasnt enough to clear  his 
mortgage.
I can see that after the mortgage  started Mr M had some savings, an income from his lodger 
and limited sick pay from at least one of his employers. And its possible these could have 
helped him pay his mortgage if he was out of work  for a short time. But I dont think  the 
income from his lodger  was sufficient to pay his mortgage and provide enough for other 
living expenses after any sick pay or savings had been used up. The IP policy was designed 
to pay out if he was out of work  due to incapacity  until he returned  to work or turned 60. So I 
think it could have  helped  him maintain his mortgage repayments at what  could have been a 
difficult time.
Finally, Mr M has said he had other  ways of making  his mortgage repayments and could 
have got support from his family.  In support of this hes shown that he paid £5,000 to his 
Ref: DRN08947164mortgage in September 2005  and shown evidence that when his father  passed  away in 2016  
his estate was worth  around £700,000.  Although I have no doubt  that his family would have 
wanted to help him if he was in financial difficulty, I dont  think that help would have been 
guaranteed at the time he needed it in the same way LA and IP was set up to pay. And 
although I can see he paid a lump sum to his mortgage, this was around two years  after it 
was taken out. And I cant see at the time he took out the insurances he had sufficient 
savings to support  him for a long period of time if he was unable  to work.
does HSBC need to refund any commission Mr M might have paid?
Mr M has asked  whether, following a Supreme Court decision, HSBC now needs to refund 
any commission he might  have paid for his policies. 
Following the Supreme  Court decision,  the Financial Conduct Authority issued some new 
rules and guidance that applied to PPI policies. It make clear that in certain  circumstances a 
business would have to pay back to a consumer some of the commission  a business  got 
after PPI was sold.
HSBC has agreed to pay back to Mr M everything  he paid for PPI, including  anything it got in 
commission. And the other two insurance  policies  (LA and IP) arent covered by those  rules  
as they arent PPI policies. Im satisfied that once HSBC has paid compensation to Mr M for 
the sale of PPI, it doesnt need to do anything further to resolve this complaint.
what HSBC needs  to do to put things right
HSBC should  put Mr M in the position he would be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. So 
HSBC should:
Pay Mr M the amount  he paid each month  for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The rate 
of interest is 8% a year. 
If Mr M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, HSBC can take off what he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  HSBC  to take off tax from this interest.  HSBC  must give Mr M a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN08947165my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr Ms complaint against HSBC  Bank  Plc that 
payment protection insurance was mis-sold  to him and tell it to pay him compensation as 
described.
I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint that he was mis-sold an income protection policy or life 
assurance.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2019.
Mark Hutchings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN08947166provisional decision
complaint
Mr M has complained that he was mis-sold a number of different insurances  by HSBC Bank Plc 
(HSBC) alongside a mortgage.
background
In 2003 Mr M was given advice by HSBC about a number  of insurances. He was taking out a 
mortgage and took out life assurance (LA)  to cover the outstanding  mortgage balance.  HSBC 
recommended he take out a plan that would  have  paid out a decreasing  amount over the term of the 
policy starting at £100,000 cover.  It paid out the benefit  if he died or was diagnosed with a critical 
illness and cost £22.37 a month.
Mr M was also advised to take out payment protection insurance (PPI) that would  have paid out 
£600 a month  to cover his mortgage payments if he was unable to work due to accident, sickness or 
unemployment. This cost £17.82 a month for the first 12 months before increasing to £33.64  a month.  
It would have  paid out for up to 12 months in any one claim.
Finally, Mr M was advised to take out an income protection (IP) policy. This cost £12.48 a month 
and paid out a benefit of £773 a month if Mr M was incapacitated through accident or sickness for 52 
weeks. So it didnt pay out for the first year of any incapacity. It would have paid out until Mr M was 
able to return  to work or turned  60, whichever was earlier. All three insurances were  cancelled in 
2007.
Mr M complained the advice was unsuitable.  He said he was told that he had to have the insurances 
to get the mortgage. He also thought the fee he paid to receive advice from HSBC  should  be 
refunded.
One of our adjudicators  looked  into Mr Ms complaint and thought  some of it should be upheld.  She 
said, as Mr M had two jobs, he might have found it hard to claim under the PPI policy and might not 
have been entitled to the full benefits if a claim did succeed.  And because HSBC didnt  point this out 
to Mr M, she thought PPI was mis-sold. But she thought the advice to take out IP and LA was 
suitable.
Mr M responded to say he agreed with our adjudicators conclusions about  PPI, but not about IP or 
LA. He pointed out that he had private healthcare, occupational life cover, no dependants  and was in 
good health, so he didnt think he needed these insurances.  He said he had some savings that could  
have covered his mortgage  payments and he was worried he paid advice fees upfront that he 
shouldnt have done.
HSBC said it agreed  with our adjudicators view and made Mr M an offer to settle his complaint about 
PPI. So it agreed to refund the premiums paid along with 8% per year simple interest on those 
premiums for the time he was out of pocket.
As Mr M didnt agree with what our adjudicator  said about IP or LA, the complaint has been passed to 
me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, I dont  think Mr Ms LA or IP was mis-sold.
Ref: DRN08947167HSBC has agreed  with our adjudicator that PPI had been mis-sold, so its offered to put Mr M in the 
position he would have been in if he didnt take it out  by refunding what  he paid and adding interest.  
This is what I would have  expected it to do if Id found PPI had been mis-sold, so I dont need to 
consider this issue further. I understand  this offer hasnt yet been paid, so Ill direct  HSBC to pay this 
offer.
Both the LA and IP were sold at the same time, by the same adviser,  so Ill look at parts  of the sale 
together. 
Mr M has said he was told he had to have  LA and IP to get a mortgage (as well as PPI). He has been 
very consistent in his recollections about this. Its difficult to know what happened as the sale took 
place in a face to face meeting, so there isnt a recording of what  was said. So Ive had to think  about  
what Mr M said happened and looked at the documents available at the time of sale.
Ive seen a copy of Mr Ms Customer  Instruction  Form where he said he wanted to apply for the 
mortgage. The form is two pages long and there were  five insurances offered - LA, IP, PPI, buildings 
cover and contents cover  and there was an option to take or decline each one. The form has been 
ticked to take out LA, IP and PPI and Mr M has signed to confirm this on the second page.  I think  LA 
and IP were both presented  as optional products on the paperwork.
Its possible Mr M was told he needed  to take out the insurances to get the mortgage.  But I think its 
more likely  that the insurances  were presented as optional and Mr M chose  to take them  out. I say 
this because the form he signed presented the insurances as optional  and he was offered a number 
of insurances and ended up taking three out of five, which fits with him having a choice. I know this 
doesnt fit with his recollections, but Ive also taken into account that the sale took place  several years 
ago and most peoples memories do naturally fade with time.
HSBC has said it didnt give Mr M any advice  to take out insurance,  noting that on the Customer 
Instruction Form it says advice wasnt given. But I think  advice was given to Mr M. On the key 
features document  prepared  for the LA it says:
The person who advised you about this contract represents  only HSBC Bank plc.
And Ive seen a similar thing  was said about the IP policy, as well as the cost for advice  being set out 
for both insurances.  So I think its clear advice  was given. That meant that, as well as giving  Mr M 
enough information so he could  decide for himself if he wanted  LA or IP, HSBCs adviser also had to 
make sure the policies were suitable for him.
life assurance
When Mr M took out the LA policy  he was 26 years old and says he was in good health.  The policy 
was set to run for 30 years. HSBC said that it expected to get a payment of £367.37 for advising on 
the policy,  but this payment was made once the insurance started  and was taken  out of the monthly  
premiums paid. Ive seen  that Mr M was told this at the time he took out the LA and he didnt pay 
anything upfront  for the advice given.
I can see that this policy was set up to cover the same amount as the mortgage (£100,000) over the 
same term (30 years). And the amount paid out decreased over time, so as he paid off his mortgage 
the level of cover  he needed decreased too.
Mr M has said that this wasnt a suitable product for him as he had life cover provided by his 
employer. But I dont think that made the recommendation  for LA unsuitable. This policy also paid out 
a lump sum if he was diagnosed  with a serious  illness, and I havent seen he had that cover in place 
already. And if he were  to pass away the LA was designed to pay off his outstanding mortgage, which 
meant anything his estate would have received from any other policy  he had wouldnt have been 
needed for the mortgage.  And although he didnt  have any dependants at the time he took out the 
Ref: DRN08947168cover, he was 26 years old and its possible  that could have changed  as the policy was for a term of 
30 years.
Im not entirely  sure what information Mr A was given  at the time he took out the policy. HSBC has 
provided copies of the documents it says would normally be given to people before they agreed to 
take out the insurance. But even if this information  wasnt given to Mr A, I dont think  he would have 
done anything differently  if he had all of the information. I say that because  I think LA was suitable  for 
him and I think he would have taken  it out if he knew more  about it.
income protection
As with the LA policy, HSBC would have been paid £236.89  for the advice. And again this was 
recovered from the payments made and wasnt an upfront  cost.
Ive considered whether  the recommendation was unsuitable for the same reason  our adjudicator  
thought the PPI was unsuitable  because Mr M had two jobs.  The main reason having two jobs is 
unsuitable for people with some PPI policies  is that they have to be out of work to claim  
unemployment benefit,  so they would have to lose both of their jobs at the same time.  But the IP 
policy didnt provide  cover  for unemployment,  instead it covered  Mr M if he was incapacitated due to 
accident or sickness. Incapacity was defined  as:
The [insured person]  is unable to carry out the Material  and Substantial  Duties of his 
Occupation because of illness or injury.
Mr M had two jobs at the time, one he worked  at for around 35 hours  a week and one for around 7. 
So I think Mr M took a second job to top up his income from his first job. And I think if he was 
incapacitated from working one job, he was likely to be incapacitated from working the other.  So I 
dont think the recommendation was unsuitable because he had two jobs. 
And IP policies are set up to help consumers meet their financial commitments at what could  be a 
difficult time when they arent able to work. This IP policy would have paid the mortgage if Mr M 
couldnt work. The mortgage  was in his sole name and was as long-term  commitment for him. As it 
was secured against  his home, there were serious consequences  if his repayments werent met. So I 
think the IP policy could have given him peace of mind  to know this outgoing would be met if he 
wasnt able to work. It also meant  he could have used any other means he had, for example savings  
or family help,  for other day to day living  costs which could last longer  than if he didnt have the policy.
The LA policy was set up to start paying after 12 months.  I think it was set up in this way to start 
paying out if the PPI benefits ran out after 12 months. But HSBC has accepted the recommendation 
that PPI had been mis-sold,  so I need to think about what would  have happened if PPI hadnt been 
sold to Mr M. As Ive said above, I think the recommendation for IP was suitable. But if he didnt have 
PPI, the period hed have to wait before  IP paid out would need to be shorter. And any policy with a 
shorter waiting period  would have cost more,  so I think Mr M would have paid more  than he actually 
did. It follows  I cant see hes paid more for IP than he should have done as a result of anything  HSBC 
has done wrong.
what HSBC needs to do to put things right
HSBC should put Mr M in the position he would  be in now if he hadnt taken  out PPI. So HSBC 
should:
Pay Mr M the amount he paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple  interest to each payment from when  he paid it until he gets it back. The rate of interest 
is 8% a year. 
Ref: DRN08947169If Mr M made  a successful claim  under the PPI policy, HSBC can take off what  he got for the 
claim from the amount  it owes him.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  HSBC  to take off tax from this interest.  HSBC  must give Mr M a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, I currently intend to uphold Mr Ms complaint against HSBC Bank Plc 
that payment protection insurance was mis-sold to him and tell it to pay him compensation as 
described.
I currently dont intend to uphold  Mr Ms complaint that he was mis-sold an income  protection  policy or 
life assurance.
Mr M and HSBC Bank Plc should  now let me have any further information theyd like me to think 
about before I issue a final decision.
Mark Hutchings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0894716