K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mr A says FICL mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
The background to this complaint, and my provisional findings,  can be found in my
provisional decision which Ive attached  below  and which forms part of this final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party have  given me any new information  for me to consider. Because of this I see
no reason to change  my provisional decision.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 October  2019.
Gemma Farrell
ombudsman 
copy of provisional decision
complaint
Its been  agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL), as the insurer, should  
accept responsibility  for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to FICL as the seller in my 
decision.
Mr A says FICL mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about  a PPI policy  taken out on a store card in 1999.
Ref: DRN05602502The policy cost no more than £1.00 per £100 Mrs A owed  on her store card.  The policy would  have 
paid 15% of the outstanding balance  on the card each month if Mrs A couldnt  work because  she had 
an accident, was unwell or lost her job.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be upheld. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account  in deciding Mrs As case.
I currently intend to not uphold  Mrs As complaint. Ill explain  my reasoning below.
FICL had to make  it clear to Mrs A that the policy was optional and get her consent before
PPI could  be applied  to the account. The policy was taken out in store. I dont know what happened  
during the sale so Ive looked at the paperwork available  to help me decide  whats likely to have 
happened.
Ive been given a copy of the application form that Mrs A completed when she took out the card and 
this includes a section for PPI where Mrs A has signed to say she wanted the PPI.
Theres nothing on the form to suggest the PPI was compulsory. So on balance I think  its likely  that 
FICL would have asked Mrs A for her agreement to add the policy  to her account and she chose to 
take it knowing  she didnt  have to. Although its understandable that she no longer remembers  this.
FICL has said it didnt recommend the policy  to Mrs A and I think thats likely  to be right. So it didnt 
have to check  if the policy  was right for him. But FICL did need to make sure it gave Mrs A clear  
enough information about the policy  to enable  him to decide for herself  if she should  take the policy.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs A about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  But 
even if FICL  had given him better or clearer information, I dont think  it would have  made  a difference. 
I still think she would have taken out the policy. I say this because Mrs A was eligible for the policy 
and she wasnt affected by any of the main limitations  to the cover.
Mrs A says she had a medical condition at the time of sale. But based on what  shes told us, this 
condition appears to have been under control at the time of sale.  So I think she wouldve thought  the 
likelihood of having to take an extended period of time of work as a result of this condition  wouldve 
been slim. I dont think she wouldve expected to have  to make a claim  for this condition,  and dont 
think clearer information about the policy wouldve  affected her decision to take it out.
Mrs A says she was entitled  to up to12 months full sick pay. This is a relatively  unusual amount  of 
sick pay and without  further  evidence to support what shes told us I dont think  its likely  her full sick 
pay wouldve  paid out for 12 months. The PPI would have paid out on top of any sick pay entitlements  
she wouldve  received and until she was able to return to work, or until the outstanding balance was 
cleared  whichever  came  first. And the policy would cover the same term if she was to lose her job. 
So I think she wouldve found the policy useful.
Overall, when taking into account everything Ive seen and been told, I dont think  Mrs A has lost out 
as a result of anything FICL  may have done wrong.
my provisional  decision
Ref: DRN05602503For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont intend to uphold  Mrs As complaint. But Ill look at anything else 
anyone wants to give me  so long as I get it before  20 September 2019.
Unless that information changes  my mind, my final decision is likely  to be along the lines Ive 
mentioned above.
Ref: DRN0560250