K821x#15complaint
The complaint is about the advice given by Anthony  Feeney Financial Services (AFFS)  to 
Mrs H. This was to transfer  her existing personal  pension into a self-invested personal 
pension (SIPP) to invest into Store  Pods  and other investments. The Store  Pods cannot now 
be sold, and the complaint  is that the advice was unsuitable.
background
Mrs H was cold called by a third party business  about transferring her pension plan. She was 
then referred to AFFS for advice on the transfer.
A fact find document was completed.  This recorded that Mrs H was:
Not working at the time of advice due to ill health; her partner acted as her carer.
She had two children  in full time education.
Her attitude to risk was recorded  as adventurous, but the notes on the fact find said 
that she had no experience of investment markets. In order  for her to achieve her 
goals in retirement she would need  to take higher risk.
She had one personal pension and no other investments.
A suitability  report was issued in September 2013. This said:
You have a limited knowledge of investments but as you already have a number of 
pension contracts you understand the basics.
It went on to say:
I confirm  that you have  elected for the following service:
A focused and limited  advice transaction service instigated by client request.
AFFS recommended that Mrs H transfer  her existing pension plan to a SIPP  to allow  her to 
invest in a designated fund. The transfer  went ahead  in November 2013 and £21,841 was 
transferred and invested into Store  Pods.
In early 2014 AFFS recommended that Mrs H invest part of her fund into Nucleus 
investments.
Mrs Hs representatives complained to AFFS. They investigated the complaint  and said the 
advice was suitable as the SIPP met her objectives. She was happy to take the additional 
risk to achieve higher returns no advice was given on the underlying investment. Two 
annual rental  payments  of about £1,380 each were  received in line expectations.
Dissatisfied with the response, Mrs H referred the complaint to us. One of our adjudicators  
investigated the complaint. He concluded that it should be upheld.  In summary, his reasons 
were:
AFFS was giving advice. That meant  it had to give suitable advice. 
The suitability report included risk warnings,  but it didnt say that the investment was 
unsuitable for Mrs H or that she shouldnt invest.
Ref: DRN02422382The rules at the time did not mean that AFFS did not have to consider the suitability 
of the investment.
The risks of the transfer to the SIPP depended almost entirely on the risks of the 
investment. Mrs H had very little experience  of investing and very little in the way of 
savings. It was unlikely that she could properly  assess the risks of investing in Store 
Pods. And she was not in a position to accept that risk.
The investment  represented  a significant risk for Mrs H. She should  have been 
advised against the transfer. If she had been  she wouldnt have transferred.
AFFS didnt agree. In summary, their representative  said:
The background set out by the adjudicator  did not include all of the relevant narrative.
Mrs H was referred to AFFS by Nationwide Corporate Benefits as a client  interested 
in investing in UK Commercial Property.
AFFS recommended a transfer  to a SIPP so that Mrs H could take 25% tax free cash  
and make investments.  This was based on information given by Mrs H.
Mrs H only requested  advice about setting up a SIPP. She expressly did not ask for 
advice about investing in Store  Pods.
AFFS was aware of its obligations and carried out due diligence on the store  pods. 
They were satisfied  it was not an unregulated collective investment scheme (UCIS).
The financial planning  report shows that AFFS discussed the range of investments 
and it was important  for an alternative strategy in the future. They  assessed  Mrs Hs 
attitude to risk as adventurous. This was based  on information given by Mrs H.
They didnt agree that the report did not say that the investment was unsuitable and 
quoted parts from the report.
Despite being  made aware of the risks of investing in store  first Mrs H invested  
anyway.
AFFS did not give advice about store pods. It therefore cannot be liable for the loss 
Mrs H has suffered  by making  the investment.
They asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. They also said that 
they wanted a hearing before an ombudsman issued  a decision.
I asked one of our adjudicators to call Mrs H and discuss  her complaint. A recording of that 
call has been made available to both parties. In summary, Mrs H said that:
She said that she had been cold called - wasn't  sure of name, she said she didn't  
take much notice at the time but thought it might have been Pensionwise.
She said that she was not working  at the time; she is disabled  and has mobility 
issues. Works part time now but has not worked  full time for a long time. She has 
relied on benefits for some time.
She said that someone came to visit her and talked to her about her pension  pot that 
was then £21,000 that was making just 1% a year. She later got letter about Store 
Pods but she had not been aware  of the risks of that investment of that she would not 
be able to sell it.
She said she thought  that AFFS had visited her.
She said that a risk rating of adventurous was not a fair reflection. She didn't really 
know anything about investments and wasn't aware  of risks. She thought she was 
being advised to invest in something that was sound  and offered better returns. She 
had no money elsewhere.
She said that she would have left her pension where it was if she had been made 
aware of the risks.
Ref: DRN02422383She could not recall  having received any payments from Store  Pods.
I issued a letter explaining that I didnt  require a hearing to fairly decide  this complaint. A 
copy of the adjudicators notes of the telephone  call was sent with my letter.  AFFS could also 
have requested a recording of the call. 
No reply has been received from AFFS or their representatives.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
our jurisdiction
AFFS was giving advice  to start a SIPP. That is a regulated activity. We can therefore 
consider a complaint about the advice to start the SIPP. It does not matter whether the store 
pods are a UCIS or not. This is a complaint  that we can consider.
the relevant rules
The rules  that firms  had to follow are set out in the regulators  handbook. The advice had to 
take account of the relevant rules whether or not store pods were regulated. The regulations 
required the advice  to be suitable. To do that AFFS had to obtain  enough information about 
Mrs Hs circumstances.
what should the adviser have done?
The adviser was required to give suitable advice.  To do that the adviser had to have enough 
information to know his client. The risks of this transfer were almost entirely about the 
intended investment.  I cannot see how suitable  advice can be given without thinking about  
that investment.  Thats the key message from the regulators  alert issued in January 2013. 
AFFS knew that Mrs H intended to invest in store pods. They should have considered 
whether that was suitable for her. 
AFFS assessed Mrs Hs attitude to investment risk as adventurous. It isnt clear how they 
assessed this level of risk. The information available shows that Mrs H had limited  
experience of investing. I think  her true attitude to investment risk was likely  to have been 
reflected in the cautious managed fund she was invested in. Although I think  Mrs H wanted 
to take some  risk I would describe  this as low to medium from the evidence available.
Even if Mrs H was prepared to accept a high level of risk she did not have the capacity to 
take that risk. In my view,  AFFS should have been giving advice in the basis  that Mrs H 
could not afford to take much risk.
The adviser did set out some  risks of investing  in store pods  in his suitability report. These 
were:
Investment in a single undertaking or having one investment as a large  part of a 
scheme's assets brings  considerable  risk.
Ref: DRN02422384The buyer may grant a lease for a term of 6 years to the Seller at fixed rents that are 
stepped throughout the term.  This is an attractive  option for the Buyer  as it would 
appear to provide  a guaranteed income for 6 years after purchasing  the property, 
however after the initial period stated, there is no guarantee of occupancy  or rate of 
return.
You may not always  be able to secure  a tenant and if there is a prolonged period of 
unnocupancy [sic], surplus funds may have to be used up to cover the annual SIPP 
fees, service charge,  buildings  insurance and electricity rent in addition to the 
nominal ground rent during  the term, you may also be required to make contributions 
to the scheme  if there are insufficient funds available to cover the fees.
You must consider the potential marketability carefully in respect of a specialist  
commercial property  such as this. It will have to be sold in order for you to secure 
pension benefits  at your chosen  retirement  age via an annuity.
The investment  comes with a buy back guarantee which  does reduce the inherent 
illiquidity risk of this type of asset, however there  is little to back  up this guarantee 
apart from the word  of the company.
The adviser went on to say: I recommend  that your fund  is not placed within one asset 
class and should form part of a diversified portfolio across  a number of asset 
classes. However, in my view this does not go far enough. 
Im satisfied that the investment  in store pods was a high risk investment. They  were not 
regulated whether or not they were  a UCIS. The investments were potentially  illiquid  and 
unsuitable for Mrs H. I think if Mrs H had been advised not to invest  in store pods that she 
would have followed that advice.
I think suitable advice  should have been not to invest  in store pods. If that advice had been 
given I do not see any reason  why Mrs H would have transferred to a SIPP.  I think that given  
a realistic assessment  of her attitude  to risk as low to medium, that a standard  personal 
pension would have  been suitable for his needs.  I think the extra  charges normally  
associated with a SIPP were not justified.
fair compensation
My aim is that Mrs H should be put as closely  as possible into the position  she would 
probably now be in if she had been  given  suitable  advice. I take the view that Mrs H would 
have invested  differently.  Its not possible to say precisely what she would have done  
differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mrs H's 
circumstances and objectives when she invested.  
what should  AFFS do?
To compensate Mrs H fairly, AFFS must:
Compare the performance of Mrs H's investment with that of the benchmark  shown  
below. If the fair value  is greater  than the actual value there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. 
If there is a loss, AFFS should  pay a sum into Mrs H's pension plan to increase its 
value by the total amount  of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid 
should allow for the effect of charges and any available  tax relief.
Ref: DRN02422385Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. 
If AFFS is unable to pay the total amount  into Mrs H's pension  plan,  it should  pay that 
amount direct  to her. But had it been  possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount  should be reduced to 
notionally allow  for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mrs H's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax in retirement. Given Mrs Hs circumstances  it is unlikely she will 
be a taxpayer in retirement. No deduction  should therefore be made; unless AFFS 
can show that Mrs H will probably pay any tax. However, Mrs H would have been 
able to take a tax free lump sum,  the reduction  should be applied to 75% of the 
compensation.
Pay to Mrs H £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused  by the loss of her 
pension fund. This has been  at a time when she was approaching retirement.
AFFS should add interest  as set out below.  Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. 
If AFFS deducts income tax from the interest  it should tell Mrs H how much  has been  taken  
off. AFFS should give Mrs H a tax deduction  certificate if she asks for one, so she can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
SIPP still existsfor half the 
investment:  
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  Index;  
for the other 
half: average  
rate from 
fixed rate 
bondsdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple  a 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement  
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
It may be difficult  to find the actual  value of the investment. So, the actual value should be 
assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. AFFS should take ownership of the illiquid 
investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension  provider. This amount 
should be deducted from the compensation and the balance paid as I set out above.
If AFFS is unable to purchase the investment,  the actual value should  be assumed to be nil 
for the purpose  of calculation. AFFS may require that Mrs H provides an undertaking to pay 
AFFS any amount she may receive from the investment in the future. That undertaking must 
allow for any tax and charges that would  be incurred on drawing the receipt  from the pension  
plan. AFFS will need to meet any costs  in drawing up the undertaking.
Ref: DRN02422386fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  AFFS should 
use the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months  maturity  as 
published by the Bank  of England. The rate for each  month  is that shown as at the end of 
the previous month. Those rates  should be applied to the investment on an annually  
compounded basis.  
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mrs H wanted capital  growth with a small risk to her capital.
The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  for someone who 
wanted to achieve  a reasonable  return  without  risk to her capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some  risk to get a higher return. 
I consider that Mrs H's risk profile was in between, in the sense that she was prepared  
to take a small level of risk to attain her investment objectives. So, the 50/50  
combination would reasonably put Mrs H into that position.  It does not mean  that Mrs 
H would  have invested 50% of her money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some  kind 
of index tracker  investment. Rather,  I consider this a reasonable compromise that 
broadly reflects  the sort of return Mrs H could have obtained from investments suited 
to her objective and risk attitude.
The fees paid to AFFH will be taken  into account in this calculation. I therefore 
wont make an additional  award.
my final decision 
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Anthony  Feeney Financial Services  should pay 
the amount calculated  as set out above.
AFFS should provide  details of its calculation to Mrs H in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Roy Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0242238