K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Secure Trust Bank Plc, trading as Moneyway, wont reinstate his 
finance agreement  and allow him to continue to hire his car.
background
Mr M took receipt of a used car in February 2015. He financed  the deal through  a hire 
purchase agreement  with Moneyway. But in March 2018 Moneyway terminated his contract 
with them  as Mr M had failed to insure  the car.
Mr M explained that he was in financial  difficulties  at the time and struggling  with payments 
but as hed now secured a new job he wanted Moneyway to reinstate his contract  and let 
him have  use of the car again.
But Moneyway didnt agree. They said when Mr M fell behind  with payments they agreed 
repayment plans  on four occasions but Mr M didnt keep to any of the new arrangements. 
They said theyd given  Mr M sufficient  warning of their intention to repossess  the car if he 
failed to insure it and that the contract he signed explained that the car must be insured. As 
he failed to insure the car and as hed not demonstrated an ability  to keep up with his 
instalments they werent willing to reinstate the agreement.
So Mr M referred his complaint to this service  and our investigator  considered  the evidence. 
She didnt  think Moneyway had been  unreasonable. She understood that Mr M had told the 
business about his financial difficulties and she explained that shed therefore have expected  
the business to be positive and supportive of him. But she went  on to say she thought  the 
business had been. Theyd provided  four separate repayment plans but Mr M hadnt been 
able to keep to them and theyd given  him sufficient notice of their intention  to terminate the 
agreement if he didnt  insure the car. She noted  that Moneyway had also discussed the 
potential for Mr M to voluntarily  surrender  his car instead but hed turned that option down. 
So the investigator explained  that, as Moneyway had followed an appropriate and 
reasonable procedure, it was for them to make  an operational decision whether to reinstate 
the finance agreement or not. She didnt think they needed to take any further  action.
But Mr M disagreed and he therefore asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr M but I think  Moneyway  has acted reasonably here and I dont 
think they need to do anything else. Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ref: DRN04858862Under Mr Ms hire purchase  agreement his car remained  the property of the finance  
company. They were therefore rightly concerned on 8 March 2018  when Mr M told them  his 
vehicle was no longer insured. But they did give him a little time to arrange the insurance. 
On 21 March when  the car was still uninsured, Moneyway terminated Mr Ms agreement.  I 
think this was fair as theyd provided reasonable notice and would understandably require 
their property to be insured. I dont think Moneyway did anything  wrong  here. 
When Mr M told them about  his financial difficulties I think  they also behaved appropriately 
and reasonably. I can see that they generated several repayment plans with Mr M but he 
didnt comply with any of them and hasnt made a payment towards his agreement since 
February 2018. They also explained he had the option to voluntarily  surrender  the vehicle 
after which they would sell it and use the proceeds to reduce Mr Ms debt but Mr M declined  
their offer. 
Mr M says that, as his employment situation has changed, Moneyway should reinstate  the 
finance agreement  and let him have his car back.  But as theyve not done anything  wrong  in 
terminating his agreement and theyve behaved  fairly and been supportive when trying to 
help Mr M through  his financial difficulties I dont think  they have to.
Its for Moneyway to consider the risk in lending to Mr M and make an operational decision 
whether to reinstate the agreement or not. They need to consider the risk and Mr Ms ability  
to repay  and I think its reasonable for them to have regard to his past account conduct when 
doing so. I dont think it would be reasonable to insist they reinstate the agreement and I 
therefore wont be asking  them  to take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0485886