K822xcomplaint
Miss H is unhappy with the customer service shes received from Shop Direct Finance  
Company Limited  t/a Littlewoods. 
background 
Around June 2018 Miss H purchased  a vacuum from Littlewoods. In August 2018 she 
contacted the retailer  and told them the item wasnt fit for purpose.  The item was returned to 
the retailer and Miss H was advised  a refund would be applied  to her account. 
In September  2018 a refund was applied to her account. But around October 2018 an 
inspection was carried out on the item and no manufacturing fault was found. A debit of the 
cost of the vacuum was therefore applied  to Miss Hs account.  The item was returned to 
Miss H and a delivery charge was also applied.
It then seems the item was returned once more to the retailer. Miss H was again told there  
was no manufacturing  fault. Littlewoods claim Miss H was advised that if they didnt hear 
from her within  6 weeks, the vacuum would be disposed of and no refund given. Littlewoods 
say they never heard  from Miss H, so the item was disposed of.
As Littlewoods didnt uphold Miss Hs complaint,  she referred the case  to our service. An 
adjudicator has already  looked at this matter. She didnt feel that Littlewoods  had acted 
unreasonably. Miss H is unhappy  as she says she was told in August 2018 that shed get a 
refund, but not that this was pending any inspection  of the item. So she says she went and 
purchased another vacuum, based on what theyd told her. As I understand Littlewoods  has 
acknowledged that Miss H was given incorrect information by a member of staff and she has 
been paid £35 compensation in recognition of this. 
Littlewoods are now offering Miss H a further  £25 for any distress and inconvenience shes  
been caused. 
As Miss H is still unhappy, this case has been  referred to me to look at.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Whilst Ive considered all the evidence 
which has been submitted to our service, this decision will focus  on what I think  are the key 
issues in dispute.
Overall I cant  say Littlewoods has acted unfairly.  No manufacturing fault was found with the 
item. Theres no evidence  to show it wasnt fit for purpose. 
Miss H unfortunately  failed to return the item to the retailer within the contractual 28 day 
period and therefore she wasnt  entitled  to a refund. I do think the retailers  returns  policy is 
clear on this point. 
I appreciate how frustrated Miss H must be but Im afraid I dont think  Littlewoods  has acted 
unreasonably. Theyve acknowledged that incorrect information was given to Miss H. But Im 
afraid this doesnt  alter the position  concerning  their returns policy and the item not being 
Ref: DRN03703182found to be faulty.  And theyve admitted that the cost of the vacuum was debited from her 
account twice  accidentally. But this additional debit  has now been re-credited back to her. 
I note Littlewoods has already paid Miss H £35 compensation as a goodwill gesture. And I 
now see theyre offering  Miss H a further  £25 compensation in recognition of any distress  
and inconvenience  she might have been caused  by this situation. On consideration of 
everything, I think this amount is fair. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Shop Direct  Finance Company Limited  t/a Littlewoods should pay 
Miss H a further £25 compensation for any distress and inconvenience shes been caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 June 2020.
Robyn McNamee
ombudsman
.
Ref: DRN0370318