K820x#14Complaint
Mr P complains that Revolut Ltd blocked  and subsequently closed his account. He would like 
the money which was left in the account transferred to him.
Background
In March 2019, Revolut reviewed Mr Ps account. While they carried  out their review,  Mr Ps 
account was blocked. He was made  aware of the block  through  Revoluts messaging 
service. 
Mr P tried to get in touch with Revolut to find out why his account was blocked and when 
hed be able to access it. But Revolut didnt give him this information. Mr P complained.
Revolut responded to Mr Ps complaint and explained that they sometimes must carry out 
reviews and theyre not obliged to tell Mr P the reason  why. They  also confirmed the review 
was ongoing so Mr P wouldnt  be able to access his account or the money in it.
In October  2019, Revolut  decided to end their relationship with Mr P following their review.  
Revolut returned  the money  which was left in Mr Ps account to the original sender of the 
funds instead  of Mr P.
The investigator who considered Mr Ps complaint  thought  Revolut were  entitled to review  
and subsequently close the account.  And while  he agreed Revolut  could return  the money  
which was left in the account  to the original source,  he thought  Revolut should  have  given 
some of the money  left in the account back to Mr P under Claytons rule. The investigator  
thought Revolut should have refunded  €209  to Mr P directly  and he also asked them to 
pay £50 compensation for their error.
Both Mr P and Revolut  disagreed with the investigator. Mr P wanted  all the money which 
was left in the account returned  to him. And Revolut didnt think Mr P was entitled to any of 
it.
As an agreement couldnt  be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to review.
I issued a provisional decision in December 2020. In it I said;
The review,  block and closure
Ive considered Revoluts actions when  reviewing and subsequently  closing  Mr Ps account.  
Revolut are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order  to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied Revolut were acting in line with 
these obligations  when reviewing, and subsequently  closing, Mr Ps account.
I recognise Mr P would like to know the reasons  why Revolut took the actions  they did. But 
they arent obliged  to give an explanation when they review or block an account. However, 
Id like to reassure Mr P that based  on the evidence  Ive seen,  Im satisfied Revolut acted 
appropriately in the circumstances. 
Under the terms of the account Mr P held, Revolut are entitled to end the relationship. Im 
pleased to see they notified  Mr P of their decision. Im also aware Mr P asked Revolut to 
close the account too so Im satisfied both parties are content with this decision.
Ref: DRN09717702Ive thought about how long Revoluts review took.  And I appreciate it took just over six 
months. While  we wouldnt  expect  a business to carry out a review  in certain time, we must 
be satisfied they havent caused  any unnecessary  delays. Revolut have  shared  information 
in relation to their review and based  on this evidence Ive received, Im satisfied they didnt 
cause any undue delays.  Therefore, while I appreciate Mr P went  a long time without 
knowing what was happening with his account,  or the money held in there, I think Revolut 
took appropriate actions based  on the circumstances of this complaint.
Return of the funds
On closing the account, Revolut decided to return the money in the account to the original 
source instead of Mr P. I appreciate Mr P wants the money  back  directly, so Ive considered 
this point in great detail.
Our investigator felt that Claytons rule should have been applied  here.  Claytons rule, 
commonly known as the first in, first out rule, says that each withdrawal  is presumed  to be a 
return of all or part of the oldest  deposit. The result therefore is that the oldest  deposit  is 
withdrawn first, or the oldest debt is paid first. Taking this into account, our investigator said 
the money left in Mr Ps account when Revolut decided to close it, consisted  of two different 
sources. And because  the €209 didnt  form part of the original payment, Revolut should 
return this amount to Mr P.
Revolut have provided a detailed response on this matter. They say that Claytons rule 
doesnt always have  to be followed, and theyve set out reasons why they dont think  it 
should be followed in Mr Ps case.
I agree  it might  not always  be appropriate for Claytons rule to apply, and that there will be 
some scenarios whereby Claytons rule would result in an outcome that is plainly unjust.  
Having considered the individual  circumstances of Mr Ps complaint, Im minded to reach a 
different conclusion to the investigator  I dont think Claytons  rule should be followed.
I understand that Mr P is upset by Revoluts actions on returning the money to source  he 
thinks all the money  in the account  should be returned to him. However, Im satisfied  based  
on the evidence  Ive seen that Revolut are reasonable in their actions  by returning the 
money to source.  Im sorry that Mr P finds himself in this situation, but I cant  fairly say that 
Revolut should  return the money to him. Of course,  if Mr P is owed the money,  I would urge 
him to contact the original sender of the funds  whom I assume  he knows as they paid 
money into his Revolut account  and seek payment from them  once Revolut has returned  it. 
Compensation
The investigator felt Revolut should  pay Mr P £50 compensation  for not returning  the €209  to 
him. As Ive found that Revolut were entitled to return the money to source, and not Mr P, I 
dont consider any compensation payment is due. And thats because I dont think Revolut 
have made  an error.
Overall
Overall, Im satisfied that Revolut were acting in line with their legal and regulatory  
obligations when  reviewing and subsequently  closing  Mr Ps account.  And based  on the 
evidence Ive seen,  I dont think its unreasonable for Revolut to return the money left in 
Ref: DRN09717703Mr Ps account to the original source.  It therefore follows that Revolut arent required to pay 
Mr P any compensation.
So, in summary,  I thought  Revolut had acted fairly in the circumstances and I didnt think  
they needed to do anything differently.
Revolut didnt respond to my provisional  decision with any further comments.
Mr P responded and didnt agree. In summary he said that he didnt think Revolut had the 
right to dispose of his money at their own discretion. And he didnt think  there was a good 
reason to avoid  the Claytons rule. Mr P also asked for a statement detailing  the transactions 
which were returned  to source so he could locate the money  directly.  Mr P said due to the 
time which had passed, he isnt able to remember who sent him the funds originally.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr Ps strong  feeling  about  this complaint. And Im sorry he hasnt been able to 
agree with my provisional decision. In order to follow Claytons  rule, Id need to be satisfied 
that Mr P was entitled to the money left in the account when Revolut  decided  to close it. I 
appreciate the money in there was transferred into Mr Ps account. However, based on the 
evidence Ive seen,  Im satisfied Revolut have  acted appropriately in the circumstances. 
Its unfortunate Mr P isnt able to recall  who sent him the money in order to ask for it back. I 
note hes asked for a statement of account  showing the transactions made  to him, and the 
transactions where Revolut returned  the money to source. Ive arranged  for Revolut to send 
Mr P a full statement of account so he can hopefully locate the payees.
Overall, I havent seen any further  evidence to satisfy me that Revolut have acted  
inappropriately. And therefore, I dont see any reason to depart from my provisional findings.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2021.
Hayley West
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0971770