K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Bank  of Scotland  plc (BoS) mis-sold them  a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs H took out a loan secured on their property in 2001. At the same  time they 
bought a PPI policy  which covered Mr H. If Mr H had been too ill to work the policy  wouldve 
covered the repayments on their loan for up to five years  at a time. If he was made 
redundant it wouldve covered the repayments for up to 12 months  at a time. It also provided 
life cover.  
Mr and Mrs H say that the terms, conditions and exclusions  werent properly explained to 
them. They say they werent told they could find cover elsewhere. And they say that they 
didnt understand  that the cost of the policy was added to their loan and they paid interest on 
it so they didnt understand  the cost properly.
The adjudicator thought  that Mr and Mrs Hs complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr and Mrs H 
disagree, so their case has been passed  to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Hs 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
Mr and Mrs H dont dispute  that they bought the policy knowing they had a choice about it. 
And I can see from the documents supplied by BoS that this was the case.  Mr and Mrs H 
complain that they werent told they could  buy a PPI policy elsewhere. But theres  no 
obligation on BoS to have  done  this. So I dont think BoS did anything  wrong  here. 
Mr and Mrs H say they werent given any advice about buying the policy. BoS say that it 
gave Mr and Mrs H a personal  recommendation about the PPI. I think this is likely to have 
been the case and, as such  a recommendation would  then require BoS to be held to a 
higher standard in relation to the sale I think its reasonable to work  on the basis  that such a 
recommendation was given.
Looking at Mr Hs personal  circumstances at the time of sale, I think that any such  
recommendation was appropriate. I say this because:
Mr H was eligible for the policy and wouldnt have been  affected by any terms which  
mightve made it more  difficult for him to make a successful  claim, such as those 
related to existing  medical conditions or self-employment;
Mr H says he had 18 months  of full sick pay entitlement,  so he didnt need the 
accident and sickness benefit. This is an unusually high level of sick pay, and I 
havent seen any evidence of it. I think its possible Mr H is mistaken  about  this. But 
Ref: DRN03994312even if he isnt, the policy would have paid out in addition to this and potentially for up 
to five years  at a time  far in excess of his full sick pay;
Mr H had worked for his employer  for a long time, so its likely he wouldve received a 
significant redundancy entitlement. But the policy wouldve  paid out in addition to this, 
leaving any redundancy pay to cover  other  uninsured expenses;
As the loan was secured on Mr and Mrs Hs home, it was important that they could 
maintain the repayments in all circumstances. 
Contrary to Mr and Mrs Hs understanding, the policy was not paid for by a single 
premium. The policy was a regular monthly premium and could be cancelled  at any 
time without a financial penalty. 
I havent seen  any evidence to suggest  that the PPI was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs 
H;
BoS also needed to make sure Mr and Mrs H had all the information they needed to make 
their decision  about the PPI. Mr and Mrs H particularly complain that they didnt understand 
the cost. But the cost was very clearly  set out in the simple, single-page loan agreement, so I 
dont think there was any room for doubt about what theyd  be paying. 
Its possible that Mr and Mrs H werent  given all the other information they ideally shouldve 
been given. But given what Ive said about  Mr Hs circumstances I dont think  more  
information wouldve  changed their minds about buying the policy. So I dont think theyve 
lost out as a result of anything BoS mightve  done  wrong.
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Hs complaint, so it follows  that Bank of Scotland plc doesnt 
have to pay any compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 May 2019.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0399431