K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that AWP P&C SA acted unfairly  and unreasonably  in rejecting his claim 
under a travel insurance policy. He wants the claim paid.
background
Mr R had a travel insurance policy with AWP P&C SA. He suffered a fall in the USA but his 
claim was rejected. Mr R complained to AWP. It said the claim was unsuccessful because 
the policy excluded  claims arising  from alcohol and the medical evidence was that Mr R had 
been diagnosed as intoxicated  AWP said the fall was caused by Mr R drinking too much.
Mr R complained to us. The investigators view was that AWP had acted fairly and 
reasonably in declining the claim.  She said it was reasonable to rely on the medical  
evidence, which stated  Mr R had been  diagnosed  with alcohol intoxication  with 
complications. Mr R accepted that hed drunk  several alcoholic drinks and then fell over, 
while choking on his drink. He said the fall wouldve happened even if he hadnt drunk 
alcohol. The investigator said the amount of alcohol  Mr R had admitted to drinking was likely 
to impair his reaction times and contributed to the fall. 
Mr R disagreed and said this service should  contact the venue where the fall happened;  he 
also said that the hospital didnt ask for payment  in full when he was treated as it thought the 
insurance would pay. The investigator  explained  that the medical evidence was critical and 
the hospital wasnt in a position to know if the insurer  would pay.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  When I refer to AWP, Im also referring to 
its agents.
The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say that AWP  has a responsibility  to handle 
claims promptly and fairly.  And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
The terms and conditions  of the policy dont exclude  any claim when the policyholder  has 
been drinking  alcohol. It says claims wont be covered if so much  alcohol is drink that 
faculties and/or judgement are notably impaired,  or if the policyholder  is diagnosed as 
suffering from acute alcohol intoxication.
The onus is on AWP to show, on balance,  that the accident was unlikely to have occurred, if 
it were not for the consumption of alcohol, or that Mr R did not escape the consequences of 
an accident as he may otherwise have done because of the alcohol hed drunk.  If we think 
the accident probably would have happened  whether  the consumer was drunk or not, we 
might decide  its unfair for the insurer  to apply the exclusion.
But even Mr Rs account shows that he did drink a significant amount of alcohol. The treating 
doctor thought  that the amount of alcohol  drunk (as shown by the blood tests)  was serious 
enough to make alcohol intoxication the primary diagnosis. And Mr Rs account  of his fall, 
which happened as he was choking  on his final drink of the night, shows  that its more  likely 
than not that his ability not to fall was impaired by the alcohol in his system. I think AWP 
acted fairly  and reasonably in declining the claim.
Ref: DRN04223172my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or reject  my decision before 
6 January 2020.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0422317