K820x#14complaint
Mrs M is unhappy  TSB Bank plc reduced  the interest rate applied to her current  account.
background
Mrs M has held a Classic Plus current account  with TSB for a number  years. In spring 2018, 
a number of TSB customers  experienced problems  with their accounts after an IT glitch. 
TSB decided  to thank  its customers  after this problem. It did this by increasing  the interest 
rate on Classic Plus accounts from 3% to 5%. Around this time TSBs CEO was interviewed 
and said the increased rate would be there for good. He later released a statement saying 
TSB promised the 5% rate wouldnt be taken away after a year.
Like other Classis Plus account holders, Mrs Ms interest rate increased in May 2018. But 
earlier this year, TSB wrote to its customers saying  the rate would drop back to 3% in 
July 2019. Mrs M was unhappy with this as the increased rate had been in place for more  
than a year. And she felt this was unfair  given  the comments made by TSBs CEO.
TSB looked into Mrs Ms concerns and sent her its final response.  In this it explained it was 
reducing the interest rate after reviewing  its position with the rest of the industry. It also said 
it had given her advance notice of the changes. And because of this, it didnt think  the rate 
reduction was unfair. Mrs M remained  unhappy  and brought her complaint to our service.   
After looking into Mrs Ms complaint, our investigator didnt think TSB had acted unfairly. He 
explained Mrs Ms account has a variable  interest rate. This meant  it was unlikely her 
account would be subject to an interest rate that would never change. And in light of this, he 
didnt think TSB had done anything wrong when it said the interest rate would reduce.
Mrs M disagreed with our investigator, so her complaint was passed  to me to look into.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding 
Mrs Ms complaint. I know this will come as a disappointment to her, but Ill explain my 
reasons below.
Before I detail my findings, I wanted to explain that our service cant tell a bank what  interest  
rates it should set. But what we can do is look into the interest rates applied to a particular 
customers account to determine if theyve been  applied fairly. In doing so we consider 
whether another customer,  with similar circumstances,  would be treated the same way.
Ive reviewed the comments TSBs CEO  made in his radio interview. And given that he said 
the 5% rate was there for good , I can understand why Mrs M felt the rate wouldnt change.  
However, when considering cases like these, I also have to place  weight on the terms and 
conditions of the account in question.  Thats because they set out how the bank and 
consumer agree to manage the account.
Ref: DRN07640132Ive reviewed the relevant terms and conditions for Mrs Ms account. A copy of these would 
have been sent to her when she opened her account. The terms and conditions explain The 
interest rate is variable,  which means  it can go up or down. So, Im satisfied that when 
opening her account, Mrs M was aware that it was possible the interest  rate would change 
over the lifetime of her account.
While TSB can change  the interest  rate applied to Mrs Ms account,  we would expect it to 
give her notice of any changes. TSBs  terms and conditions say customers will be given two 
months notice if an accounts  interest rate is going to be reduced.  Mrs M contacted  our 
service more than two months  before TSB was due to reduce the interest rate to 3%. So, Im 
satisfied it acted in line with its terms and conditions before  making the change.
I also had to consider  whether I think TSBs decision in Mrs Ms case was reasonable. As 
mentioned above,  I understand why Mrs M thought the 5% interest rate wouldnt change 
after hearing it was there for good. Ive also considered  the information Mrs Ms was sent 
which said the 5% rate wouldnt  be taken away after a year.  The rate increased in May 
2018 and reduced in July 2019, meaning  it was in place for more  than a year. TSB told us 
that when it shared this statement it meant  the interest rate wasnt simply a 12 months bonus 
provided by most other banks. Instead,  it was a bonus rate that would last longer than a 
year. Ive taken on board  what TSB has said about  this, and I consider thats  a reasonable 
explanation for what happened given the terms of the account. But I do think  it could have  
explained this in a clearer way.
It would be usual for a bank to set an interest  rate indefinitely.  Thats  why it wasnt 
unreasonable for TSB to review market conditions and its position with the rest of the 
industry. I also dont consider it was unreasonable for TSB to make changes once its review  
was completed given the current financial  environment. So despite the confusion caused by 
TSBs messaging, Ive not seen anything to suggest  Mrs M was treated differently to other  
TSB customers with similar circumstances.  
TSB gave  Mrs M notice that her interest rate would be reducing. And theres nothing in her 
terms and conditions that say she has to keep  her account open  if she no longer wants  to 
bank with TSB. This means  Mrs M had time to decide if she wanted to keep  her account with 
the reduced rate  or look for an account  that may provide her with a better  rate. Ive not 
seen any information  to show whether Mrs M has kept her TSB account open since her 
complaint was passed to me. But even  if she has, I dont think  TSB acted unfairly. So, I wont 
be asking it to do anything  to put things  right.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 August 2019.
Sarrah Turay
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0764013