K820x#14complaint
Mr K says he was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy when he took out a 
credit card in December 2002. He was sold the policy on-line by Egg, but Barclays  Bank UK 
PLC is now responsible for these sales. Ill refer to Barclays for consistency.
background
I issued a provisional decision (summary attached) in February 2019, setting out why I 
thought the complaint about  the mis-sale shouldnt be upheld.  Mr K has already been  paid 
some money for the commission Barclays received from selling him the PPI. 
I then asked both parties  to provide  any further submissions or information to me within  one 
month. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  It seems neither party wants to send in 
any new information or arguments. So theres no reason for me to change  the findings  I set 
out in my provisional  decision. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ks mis-sale  complaint. And I dont require Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay 
any more compensation . Barclays  Bank UK PLC has already paid to Mr K the commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service I am required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 April 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN01365602summary  provisional  decision
complaint
Mr K says he was mis-sold  a payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy when he took out a credit 
card in December 2002. He was sold the policy  on-line  by Egg, but Barclays Bank UK PLC is now 
responsible for these sales. Ill refer to Barclays for consistency.
background
Mr K has already been paid some money for the commission Barclays received from selling  him the 
PPI. However, our adjudicator who looked at this case  said the complaint about the PPI being mis-
sold in the first place should also be upheld. 
Barclays disagreed  it had mis-sold  the PPI, and so the complaint has been passed to me for an 
ombudsmans decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to complaints about  the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.  
Having done this, Im sorry to disappoint Mr K, but I dont currently intend to uphold  the complaint  
about the mis-sale. 
Mr K says he never agreed to PPI and was completely unaware it had even been added  to his card 
account. However, these events were a long time ago and its obviously possible that Mr K doesnt 
remember exactly what  happened.
I say this because weve seen quite a few similar sales to this and as a consequence, we have a good 
understanding of the procedures that were normally used. We know,  for example,  that consumers like 
Mr K would have had to either agree to, or decline, the PPI when they were making their way through  
the on-line form before  being allowed  to finish their application. 
We no longer have access to Mr Ks actual form, but thats not unusual given the type of application  
and when it took place,  but Barclays sent us an example of the type of web-based application  form 
Mr K would have used  when he was applying  for his card. And because  we now know  PPI was added 
to his account, I think its highly likely he selected  the yes option.
As well as this, Barclays  says Mr K would have been sent a type of welcome letter about  having  PPI 
and it sent us an example of the letters that were  sent out in 2002.  Barclays also sent us copies of Mr 
Ks monthly  credit card statements. These showed that he was being regularly charged for the PPI as 
they were described as Card Payment Protection.  Given how much Mr K was eventually charged for 
PPI over the years, I think hed have  noticed  these  charges and wanted to know what  they were for, if 
he hadnt ever asked  for the PPI.
Finally, we know the PPI insurer changed around 2008. Policy holders were typically  sent letters  
explaining this so I think its quite likely Mr K was too.
So all these  things point to Mr K firstly asking for the PPI on the electronic form  and then being able 
to see it had been added  to his account.  He would then have been able to see he was being  charged 
and would have also probably received the letters Ive mentioned. I therefore  think  theres quite strong 
evidence he knew about the PPI and may have since forgotten.
Ref: DRN01365603Being an internet sale, I think its reasonable  to say that Mr K would have worked through  the 
application in his own time, without any advice  from Barclays. So it wasnt an advised sale and it was 
for Mr K to decide for himself whether or not he wanted PPI. Barclays duty was to provide clear  
enough information for him to make  an informed choice.
Our adjudicator thought that what Mr K had then said about  the type of work he did might mean 
claiming for unemployment quite difficult  under  the policy  rules, which  related to fixed  term contracts. 
And its on this basis that the adjudicator  recommended we should uphold the mis-sale complaint.
But Im afraid I dont currently  agree that this is an issue for which we should  uphold  his complaint. I 
note that at the time of the credit card and PPI application, Barclays  have Mr Ks occupation  recorded  
as employed and working for a firm for the previous  2 years and 7 months.  On the questionnaire we 
asked Mr K to fill in about his complaint in 2018, he set out his employment  as self-employed, 
working at a company.  He said hes being doing this between 1996 and 2005.
We havent been able to speak with Mr K directly about this but his representatives now tell us he was 
on a fixed term contract at around the time of the sale. Theyve said the contract was rolled over  in 
mid-2002 and he ceased  at the end of that (2 year) contract, in 2004.
I note weve tried to clarify all this, but I dont think Mr Ks recollections are consistent.  And given this 
inconsistency, I think its reasonable for me to seek comprehensive and verifiable evidence  about  the 
contract he was on. However, Ive also looked at the terms of the PPI policy and even if his latest 
recollections are correct,  I think the policy  would  still not prohibit him making a claim for 
unemployment.
In short, I think he was covered for unemployment anyway. 
In considering all other aspects of the case, I think Mr K was eligible for the cover which, at 74p per 
£100 of the outstanding credit card balance, appears to have been an affordable charge. Im not 
certain if Mr K had any sick pay with his job because of the conflicting information we have although 
he does say he had savings in place.
The PPI, on the other hand, does seem to have covered unemployment, as well as other  forms of 
disability or sickness  and it could  have  reduced his credit card balance  by 10% a month for up to a 
year in the event of a successful claim. I therefore currently think the policy was of use to Mr K. I think  
thats probably why he bought it.
I accept Barclays could have  probably done more to spell out some of the rules and exclusions,  but I 
also think a lot of information  was provided. Mr K would have been able to access a menu  of the 
policy rules  via a link on the screen. I also notice that the price of the cover was directly next to where 
he was asked  to make his choice about the PPI.
So even if I accept Barclays could have been clearer in certain aspects, I dont think  Mr K would have 
done anything differently. I think he would have still bought the cover.  I think  the evidence quite 
strongly shows he wanted some protection. 
 
This means  I dont currently think Barclays has to pay back all the cost of the PPI to Mr K. Its already 
paid back some  of the cost of the PPI to him because when the policy was sold it expected to get a 
high level of commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium). It should have told Mr 
K about that. Because it didnt, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share that was above 
50% of the PPI premium.   I think that offer is fair in this case.
my provisional  decision
Ref: DRN01365604I dont currently think the PPI policy  was mis-sold. So Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr K. 
Barclays Bank UK PLC has paid to Mr K the commission and profit share  it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.  
I now invite  both parties to send in any further information they have by 7 March 2019.
Ref: DRN0136560