K822xcomplaint
Miss B says PDL Finance  Limited  (trading as Mr Lender) lent to her irresponsibly.
background 
This complaint is about a payday loan and six instalment loans that Mr Lender  provided  to 
Miss B between April 2014 and April 2017. Miss Bs lending  history is as follows.
Loan Date borrowed
Amount Number of 
scheduled repayments Date repaid
1 22.04.14 £200 1 04.07.14
2 04.07.14 £400 4 24.10.14
3 24.10.14 £500 4 13.02.15
4 04.11.15 £500 6 08.04.16
5 08.04.16 £600 6 23.09.16
6 23.09.16 £600 6 07.04.17
7 24.04.17 £250 5 20.10.17
Our adjudicator upheld  Miss Bs complaint  and thought the loans  2, 3, 6 and 7 shouldnt 
have been given. So she said that Mr Lender should  refund  all interest  and charges that 
Miss B had paid on those  loans, with interest on the refund.  And she said it should remove  
any negative information about those four loans from Miss Bs credit file. 
After the adjudicator issued her view, Mr Lender offered to do as shed recommended, but 
only in relation to loans  6 and 7. Miss B wasnt happy with Mr Lenders offer,  so the 
complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Mr Lender needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss B 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ref: DRN02821412the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Miss B could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments  were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Bs complaint.
Loan 1 was Miss Bs first loan from Mr Lender. I think the checks that Mr Lender carried  out 
before agreeing to the loan were proportionate in the circumstances. And I dont think there 
was anything in the information that Mr Lender had that ought  to have caused it concern 
about making the loan.
But Miss B applied for loan 2 on the day she finished repaying loan 1. Loan  1 was the only 
payday loan Miss B had from Mr Lender, and was intended to be repaid in a single payment 
of £270 in early  May 2014. But Miss B hadnt  managed to do this. Instead,  shed had to defer  
repayment of the loan twice, and ultimately paid a total of £399 for loan 1. The highest 
monthly payment  due on loan 2 wasnt substantially less than the payment that had been 
due on loan 1. And by the time Miss B applied for loan 3, shed been  borrowing continuously 
from Mr Lender  for more than six months. And once again, she applied  for the loan on the 
day she repaid the previous loan.
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate  check for loans 2 and 3 would most likely have 
shown that Miss B already had short-term loans outstanding. And the repayments  on her 
existing loans wouldnt have left her with enough  money to make the repayments on loans 2 
and 3 without  having to borrow  again.  Whats more, the fact that Miss B applied  for loans 2 
and 3 on the day shed repaid her previous loan should have  alerted  Mr Lender to the 
likelihood that she was borrowing again  to cover the hole that repayment  of the previous 
loan had left in her finances. So taking everything into account,  I think Mr Lender should 
have realised that it was unlikely  that Miss B would be unable to meet  her loan repayments  
sustainably. And I dont think it should have  agreed to loans 2 or 3.
Ref: DRN02821413I acknowledge that Miss B says she had loans outstanding  with several other  short-term  
lenders when she applied for loans 4 and 5, and she says those loans were showing  on her 
credit report.  But the information a consumer might  see when they request a copy  of their 
credit file can be very different to that seen by a lender. A lender might only see a small 
portion of the credit file, or some data might  be missing or anonymised,  or the data might not 
be up to date. So, this might explain any differences between the information shown by 
Mr Lenders credit check and what Miss B says would have been  apparent  from her credit  
report. 
Although I havent  seen  the full results  of the credit  checks, Mr Lenders told us that they 
didnt show any adverse information  such as accounts that had entered  a defaulting or 
delinquent status within the last three years or evidence of any IVAs or Bankruptcy. And Im 
also not aware of any adverse information of this nature that would have been on Miss Bs 
credit file at the time of the loans. So bearing this in mind, and given that thered been  a gap 
of more than eight moths between Miss B repaying  loan 3 and applying for loan 4, I dont 
think that Mr Lender was irresponsible to make  loan 4 or 5.
But by the time Miss B applied  for loan 6, shed been borrowing from Mr Lender without a 
break for more than 10 months. I think this ought  to have caused Mr Lender some concern 
that Miss B might be having problems  managing  her money.  And I think that at this stage, it 
should have asked her specifically for details of any other short-term loans she already had. 
So Ive looked  at Miss Bs bank statements to see what its likely that proportionate checks 
would have shown  Mr Lender. I can see that at the point at which  she applied for loan 6, 
Miss B had several other short-term loans outstanding with other lenders. And the 
repayments due on those wouldnt have left her with enough  money to make  the repayments  
on loan 6 without  borrowing  further.  So I think that proportionate checks would have shown 
Mr Lender that Miss B was having problems managing her money. And I dont think it should 
have agreed to make loan 6.
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Mr Lenders  lending history with Miss B, with a view 
to seeing if there was a point at which Mr Lender  should reasonably have  seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so it should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans.
Given the particular  circumstances of Miss Bs case, I think that this point was reached by 
loan 7. I say this because:
From loan 4 onwards  Miss B was provided with a new loan within a short period after 
settling a previous one. And by the time she applied for loan 7, shed  been  borrowing 
from Mr Lender with no significant break for 17 months. So Mr Lender ought  to have 
realised it was more  likely than not Miss B was having to borrow  further to cover the 
holes that repaying her previous loans  were leaving in her finances  and that Miss Bs 
indebtedness was continuing  unsustainably.
Miss B wasnt making any real inroads to the amount  she owed Mr Lender.  And although  
loan 7 was for less than Miss Bs previous few loans, shed been  borrowing almost 
continuously from Mr Lender  for nearly  a year and a half. Miss B had paid large amounts 
of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Mr Lender  over an extended period.
Ref: DRN02821414I think that Miss B lost out because  Mr Lender  continued to provide borrowing when it 
agreed to loan 7 because:
the loan had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Bs indebtedness by allowing her to 
take expensive  credit intended  for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the sheer amount of time that Miss B had been borrowing from Mr Lender,  along with the 
number of loans  was likely to have had negative  implications for Miss Bs ability to 
access mainstream credit, and so kept her in the market  for these high-cost loans.
So Im also upholding  the complaint about loan 7, and Mr Lender should put things right.
putting things right  what Mr Lender  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Miss B paid on loans 2, 3, 6 and 7;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loans 2, 3 and 6 from Miss Bs credit file;
the length of time Miss B had been  borrowing  continually from Mr Lender when she took 
loan 7 means any information recorded about  that loan is adverse. So all entries  about  
loan 7 should be removed from Miss Bs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender  
must give Miss B a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Miss Bs complaint.  PDL Finance 
Limited (trading as Mr Lender) should pay Miss B compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 May 2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0282141