K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Financial Insurance  Company  Limited (FICL) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
FICL wasnt the direct seller in this case,  but it has taken responsibility for the complaint. So 
to avoid confusion  I shall refer to it as the seller.
background
Mr B took out a store card in 1997. At the same time he was sold a PPI policy  which 
wouldve covered  the repayments on his card if he wasnt able to work.
Mr B says he was told he had to buy it and that his card application was more  likely to be 
rejected if he didnt take it.
The adjudicator thought  that Mr Bs complaint shouldnt be upheld.  Mr B disagrees, so his 
case has been passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complains about PPI on our website and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Bs 
complaint. Ill explain  why Ive reached this decision.
Mr B doesnt  claim that he didnt  give permission for the PPI to be added.  He says that he 
was told he had to buy it in case of unemployment, although he also says that he was told 
his application  for credit  was more likely to be rejected if he didnt take the policy.  
Mr B said in his questionnaire to this service, Im really unhappy and angry that the sales  
assistant mislead and lied in order to make  me take this insurance out when it was optional.
FICL says that the policy was clear it was optional. It has provided a copy of Mr Bs 
application. This shows clearly that there  was no obligation to take the PPI, but Mr B has 
ticked a box to say he wanted it and has signed  the form. He left other options for other 
products blank.
After Mr B was told that the adjudicator had decided his complaint shouldnt be upheld, Mr B 
explained  that he had gone on to marry the sales assistant who he states misled him and 
lied to him. He explained that she had told him she would  have received 75p for each  PPI 
policy sold. 
It was not unusual, or generally unlawful, for commission to be paid to sales  staff in such 
circumstances and this, in itself, does not satisfy me that Mr B was misled about  the 
necessity of the policy. I cant know what was said to Mr B during the sale itself,  and its 
possible he may have  been distracted, but the documentary evidence supports FICLs  
assertion that Mr B would have known he had a choice about it. And as Mr Bs testimony is 
contradictory, I cant safely  say that Mr B was misled by the sales  assistant  into buying the 
policy. 
Ref: DRN08533942Ive looked at the rest of the circumstances to see if there  may be another reason why the 
policy was mis-sold.
FICL didnt  give Mr B a personal recommendation to buy the policy  so it didnt need  to take 
reasonable steps to make  sure it was suitable  for him. But it did need to make  sure it gave 
him all the information  he needed to make his own decision.  I dont think  FICL did this well 
enough. For example,  theres no mention of what the exact  benefits  or costs were.  
But looking  at Mr Bs circumstances  I dont think more information  wouldve changed his 
mind about  buying  it. I think  its likely Mr B understood  the policy would  pay a benefit  if he 
wasnt able to work. And as I think Mr B chose  to take out the PPI, it seems he was 
interested in this type of cover. 
It doesnt look like Mr B was affected  by any of the terms which mightve made  it more  
difficult for him to make a successful claim, such as those related to existing medical 
conditions or unusual employment  circumstances   so it wouldve been useful for him if 
something went wrong. I havent  seen anything to suggest the PPI was unaffordable for Mr 
B.
Mr B says he was entitled to some sick pay if he wasnt working.  As hed only worked for his 
employer for a few years  I dont think hed have been entitled to much  redundancy pay. But 
the policy wouldve  paid out in addition to any sick pay or redundancy pay and potentially for 
longer. So I think  the policy offered Mr B a useful benefit.
The policy was relatively expensive compared to others on the market  around the same  
time. But it offered  a greater benefit  than others, and couldve paid off Mr Bs entire balance 
in a few months.
So, on balance, I think Mr B wouldve still bought the policy if hed understood all the 
information about it. I dont think Mr B lost out as a result of anything  FICL did wrong.
my final decision
As explained, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint, so it follows that Financial Insurance  
Company Limited  doesnt have to pay any compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2019.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0853394