K821x#15complaint
Mrs S complains that she should not have been advised by National Westminster Bank Plc 
to transfer her frozen final salary occupational pension  (OPS) to a personal  pension. She 
says she was not aware at the time that she would be losing a guaranteed income and 
spouses benefits. She only transferred  the pension because she was strongly advised by a 
financial adviser at NatWest to do so. 
background
Mrs S was given the advice to transfer in 1998.  She was a part-time cashier at a NatWest 
bank branch. She had a frozen (deferred) final salary (defined  benefit) pension with 
NatWest. She had 8 years membership of the final salary scheme and was 36 at the time of 
the transfer. It was noted she intended  to retire at 60. Mrs S transferred her pension  benefits 
which she accumulated  between 1980  and 1990.  
NatWest did not uphold the complaint. It said that a transfer analysis had been carried  out at 
the time the advice was given. This noted  that a yield of 8.72% was required from the 
personal pension  to match the final salary  pension benefits given up. This was less than the 
11% rate below which the transfer would be deemed financially viable at the time. It said the 
adviser met with Mrs S in May 1998 and discussed the transfer analysis.  He also wrote  to 
Mrs S setting out his recommendation and confirmed  the available  options. The advisers  
letter set out that Mrs S wished to transfer because of the potential for greater tax free cash 
and income. She was informed that any benefits would be dependent  on the performance of 
the investments  within the personal  pension.
NatWest said that Mrs S was confirmed  as a medium risk investor  at the time and she was 
invested in an investment  fund consistent  with that. It said that she had also re-joined the 
NatWest pension scheme by 1998 when the advice was given. NatWest said that the 
transfer advice  was suitable  in the circumstances.  
Mrs S referred her complaint to this service and it was considered by an adjudicator.  She 
was of the view that the complaint should  be upheld. She did not believe it likely  that Mrs S 
was a medium risk investor given  her circumstances, she thought it was more  likely that she 
was low risk. And she did not have  any other  experience of investments. She thought  that 
the risk of achieving the required 8.72% growth rate to match  benefits  was too great  for 
Mrs S. She did not think the loss of benefits through the final salary scheme was justified.   
NatWest did not agree.  It pointed out that Mrs S was a member of her occupational pension  
scheme in 1998  so she had other  pension  benefits,  not just those  in the frozen  final salary 
scheme. It says Mrs Ss attitude to risk was correctly assessed as medium.  It remained of 
the view that the transfer recommendation was appropriate. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
By transferring Mrs S was giving up about 8 years service in a final salary  (defined benefit) 
scheme.  She was married with two children. She was working part-time as a bank cashier  
and intended to keep on doing  so. 
Ref: DRN01240002OPS typically have  significant benefits  and guarantees, such  as a guaranteed  level of 
income, guaranteed increases in payment and guaranteed increases for deferred pensions.  
In Mrs Ss case, in addition to those benefits, her OPS also provided  for dependents and 
spouses pensions.  Giving up those benefits and subjecting future pension income to the 
risks associated with volatile investment returns should only be done  where  it can be 
evidenced that this is clearly  in the best interest of the consumer. 
In terms of maximising growth, as discussed,  there  was no guarantee that transferring her 
occupational pensions would improve Mrs Ss situation. The transfer  actually transferred the 
risk of providing benefits from the OPS to Mrs S  as she was now dependent on the 
fortunes of her own investments.
What is relevant to the suitability of the advice therefore are the risks she was taking on and 
whether she could bear those risks.
Mrs S is defined  as being medium  risk. This would seem to apply to what  Mrs S is prepared 
to invest in (equities  for example) rather than the risks of the transfer itself.  There  is no 
guidance or detail about  how that risk level was arrived at, only indication  that it was 
discussed.
In terms of the investment risk she was taking, NatWest obtained Critical Yield calculations 
with respect to Mrs Ss OPS. These  calculate,  based on certain assumptions,  what level of 
investment growth  would be required to match the income level provided by the OPS  in 
future. 
The critical yield or growth rate needed  to match the benefits of the OPS  were 8.72%. So to 
improve upon the benefits provided by this scheme,  investment returns  up to retirement 
would need to exceed 8.72% per year net. So to be clear, there would be little point in 
transferring if Mrs S were  only to achieve  8.72% net  that would only match  benefits. She 
would have to achieve significantly in excess of that to make the transfer worthwhile.  Over  
8.72% net every  year is a significant rate and brings  with it the very real risk that this will not 
be achieved. 
Therefore there was significant risk that, even assuming considerable positive annual 
investment returns,  that any increase in benefits would not be achieved and the real risk the 
benefits would be less. 
In transferring Mrs S no longer had any of the guarantees  discussed,  pension increases or 
dependants benefits and would be dependent on investment performance from the personal 
pension scheme. 8 years  service in a final salary scheme  is a significant benefit and it would 
not normally be advisable  to give up those benefits.  I have not seen evidence  that Mrs S had 
experience of taking  the kind of risks this transfer  presented. 
Overall, Mrs Ss circumstances do not suggest  she was an individual in the position  to be 
able to take the risk of transferring the guaranteed benefits provided  by her OPS.  The 
recommendation led to her taking on the significant  risk that the future benefits provided by 
her new personal pension would be less than those provided by the OPS.  In her situation  I 
do not believe the recommendation was suitable.  I dont  believe the potential  for increased 
benefits justified  the recommendation in her situation. Mrs S should not have been advised 
to transfer and I do not believe  the advice to transfer was in her best interests. 
Ref: DRN01240003my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold the complaint,  and that a fair and reasonable outcome would be 
for the business  to put Mrs S, as far as possible,  into the position she would now be in but 
for the unsuitable  advice.
National Westminster Bank Plc must undertake a redress calculation in line with the 
regulators pension review  guidance  as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in 
October 2017.
This calculation should  be carried out as at the date of this decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions published (at the date of that decision). In accordance with the 
regulators expectations, this should  be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider 
promptly following receipt of notification of Mrs Ss acceptance of the decision. 
NatWest may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP)  to obtain 
Mrs Ss contribution history  to the State Earnings Related Pension  Scheme  (SERPS  or 
S2P). These details  should then be used  to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation,  
which will take into account the impact of leaving  the occupational scheme on Mrs Ss 
SERPS/S2P entitlement. 
If the redress calculation  demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mrs Ss personal pension plan. The payment should allow  for the effect of charges and 
any available tax relief.  The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension  plan if it would  
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If a payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mrs S as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow  for 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid.  25% of the loss would be tax-free and 
75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax rate in retirement   presumed 
to be 20%.  So making a notional deduction  of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects  
this. 
The compensation resulting from the loss assessment must where possible be paid to Mrs S 
within 90 days of the date NatWest receives  notification of her acceptance  of my final 
decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per 
year simple  from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in 
excess of 90 days, that it takes NatWest to pay Mrs S this compensation.
Its possible that data gathering  for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes  beyond  the 90 day period allowed for settlement above   and so any 
period of time where  the only outstanding  item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2019.
Ref: DRN01240004David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0124000