K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Bank  of Scotland  plc mis-sold them  a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mr and Mrs D took out a mortgage in 1991. Its unclear exactly how or when they took out 
PPI  but Bank of Scotlands  records  show that they were  paying for PPI shortly  after the 
mortgage was set up. The PPI covered Mr D for accident, sickness and unemployment and 
protected Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage monthly  repayments.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold their mis-selling complaint. Mr and Mrs D disagreed with our 
adjudicator. Mr and Mrs Ds main complaint is that they werent  made aware that the policy 
was optional. They also dont  feel they needed PPI as they had other means to rely on.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Mr D was the person  covered by the PPI policy, but Mr and Mrs D had a joint mortgage so 
Ive looked at both their circumstances when the insurance was taken out.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. Heres why I say this.
Bank of Scotland couldnt provide any documents from the time of sale showing how the PPI 
was sold. Its not surprising, given how long ago this sale happened,  that paperwork isnt still 
available. I wouldnt reasonably expect Bank of Scotland  or Mr and Mrs D to have kept this. 
But Mr and Mrs D recalled arranging their mortgage  during a meeting at the bank  so PPI 
mightve been discussed then as well.
I cant know exactly what, if anything, Bank of Scotland told Mr and Mrs D about PPI. It 
wouldnt be reasonable to expect Mr and Mrs D to recall exactly what  was said at the time. 
This means  that what  they say isnt enough  on its own for me to be able to uphold this 
complaint. I have to look at everything  and decide  what I think  is most likely. 
The mortgage was a major financial  commitment, repayable over a substantial number of 
years. Mr and Mrs Ds home wouldve been  at risk if their mortgage payments  werent  kept 
up to date. PPI provided dependable cover and significantly better protection  than they had 
otherwise. So, I can see why Mr and Mrs D mightve felt PPI was useful to have. 
On balance, I think its likely that Mr and Mrs D decided they wanted  to protect their home by 
taking out the PPI offered  and they chose to buy the policy.   
Bank of Scotland says it recommended  the policy to Mr D. So it had to make sure the policy  
was suitable for Mr and Mrs Ds situation and that the information it gave them  was clear, fair 
and not misleading.  
Ref: DRN02824692Bank of Scotland told us that it doesnt  any longer have a policy document from when 
Mr and Mrs D took out PPI. But it has provided a policy document which  was in use 
afterwards. I think its likely that in all main  respects the policy  that they took out to cover  Mr 
D wouldve had similar terms  and conditions. 
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  that Mr D wasnt eligible for PPI. And only he was in paid 
employment when  Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage  started. So it made sense for the policy  to be 
taken out in his name.
I think its most likely  that the policy protected Mr D for up to 12 months per claim in the 
event he lost his job unexpectedly and was out of work.  
The policy wouldve also paid out if he had an accident or was too sick or disabled to work, 
on top of any work benefits, for up to 12 months per disability claim. And Mr D couldve 
made repeated claims on the policy. So PPI provided long term cover whilst  Mr and Mrs D 
had to pay their mortgage.     
Redundancy benefits wouldnt have helped if Mr D was off work sick. PPI wouldve paid out 
in addition to any redundancy  money  he mightve  got, giving Mr and Mrs D some  additional  
financial security if hed lost his job.  
In coming to my decision Ive taken into account  that Mr and Mrs D told us they had 
substantial savings when  they took out this mortgage. But I dont  think its likely they 
wouldve had quite  as much as this saved  up at the time. I say this because,  looking at their 
mortgage application, it appears  they needed to borrow  the whole amount of the purchase  
price. If they had savings,  I think its likely they would've put at least  some of this money 
towards buying and setting  up in their new home. 
In any event, I dont know  if they wouldve always had savings to rely on if theyd needed to 
make a claim. 
So, I think the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs D taking into account what  theyve told us 
about their situation  at the time.  
There were some things the policy didnt  cover.  But it doesnt  look as if those applied  in 
Mr Ds case. So, I dont  think  having  more information about things the policy didnt cover 
wouldve affected their decision to take it out.
Its possible there may have been some failings in the way this policy was sold.  I dont  know 
if the PPI cost was made clear to Mr and Mrs D when they bought the policy.  But they 
havent suggested that they couldnt afford the monthly premiums. And looking at their 
circumstances and the benefits PPI offered, I think Mr and Mrs D still wouldve decided to 
buy the policy even  if theyd been better informed as the policy gave them  useful protection 
in their particular situation. 
So I dont  find theyve  lost out financially as a result of anything  that Bank  of Scotland  did 
wrong. This means that theres nothing Bank of Scotland needs to do to put things right. 
Ref: DRN02824693my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 May 2019.
Susan Webb
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0282469