K820x#14complaint
Mrs L complains  that Allianz  Insurance Plc has added specific exclusions to her pet 
insurance policy following  her dogs treatment for a cruciate ligament rupture.
My references to Allianz include its agents.  Mrs L is represented by her husband in her 
complaint and for ease of reference  Ill just refer to Mrs L.
background
Mrs L has pet insurance, insured by Allianz.  The policy covers conditions for 12 months or 
until the condition  limit is reached, whichever happens first. 
In April 2018, Mrs Ls dog had a cruciate  ligament rupture  in his left hind leg while out 
walking which required surgery and follow up treatment. 
Allianz paid the claim. It then told Mrs L it was adding policy  exclusions for claims relating  to 
cruciate ligament  damage for both hind limbs and arthritis/DJD (degenerative joint disorder)  
of the stifle joints from 29 April 2019.
Mrs L wants Allianz to remove the exclusions placed on her dogs right hind leg as it has 
always been a fully fit leg. Allianzs final response  letter had said there was no evidence her 
dogs cruciate ligament  rupture had been  caused by injury. Mrs L said her vets letter  to 
Allianz was clear that the cruciate  ligament rupture was caused by trauma  and her dog had 
no pre-existing problems with that stifle to indicate  degenerative joint disease.
During our investigation Allianz clarified  that it would have added the same exclusions 
whether the cruciate ligament rupture was caused by injury or disease.
Our investigator thought Allianz had fairly  added  the exclusions.
 
Mrs L disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. In summary, she said the only reason 
to exclude the right hind leg was if the joint is degenerative and likely to also break  down. 
But her vet had shown her dogs  left leg was healthy before the injury, which  meant Allianz 
couldnt fairly apply  the exclusions to the healthy  right leg.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Allianz saw Mrs Ls dogs vet notes following  the claim it also added exclusions to the 
policy for gingivitis and decayed teeth. Mrs L hasnt  complained about  those  exclusions so 
I wont consider them.
I have to decide whether Allianz  fairly and reasonably added the exclusions from 29 April 
2019 for:
claims resulting from or connected to cruciate ligament damage for both hind limbs,  
and
claims resulting from or connected to arthritis/DJD of the stifle joints.
I dont uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN08637822The policy says:
This policy covers  an injury or illness for 12 months only, up to the limit of £3,000. The 
12 months starts on the date your pet first received treatment for the injury  or illness  and 
after this time we will not cover any further  claims for that or any related injury  or illness.
Ive seen Allianzs underwriting guidance which says if a dog had cruciate ligament damage 
to a left hind limb through disease  or injury  it will add the exclusions that have been  applied. 
The date the exclusions apply from gave Mrs L 12 months cover  for the issues, as required 
by the policy  terms.
Mrs Ls point is that Allianz  is wrong to believe that just because her dog injured his left 
cruciate ligament  he's more likely to injure his healthy right leg the same  way. Her vet hasnt  
provided evidence  on that issue. Allianz sent some  generic vet evidence which it says shows 
the risk is increased. But I dont  need  to make  a finding about whether there is an increased  
risk because it's for Allianz  to decide what risks it wants to insure. 
Allianz has shown  that its followed its underwriting guidance. Where a dog has cruciate 
ligament damage  to one hind limb through disease or injury  Allianz  doesnt  want to insure  
the risks of cruciate ligament damage for both hind limbs or arthritis/DJD of the stifle joints.  It 
doesnt want to insure  those risks irrespective of whether the uninjured  leg is currently 
healthy. Allianz fairly and reasonably added the exclusions.
Mrs L also says that as the policys  annual premium increases because  of increased risks 
due to a dogs ageing, including degeneration of currently  healthy joints,  the exclusions and 
premium increase are a double hit. Premium increases are due to several  factors and a 
dog's age is likely to be one factor. But Allianz  can still fairly and reasonably apply the 
relevant exclusions  to the policy in line with its underwriting guidance.
Allianz could have been clearer  in its final response  letter to Mrs L about  why it was adding  
the exclusions. It did say the added exclusions would be the same  whether her claim was 
assessed as an injury or disease but it then went on detail why it didnt think her dog had an 
injury. The important point, that the exclusions were the same  anyway,  wasnt very clear. But 
that also doesnt prevent Allianz  from fairly adding the exclusions.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 August 2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0863782