K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.  
Mr and Mrs G say Bank of Scotland Plc (Halifax at the time) mis-sold the policy  they have 
complained about.  
To keep  things simple,  Ill refer to Bank of Scotland as BoS throughout this decision.
background
Mr and Mrs G bought  the policy in 2002  when they applied for a £25,000 secured loan. The 
cost of the policy according to the loan agreement was just under £20 every  month.  BoS 
says the policy only covered  Mr G.
Having complained to BoS about the sale of the policy,  Mr and Mrs G referred the complaint 
to us as they werent happy with the answer  they got.
One of our adjudicators looked  at the complaint and didnt think the policy  had been mis-
sold. But, as Mr and Mrs G disagreed, an informal resolution couldnt  be reached. 
As a result, the complaint has been  passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Gs case.
And having done that, Ive decided  the policy wasnt mis-sold.
Mr and Mrs Gs representative says that BoS didnt make it clear that the policy  was 
optional. Mr and Mrs G have also made the same  suggestion in one of their PPI 
questionnaires. But they have also said in another that they cant  remember much more than 
having to sign their loan agreement. 
This isnt necessarily that surprising given how long ago the events in question  took place. 
Even the best of memories can struggle over the 16 or so years that have passed. So this is 
something I have to keep  in mind when weighing up whats  likely  to have happened.
BoS has provided us with a copy of Mr and Mrs Gs loan agreement. On the right hand side 
under the heading Financial Information there  was the question Do you want 
Personal Loan Repayments Insurance? Next to the question there were two boxes: yes 
and no. Theres a computer generated X in the yes box. And I think  thats  likely to have 
been the result of a conversation between Mr and Mrs G and BoS as theres nothing 
persuasive to suggest anything  different  not least because Mr and Mrs G signed  the 
agreement right next to where it referred to PPI.
So, overall, I think its more likely  Mr and Mrs G agreed to take the policy  albeit in Mr Gs 
name. And as the loan agreement indicates that there was the option to say yes or no to 
taking PPI, the evidence in front of me does  suggest it was made clear to them  that they 
didnt have to the cover if they didnt want to. 
Ref: DRN07759772BoS says that it recommended  the PPI  which means it had to check  that the policy was the 
right recommendation to make given Mr Gs circumstances and, to some extent, those of 
Mrs G. And based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think  it probably 
was a suitable recommendation to have made.  Mr G wasnt affected by any of the 
exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover. There appears to have been a need for the cover  
and theres nothing persuasive to suggest it was unaffordable.   
Mr and Mrs G have told us that Mr G was entitled to sick pay and that there were some  
savings available. I also note that they say they could have relied on family and friends. 
However, they were  taking on a significant and long-term financial commitment  on a secured 
basis. The loan repayments were their responsibility and they would have been important 
repayments to maintain  in the event  Mr G found  himself out of or unable  to work. And as the 
policy would have helped  Mr and Mrs G to keep up with their repayments  over a reasonably 
significant period  of time instead of having to rely on Mr Gs sick pay, exhaust the savings 
that were available (both of which they could  have used elsewhere)  or rely on others whose 
circumstances were  also subject to change, I think the policy  would have been helpful   
especially as it also included cover  in the event  of unemployment.
As well as making a suitable recommendation, BoS also had to give Mr and Mrs G clear  
information. So thats what Ive looked  at next.
Im satisfied that the cost of the policy was set out clearly on Mr and Mrs Gs loan 
agreement. But it is possible that some of the other information BoS gave them about the 
PPI wasnt as clear as it should have been.  However, for the same reasons I think the policy  
was a suitable recommendation to have made,  I dont think better information about  the PPI 
would have put them off taking it out as it looks like it would have been useful if something 
went wrong.
This means  BoS doesnt  need to refund everything Mr and Mrs G paid for the policy.  But 
BoS has offered  to give Mr and Mrs G back some  of the cost of the PPI. And in light of what 
Ive said above,  I dont think it needs to do anything more. 
Unless BoS has already  paid Mr and Mrs G, it will make the necessary arrangements  now 
that Ive issued my final decision. 
Ref: DRN07759773my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 February  2019.
Morgan Rees
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0775977