K820x#14complaint
Mrs L complains  about the way Inter Partner  Assistance SA (IPA) dealt  with a claim on her 
legal expenses insurance policy. In particular, she says it forced her to use one of its panel  
solicitors, and failed  to respond  to issues with the way the case  was managed.  
Where I refer to IPA, this includes its agents and claims handlers. 
background
Mrs L made a claim on her policy to cover  legal costs for a dispute about double  glazing 
installed at her home. The supplier started  legal action against  her for money it said was 
owed. Mrs L wanted  to defend that claim and make a counter claim as she said the windows 
hadnt been installed correctly.
IPA agreed to cover the claim and appointed one of its panel  firms  of solicitors to act for her. 
In November 2017 Mrs L complained to the panel  solicitors about the way her legal  dispute  
had been handled. She also complained  to IPA that she was forced to use a panel solicitor  
when she would rather have chosen a local firm. 
Mrs L said the panel firm didnt advise her correctly  and mis-handled the claim - an out of 
court settlement  was put forward  by the other side in May 2017 but wasnt  accepted  by the 
panel firm. When a different panel solicitor took over her case  in February  2018  they 
questioned why this offer hadnt  been accepted. Their opinion was that it was unlikely Mrs L 
would win if she took the matter to court. To get the offer reinstated  the other  side asked for 
£6,500 of legal fees to be paid, which IPA agreed  to. Mrs L said this showed the first panel 
solicitors didnt handle  the case correctly; they wasted a lot of time and the case could have 
been settled much earlier. She said IPA was at least partly responsible for this and wanted 
to be compensated.
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. He said IPA had followed 
normal practice in assessing the insurance claim, asking the panel firm to assess the 
chances of success  and the instructing the solicitors to act for her. And once that happened,  
the solicitors were responsible for running  the case, not IPA. He didnt think  IPA had forced 
Mrs L to use the panel  solicitors. Although  Mrs L had later complained about the panel 
solicitors, he didnt  think there had been a conflict of interest. He was satisfied that when the 
panel firm said it couldnt act for her any more, IPA quickly  arranged  for another firm to act.
Mrs L didnt accept the investigators  view. She said the initial letter  from IPA clearly  said it 
was a condition  of her insurance that the panel firm act for her. She wanted this service to 
make a judgment on whether shed been  given a proper choice of solicitors. And she thought  
IPA should be responsible  for the stress  and inconvenience it had caused by not giving her 
that choice.
Our investigator didnt  change his view and so Mrs L requested an ombudsmans decision.
Ref: DRN06068062my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy includes  cover for disputes like the one Mrs L was involved in. But  as with 
virtually all legal expenses  policies   cover is only provided where a claim has prospects of 
success (meaning it must be more likely  than not that the policyholder  will win their case) 
and where the costs  are in proportion to the value of the claim.. Terms like these mean 
insurers dont have  to meet  costs for claims  that are unlikely to be successful,  or where  the 
costs are too high compared to the value of the claim. 
IPA told Mrs L there was cover for her claim, provided it had prospects and the costs were 
proportionate. It instructed  the panel solicitors to do an assessment of this. Thats  in line with 
what Id expect an insurer to do. And the insurer is entitled to rely on that legal advice, 
unless its obviously wrong.  
The panel  solicitors advised that the claim had a reasonable chance of success.  They raised 
some concerns about the amount of costs  being  incurred and whether the claim would be 
proportionate to pursue. But IPA did agree to cover the claim  and the panel firm was 
instructed.
Its clear Mrs L isnt happy with the way the panel  solicitors then conducted  her case. She 
has complained  to the Legal Ombudsman about them. Thats  the appropriate way to deal 
with the matter. I wouldnt hold IPA responsible  for the actions of the solicitors  and I cant  
comment on any concerns about how the solicitors managed the litigation. 
Mrs L says she wanted  to use a local firm and was forced  to use the panel firm. And she 
says IPA didnt intervene even though  she made many complaints about the solicitors. 
Although Mrs L did raise concerns on more than one occasion, IPA referred these to the 
solicitors to address,  which was a reasonable way to respond. And she didnt raise  any 
issues from April to November 2017 so IPA wasnt aware of any need to take action during 
that time.  
When she formally  complained in November 2017,  the panel solicitors  looked into those 
concerns and she was then able to complain to the Legal Ombudsman. As the panel  
solicitors said they couldnt continue to act, IPA instructed  another panel firm and paid for 
them to review the case. When the new solicitors recommended  that Mrs L accept a 
previous settlement offer  which meant  paying  costs to the other side  IPA agreed to this 
without delay. I think that was reasonable.
The other key point Mrs L has raised  is about whether she was not allowed to choose her 
own solicitors.  Where   as in this case  there are court proceedings, the policyholder  does 
have the right to a reasonable  choice of solicitors. Mrs L says she was denied this choice, as 
IPA forced her to use the panel  firm. 
Ive reviewed the information IPA provided about this, including  listening to recordings of 
phone calls with Mrs L. Im satisfied that she was made aware she could choose her own 
solicitors and I dont think IPA obstructed this. I note that in her claim, she said she wanted 
Ref: DRN06068063to use the panel firm. And when the first firm stopped acting, she agreed  to a second panel  
firm rather than requesting her own choice.
Im satisfied IPA made Mrs L aware  of her options.  It did say Mrs L would get more out of 
the available  indemnity if she used panel  solicitors. I see that as simply a factual statement 
 panel solicitors generally act on lower rates agreed with insurers.  So its likely they will be 
able to do more  work  before using up the indemnity limit. That doesnt in my judgment, 
amount to IPA forcing Mrs L to use the panel  firm.
I appreciate the whole experience of the court case and insurance claim was stressful for 
Mrs L. But for the reasons given my judgment  is that IPA dealt  with her insurance claim fairly  
and in line with the policy terms. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Peter Whiteley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0606806