K820x#14complaint
Miss C says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
I sent Miss C and FICL  a provisional decision  on 17 July 2019 to explain why I wasnt 
intending to uphold the complaint. An extract from my provisional  decision is set out below:
When selling the PPI, FICL had to make it clear to Miss C that she had a choice about it. 
But Miss C says nothing  about PPI was mentioned during the sale.
FICL has sent us a copy of Miss Cs application  form for the store  card. This included a 
section on PPI, with a space for Miss C to sign if she wanted to take it out. And Miss C has 
signed in the space.
Based on this, I think FICL made  it clear  to Miss C that she had a choice about the PPI, and 
that Miss C chose to take it knowing she didnt have to.
I havent seen  clear evidence that FICL  gave  Miss C any personalised advice about the PPI. 
So I dont  think it recommended it to her. This means FICL  didnt  have to check  if the PPI 
was right for Miss C. But it did have to make sure she got the information she needed to 
decide if it was right for her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Miss C about the costs, benefits  and main  exclusions 
of the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  But she doesnt appear to have been 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover. And Miss C has said she 
wouldnt have been entitled to any sick pay if she was unable to work due to illness. So it 
looks like the PPI couldve been useful to her if something went wrong.
Miss C has said that she wasnt working  when  the PPI was sold. But in her initial response to 
us she also mentioned being  on maternity leave  at the time, which would count as 
employment for the purposes of the policy and so she would still have been able to claim. 
FICL has also sent us a previous questionnaire from Miss C, which  said she was employed 
at the time of the sale.
Miss C hasnt been able to give us any further  clarification on her employment at the time.  
And so, based on the evidence I have available, I think its more likely than not that she was 
employed when  the PPI was sold, even if she was on maternity leave at the time. And so 
she would  have been eligible for the policy and able to claim on it. And so I dont think  better 
information about the PPI wouldve put Miss C off taking it out.
I said Id consider any further information  Miss C and FICL sent in. But neither Miss C nor 
FICL has sent in anything  further.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Cs case.
Ref: DRN01206552As Miss C and FICL  didnt have anything further to add, I see no reason to change the 
conclusions I set out in my provisional decision. So I still dont think this complaint should be 
upheld.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 September 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0120655