K821x#15complaint
Mr L complains  that when HSBC UK Bank Plc transferred USD 99,000 to a third party  it 
exchanged the money  into sterling without  his authorisation, resulting in a loss of over USD 
3,300.
background
On 15 June 2018 Mr L called HSBC to make a USD 99,000 transfer to another bank, R. He 
said he wanted the money  to remain in USD. On 27 June he complained to HSBC  because 
the money hadnt arrived. When  he checked  the payment details he noted the International 
Bank Account Number (IBAN)  was incorrect. HSBC recalled the money. 
On 14 August HSBC  notified Mr L that it had recovered USD  95,656.95. It said it was 
chasing the remainder of the money.  On 24 August it issued  a final response.  It explained 
that it had received a response  from the beneficiary  bank, B, used by R, which  advised that 
as the R account  details  used in the transaction  were for a sterling  account  B had 
exchanged the US dollars into sterling. HSBC went on to say that when the funds  were  
recalled they were exchanged back into US dollars. So the difference in amount sent and 
received was caused by exchange rate fluctuations. 
Mr L was not happy  with this response  and brought his complaint to this service. He didnt  
think it was acceptable  that he should have to pay for the foreign exchange loss when he 
hadnt asked for the money to be exchanged.  He also complained  about  the length  of time 
HSBC took to respond to his questions, return the money and update him.
Our adjudicator didnt  think HSBC had made an error with the transaction.  She said HSBC   
didnt convert the money against  Mr Ls wishes. But that it sent the money  in USD to an 
account as Mr L instructed. And the money was converted because the IBAN Mr L instructed 
HSBC to send  the money to was incorrect. The adjudicator  didnt think HSBC had 
unnecessarily delayed investigating what happened  to Mr Ls money but she did think  it 
could have done more to keep Mr L updated.  She recommended HSBC compensate Mr L 
with £100. She also thought HSBC should have refunded the money sooner and so thought 
it fair that it compensate Mr L for any interest he would have earned on the money  between  
26 July 2018  when it got the money,  and 13 August 2018  when it returned the money  to 
him. 
Mr L wasnt satisfied with this response. He thought £100 compensation from a global bank 
was unacceptable. He also said the situation  had been stressful and that compensation 
between £500  and £1,000  was more appropriate.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I realise this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr L but having  done so I consider £100 compensation and interest on 
the balance prior to its return to Mr L to be fair and reasonable. 
I do understand that there was a delay in Mr L receiving his money back  and it is unfortunate 
that through  foreign exchange over £3,000 has been deducted. But it doesnt necessarily 
follow that HSBC  should be held responsible for that loss. 
Ref: DRN04796272Its not disputed  that Mr L provided HSBC with an incorrect  IBAN. Ive listened to the call 
when Mr L requested the transfer and the operator repeats back the IBAN  and Mr L confirms  
it as correct. So I cant hold HSBC accountable for sending the money  to the wrong account. 
Nor can I hold it responsible for this account being  in sterling.  Mr L has said he doesnt 
understand why he should be liable for a foreign exchange transaction he didnt ask for. 
HSBC said it used  an intermediary bank to make  the transfer, and R used B, the beneficial 
bank, to receive the money. HSBC has said B exchanged the money on receipt in order  to 
deposit in the sterling  account.  It then had to be changed back in order  to be refunded.
Its not my role to look at a banks processes or the way it operates.  But it may be helpful  for 
Mr L to know that its a fairly common practice  for banks to use intermediary banks as part of 
an international payment network  in such circumstances where they dont  have the 
necessary relationship with the recipient. It is unfortunate that in this circumstance the IBAN 
Mr L provided was for a sterling account. So while I am sympathetic to Mr Ls situation Im 
not persuaded HSBC has done anything wrong in sending the money  to the account  Mr L 
requested during the call, which it couldnt  know was a sterling account. 
Mr L has further complained about the time it took to return  the money and investigate what 
happened. Ive looked at the notes  and the sequence of events and I can see that when Mr 
L complained the money had not arrived with R, HSBC did recall the money and investigate 
the shortfall in good time. I can also see that much of the delay in understanding what had 
happened was due to lack of response from B explaining why there was a shortfall.  And I 
can see that HSBC  did try to get a response. In mid July it also reasonably  suggested that 
Mr L speak to R to move  the funds as both the correct and incorrect  IBANs  were valid for R. 
On 26 July HSBC  received almost USD 95,700  from its own intermediary bank. It emailed 
Mr L on 14 August to explain to him that it was waiting to hear back  from B and that it had 
deposited the balance less the shortfall. This was 13 working days  after it had received  the 
money. It said it continued to chase  for an answer.  
Ive thought carefully about HSBCs responsibility  here. The situation has arisen because  Mr 
L provided the incorrect IBAN. HSBC carried out the transfer  as requested  and it wasnt  until 
it was received by B that it was converted to sterling.  It was not converted  by HSBC. HSBC 
didnt know what had happened and had to chase  B for an answer. It also delayed  
repayment on the basis it was waiting to understand why the whole balance hadnt been  
returned. While this is understandable  I do think it would  have  been  better  for Mr L, as the 
customer, to have been sent the money  in the meantime so I agree that any interest Mr L 
might have earned on the balance should  be paid subject to evidence of a qualifying  
account. I also think HSBC could have kept Mr L informed better about what  was going on. 
And I think £100 is fair and reasonable under those circumstances. 
Mr L has asked for compensation in the region  of £500 to £1,000  for the stress and 
inconvenience this has caused. He said that if he knew HSBC would lose  the money for so 
long he would have  transferred it elsewhere  to maximise interest. 
I do understand Mr Ls frustration that he has lost money due to exchange rate fluctuations.  
This is unfortunate.  But it would be unfair  of me to hold HSBC responsible for doing as Mr L 
instructed it to do by transferring the money. It wasnt to know  the IBAN was incorrect or that 
it was a sterling account number. And in order to transfer to this account it used a 
international bank network which I consider to be normal practice.  
Ref: DRN04796273Because the account was incorrect and in sterling  this complicated the return  of the money 
and meant  HSBC was reliant on other  parties to act and to provide information. So Im 
satisfied that it didnt do anything wrong with the transfer. 
But I accept HSBC could  have communicated better and could  have refunded the money  
earlier. Its not my role to punish the business and I consider £100 and the potential interest 
earned to be proportionate  and what I would expect under the circumstances. 
HSBC has said that Mr Ls USD  account  is not interest earning. So I would expect Mr L to 
provide HSBC with evidence  of what interest earning account he would have transferred the 
money to had he received it earlier. 
my final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank  Plc should pay Mr L:
1.£100 as compensation
2.Interest Mr L would  have earned on the balance of USD 95,656.95 between  26 July 
2018 (when HSBC  got the money) and 13 August 2018 (when it returned the money  
to Mr L). Mr L should provide HSBC with evidence  of the account he would  have 
transferred the money to along with evidence of the interest rate of the account.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 September  2019.
Maxine Sutton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0479627