K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Volkswagen Financial  Services (UK) Limited applied an unfair  charge at 
the end of a hire agreement. He wants the charge removed.
background
Mr R tells us that VWFS  applied three charges in respect of damage to the vehicle which  he 
returned at the end of its hire period. He says he agreed with and paid one charge and 
VWFS removed  a second charge. But he says VWFS has refused to answer  his queries 
about a charge relating  to scratches to a lamp. And it threatened to use doorstep  collection 
agencies to recover the debt.
VWFS told us it had waived a charge in relation to a dent in the left hand  rear door. But the 
charge for the scratched lamp would remain. It said this was outside the fair wear  and tear 
guidelines issued  by the British Vehicle  Rental  and Leasing Association  (BVRLA).
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld.  He accepted that VWFS  
could have explained the charge better. But he said that as the damage was chargeable he 
didnt think VWFS was wrong  to apply it.
Mr R didnt agree with this outcome and as its not been possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr R would  be disappointed at an additional charge being  applied at 
the end of the hire period.  And particularly so if its unexpected.
Where information is disputed or its unclear,  Im required to make  my decision on the 
balance of probabilities.
Ive looked at the colour photographs of the vehicle which  accompanied the inspection 
report. In my opinion  they clearly depict scratch damage to the surface of the lens. The 
BVRLA guidelines say that minor  scratches  and scuff marks are acceptable. But I wouldnt 
characterise these  marks as minor. The surface appears to be scratched in several  areas.
I can see our adjudicator sent the photographs of the damage to the BVRLA and later spoke 
with one of its representatives.  The summary of that conversation amounts to confirmation  
that the damage is considered by BVRLA  to be outside  the guidelines.
Im satisfied on the information Ive been given that the damage charge  was properly 
applied. And the charge itself is within the normal range Id expect  to see with damage of this 
sort.
I dont agree with Mr Rs assertion that VWFS  failed to engage with him as I can see it 
responded to a number of emails. I accept  it didnt provide the answer he was looking  for but 
in my view it gave an adequate explanation that the damage fell outside the relevant 
guidelines. 
Ref: DRN07087982As for the threat of doorstep  collections, a business  is allowed  to use legitimate  means  of 
recovering a debt which its owed.  And such collections are one of many methods than can 
be employed provided they are conducted fairly. I saw that the agents invited Mr R to contact 
them so as to avoid the matter being referred  to its external doorstep collection  team.  And it 
placed the account on hold for fourteen days. So I see nothing untoward  in this. And I 
understand that Mr R has subsequently paid the charge - whilst taking his complaint to this 
service.
In summary,  Im of the opinion that the charge was properly applied and was reasonable and 
commensurate with the usual industry standards. So Im not upholding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 March  2020.
Stephen D Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0708798