K820x#14complaint
Ms M complains about the level of fees charged  by Ellis Bates  Group Limited for the limited 
service shes received.
background
Ms M met with an advisor (Mr B) from Ellis Bates in 2013 to discuss her pension  
arrangements. He recommended she consolidate her pension  plans and transfer them to a 
personal pension  with provider R. Ms M says she was told at the time Ellis Bates  wouldnt 
charge her an annual  fee as R would be monitoring her plan. She had a meeting with 
another advisor from Ellis Bates  in March 2016 but no review meetings  since  then. She did 
get an introductory letter in March 2017 from a third advisor  saying she would be Ms Ms 
contact going  forward but nothing after that.
So in August 2018 Ms M was surprised to see from her statement from R shed been  paying 
charges to Ellis Bates  for the past five years and had paid almost £375  that year. Ms M 
asked R to remove Ellis Bates as servicing  agent for her policy and complained  to Ellis 
Bates asking  it to justify  its fees. 
Ellis Bates referred  to its client agreement where  the fees were set out and wondered if Ms 
M was confused by a single premium contribution made in 2015  for which  she wasnt  
charged a fee. But to resolve the complaint  it offered to refund charges from April 2017  to 
August 2018 amounting to just less than £500. Ms M didnt accept as she hadnt  received 
the annual reviews mentioned during the first meeting, so she requested  a refund of £1,200. 
Ellis Bates increased its offer to just under £834  and finally to £950  which  Ms M rejected. So 
she complained  to this service, saying she now wanted a refund of the whole five years  fees 
totalling £1,665. 
One of our investigators  reviewed the complaint  and thought Ellis Bates offer to refund £950  
was fair. It meant Ellis Bates retained fees of £715  for five years, which  is less than the £250 
annual cost of managing  her portfolio. Ms M disagreed  with the investigators  findings saying 
she hadnt received  reviews in 2013 or 2016,  she disputed Ellis Bates was managing her 
portfolio at all, and the £15,000 top up only required them to pass on a cheque. So she still 
felt a larger refund was due. As agreement  couldnt  be reached its been passed  to me to 
make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusion as the investigator for broadly the same  reasons. Let me explain why. 
The fees charged by Ellis Bates are set out in its client agreement which Ms M was given 
following the first meeting  with Mr B in 2013.  Ms M was sent a suitability  report dated 6 June 
2013 with a covering letter she needed to sign and return. At the end of the letter above Ms 
Ms signature are two boxes. The one which is ticked reads I confirm that I require the Ellis 
Bates Annual Review Service in respect of this recommendation. I understand that the 
Annual Review Service includes  a fee that has been taken into consideration when making 
this recommendation,  which is in addition to the contract  charges . 
Ref: DRN02931992Underneath is a second unticked box which reads I confirm that I do not require the Ellis 
Bates Annual Review Service in respect of this recommendation. Ms M signature is dated  2 
July 2013 which suggests she had some  time to consider the report  before signing it and 
returning it to Ellis Bates. And while I cant say who ticked  the box, it seems to me if Ms M 
didnt agree she could have crossed out the first box and ticked  the second box before 
signing the form. 
The letter explains  the fees are set out on page 24 of the report. Section 7.9 on page  24 
headed Remuneration reads For the preparation  of this report .. Ellis Bates will 
receive an initial fee and an annual fee from the recommended  policy in accordance with 
your signed  advisor  charge agreement. The initial fee is £1,116.54. The annual fee is 0.05% 
of the fund value payable  each year. Based  on £55,527 the fee would  be £279.14 a year. 
This information is replicated  in the advisor  charge agreement which Ms M also signed on 2 
July 2013. Under  the bold heading Ongoing advisor  charges it reads  Client support 
services (with financial review) 0.5%  per annum of your portfolio value. Based  on £55,827 
this would be £279 per annum (paid monthly at a rate of £23.25  per month). 
Ms M says she recalls  being told she wouldnt be charged for an annual review as R would 
be monitoring her plan,  but admits she has no evidence for this. I dont doubt her sincere 
recollection of what she was told, although  I bear in mind that meeting took place five years 
before Ms M complained,  and memories do fade over time. So I give weight to the 
documentary evidence  available.  And I can see the client agreement  Ms M signed  has been 
amended. Where it states the usual fee for the initial advice is 2% of the amount invested 
which would be just over £1,116, the advisor  has crossed this through  and added a 
handwritten note *capped at £1,000*. As this is the copy  Ms M has signed I think she is 
bound by it. 
But given Mr B appears to have  made  a note of the concession regarding  the initial advice 
fee, it seems  likely if he had also agreed  not to charge an annual fee, this would  also be 
recorded in the document  Ms M was asked  to sign. And as Ellis Bates  is a commercial 
business it seems unlikely the advisor would agree to a reduction on the advice fee and bind 
his firm to providing Ms M with an open-ended free service, whether  she dealt with Mr B or 
another advisor in the future.
From what  Ellis Bates told Ms M, Mr B shouldnt have signed her up to the client support 
service including  an annual review, as this is usually  only offered to clients whose portfolio 
value means they pay fees exceeding  £750  a year. Clients like Ms M whose annual fees are 
under £750  are offered  reviews every two to three  years,  and this is now set out more  clearly 
in its terms of business than it was in 2013. So even though Ms M signed the agreement it 
seems Ellis Bates shouldnt have charged  Ms M an annual fee of 0.5% as her portfolio value 
was too low, and it shouldnt  have  led her to expect an annual  review. 
As Ms M has paid fees totalling £1,665  which is an average of £333  a year, so more than is 
set out in the client agreement, I think a refund  of some of the fees is due. 
Where a business has made an error,  this service aims as far as possible to put a consumer 
into the position theyd have been  in had the error  not happened.  Which doesnt  mean  Ms M 
shouldnt pay any fees at all for the service provided by Ellis Bates  over the years. I can see 
from the screen shot of its internal records, the majority of the activity took place in 2013  as 
Ms M consolidated a number of plans from different providers which were then transferred to 
R. In January 2014 it looks like Ms M paid an additional premium  to her policy and earlier  
Ref: DRN02931993that month  she was sent a letter, although Ellis Bates cant provide further details about that 
as it changed  back office systems in 2016. 
Mr B dealt with Ms Ms £15,000 single premium  contribution to her plan in 2015.  Records  
from the time show he didnt charge an advisor fee and gave no advice. I appreciate Ms M 
doesnt think Ellis Bates did much more  than forward her cheque  to R, but nevertheless  this 
is a chargeable  service  for which, without the annual fee, shed have paid 2% (£300). 
Ms M met with another  advisor  from Ellis Bates (Mr H) in March 2016. Ms M describes this 
as a short, exploratory meeting and in no way represented a financial review and that she 
only expected  to pay a fee had she taken the advice further. Ellis Bates  says it was a 
retirement options meeting and I can see the advisor completed a fact-find  form updating 
the information captured in the initial meeting in 2013. Ms Ms circumstances had changed - 
she was planning  to retire at the end of May, her income had reduced but she no longer had 
a mortgage and intended to purchase another property. The advisor  had noted  the funds Ms 
Ms policy was invested in and drawn a graph on the form which  suggests fund performance  
was discussed.  Its not clear how long the meeting lasted or the extent of the discussion, but 
it seems that there was some substance to it. And it took place three  years  after the first 
meeting, which  appears to be the correct time interval for a client  with Ms Ms fund value. So 
while Ms M may not have felt she received a full annual review, she did receive some kind of 
service from Ellis Bates at that time.  Although  Ellis Bates notified  Ms M of the new advisor in 
2017, it seems she wouldnt have been  due for a further review  until 2019,  and she made 
her complaint before that could happen. 
So although  Ms M doesnt think Ellis Bates  has done much to justify the fees shes  been 
charged, I think she has received a service but her fees should be adjusted  to reflect the 
charging structure she should have  been offered in 2013. So for this reason I think  Ellis 
Bates final offer to refund  £950 of fees resulting in Ms M paying an average  of £143 per year 
for the five-year period is reasonable. And I dont direct them to refund the total fees charged 
as Ms M had hoped. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint in the sense that the offer made  by Ellis Bates  Group Limited to 
refund fees of £950 is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 July 2020.
Sarah Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0293199