K820x#14complaint
Mr C is unhappy with the way Admiral  Insurance Company Limited  have investigated and 
dealt with a claim on his motor insurance policy.
background
Mr C was involved in a car accident in December 2017 while  reversing on a petrol station 
forecourt. Mr C says he was already positioned  with his reverse  lights on and despite this the 
other driver deliberately drove into his car. He maintains the accident  wasnt his fault.  CCTV 
footage was available which partially  showed the accident taking place.
He says the vehicle damage  Admiral have already paid for was pre-existing damage  on the 
car which the other driver  fraudulently claimed  from his insurance. Admiral  have  allowed  the 
other driver to use a non-approved  repairer for the damage to her car  someone  he says is 
known to the other driver. He says the accident happened at such  low speed that injury 
wasnt possible but the other driver  and her passenger have made  personal  injury claims. He 
isnt happy that Admiral  accepted liability without investigating the claim fully. He would like 
his no claims bonus  to be re-instated  and a refund of the additional  premium  hes had to pay 
at renewal. 
Admiral say they have  fully investigated  the claim.  They have listened to what Mr C has said 
and the evidence provided.  They feel the CCTV evidence shows  that Mr C reversed into the 
other driver and so they werent able to hold the other driver liable. They made  the decision 
to accept liability.
The investigator at this service said that our role wasnt  to investigate the accident and 
decide who is responsible, but to make sure that the insurers decision is reasonable and 
takes all the available evidence into account. She said there was no evidence Admiral  hadnt 
investigated the claim properly and that they hadnt done anything  wrong.  She didnt uphold 
the complaint.  
Mr C didnt agree so this has come  to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator has already explained that it isnt our role to decide  who was responsible for 
causing the accident. Our role is simply to investigate  how the insurer made the decision to 
settle the claim. Did they act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions  
of the policy? 
Admiral are entitled under the terms and conditions of their policy  with Mr C to take over, 
defend, or settle a claim as they sees fit regardless of whether he agrees  with the outcome 
or not. This is a common term in motor  insurance policies. Insurers  are entitled to take a 
commercial decision about  whether its reasonable to contest a third party  claim or better to 
compromise. That said, we expect an insurer to reasonably investigate and consider the 
claim before making their decision on liability.
Ref: DRN04021412I have looked  at what investigations Admiral  carried out particularly in light of the concerns 
Mr C has. From what Ive seen, they havent ignored the evidence; in fact it is the opposite.  
Where CCTV  footage exists showing an incident this will often provide persuasive  evidence 
about what happened, and Admiral have given the footage particular weight  when deciding  
how to approach this claim. Mr C says he was there to be seen with his reverse  lights on and 
that the other driver  should have moved out of the way but the insurer  disagrees  with him. 
The CCTV footage  shows Mr C reversing  into the other drivers correctly  proceeding car. 
The Highway Code  mentions that you must  not drive without reasonable consideration for 
other road users and to look carefully before  you start reversing. Mr C was carrying  out a 
manoeuvre so was expected to exercise greater care when reversing. 
I can see that Mr C disagrees with Admirals interpretation of the CCTV footage. But I think  
Admiral reasonably considered the evidence  available and then made their decision to 
accept liability. The decision to accept liability isnt just based on who is right or wrong but 
also whether they would be able to defend their position in court.  And based on the CCTV 
footage and other evidence available, I think it was reasonable for them to take the decision  
to accept liability. Theyre entitled to do this according to the policy terms and conditions, so I 
cant say theyve done anything wrong.
Admiral have allowed  the other driver  to use their own engineer  for repair work instead of an 
approved insurance  garage.  Mr C says the garage they have used is someone that is known 
to the other driver already, but that in itself doesnt  indicate fraud.  Whilst I understand the 
concerns Mr C has about this, the repairs estimate has been  reviewed  and approved by the 
insurers own engineers.  They  have concluded that the repairs needed are in line with the 
accident that has happened. So I do feel the insurers have taken reasonable action to 
ensure this was paid correctly. 
In relation the personal injury claims, Admiral are satisfied  that this is not a fraudulent  claim 
particularly as the impact  on the other  drivers car is visible in the CCTV footage they have 
already reviewed. The personal injury claimed is minor in nature which  again is consistent  
with the accident. They  dont feel there is any other evidence  to suggest there is fraud or that 
the damage claimed is inconsistent with the accident. I understand Mr Cs frustration but 
taking everything into account I dont think Admiral  have  done  anything wrong. And I dont  
think I can fairly or reasonably require them to do anything more. 
I know Mr C has said he wants liability for the accident to be removed  from myself,  whether 
it is assigned fully or partially  to the third party, or written off completely, I dont  mind.  The 
policy document is clear  that the price of your insurance policy  may increase following an 
accident even  if you were not at fault. So there  is no guarantee that a non-fault  decision 
wouldnt have made his premium go up. I can also see that Admiral settled the claim without 
prejudice. This leaves  it open for Mr C to take the matter  to court  at his own expense,  if he 
wishes to. 
Admiral have accepted  that they havent  kept Mr C up to date about the insurance claim and 
have paid him £50 to compensate him for this. I think this is fair and reasonable. Mr C has 
also mentioned  the way Admiral handled  a previous  claim but Ive not considered  that as its 
been dealt with under a separate complaint. 
my final decision
I am not upholding  this complaint against  Admiral Insurance Company Limited.
Ref: DRN04021413Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2019.
Naima Abdul-Rasool
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0402141