K820x#14complaint
Miss S says Gain Credit  LLC,  trading  as Lending Stream,  irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about four loans Miss S took out with Lending Stream  between  July 2015 
and May 2016.  Miss Ss borrowing history  is detailed below.
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
1 08/07/2015 25/10/2015 6 £200.00 £89.60
2 12/11/2015 17/05/2016 6 £300.00 £129.60
3 09/04/2016 30/07/2016 6 £200.00 £133.44
4 13/05/2016 30/07/2016 6 £100.00 £118.24
An adjudicator reviewed Miss Ss complaint and didnt think it should  be upheld.  He said 
based on the information Miss S gave  Lending  Stream at the time about  her income and 
expenditure, he thought the loans  were affordable and appropriate  checks  had been carried  
out. Miss S didnt agree  with this and thought the loans  shouldnt have been given to
her as she was having financial difficulties, so the case was referred  for an ombudsmans
final decision.
Whilst Miss Ss case was awaiting a final decision, Miss S sent in further information to 
support her case.  The whole case it was reviewed again by a different adjudicator to ensure 
we had everything we needed to make a decision. This adjudicator thought  that Miss S 
complaint should  be upheld.  He thought  loans  3 and 4 shouldnt have been given to Miss S 
and this was because Lending Stream shouldve carried  out further checks  and this wouldve 
revealed Miss S was having issues managing her money. Lending Stream  hasnt replied to 
this opinion.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint  was passed to me  an ombudsman  for
a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good
industry practice - on our website.
Lending Stream needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure 
Miss S could repay  the loans in a sustainable manner. These  checks  could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment
amounts and the consumers income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages
of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks might be reasonable and
proportionate. But certain factors might point  to the fact that Lending Stream  should
fairly and reasonably have done more  to establish that any lending  was sustainable for the
consumer. These factors  include:
Ref: DRN03019492the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to
establish whether  Miss S could sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan
payments were affordable on a strict  pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this
is the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without
undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on
time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to
meet the repayments. And it follows  that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly  and
reasonably to realise, that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments  sustainably if
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments  without  borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this
context and what this all means for Miss Ss complaint. The most recent adjudicator to 
review the case didnt think Lending Stream needed to do more when it gave Miss S loans 1 
and 2. I agree that loans 1 and 2 were appropriate  for Miss S based on the information  
Lending Stream gathered, and as these were the first two loans Miss S had with it the 
checks it carried out were proportionate.  Miss S didnt disagree with the adjudicator opinion  
so I wont be making  any further  findings  about these loans, but I will be considering  them 
when looking at her overall borrowing pattern. 
I dont think Miss S shouldve been given loans 3 and 4. Ill explain  why.
Lending Stream says it carried out checks on Miss S when she applied  for loans 3 and 4.
This included gathering  details of her income  and existing commitments.  It also says it
checked her credit report. Lending Stream says based on this information the loans  were
affordable for Miss S.
However, I think if Lending Stream had reacted effectively to the information  it had
gathered it wouldve seen Miss S was potentially struggling to manage her finances.  
Miss Ss credit report shows  she had two defaults  by the time she applied  for loan 3. At this 
stage I think Lending  Stream  shouldve been  looking to build up a clearer  picture of Miss Ss 
financial situation before  lending to her again. 
I say this because  Miss S still had loan 2 running  when she applied for loan 3. I think  this 
alongside the two defaults shouldve prompted Lending Stream  to carry out further checks. 
These further checks wouldve revealed that Miss S was having  issues managing her 
Ref: DRN03019493finances. Looking  at bank statements provided by Miss S they show  she had other loans 
with short-term lenders.  In the month before loan 3 was taken Miss S was in her overdraft 
and had made payments towards  at least two other pay day lenders. The statements also 
indicate that its likely Miss S had credit commitments beyond those declared to Lending  
Stream. 
Looking at everything it seems likely Miss S was relying on short term credit to cover  
ongoing shortfalls and further lending was not appropriate. Which  means Lending  Stream 
shouldnt have given  Miss S loans 3 and 4 and should put things right.
putting things right  what Gain Credit LLC needs to do
Lending Stream shouldnt  have given Miss S loan 3 and 4.
A)Lending Stream should add together the total of the repayments made  by Miss S 
towards interest, fees and charges on these loans, including  payments made to a 
third party  where  applicable,  but not including anything Lending Stream  has already 
refunded.
B)Lending Stream should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments 
made by Miss S which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss 
S originally made the payments, to the date the complaint  is settled.
C)Lending Stream should pay Miss S the total of A plus B.
D)Lending Stream should remove any adverse information it has recorded on Miss Ss 
credit file in relation  to loans 3 and 4. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires you to deduct tax from this interest.  Lending Stream  
should give Miss S a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Miss Ss complaint. Gain  Credit  LLC should put 
things right for Miss S as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman I am required to ask Miss S to accept or reject  
my decision  before 18 July 2020.
Chandni Green  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0301949