K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy taken out in 
connection with a store card account.  Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL)  didnt 
actually sell the PPI, but its accepted responsibility for this complaint. So Ill refer to FICL as 
the seller to keep  things  simple. 
background
Miss W opened  a store  card account  in a shop in December  1999. FICLs records show  that 
the PPI was added to her account in November 2002, following a phone call.
The policy would have paid part of the outstanding monthly balance  on Miss Ws card each 
month if shed been unable  to work  because  of injury or sickness, or if she lost her job. It 
also included purchase protection  insurance and life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss W disagreed with the adjudicators view, so 
the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Ws complaint.  Ill explain why.
FICLs records  show that the policy was sold over the phone. I understand Miss Ws 
frustration that FICL hasnt been able to provide  a recording of the call in which the PPI 
was added to her account.  But I dont think thats  unreasonable, given that this was so 
long ago. Where the evidence  is incomplete  or inconclusive I need to decide what 
I thinks most likely  to have happened, based on the information I have. 
I think its likely,  on balance,  that the PPI was sold to Miss W over the phone, as FICLs  
records say it was. I dont know what was said to Miss W about the PPI. But at the point 
when she took it out, shed already had her store card account for nearly three years.  So 
I think its unlikely  shed have  thought  that the cover was compulsory. Whats more,  
based on what we know about  how FICL sold these  policies  at around this time and 
everything weve seen in the past,  I think its more  likely than not that FICL would have 
made it clear  during the phone call that PPI was optional, and Miss W would have  been  
asked to agree to the cover if she wanted  it
I acknowledge that Miss W says she knew nothing about the PPI. And she doesnt  
accept that she agreed to take it out. But taking everything into account,  I think its more 
likely than not that she decided to take out the cover, knowing that she didnt have to.
FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Miss W. So it didnt have to check that it was right for 
her. It was for Miss W to decide whether to take the cover, knowing what other means 
shed have had of making her monthly store card repayments  if she was off sick, or if she 
lost her job. But FICL did have a responsibility to give Miss W clear  enough  information  
to enable her to decide whether the policy was right for her.
Ref: DRN09471012I accept that its possible the information  FICL  gave Miss W about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it should have  been. But I think she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks  as if 
she wanted this type of cover, even if shes understandably forgotten  that now.  Based on 
what shes told us about her circumstances at the time, Miss W was eligible  for the 
policy. And Ive seen nothing to suggest  that it was unaffordable  for her.
Its true that Miss Ws told us that shed  have been entitled  to between three and six 
months pay from her employer at the time if shed  been  off sick. But she didnt have any 
other means she could have  used to make her store card repayments  if shed been 
unable to work. If shed made a successful claim on the policy for accident, sickness or 
unemployment, it would  have  paid a monthly  benefit 15% of what  she owed on her store  
card. And it would have done  this each month  until her credit agreement  ended,  or she 
returned to work, or the outstanding balance at the time of her claim had been repaid- 
whichever was the earliest.
So the PPI policy would potentially have covered Miss W for longer than shed have 
been entitled to sick pay for. Whats more, it would have paid out in addition  to any 
payments she received  from her employer, allowing her to use those to cover  other  day-
to-day expenses.  Taking everything  into account, I think the PPI policy  could have been 
useful for Miss W.
Ive borne in mind  that Miss Ws mentioned that she had contents insurance.  But thats a 
different type of insurance, and it didnt  cover the same  situations as the PPI. So it didnt 
mean she didnt need  the PPI.
Based  on what shes told us about her circumstances at the time, Miss W doesnt appear 
to have been affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover (for example,  
existing medical conditions or unusual employment arrangements). So taking everything 
into account, Im not convinced that better information about  the PPI would have put 
Miss W off taking  it out. This means  I dont  think shes lost out as a result of anything that 
FICL may have  done wrong.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 February  2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0947101