K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC charged him a cash transaction fee and 
interest for using his credit card to repay  his car finance.
background
Mr J says he used his Tesco credit  card to repay his car finance but he says he was then 
charged a cash transaction fee for doing  so as well as interest. He says that was unfair  and 
he was unaware  that he would  be charged in this way. Mr J would like the fee and interest 
refunded.
Tesco says its not made  a mistake by charging  the fee and interest. It says it wrote to Mr J 
in April 2018 and gave him a notice of variation to the credit card agreement  that it intended 
to class this type of transaction  as a cash transaction and so a fee and interest  would be 
charged. Tesco accepts it gave Mr J incorrect advice about the amount Mr J needed to pay 
to avoid further interest and says its paid Mr J £25 compensation for this.
Mr J brought his complaint to us and our investigator  didnt think Tesco had made  a mistake. 
The investigator thought Tesco had given  Mr J appropriate notice of a change to the account  
terms and conditions that said transactions of this nature would be subject to a charge and 
interest. The investigator also thought the April 2018 account statement contained 
information about the change and didnt think Tesco could fairly  be responsible for Mr J not 
appreciating what was in the notice or reading  it properly as he suggested.
The investigator thought the £25 compensation appropriate for that part of the complaint.
Mr J doesnt accept that view and says the information Tesco  sent him wasnt  clear and if 
hed understood  it then he wouldnt  have  used his credit card to repay the car finance.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator for the same reasons. I realise Mr J will be disappointed by 
my decision.
Im satisfied that Tesco in line with the account  terms and conditions  is entitled to make  
changes to those  terms and conditions by giving  appropriate notice. Im satisfied that in April 
2018 Tesco  gave Mr J notice that it intended  to make changes  to the agreement by classing 
certain types of payments as cash  transactions  which would attract  a fee and interest. And I 
think that included  payments  for, as in this case, repaying finance. So I dont think  Tesco 
made a mistake here or acted unfairly by charging  Mr J a cash transaction fee and interest 
when he used his credit card to repay  car finance.
Im also satisfied that Tesco sent the notice of variation to Mr J and that it recorded 
information about the change on Mr Js credit  card statement. I appreciate that Mr J says he 
didnt understand  what  the notice meant and I also appreciate that had he understood it then 
he would  have been unlikely to have  repaid  his finance using his credit card. But I cant  fairly 
hold Tesco responsible for Mr J not understanding the information he was sent. And I would 
have expected Mr J in those circumstances to have asked Tesco to explain exactly what the 
notice of variation  or the changes meant  if he was unsure about  them.
Ref: DRN05479252There is no question here that Tesco did give Mr J incorrect information about the amount he 
needed to pay to avoid any further interest. But Im satisfied Tesco has paid a fair and 
reasonable amount of £25 compensation which I think  fairly  reflects  the level of mistake and 
the limited impact it had upon Mr J.
Overall I find Tesco  did not make a mistake  by charging the fee and interest  and so I cant 
fairly order it to refund  them  as Mr J would like.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0547925