K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains about the valuation esure Insurance Limited placed on his car under his 
motor insurance policy  after it was deemed  to be beyond  economical repair.  He thinks  
£11,000 is a fair price.
background
Mr Cs car was declared a total loss. esure offered Mr C the market value for his car. It said 
this was £9,200 less the policy excess. But Mr C didnt think this had taken  into account the 
cars features so he thought the valuation should be higher.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He checked the 
motor trade  guides  for Mr Cs car, taking  into account the cars optional extras. He found  that 
esures valuation  fell within the range of the valuations these provided. So he thought  its 
offer was fair and reasonable. 
Mr C replied that he thought esure should  have  offered him the average of the two closest 
valuations, which would  be £10,210. He asked for his complaint to be reviewed, so its come  
to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Cs frustration that he couldnt  replace his car with a like for like with 
esures offer. But Mr Cs policy provided for the market value of his car in the case  of its total 
loss, not a like for like replacement. 
The investigator has explained this services approach  to car valuations. We dont provide 
valuations for cars but look to whether the insurers  offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether  a reasonable offer has been  made, we obtain  valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second  hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive,  largely because their valuations are based  on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available  evidence into account,  for example, engineers  reports.
I can see that the investigator  checked the four trade guides we use for cars of the same 
make, model, age, mileage,  conditions and extras as Mr Cs car. These gave valuations of 
£10,290, £10,130, £9,186  and £8,825. I can see that the optional  extras  didnt usually add 
value to Mr Cs car. 
Our approach is that a fair valuation is one that is within the range of the valuations found, 
excluding any outlying valuations. I dont think any of the valuations is an outlier,  so I think 
the entire range should be considered. esure offered Mr C £9,200, which  is within the range 
provided by the four guides we use.  
Ref: DRN06271032Mr C provided  examples of similar  cars as his being  advertised for higher prices. But we 
dont find advertisements  particularly persuasive as these are essentially asking  prices  and 
arent selling prices. Its for this reason that the trade guides are used as they provide 
evidence of likely retail  selling prices. 
So, I think esure made its valuation of the cars market  value  correctly  according to our 
approach and offered Mr C a settlement within the range of valuations.  So I think its offer is 
fair and reasonable and I dont require  it to increase this.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 May 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0627103