K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that CIGNA Europe Insurance Company  SA-NV  mis-sold him a personal  
accident policy or unfairly or unreasonably rejected his claim.  He wants  his claim accepted.
background
Mr P had a personal accident policy with CIGNA. He said hed suffered an injury that 
resulted in permanent  disability  from an accident,  and claimed under the policy.  Mr P 
explained that he had arthritis in his right hip, which didnt affect him until he had a fall; he 
needed a full hip replacement due to the damage.
CIGNA refused to accept the claim.  It said the policy didnt cover hip replacement surgery. 
Mr P disagreed. He said the fall caused  the loss of use of his hip, though he accepted once 
the surgery had been carried out, he wouldnt have a total loss of use. But Mr P said if a hip 
replacement wasnt covered, hed been mis-sold  the policy as hed lost the use of his original 
hip (though his new hip would be useable). The medical evidence  was that the fall 
exacerbated the arthritis.
CIGNA said that Mr P needed medical  evidence showing that hed had an accident which 
caused an injury, that the injury had caused the disability and that the loss of use was 
permanent. It pointed out that under the terms and conditions  of the policy,  an accident had 
to be an external cause,  and if the injury was caused by sickness,  disease or a naturally 
occurring condition or degenerative process,  it wasnt caused by an accident. CIGNA noted  
that the disability had to mean  Mr P couldnt  carry out gainful employment  and didnt  think a 
hip replacement met that test. It said Mr P had told it in 2014  that he needed a hip 
replacement due to arthritis and his claim was rejected then. CIGNA denied that the policy  
had been mis-sold as all information was given and it was Mr Ps choice to go ahead  (no 
advice was given).
Mr P complained to us and had his hip replaced. The senior  investigators  view was that 
CIGNA wasnt  at fault. She said Mr P hadnt suffered a permanent  total loss of his hip as 
hed had hip replacement  surgery and it appeared to be a success. The senior  investigator  
didnt think it was a reasonable interpretation of the policy to only look at the loss of the 
original hip as Mr P was able to use his hip after the surgery, so the loss of use wasnt 
permanent. She also thought Mr Ps claim was likely  to fail as he hadnt  shown that the injury 
was solely  caused  due to an accident. The senior  investigator didnt think  the policy  had 
been mis-sold as Mr P could benefit from it in different circumstances; she said the evidence 
showed that he hadnt been advised  about  the policy, and was given clear information  so he 
could make his own decision.
Mr P disagreed. He said it wasnt fair as hed lost his original hip and the fall had caused  him 
to need the surgery sooner than wouldve been the case otherwise.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im going to focus on the complaint 
brought to this service, which is about  the rejection of Mr Ps claim in February  2019  and his 
allegation that the policy was mis-sold.
The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say that CIGNA has a responsibility to handle  
claims promptly and fairly.  And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Ref: DRN08022252It isnt unfair  or unreasonable to consider the terms and conditions of the policy.  The 
evidence doesnt  support  Mr Ps position that the fall alone caused the need for a hip 
replacement. The medical evidence is that the fall simply made matters worse and meant 
that the hip replacement had to be done  sooner, but as early as 2014,  Mr P knew he needed 
a hip replacement due to his arthritis. The policy is clear that the injury  has to be from an 
external event, not due to a naturally occurring condition or degenerative process.
And in any event, I dont  accept Mr Ps interpretation of the policy  regarding  the definition of 
permanent total loss of use. The policy is designed  to support those who are unable to work  
due to an injury. The fact that the original hip is removed and replaced with a hip that allows  
use of that body part means there  isnt a permanent loss of use  treatment has dealt  with 
the problem.
Mr P says that the policy has been mis-sold to him as he hasnt  successfully claimed in 
respect of his hip. I disagree. First,  the evidence shows  that Mr P wasnt  advised  about the 
policy and its suitability.  And the information he was given about the policy  was clear, so he 
was able to make his own decision. Mr P is still able to benefit from the policy if he brings a 
claim which is covered, so I cant say he has received no advantage  from it. I understand 
that hes received  payment for being in hospital  to have his hip replaced.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 January 2020.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0802225