K820x#14Complaint
Mr S complains that Ageas Insurance Limited  have declined part of his claim under his home
insurance policy. When I refer to Ageas, that includes any contractors or firms they 
appointed to handle or process any stage  of Mr Ss claim, unless  otherwise  stated.
Background
In 2018, around  Christmas time, there  was an accident in Mr Ss home resulting in his
television being dropped on his laptop. As Mr S had accidental damage  cover,  he informed
Ageas and they arranged for both the television and the laptop to be collected by courier.
The laptop  was collected but returned  shortly after, in error, without having been fixed. It was
then collected  again. The television was collected  in early January 2019,  after Mr S had
been in touch with Ageas to chase  for an update regarding the collection of the television.
The laptop  was deemed to be beyond  economic  repair  and was therefore replaced without
any issue. However, Ageas informed  Mr S, after he had chased  them  further for an update,
that his television  had been  inspected. Ageas informed him that the engineers  believed  the
damage wasnt due to the impact of it having  been dropped, but a known electrical  fault with
the television. As a result, the claim for the television  was declined.
Unhappy with this; and the general poor service he had received,  Mr S raised a complaint.
His main complaint was that the laptop  had been  returned to him before it was fixed; and he
wasnt happy with the length of time it took for the television to be inspected. In response,
Ageas maintained their stance with regards  to what their engineer experts had stated
regarding the television and apologised for the laptop being returned  to him without having
been fixed. In the meantime, Mr S has told us that he bought a new television, which cost
him £519.
Dissatisfied with Ageas  stance, Mr S brought his complaint to us and stated  he wanted 
Ageas to either  reimburse  him for the cost of his new television; or fix the television that was 
dropped. He would also like Ageas to apologise for suggesting the television  wasnt 
damaged as a result  of being  dropped. He would  also like consideration to be given to him 
needing to take the morning off work in order for his television  to be collected.
One of our investigators  looked into this complaint and concluded that Ageas should  settle
Mr Ss claim regarding  his television as they had accepted accidental  damage to the laptop.
Ageas disagreed with this conclusion and explained  that the fault found with the television
was an electrical fault and not consistent with being dropped.  This complaint was therefore
been passed to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said: 
Ageas have agreed that Mr S received  poor customer service. They have apologised for the
laptop being returned to him without  being  repaired and for the time it took to collect and
inspect his television. In this particular  set of circumstances, I am of the view that the
apology given was sufficient.
I would agree with the investigator  that Ageas has not said they do not believe the accident
Mr S described happened. And I have not been provided with any reason to disbelieve
Ref: DRN03872662Mr Ss version of events.
Under his home insurance policy, specifically under section two contents insurance, Mr S
was insured for accidental damage  to electrical  equipment, which  included  television sets.
The policy goes on to explain that electrical  or mechanical breakdown,  however, is not
covered.
Ageas have stated  that the television powers up but there is no background  light.  They also
explained that upon inspecting the television they couldnt find any damage internally or
externally. With regards to this, Mr S has provided photographs  of his damaged television
and I can see there  are visible markings on the corner of it.
He has also explained  that the television was dropped from an approximate  height of 30 to
40cms. Mr S states that due to the height and the hard, plastic material of the television
casing, that there wasnt more extensive  damage. I would say this is a reasonable
explanation.
Ageas have told us that this particular television model has a common  backlight failure fault.
And that in particular  upon inspection they found  a component failure, which  is an electrical
issue. In their experts view, this could not have been caused  by the accident described but
is akin to the common  electrical fault known to be found in this particular model.
In considering all of the evidence, I am persuaded by the expert view in that the component
failure found is the cause of the backlight failure.  As far as I am aware,  there is no conflicting
expert evidence. Whilst I have no reason to think the television wasnt  dropped,  this is
irrelevant as the expert opinion is that this issue  couldnt have been caused by the accident
described.
I appreciate this may be a disappointing  outcome for Mr S, however, I am unable to
conclude that Ageas reached their findings in an unfair and unreasonable way.
The response  to my provisional  decision
Ageas had no further comments.
Mr S doesnt  agree  with my provisional  decision. He has stated that the claim being rejected 
doesnt dispute the fact that the event occurred. And goes  on to explain that a shock or drop 
can and would cause  a pre-existing weakness to break. Mr S feels that as Ageas havent  
stated that an accident  that stresses a television to break, isnt covered and because  the 
television stopped  working due to it being dropped, it should  be covered. 
So, it is clear Mr S thinks Ageas should  pay his claim.
My findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  again  my provisional  
findings in light of Mr Ss response to it. 
Mr S has attempted to explain how his policy terms should be applied  to his claim  and has 
stated that because Ageas has not specifically  excluded  a scenario where an accident  
Ref: DRN03872663causes a pre-existing weakness to break a television, his television should be covered.  And 
maintains that the event (the television being  dropped) did occur.
As stated in my provisional decision, whether the accident described by Mr S happened,  is 
not being disputed - I have not been provided  with any reason to disbelieve Mr Ss version of 
events. 
However, consideration must be given to the expert opinion  provided  by Ageas. They have 
said that the component failure  found  in the television, was the reason why it wasnt working; 
and this component  failure was an electrical issue. They have explained that this could not 
have been caused by the accident described but is akin to the common  electrical fault known 
to be found in this particular  model.  
Whilst accidental damage is covered by the policy, electrical or mechanical breakdown is 
not. Therefore,  the point Mr S has made  regarding Ageas not having excluded his particular 
scenario, isnt relevant as the reason for the television  not working is due to an electrical 
fault, not due to it having been dropped.  
As I havent  been  provided with any conflicting expert evidence, I am still persuaded by the 
expert view provided by Ageas. I am therefore unable to conclude that they reached their 
findings in an unfair  or unreasonable way.  
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mr Ss 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 July 2020.
Chantelle Findlow
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0387266