K820x#14complaint
Mrs C is unhappy that Qmetric Group  Limited  recorded a claim against her home  insurance  
policy although she wasnt  covered and had only called  to see if she was covered.
background
In April 2018 Mrs C called  Qmetric and said she wanted to make a claim for damage to her 
ceiling as shed  put her leg through  the loft floor. The adviser asked if she was happy to log a 
claim against the policy and she said she was. After  she looked at the policy  documents, the 
adviser said Mrs C didnt  have accidental damage  cover for the claim. When  Mrs C received 
her policy renewal documents, she noted that a claim had been registered against  her 
account. She feels she was only making  an enquiry, not a claim, and that it shouldnt have 
been logged  as a claim.  She said this is now having an impact  when shes  applying  for home 
insurance as the premiums have increased.
Qmetric said Mrs C had confirmed that she was happy to log a new claim against her policy.  
It says its duty bound to report  all claims to the industrys databases irrespective of the 
outcome. It said the claim was recorded as £0 on the databases as no payment was made.
Mrs C wasnt happy with Qmetrics response and brought her complaint to this service.  Our 
investigator didnt  uphold the complaint and, as Mrs C disagreed with her view, the complaint 
has now come to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigator that Qmetric doesnt need  to do any more. Let me explain why.
When Mrs C called  Qmetric in April 2018 she said she couldnt  get access  to her policy  
documents and wasnt sure what cover she had. She says it was only after the adviser  told 
her she didnt have  accidental damage  cover  that she realised why she wasnt covered. 
Mrs Cs point would seem to be that it was unfair  for Qmetric to log a claim under these 
circumstances. 
However, I dont think Qmetric has done anything wrong here. Mrs C didnt call Qmetric to 
ask about her policy; she called because she was hoping  her insurer would be able to pay 
for the cost of putting right the damage in her loft. In other words,  she called to make  a claim. 
When she was asked  if she was happy  to log a claim  she confirmed she was. The adviser 
then logged the claim and looked at Mrs Cs policy. She noted  that Mrs C didnt have cover 
for accidental damage and explained  why it couldnt help her. I dont  think Qmetric could 
have done anything differently and I dont think its acted unfairly.
As a claim was made,  I also think it was reasonable for Qmetric to record  that information on 
the databases used by insurers  to see a policyholders claims history. I recognise why Mrs C 
might think  thats unfair, particularly if its impacting  on the premiums shes paying,  but 
Qmetric has a duty to record information accurately. Its done that by recording that a claim 
was logged but that no payment was made.  
Its difficult to say what effect this will have on Mrs Cs ability  to buy insurance elsewhere  in 
the future  as different  insurers  have different criteria for assessing its risk. However,  as no 
Ref: DRN00837722payment was made, I think  its unlikely to have a big impact.  I note that Qmetric made a 
couple of suggestions to Mrs C about  how she might limit the impact,  i.e. by seeking advice 
from the British Insurers Brokers Association (BIBA)  and by using  price  comparison sites. In 
the circumstances, those would seem  to be sensible suggestions.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019].
Richard Walker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0083772