K820x#14complaint
Mr Q and Ms R complain  that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold  them  a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
In 1996 Mr Q and Ms R took out a mortgage. In 2001 they asked to borrow  some additional 
money, and the bank  recommended they also take out PPI to protect their total repayments. 
The PPI covered Mr Q only. It cost just under £36 a month and would have paid out about 
£592 a month for up to two years if Mr Q made  a successful  claim.
Mr Q says he had good sick pay at the time and the way it was sold made them feel they 
had to have the PPI in order to get the mortgage they wanted. Mr Q and Ms R think the bank 
was wrong to sell them  the policy.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr Q and Ms R disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Q and Ms Rs case
I have decided not to uphold Mr Q and Ms Rs complaint and Ive set out below  my reasons 
for this.
Mr Q and Ms Rs main  concern  seems to be that they thought they had to have the PPI. Mr 
Q says they were only given costs  that included the PPI and assumed it was an integral part 
of the mortgage.  
Halifax doesnt have  the actual paperwork for either the mortgage or the PPI. But this isnt 
surprising given the sale took place  over 18 years ago and the mortgage  ended in 2003.  I 
wouldnt expect either Mr Q and Ms R or Halifax to keep paperwork indefinitely. So Ive 
based my decision  on the evidence  I do have  and what  I think  is most likely to have 
happened.
From what  this service knows about how Halifax sold PPI at the time, its likely Mr Q and Ms 
R were given a choice about buying the PPI. And I see that it was set up to cover Mr Q only. 
That does suggest  that a conversation took place about the PPI at the time and it was 
tailored to suit Mr Q and Ms Rs needs.  I think its also likely  Halifax sent the relevant 
literature to Mr Q and Ms R after the sale. Thats what  Halifax normally  did, and I cant see 
any reason why it would  treat Mr Q and Ms R differently.
Overall, I think Halifax most likely gave Mr Q and Ms R enough information for them to know 
the PPI was optional, despite their recollections.  
Ref: DRN03436742Halifax says it recommended the PPI to Mr Q and Ms R. This means that it needed to 
ensure that it met their needs. From what I know of Mr Q and Ms Rs circumstances at the 
time, I think the policy was suitable  for them.
Mr Q was eligible for the policy, and it doesnt  look like hed have been affected  by any of 
the significant limitations or exclusions of the cover, such as those relating to pre-existing 
medical conditions.  The banks  records show Ms R as not working  in 2001  so she 
wasnt eligible for it. 
Mr Q says he would have received generous sick pay if he couldnt work. But this policy 
would pay on top of these benefits and for considerably longer than Mr Q would get his 
full salary. A mortgage, especially when additional borrowing is being taken, is a big 
commitment, and I think Mr Q and Ms R would have had some use for the policy.  Thats 
particularly so as it appears Mr Q and Ms R had a young child at the time.
I dont know exactly when Mr Q and Ms R were told what  the PI would cost.  But from Mr 
Qs recollections, it was when they were applying for the extra  money. So I think  theyd 
have known it cost something.  The policy was competitively priced and apparently  
affordable, and I dont  think when Mr Q and Ms R first knew the cost affected  their 
decision to buy the PPI. 
Its possible that Halifax  could  have provided  more information about the policy,  
particularly in regard  to the things  that it didnt cover. But Mr Q wasnt affected by any of 
these things at the time, so I dont think that more information would have caused them 
to change their mind about  buying the policy. So Mr Q and Ms R arent any worse  off as 
a result of anything Halifax may have done  wrong. So theres  nothing  that Halifax  needs 
to do to put things  right.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Q and Ms R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 July 2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0343674