K820x#14Complaint
Mr F complains that Santander UK Plc delayed an appointment to open  a Help to Buy ISA. 
Background
In February 2019  Mr F visited  a Santander  branch to complete a Help to Buy ISA 
application. But there wasnt anyone available to help and Santander  said the first 
appointment available was around three weeks later, on 16 March 2019. 
Mr F went on to contact  Santander during the wait for his appointment and raised a 
complaint about  the delay on 5 March  2019.  On behalf of Mr F, Mrs F discussed  the Help to 
Buy ISA terms with Santander on 6 March 2019  and successfully completed  an application. 
Santander agreed Mr F had been  kept waiting  too long and paid him £100. Mr F was 
concerned that he wouldnt have sufficient  funds saved to qualify for the Help to Buy bonus. 
But Mr Fs account balance increased to the point where he qualified  for the Help to Buy 
bonus. 
Mr F referred his complaint to our service  and it was passed to an investigator. The 
investigator thought  Santanders offer of £100 was fair and that it took Mr Fs losses into 
account. Mrs F, who represents Mr F in this matter, didnt accept so the complaint has been  
passed to me to make a decision. 
 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander accepts  it could have offered Mr F assistance earlier and I agree it led to a delay 
in his Help to Buy ISA being opened.  But Mrs F has confirmed that Mr F reached the 
balance required to receive the Help to Buy bonus. So I need to consider Mr Fs financial 
losses and whether Santander  has made a reasonable offer.  
Mrs F says Mr F missed out on a bonus  because of Santanders delays. By delaying the 
account opening Mr F didnt qualify for the February 2019 Help to Buy bonus. The highest  
bonus payable  each month  is £50 (25% of £200) so the delay in this case  led to a potential 
loss of £50. 
I can see Mr F was frustrated by the delay  and its potential impact on his account. But I note 
the situation was resolved reasonably quickly when Santander completed  a phone 
application on 6 March 2019.
Santander paid Mr F £100 for the delay  in completing an application. The investigator 
thought that was fair as it covered the £50 missed Help to Buy bonus from February 2019 
and left £50 in respect of the service  received. Whilst I can see the situation  has been  
frustrating, Santanders  offer means there isnt a financial loss. And Im satisfied the 
compensation fairly reflects  the impact of the delay on Mr F based on what  weve been told. 
As Im satisfied Santander  has paid a reasonable level of compensation and dealt with 
Mr Fs complaint fairly Im not telling  it to take any further action. 
Ref: DRN02386002My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 January 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0238600