K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M have  complained that when they took out a mortgage in 2005  with 
Cheltenham & Gloucester  Plc (C&G), there was no physical inspection  of the property. Mr M 
has dealt with the complaint throughout. Lloyds Bank PLC has dealt with the complaint for 
C&G.
background
In 2005 Mr and Mrs M bought a property with the assistance of a mortgage from C&G. The 
mortgage was arranged on a non-advised basis. 
A mortgage offer was issued  and Mr and Mrs M bought the property. Two years later they 
repaid the mortgage with C&G and took out a new mortgage with another lender. 
In 2015 that mortgage was redeemed and replaced  with another  mortgage  from a different 
lender (at which point  Mrs M was taken off the deeds and replaced with another  party). Mr M 
and the other party  now want to sell the property. They had an interested  buyer, who applied 
to the same  lender which holds the current mortgage on the property. But that lender has 
refused to grant  a mortgage to the new buyer because it says the property  is of a 
non-standard construction  which does not meet its lending criteria.
Mr M says that the way in which the property  was constructed should have been identified  in 
2005 when he and Mrs M were buying  the property.  He holds  C&G  responsible  for the 
difficulties he is now experiencing in selling  the property.
C&G didnt  uphold the complaint. It explained that, under the procedures it had in place in 
2005, it was discretionary  whether a surveyor would inspect the property or if there would be 
a desktop valuation instead.  In this case, there was a desktop valuation  carried  out by a 
surveyor. He was satisfied the property was suitable  security  for the mortgage.
Mr and Mrs M brought their complaint  to us, where it was considered  by an adjudicator. He 
didnt think it should be upheld. He was satisfied  C&G had complied with its procedures and 
that there  was no obligation for there to be a physical inspection  of the property.
Mr M asked  for an ombudsman to review  the complaint so it now falls to me to make a final 
decision on this complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This was a basic valuation carried out for C&G in order for it to decide if the property was 
suitable security for the mortgage. According to C&Gs manual, there  was no requirement for 
the surveyor to visit the property if a desktop valuation was considered  appropriate. C&G is 
entitled to determine the level of risk assessment it will undertake when considering  an 
application for a mortgage. If C&G  decided  it didnt need a surveyor  to inspect  the property, 
then thats a decision its allowed to make.
C&Gs duty was to ensure  that the valuation was carried  out by a suitably-qualified party. 
The surveyor instructed  to carry out the valuation was a member of the Royal  Institution of 
Ref: DRN01524552Chartered Surveyors. In the circumstances, C&G was entitled to rely on the opinion of the 
surveyor that the property was suitable  security for the mortgage.
I am sorry  for the difficulties Mr M is now experiencing, but, Im unable  to conclude  that C&G  
has done anything  wrong in relation to the valuation carried  out in 2005.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 August 2019.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0152455