K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that The Prudential  Assurance Company Limited mis-sold them  a 
lifetime mortgage in 2007 as they had no understanding of compound  interest and early 
payment redemption. Mr and Mrs G would like compensation  for this mis-selling.
background
Mr and Mrs G borrowed  £25,000 from Prudential in 2007 for home improvements by way of 
a lifetime mortgage from Prudential. Mr G isnt well at the moment and they hoped to 
downsize and move house. But Mr and Mrs G find that if they redeem the mortgage they will 
have to pay a lot more than they borrowed and a large early repayment charge (ERC).  
Prudential says that the effects of compound interest and the ERC are clearly explained in 
the documents sent to Mr and Mrs G when they took out the mortgage.  Our adjudicator  
believed that Prudential did nothing wrong and didnt recommend that this complaint should  
be upheld. Mr and Mrs G disagreed saying in summary that the effect  of compound  interest 
wasnt explained to them and that the Prudential adviser pushed equity release as the 
means to raise the money  rather than any alternative ways. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs G met with a Prudential adviser in 2007 to discuss raising  £25,000 for home 
improvements. Looking at the notes, I can see that Mr and Mrs G were  mortgage free, with 
income from pensions  but with not a lot of savings. It would seem that if they wanted to raise  
money that they could use the equity  in their property which  they chose to do. Its possible 
that Mr and Mrs G could  have applied for an ordinary  mortgage but this would have required 
them to pay a monthly payment and on the fact find the Prudential  adviser  then records that 
they didnt wish to make mortgage  repayments. So, I can understand if such  was the case,  
that the equity  release product recommended by Prudential which  didnt require repayments  
would be attractive to them at that time.
A feature of equity release products is that the initial debt attracts  compound interest  which 
will reduce  the equity in the property. Mr and Mrs G say that they didnt understand 
compound interest.  But if I look at the mortgage  offer, Prudential  sets out, in my view, fairly 
clearly the implications of how it works giving precise examples of how the amount 
Mr and Mrs G would owe Prudential increases year by year if they borrowed this money. 
This offer was sent to Mr and Mrs G and they had the opportunity  to accept  or decline it or 
talk it over with their family. Mr and Mrs G went ahead  and borrowed the money on the terms 
they were offered. I believe that its clear  from the documentation what  they are going to 
have to pay if they ever redeemed the mortgage.
I appreciate that if they move house  Mr and Mrs G will have  a fairly large redemption charge. 
But I dont see that Prudential has done anything wrong. Mr and Mrs G borrowed money on 
certain terms which were clearly set out and which they agreed to. So, on that basis  I cant 
fairly uphold  this complaint. 
my final decision
Ref: DRN07244442My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 July 2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0724444