K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains about three loans Express Finance (Bromley) Limited (trading as Payday 
Express) lent to him. He says the loans were  unaffordable.
background
From the information Payday Express has provided, it lent Mr S loans between  July 2008 
and June 2016. Some of the loan information is detailed in the table below.
loan number start date Amount (£) end date
1
1a18/07/08
20/11/08120
80 28/11/08
2
2a08/03/11
01/04/11160
120 21/06/16
When Mr S complained to Payday Express it said hed complained too late and so he 
referred his complaint to this service  where it was looked at by one of our adjudicators.  Our 
adjudicator thought that the complaint  wasnt out of time and we could consider it. Payday 
Express agreed with this assessment. And so the merits of Mr S complaint was looked at by 
another one of our adjudicators.
Our adjudicator thought that Payday Express hadnt lent loan 1a responsibly and 
recommended that Payday Express pay redress for that loan. But they didnt think  Payday  
Express lent the other loans irresponsibly. As Payday Express hasnt responded, the 
complaint has come  to me  an ombudsman for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Payday Express lent loans 1 and 1a, it was during the period it held a standard  
licence from the Office of Fair Trading  (OFT),  which enabled it to carry out consumer credit 
activities. So while I think that businesses  should  always look to treat customers fairly, 
Payday Express also had an overarching responsibility to carry out a reasonable 
assessment as to whether Mr S was able to afford to repay what he had borrowed.
The OFTs  Irresponsible Lending  Guidance (ILG) came into effect  in March 2010 and so this 
guidance was relevant  to loans 2 and 2a. When it came into force,  it stated that Assessing 
affordability is a borrower-focussed  test which  involves a creditor  assessing a borrowers  
ability to undertake a specific  credit  commitment,  or specific additional credit commitment,  in 
a sustainable  manner, without the borrower  incurring (further)  financial difficulties.  
Payday Express has told us what checks it carried out before agreeing to lend. It said it 
checked Mr S income which it recorded  as £1,050 throughout  the lending.  It also said it 
used Office of National  Statistics (ONS) data to work  out Mr S monthly living  expenses. At 
the time of loan 1 it recorded this as £259 and £260 for loan 2. Mr S has provided his bank 
statement and although it doesnt cover the time of loan 1, from what  I can see, his normal 
living costs  around  the time of loan 2, were similar to what Payday Express  used in making  
its lending decision.  
Ref: DRN01440592Loan 1 was for £120 and given that this was a relatively small amount compared to Mr S 
declared income of £1,050. It was also his first loan with Payday Express, I think  the checks 
went far enough and the checks were proportionate to the lending.
Mr S rolled over loan 1 four times  and by the time he was borrowing loan 1a, he hadnt 
repaid any of the original capital and interest on loan 1. In the circumstances, I dont think it 
was fair or reasonable for Payday Express to increase his level of indebtedness  and so it 
shouldnt have given  him loan 1a. The number of rollovers  suggests  that Mr S was struggling 
to repay  and the fact that he then needed to borrow after so many rollovers shouldve 
concerned Payday Express and it shouldnt have continued to lend in those circumstances.
It was more than two years after Mr S repaid loan 1 /1a before he borrowed loan 2. I think 
this gap in time was significant and Payday Express couldve reasonably believed Mr S 
finances had improved. The loan was for £160  and given the information Payday Express 
held about his income and likely  normal living expenses, it suggested that he could afford 
this loan. This was also the case for loan 2a. Mr S borrowed loan 2a about a month after 
loan 2, and although there was a balance outstanding, the available  information, suggests  
that Mr S could afford  to repay this loan and its top-up.
I understand that Mr S had problems repaying  loan 2 and 2a and went  into a payment  plan 
but I think given  that there was such a long gap between loans 1 and 2, it wasnt 
unreasonable for Payday  Express  to rely on the information he provided and what  it 
gathered from ONS  particularly as his monthly  living costs were  similar to the figure  
Payday Express used. 
Mr S has said he was gambling during the period but this wasnt something  he told Payday 
Express and I wouldnt have expected it to find this out from what I consider  reasonable 
checks in the circumstances.
In summary,  Payday Express lent loan 1a to Mr S when it shouldnt  have  and hes lost out as 
a result so it needs to put things right.
putting things right  what Payday Express needs to do.
refund all interest and charges Mr S paid toward  loan 1a,
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were  paid (if they were) to the date of settlement*;
if theres  an outstanding balance on loans 2/2a, Payday  Express  may deduct any 
outstanding balance  from the redress but may only do this if it still owns the debt. If 
there isnt an outstanding balance  then the full redress amount should be paid to 
Mr S,
remove any adverse  information about loan 1a from Mr S credit file.
* HM Revenue & Customs  requires Payday Express to take off tax from this interest. Payday Express 
must give Mr S a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold Mr S complaint  in part and require Express Finance (Bromley) Limited  to put things 
right as set out above.
Ref: DRN01440593Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 June 2019.
Oyetola Oduola
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0144059