K821x#15complaint
Mr S says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold  him a single premium  payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy when he took out a loan.
background
I issued my provisional decision on 14 November 2019, a copy  extract of which  is attached 
and forms part of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision,  I explained  why I was proposing to uphold  Mr Ss complaint. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further  submissions before I reached  a final 
decision. 
Both AXA and Mr S have  confirmed they have each  received my decision and neither AXA, 
or Mr S have added anything further.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
As neither party has provided any further evidence  or arguments  for consideration, I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision. It follows  that I 
uphold this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint against AXA France IARD and I direct it to 
pay the fair compensation as outlined  in my provisional decision attached.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 January 2020.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
copy extract of provisional decision
background
In 1999 Mr S took out a loan repayable  over a term of 26 months. At the same time he was sold a 
single premium PPI policy to cover his payments for the loan term if he was unable to work due to 
accident or sickness or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld as she thought  the policy provided a 
useful benefit.
Ref: DRN03986642Mr S disagreed, so the complaint  has come to me for a decision.
AXA have taken responsibility for the sale so to keep things  simple I have referred  to AXA as the 
seller throughout the decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ss complaint.
Im currently  thinking of upholding Mr Ss complaint.
AXA had to make clear  to Mr S that the PPI was optional and make sure Mr S agreed to take it. AXA 
havent been  able to provide  any information about the sale so in coming to my decision Ive had to 
rely entirely on what Mr S has told us and the documents he has provided - the credit agreement and 
policy document.
Ive looked at these documents carefully. All the policy document shows is what  the benefits of the 
policy are and the terms and conditions.  There is nothing I can see on this that shows the PPI was 
optional or that Mr S agreed to take it. 
And although the cost of PPI on the credit agreement is set out separately from the loan it is all still 
lumped in together under the FINANCIAL DETAILS  which I think suggests that PPI is part of the 
credit agreement as standard.
And again, there is nothing on the agreement that describes the PPI as optional or provides the option 
for Mr S not to take PPI  it is just included. So I cant say from these documents  how PPI came to be 
on Mr Ss credit agreement. 
So taking everything into account,  I cant say its likely  was made clear to Mr S that the PPI was 
optional or that he agreed to take it. So it follows that I currently think  this complaint  should be upheld.
Ref: DRN03986643what AXA should do to put things  right
Mr S borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so his loan was bigger than it shouldve been and he paid 
more than he shouldve  each month. So Mr S needs to get back the extra  hes paid.  
So, AXA should:
Work out and pay Mr S the difference between what he paid each month on the loan and what he 
wouldve paid each month without PPI.
Add simple  interest to the extra  amount Mr S paid each month from when he paid it until he gets it 
back. The rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993  and 8% a year from then on.
If Mr S made a successful claim  under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what he got for the claim 
from the amount  it owes him.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  AXA to take off tax from this interest.  AXA must  give Mr S a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint  against  AXA France  IARD. If my decision 
becomes final AXA France IARD should pay the fair compensation  outlined above.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0398664