K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Nationwide  Building  Society werent consistent in their approach  as to 
whether he could offset overpayments  on a loan to pay down an overdraft.
background
I issued a provisional decision on 23 May 2019, setting out why I thought Nationwide did not 
have to do anything  further to settle the complaint.   I invited both parties  to make any further 
submissions by 6 June 2019 before I finalised matters. 
My provisional decision is attached. Nationwide didnt have anything further to add and no 
new arguments or information were provided by Mr W. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no new information or arguments have been provided I see no reason to depart from the 
conclusions as set out in my provisional  decision.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 July 2019.
My final decision is that Nationwide Building Society  doesnt need to do anything more  to 
settle the complaint. 
Daniel Bunting
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN01268662provisional decision  
complaint
Mr W complains  that Nationwide Building Society werent consistent in their approach as to
whether he could offset overpayments on a loan to pay down an overdraft.
background
Mr W had a current account with Nationwide with an overdraft facility  of £2,000.  Nationwide
wrote to him in October 2016 to tell him that they were going to take this away. Mr W was
worried that this would mean  that he had to pay the full amount back straight away.
He also had a loan with Nationwide that he had been overpaying.  So he contacted
Nationwide and asked  if they could  take the amounts that he had overpaid, which at that
point was £1,180, and put that towards his overdraft. Nationwide said that they wouldnt do
this, although he could put his loan repayments on hold and use the credit in his account  to
make the loan repayments instead.
In March 2018  however,  Mr W spoke to someone  else at Nationwide about his accounts.
That advisor  said that Mr W could  use the amount that he had in his loan account, which at
that point  was £87.44, and put that in his current account.
Mr W was unhappy that Nationwide hadnt done this before. This meant that he had to
spend more money on charges for his overdraft than he would  have done had Nationwide
done this at the start. So he complained to Nationwide.
Although Nationwide  initially  said that they hadnt done anything wrong,  they changed their
mind later. They did accept that they had given Mr W conflicting information. Firstly they told
him that they couldnt use the amount  that he had overpaid on the loan to offset his
overdraft, but later telling him that they could. In light of that, they offered to repay  him the
£87.44 overpayment and compensation  of £50.
Mr W wasnt happy with this as it didnt  cover the full amount of extra money  that he spent
on his overdraft.
Our adjudicator thought that Nationwide should work  out the amount  of money that Mr W
paid in account charges and interest between October 2016 and March  2018. She thought
that Nationwide should then work out the difference  between  this and the amount that Mr W
would have paid in account charges and interest, had the £1,180 been put into his account
in October 2016. She also thought  that Nationwide should pay £100 in compensation rather
than the £50 they offered.
Nationwide do not accept this. They think that they didnt do anything wrong  as they
generally dont refund  loan repayments. They only offered to pay the £87.44 as a gesture of
goodwill. So the complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What I need to decide  here is whether Nationwide should  have to reimburse Mr W the
charges he paid between October  2016 and March 2018. I dont think they should, and I
believe Nationwide has acted fairly here. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN01268663The Terms & Conditions  for the loan dont say one way or another whether a customer  can
get back  an overpayment that they have  made. Nationwide have explained that that is their
general rule however. I dont think that that is an unreasonable position  to take, as when  a
customer allocates money to repay an outstanding amount on an account, then its fair for
the bank to use that money for that purpose. The money here was credited to Mr Ws loan
account and treated  as an overpayment,  but I dont think that this overpayment  is then
effectively a form of available credit to Mr W. It is different to the situation where you pay
money into your own current account and can get it out when you want  to.
The Terms & Conditions  of the current account  say that if a payment is overdue with one
account then Nationwide can take the money out of another  account that the same person
has with them, in order to pay it.
But I dont think that the money that Mr W had overpaid  would count  as money in the loan
account that Nationwide could freely  access. That money had been allocated to the account
and used for the intended purpose  to reduce  what Mr W owed Nationwide  in this capacity.
The Terms & Conditions  are for the situation where someone has different accounts  that
they use (for example  a current and a savings account) and Nationwide  can offset the
available balance in one against another, where money is owed. I think  this situation is
different. Here, the overpayment has gone to Nationwide  and because Mr W hasnt got
access to it, Nationwide  cant  go and get it out and use it to offset the overdraft. 
I think  that the problem here is that the person who told Mr W in March 2018  that he could
transfer the overpayment shouldnt  have said that. But that doesnt mean  that itd be fair for
me to now tell Nationwide to do something it wouldnt normally do. 
I do think that Nationwide were right to recognise that Mr W was misled  by the different
information that they gave him. I think that the amount that Nationwide are offering to pay is
enough to compensate him for the inconvenience caused  by the wrong  information.
 
I say this because Mr W wasnt caused a direct loss because of by what Nationwide did
here, but he was understandably  confused  when  they gave him conflicting  information.
I know that Mr W will be disappointed by this, but I dont think that Nationwide should  pay
more than they have offered.  They have already made an offer to settle the complaint and I
think this is fair.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I dont think that Nationwide Building Society needs to do
anything more to settle the complaint.
Dan Bunting
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0126866