K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L have complained about  the transfer  of each of their ISAs. They have  said AFH 
Independent Financial Services Limited (AFH) delayed in processing the transfer and that 
when the transaction was unsuccessful AFH didnt tell them of this fact until ten months after 
the original transaction was requested. So they have  lost out while the monies  have been 
sitting in cash remaining un-invested.
background
The circumstances set out below and my findings  apply to both Mr and Mrs L as they both 
each held their own ISAs. However,  for clarity I have only referred to Mr L and his ISA 
throughout this decision.
In March 2017 Mr L put in an application  to transfer  his ISA away  from AFH to a different  
business, Business  B. Mr L has said that he heard nothing else from either  party until 
January 2018  when  he received notification from AFH that the transfer  had been  
unsuccessful and the monies had been sat in a cash account with a third party,  Business C, 
who was the ISA provider.
AFH has said that it received the transfer  request from Mr L on 29 March  2017. It carried  out 
the necessary  checks it had to and the monies were  transferred on 20 April 2017.  However,  
the deadline for transfers into the specific product  with Business B was 14 April 2017 so 
because the deadline was missed  Business B rejected the payment and so the monies were 
sent to Business C where it sat until Mr L was notified.
AFH state that it was made aware of this in June  2017. It says it tried to speak  to Business B 
to enquire what had happened  but because AFH had ceased  to be Mr Ls servicing agents, 
as of the date of the request to transfer  the ISA, Business B wouldnt speak to it. AFH has 
also said that because  there was a do not contact marker on Mr Ls file it didnt contact him 
directly.
When Mr L was made  aware  of what had happened  in January 2018 he complained  to AFH. 
He was unhappy that this had only come to light ten months after the request to transfer the 
ISA. He also confirmed  that he hadnt  requested no further contact from AFH so wasnt  sure 
why there  would be a do not contact  marker on his file so he was confused as to why no 
contact was made with him when this was initially discovered in June 2017.
He was also unhappy that he had paid management fees to AFH over those ten months 
while nothing had been done  and his money.  He feels he missed out on ten months of 
potential investment growth. He also queried  why it took AFH so long to sell down the 
holdings and transfer the portfolio. And why did AFH transfer the money if it was already 
aware the deadline had passed.
The complaint was assessed  by one of our investigators who didnt think it could be upheld. 
She felt the point  at which AFH received the request from Mr L to transfer out was when it 
ceased to be Mr Ls servicing agents so it was reasonable and understandable why 
Business B wouldnt explain  anything to AFH when it became aware in June 2017 that the 
transfer had failed. She felt this was the point at which Business B should have contacted 
Mr L about the transfer as AFH ceased  to have any duty owing to Mr L. She also felt AFH 
had a process to go through  before the transaction took place and certain checks  to run so 
didnt think it had taken  too long in being  ready to process the transfer on 20 April. She also 
Ref: DRN08827282acknowledged the do not contact marker as another reason why AFH didnt make Mr L 
aware of this situation. And while Mr L had said he hadnt requested this marker it was there  
nevertheless, so AFH was, at that time, adhering to the instructions it had.
Mr L didnt agree with the assessment. He remained of the view the time taken to process 
the transfer by AFH was too long. He reiterated  that he had never  instructed AFH to not 
contact him and felt that AFH still represented him and owed him a duty of care even after 
the transfer had been  requested.
The investigator considered Mr Ls comments but didnt  feel persuaded to change  her initial 
outcome. So as no agreement could be reached  the complaint has been passed to me to 
review for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  the 
complaint can be upheld.
In order for me to be able to uphold this complaint I would need to be sure that AFH was 
responsible for the delays in transferring Mr Ls ISA which therefore led to the deadline  for 
his chosen investment being missed. I would  also need to be satisfied that AFH acted 
incorrectly or unreasonably in waiting ten months  before informing Mr L that the transfer had 
failed.
Firstly I have considered whether AFH took too much time to process  the transfer request 
which led to Mr L missing  the deadline  for the specific  investment he wanted  with Business 
B.
I know that it took twenty four days  for the monies  to be transferred but the timescales for 
transferring invested  funds does depend on how quickly the funds can be sold down. But 
before this can happen certain security checks need  to take place and this was part of AFHs 
process. I know  that AFH had to contact Business B as part of this process and I understand  
that Business  B delayed in giving  AFH the security  information it needed which  in turn 
caused the delay. So while I do agree twenty  four days  is longer think  I would initially  expect 
for a transfer of an ISA, given the specific situation, I dont think  AFH unnecessarily delayed 
in processing the transfer request. It would appear  AFH followed its usual procedures  but it 
struggled to get the information  it required from Business  B.
Ive next considered whether when  AFH was made  aware  the transfer had failed in June 
2017 was it under a duty to contact Mr L. It is standard practice that once a transfer request 
has been accepted by a business this effectively  marks  the end of its authority to work for 
the client. AFH has also confirmed that signing the transfer requests also acts as the clients  
authority to end their relationship and thereby ceasing  all obligations  on AFH as Mr Ls 
servicing agent. Therefore I dont think it was obliged to contact  Mr L at this point in time.  
And realistically given  Mr L was trying to move  his monies to Business B with which  he 
clearly had started up an ongoing  relationship,  I think it was Business Bs obligation  to  
inform its client, Mr L, that the transfer it was waiting for at the instruction of Mr L had failed.
The do not contact  marker is also something to consider at this point. Because  of this AFH 
wasnt able to contact  Mr L. I appreciate Mr L isnt sure where this came from but I have no 
reason to question  this was on the file. And in any event, as Ive already said,  because of the 
Ref: DRN08827283transfer request  AFH wasnt  under any duty to contact Mr L about his investments from that 
point on.
With regards to the charge AFH took, this was taken on 28 March  2017 which was the same 
time the request to transfer out was made.  No further charges have been taken by AFH. This 
charge was purely in relation to the discretionary  intermediation service provided by AFHs 
investment team.  I know  Mr  L feels this charge was paid and AFH proceeded to do nothing 
with his investment  but the charge appears  to be a valid one and as already stated  above  
because of the transfer request and the marker on Mr Ls file AFH was unable  to do anything 
further once it received  notification the transaction had been declined.
Overall, I agree  the transaction  initially took longer than I would normally expect and I 
appreciate how frustrating it was that Mr L was only told about  the declined  transaction some  
ten months after the initial request.  But I think the delay in processing  the transaction  from 
AFHs part was due to Business B not co-operating. As Ive already  said,  ultimately from the 
point of making the request Mr L ceased to be a client of AFH so when  his ISA was declined 
by Business B it was for Business B to tell Mr L. I also agree that Mr L has lost out on ten 
months of potential investment growth but because I dont think this was because of 
anything AFH did this isnt for AFH to address.  It was really for his new Business B and to 
some extent Business  C to have relayed this information to Mr L in a timely  manner  so he 
could than decide what to do with the monies  he held on that ISA.
For these reasons, I cant ask AFH to do anything further because it isnt responsible  for the 
issues Mr L has raised.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 July 2019.
Ayshea Khan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0882728