K820x#14complaint
Mr G says The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc (RBS)  mis-sold him a payment  protection  
insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2006.  The policy was added  to 
Mr Gs credit card account when he applied for a Mint credit card online.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr G disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Gs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
 Ive seen  a copy of the credit agreement which Mr G signed. Theres  a box to tick if the 
applicant wished to buy PPI. And the PPI was referred  to as a type of Optional 
Insurance. Theres a tick in the box, indicating that Mr G wanted to take the cover.  And 
he signed specifically to confirm that he wished to take the cover, in addition  to signing 
the form overall.  
 Ive borne in mind  that Mr Gs told us that the application form was sent out saying he 
needed to sign here and here to get the card, and that no-one  explained  anything  to 
him as he applied online and just had a paperwork sent to him. But Im satisfied that it 
was clear from the way the form was set out that the PPI was optional.  And I think  
Mr G decided to take it, knowing that he had a choice   although I can understand why 
he may no longer  remember this.
 Mr G applied for the credit card and PPI online. I think its unlikely that he had any 
direct contact  about the application with RBSs staff. So I think  its unlikely that RBS 
recommended the PPI to Mr G. This means  it didnt  have to check  if it was suitable for 
him. But it did have  a responsibility to give Mr G clear  enough  information  to enable 
him to decide whether the PPI was right for him, knowing what  other  means hed have 
had of making his monthly credit card payments if hed been off sick or lost his job.
 Its possible the information RBS gave Mr G about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But Mr G chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted this 
type of cover, even if hes understandably forgotten that now. He wasnt  affected by 
any of the exclusions or limitations and the policy was competitively priced and 
apparently affordable.
Ref: DRN02824952 Mr Gs told us that hed haven  been  entitled to six months full pay, followed by six 
months half pay from his employer if hed been  off sick. But if hed made a successful 
claim for accident  or sickness on the policy, it would have paid out in addition to any 
payments Mr G received from his employer, allowing  him to use those to meet other 
living expenses. Whats more, it would have  done so for up to 12 months, which  is 
longer than Mr Gs told us hed have been entitled to full sick pay for. And he wouldnt 
have had to use his limited savings to meet his credit card repayments. 
 So overall, I think the PPI could have been useful to Mr G. And I think  it unlikely hed 
have made a different decision if better  information had been provided. On balance 
I think hed still have  taken out the policy.
Ive taken into account all of Mr Gs comments, including what  hes said about the policys 
cancellation terms not having been explained to him. But Mr G paid for the policy monthly, 
and the premiums were  clearly shown on his monthly credit card statements. If hed decided 
that he didnt want the PPI after all, I think its likely  hed have contacted RBS to ask about 
cancelling it, and Ive seen nothing to suggest  that he did so. So this doesnt change my 
conclusion.
But RBS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr G because: 
RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr G about that. Because  RBS didnt tell Mr G, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, RBS has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr G.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does  have to pay back to Mr G any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 June 2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0282495