K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy.
background
Mr S took out a credit card in 2002. At the same  time he took out a PPI policy.
This policy would  have cost no more than £0.79 per £100 of the outstanding balance on his 
card and it would  have paid the monthly  benefit  of that balance if he was off work  because of 
an accident, sickness or if he lost his job for up to 12 months per successful claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  think this complaint should be upheld. Mr S disagreed  with this view 
and asked that his matter  be referred  to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
The first thing Ive considered is whether  Mr S had a fair choice  about  buying the PPI. Lloyds 
has been able to provide  a copy of the completed  application form from the time Mr S 
applied for his card and the PPI policy. Although the application isnt very clear,  I can see 
that the part about PPI under the heading optional features has been  ticked  to say Mr S 
wanted it. There was also the option  to say no to the policy. And I think the PPI appeared 
on Mr Ss credit card statements. So he could have questioned it at any time if he didnt  want 
it. I havent seen  he has done so. Overall,  I think Mr S chose the PPI in 2002 knowing he 
could refuse  it if he didnt want it even if its completely  understandable if he cant remember  
that now after so long.
Lloyds has said it will look at this as if it were  an advised sale. I think thats fair to Mr S as it 
puts more responsibility  on Lloyds for how it sold the PPI and meant that it had to make sure 
it was suitable  for his circumstances as well as giving Mr S enough  clear  information so he 
could decide for himself  whether or not he wanted  the PPI.
Looking at Mr Ss circumstances and the policy terms and conditions I cant say the policy  
was unsuitable  for him.
I say that because he was eligible for the cover  and as he was working and in good health at 
the time,  I dont think he would have been affected by any of the main limitations and 
exclusions in the policy. So I think its likely  he could have made a successful claim if hed 
needed to.
Mr S has told us about some savings  he had. He cant remember  his sick pay from work  but 
in any event this policy would have paid out in addition to any he did get and likely  for longer 
than his sick pay would have lasted. And any savings  he had could have been used for any 
Ref: DRN02405632other important living  expenses if he fell into difficulty  - so I cant say it was unsuitable for 
Mr S. I still think it could  have been  useful.
Theres nothing to make me think it was unaffordable for him or he had a particular need  to 
keep his costs  down.
Its possible that not all the information  Lloyds gave to Mr S was as clear  as it could have 
been but thats not enough  to uphold this complaint. I next need to think  about  whether Mr S 
would have changed his mind. But as Ive explained  I think  he chose the policy and for much 
the same  reasons as Ive explained  about why I think the policy  was suitable  for him, I still 
think he would have  bought the policy even with better or clearer information.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr S but I dont think he lost out because  of anything  Lloyds did 
wrong and I dont uphold his complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 June  2019.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0240563