K821x#15complaint
Mr A has complained that HSBC UK Bank  Plc has imposed a limit on the amount he can 
spend on his charge  card.
background
The background to this complaint, and my provisional findings,  were set out in my 
provisional decision dated 12 April 2019.  A copy of this is attached and forms part of this 
final decision. In my provisional decision  I invited both parties to let me have any further 
comments and evidence.
Mr A thinks  the amount  of additional  compensation I said I would award  is somewhat 
derisory. He says he fully supports  HSBCs  device to prevent fraud  but he thinks  it should 
follow the advice  given on his online statements to the effect that the limit shown on those  
statements doesnt apply  to charge cards.
HSBC says Mr As card doesnt have a credit  limit. It says its placed an internal control  limit 
on the account as part of its fraud prevention measures.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered  Mr As comments regarding the award of compensation. But Im not 
persuaded I should increase it any further.  Hes referred me to a letter he received in May 
2017 which was signed by a senior employee of HSBC. The letter refers to the credit  limit  
on Mr As account and to the possibility of penalties and restrictions being imposed if Mr A 
didnt make sure his balance was below  £5,000.
I had considered this letter when I issued  my provisional decision as its the letter that 
temporarily increased the limit on Mr As account to £8,000. I agree with Mr A that it was 
inappropriate and demonstrated a lack of understanding by HSBCs senior  personnel of the 
product it was providing. However, Mr A was aware  of the limit HSBC  had placed  on his 
account and I dont agree that the letter significantly increased the trouble and upset he 
suffered.
Ive also noted  Mr As comment about  his online statement and I confirm Id considered  this 
when I issued my provisional decision. The online statement specifies a credit limit of 
£5,000. This doesnt appear  on the paper copy of the statement and a message comes up 
on the screen when  the online statement is being viewed saying the limit doesnt  apply  to the 
type of account  held by Mr A. He says its incongruous for HSBC  to give notice  the limit 
doesnt apply  and then apply it, regardless. I agree with this and I think  it should  be resolved 
by removing the limit.
Ive considered HSBCs  comment  about the limit being an internal control limit. Im not 
persuaded that this terminology affects my decision. The terms and conditions  of the 
account do not allow HSBC to put any limit on the account and I think the way HSBC 
describe the limit is irrelevant.
Ref: DRN03078002HSBC says the limit is a fraud prevention measure that may result in unusual  transactions 
being referred. Mr A and I both accept that its reasonable for HSBC  to take steps to prevent 
fraud. But Im not satisfied  the limit HSBC has imposed serves  this objective.
In September  2018 Mr A made a purchase using his card for a sum in excess  of £2,500.  It 
was unusual for Mr A to make purchases  for sums of that size but it went  through. However, 
the above payment and other smaller  payments that were made during the same  month took 
the account balance over £5000. Because of this HSBC declined a much smaller payment 
that was in accordance with Mr As normal spending  pattern. I think this demonstrates  that 
the limit restricts Mr As total spending but wouldnt necessarily  be effective in preventing 
fraud.
Given all of the above, Im not persuaded I should depart from my provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  and in my provisional decision my final decision is I uphold 
this complaint. I require  HSBC UK Bank Plc to:
1 Remove the limit from Mr As charge card account; and
2 Pay Mr A an additional £150 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
Charles Bacon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN03078003Copy of provisional  decision
background
Mr A has held a charge  card, issued by HSBC, for 37 years.  HSBC hasnt offered this type of product 
to customers who dont  already have it for many years. The card isnt the same as a credit card 
because Mr A is required  to pay the full outstanding balance each month and it doesnt have  a credit 
limit. However, HSBC has set a limit of £5,000 on the amount Mr A can spend on his card to stop any 
potential fraud.
In April 2018  Mr A wanted  to make a payment in excess of £19,000 using  his card. He telephoned  
HSBC to give it prior warning that he intended to make the above payment. The adviser Mr A spoke 
to wasnt  able to assist  him because the adviser didnt understand the type of card Mr A held.
Mr A then transferred £20,000 to his card account and made the above payment in four instalments of 
£5,000 or less. He complained to HSBC about having  to do this and about the service  hed received 
when he telephoned. HSBC  apologised for the inconvenience and frustration it had caused Mr A and 
credited his account  with £150 compensation.
Mr A wasnt happy with HSBCs response to his complaint and referred it to this service.
our initial conclusions
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld.  She thought HSBC was entitled to 
place a security measure  on Mr As card and its payment of £150  was a fair amount  to compensate 
Mr A for the trouble  and upset hed suffered as a result of its poor service.
Mr A didnt accept our investigators recommendation. He says the terms and conditions dont allow 
HSBC to put a credit limit on his card. Hes also referred to two occasions in September 2018 when 
he and his wife tried to make  purchases using the card which were declined.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr A is correct when  he says the terms and conditions of the card dont provide for the imposition  of a 
credit limit. The only limit specified in the terms and conditions is that The total amount of Cash 
Advance transactions at any one time must  not exceed  £20,000. Mr A rightly  says he couldnt  
possibly reach  this limit because HSBC has imposed an overall limit of £5,000 on the card.
HSBC says Mr A could apply to have the limit increased  but hed need to do this at the branch where 
the account is held. Mr A says he shouldnt have to do this because the card shouldnt have a limit, at 
all. In any event, HSBC increased  the limit to £8,000 in May 2017 but only until July 2017. So it seems 
unlikely that Mr A would get the outcome he wants by going to his branch.
HSBC isnt under a legal obligation to continue  to provide Mr A with this type of card. The terms and 
conditions say it can end the card agreement by giving Mr A 30-days notice.  But if HSBC  continues to 
give Mr A the card, it must comply  with its own terms and conditions and shouldnt impose any limit on 
Mr As spending.
Given the above,  I currently  think  I should  require  HSBC to remove the credit limit from Mr As card. 
But I can see why HSBC  might not want its customers to have a facility  to incur unlimited credit. And 
Mr A should be aware that if he insists  on having unlimited credit, HSBC could  give him notice to end 
the agreement and he would  then lose the card entirely.
Ref: DRN03078004Ive considered the compensation HSBC  has paid Mr A for the trouble  and upset resulting from its 
poor service. Its apparent that staff employed in its call centres  have received little or no training on 
how the charge card operates. This has caused Mr A difficulty when hes spoken to the call centres 
about his card.
In addition, Mr As had problems when payments  on his card have been  declined. HSBC says that if 
Mr A tried to make a payment that would take the balance on his card over £5,000 it would  follow its 
internal procedures  in order to allow  the transaction to be authorised. It says this would involve 
contacting the merchant to verify  Mr A. However, Im aware of transactions  being declined  on Mr As 
card in September 2018 and I havent  seen  any evidence  of HSBC following  the above procedures on 
those occasions.
In all the circumstances, I dont think £150 is sufficient to compensate Mr A for all the trouble and 
upset hes had. To resolve matters, I would require  HSBC to pay him another  £150.
my provisional  decision
Subject to any additional comments and evidence I get from the parties, my provisional decision is I 
would uphold  this complaint. To resolve matters, I would require HSBC UK Bank Plc to:
2 Remove  the limit from Mr As charge card account; and
3 Pay Mr A an additional £150 compensation.
Ref: DRN0307800