K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M have  complained that Bank  of Scotland  plc trading as Halifax  will not refund 
any commission it received from their loan payment protection insurance (PPI) premiums for 
the policy they took out in 2002.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. I know this will disappoint Mr and Mrs M, and Ill 
explain why. 
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about  the 
non-disclosure of commission where PPI was sold. 
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share  from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission and profit share  that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
But these  rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship  provisions 
in the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions  which  were  added to 
the Consumer  Credit Act in 2006  came into force on 6 April 2007. The changes  made in 
2006 explained that the unfair relationship  provisions would only apply to credit  agreements 
taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements taken out before then, which were still 
running on 6 April 2008. 
Halifax has given me information  that shows Mr and Mrs Ms loan was taken out in 2002 and 
ended in 2006. So based on what Ive said above, I dont think the unfair relationship  
provisions in the Consumer Credit  Act, the Supreme Court  judgment,  or the rules and 
guidance made by the FCA in relation to the non-disclosure of commission  apply here.
So Halifax  doesnt  need to refund any of the commission Mr and Mrs M paid for the PPI they 
had with their loan.
Mr M has told us that having looked at the loan agreement  himself  it would appear the loan 
was originally taken  for a longer term. But the information provided  by Halifax  shows  the loan 
was paid off in 2006. So this point doesnt  change  my decision.
my final decision
Ref: DRN06287382I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 June  2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0628738