K821x#15complaint
Mr A says Elevate Credit International Limited  (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about six high-cost short term credit loans that Sunny provided to Mr A 
from July 2018  onwards.  Mr As last loan was provided in February  2019.  
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr As complaint and thought that he shouldnt have been provided  
with loan 6. Sunny didnt agree in full. So the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all the key relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr A could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers  income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult  to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number  and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer  has been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided. Having 
looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr A, I think that Sunny should 
reasonably have seen that Mr A was unlikely  to have been  able to make his payments in a 
sustainable manner  by the time it provided loan 6. 
I say this because  by this stage, Mr A had an established pattern of taking further loans soon 
after repaying previous  ones.  This pattern of borrowing  had continued over an extended 
number of loans.  Im not persuaded  that the loan repayments being  less than a certain 
percentage of Mr As income or the fact that Mr A repaid loan 6 means that it was 
sustainable or that it was fair and reasonable for Sunny  to provide it.
Ref: DRN02052152Mr A had to pay interest and charges on a loan that Sunny shouldnt have provided him with. 
So I think that he lost out and Sunny should  put things right.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund all interest  and charges Mr A paid on loan 6;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
all reference to loan 6 should  be removed from Mr As credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr A a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr As complaint. Elevate Credit  
International Limited should pay Mr A compensation  as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 April 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0205215