K822xcomplaint
Mr G is unhappy  with a number of administration issues he feels Royal  & Sun Alliance
Insurance Plc (RSA) handled poorly in respect of his building  and contents insurance  policy.
background 
Mr G has explained  that in April 2018 he took out a buildings and contents insurance policy 
with RSA when  he visited his local building society. Following  this, he received a letter  from 
RSA.
This letter said that on reviewing its records RSA had become aware that Mr G had a 
previous policy  with it, taken out through a different  intermediary,  and that during this time he 
had made  three claims.
It said Mr G had only disclosed one of these  claims when  taking  out his policy  in April 2018  
a claim for damage caused by an escape  of water. And it said the information it had been 
given by Mr G about this claim  was slightly different to the details it had of the loss. It said it 
had information  showing that the escape  of water claim had cost an amount of £3,161.81 to 
resolve, rather than the £1,300 noted  when the policy was taken out by Mr G.
The other two claims it mentioned were for accidental losses. RSA said if it had known  the 
details of the three claims it wouldnt have offered a new policy to Mr G. So, it asked Mr G to 
clarify why his full claims history wasnt disclosed to it when the policy was purchased.
Mr G responded to RSA. He apologised  for any oversight in the information  he provided.
Mr G also said that;
he hadnt been given information on how much the escape  of water claim had cost. 
So, he had estimated this amount he was told to do this by the building  societys 
representative.
he had only one accidental loss claim,  not two. He said one of the claims had not 
been pursued. So, it shouldnt be taken into account.
Because RSA was the insurer for his previous policies, as well as the one taken  out 
in April 2018, he had assumed RSA would cross-reference its databases for his 
details.
Mr G also raised  his concerns about  the address RSA held for him. He said this wasnt  
correct  and he gave RSA the right address details.
Based on this, RSA confirmed it had amended the details of Mr Gs claims history  on his 
policy. This was to show the accurate  cost of the escape of water claim hed made (it said 
this was £3,161.81). And to show that Mr G had made only one claim for accidental loss.
RSA confirmed these  changes had no effect  on the price of the policy Mr G had recently 
purchased with it. Or, on the terms of that policy. And that it would send Mr G some  updated
policy documents.
Ref: DRN00152972It also requested that the third party database that holds information  on previous claims,  
Claims Underwriting Exchange (CUE), was changed, to show Mr G had not pursued  one of 
the accidental  loss claims.
Following this, Mr G raised further  concerns.  These included concerns that;
RSA had told him amendments had been  made to his policy, but not what these 
were. And, his new policy schedule said an amended  premium  of £0.00 was 
charged  so he wanted to know why this was detailed;
his claims  history  now detailed that the escape of water claim had cost £3,361. He 
wanted to be supplied  with a breakdown of the costs in relation to this claim, to 
check its accuracy;
he had received no confirmation  that CUE  had amended its database to 
accurately show his claims history;
the updated policy schedule sent to him still didnt include  his correct address;
and it was missing a table that was on the initial set of policy documents he had 
received. Mr G said this table had listed his claims history.  But, now despite RSA 
updating his claims  history to show he had only made two previous claims, the 
table was gone. Mr G wanted an explanation  as to this;
there was a joint policyholder listed on the policy, another  Mr G. Mr G said he 
hadnt requested  this when buying  the policy. He wanted the joint policyholder  to 
remain, but wanted an explanation as to why they were on the policy.
In RSAs final response letter it apologised for any confusion it had caused with its 
correspondence, and in detailing the incorrect  address for Mr Gs home. It said it had now 
updated Mr Gs address. And, it responded to each  of above  points  (with  exception to the 
missing table in the second policy schedule).
Our investigator upheld this complaint in part. He was satisfied RSA had resolved the 
problem with Mr Gs address. But, he felt RSA should pay Mr G an amount of £100  
compensation in total (he had already been  offered £25) for the trouble and upset  he had 
experienced.
He said that Mr G had a duty to provide accurate claims information when taking out his 
policy. But, he said RSA also should hold correct records  about previous claims. He said it 
had incorrect records about the accidental loss claim  Mr G didnt pursue. And, he felt that 
when it learnt this, it shouldve chased Claims Underwriting Exchange (CUE), the third party  
responsible for holding these details,  to ensure the error was corrected.
Mr G agreed  with the compensation  our investigator  recommended. But he also confirmed 
he would  like the matter  to be reviewed by an ombudsman. RSA also agreed to the 
recommended compensation. But, it didnt agree Mr G had been impacted by the delay in 
CUE records updating. And it said it wasnt able to provide  Mr G with a breakdown  of the 
escape of water claim made under his previous policy  because the policy was purchased 
through a separate  business entity   and it tried to avoid any conflict of interest.
I sent a provisional  decision  to Mr G and RSA on 28 January 2019. In this I said;
Ref: DRN00152973Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Im intending to uphold  
this complaint in part. Ive explained my reasons for this below.
Mr G has provided  a number of points and comments in respect of his concerns  about RSA 
Id like to assure Mr G that Ive carefully considered  all correspondence and information from 
him, alongside the information provided by RSA. But, Ive only referred to what  I consider to 
be relevant to the crux of this complaint,  and to my decision.
claims history
Both parties  now agree that the Mr G made two previous claims. One for damage caused by 
an escape of water. And the other for an accidental loss. Once Mr G confirmed this to RSA, 
it continued to provide Mr G with cover. And it made  sure the numbers of claims Mr G made 
was accurately recorded on his policy. This is what I would have expected it to do. So, I think 
it acted reasonably here.
RSA told Mr G that the costs against his escape  of water claim were higher  than he had 
estimated. So, it amended these details  on his policy too. And Mr G asked RSA to provide  
him with a breakdown of the costs incurred  during  the claim so he could check this amount 
was correct.
But RSA said it wasnt  able to provide  this to him. It noted this was because  although this 
claim was dealt with by RSA, the policy Mr G had at the time was taken out through  a 
different intermediary. It said providing  Mr G with the details of his claim could be a conflict of 
interest  and it wanted to avoid this.
Ive thought about whether RSAs  position in this respect was fair or not. And I accept  it did 
tell Mr G he could  obtain the information  he wanted through the intermediary for his previous 
policy. But, I dont think RSAs position here is reasonable, or that Mr G should need to 
contact another  intermediary in order to get these details.
Im satisfied Mr G is entitled  to see the breakdown of what the claim cost. This is important 
for ensuring Mr G correctly discloses his claims history in the future. Mr Gs claim was dealt 
with by RSA  regardless of which business  entity  Mr G took the policy  out through.  And 
RSA hasnt provided any evidence or reasoning to show why providing  Mr G with the 
breakdown of the escape of water claim  would be a conflict  of interest.
So, I think RSA should provide Mr G with a breakdown of the costs incurred as part of the 
escape of water claim. If on receiving  a breakdown of the costs related to the claim Mr G 
feels these are incorrect, he will need to raise this with RSA in the first instance.
Mr G has said he is concerned that he hasnt been  able to check  the cost of the escape of 
water claim is accurate as yet. And he feels this may have effected what  he has been 
charged for his policy. But Mr G wasnt charged  any additional premium when the full extent 
of his claims history  was realised. So, Im satisfied  there hasnt been  an impact of the 
premium Mr G was charged for the policy taken out in April 2018. Given  this, I dont think  
RSA needs to do anything  further  in this respect.
RSA informed Mr G it would also contact CUE, a third party  database, to ensure its records  
were accurate too (so they only showed one claim for accidental  loss). And it did do this. 
Ref: DRN00152974But, Mr G is unhappy RSA didnt write  to him to confirm CUE had made  the relevant 
amendments about his claims history when  this was completed.
Ive needed to think about whether I would have expected RSA to do this. And Im satisfied it 
didnt need to.
RSA has already made sure the correct information  was detailed on Mr Gs current  policy. 
And it had reassured  Mr G that he could keep a copy  of its final response  letter    which  
informed Mr G the alteration  hadnt  been made by CUE as yet, and would be done in the 
next few weeks   -  in case he needed  to show it to anyone whilst the relevant change was 
being made. I think this was sufficient to let Mr G know RSA had carried  out its obligations, 
and to reassure Mr G the necessary changes would be made.
RSA did check CUE  was correctly changed. So, I dont think  it needs to do anything more to 
confirm Mr Gs details have been updated on the third party database.
amendments made  on the policy
Mr G said RSA told him amendments had been  made to his policy,  but not what  these were.  
He thinks RSA needed to me more specific about  what these amendments were.  Ive 
carefully considered  this point. But, I dont agree. I think RSA has made the relevant 
amendments sufficiently  clear. Mr G was sent an updated policy schedule, which showed it 
was his claims history that had been  amended  to show that two claims had been made, 
instead of the one claim his original policy schedule  detailed.
In RSAs final response letter RSA did explain  this to Mr G too. So, I dont think it acted  
unfairly.
Mr G has raised  concerns  about the updated  policy schedule he was sent. He said this didnt 
include a table documenting  his claims history like his original policy schedule had. And, the 
document showed an amended premium  of £0.00.  Mr G wanted to know  why.
Ive compared  the initial policy schedule Mr G was sent. And the updated one he was 
provided with. On doing so Im aware the initial policy schedule did include a table which 
noted previous  claims. And the updated schedule didnt include this table. It set out 
Mr Gs claims history in a different  format. But I dont think  RSA has acted unreasonably 
by doing this. The information in the updated  claims history section was correct   and 
clear.
address held for Mr G.
Mr G has said RSA held incorrect address  details  for him. Because  of this the initial policy 
schedule sent to him had included the incorrect address details. Mr G explained that he told 
RSA this, but when it sent him an updated policy schedule, after amending the details  of his 
claims history, it still contained  the wrong address information.
Ive reviewed Mr Gs letters to RSA. On doing so, Im aware Mr G did tell RSA it had his 
address detailed incorrectly. And that when Mr G was sent an updated policy  schedule,  his 
address still included the incorrect area details.
Ref: DRN00152975I can see that whilst RSA had Mr Gs house, road and postcode  details correct,  the area in 
which the property  was situated was wrong. Because the address on the policy schedule did 
still include  the correct  house and postcode details Im aware  the documents RSA sent to 
Mr G were still received.  So the impact of RSAs error was small. But, Im satisfied RSA 
shouldve correctly updated Mr G address details when it was provided with this information. 
And, I can appreciate Mr Gs frustration  that this wasnt done.
RSA has provided me with a screen shot of the address  details it now holds for Mr G. So, Im 
aware the address information is now correct.  Im pleased to see RSA has remedied the 
issue. I dont intend on requiring it to do anything  more here to rectify this mistake. 
policy being in joint names
Mr G has raised  his concerns about  why his policy is detailed as having  been taken out in 
joint names. He said that when he took out the policy in his local building society  he didnt 
ask for this to be carried out.
Ive reviewed the initial policy schedule sent to Mr G in April 2018.  And I can see this does 
provide the details of a joint policyholder  a Mr G. I cant be sure what  was discussed 
between Mr G and the representative from the building  society when the policy  was 
purchased. So, I dont know whether Mr G agreed to there being a joint policyholder  on this 
policy. But, Mr G has since explained he is happy  for the joint policyholder to be on the 
policy.
The person  detailed as a joint policyholder is known to Mr G. And the policy  schedule  is 
usually a reflection  of what was discussed,  and agreed, during an application  of insurance. 
So, I think its likely  it was agreed a joint policyholder would be included  in the policy  
application. Given this, and the fact Mr G is happy  with the holders of the policy  as currently 
detailed, I see no evidence RSA did anything incorrectly in recording a joint policyholder in 
its documents, or on its system. So, I dont intend on recommending RSA do anything 
further here.
Mr G put some questions to this service in his correspondence asking whether if the joint 
policyholder was removed, they could still be a point of contact on the policy.  It isnt my role 
to find out this information for Mr G. Hell need  to ask RSA whether this is possible if this is 
something hed like to do.
dual insurance.
RSA said that when it was looking into Mr Gs concerns it noticed that Mr G was dual 
insured. So, it suggested Mr G contact the relevant intermediary  to cancel the policy he 
didnt want. Mr G doesnt feel this is fair. Hes said RSA should take action to remedy the
problem.
Ive thought about whether RSA acted fairly  here. And Im satisfied it did. It would be for 
Mr G to decide  which  policy he didnt want. And inform the relevant party  this was the case. 
Given this, I dont intend on making any recommendations  on this point.
compensation
RSA has accepted our investigators suggestion to pay Mr G an amount  of £100 
compensation. Ive considered this compensation offer, and whether I think its fair in the 
Ref: DRN00152976circumstances. I think  it is. So, I dont intend  on recommending  any additional compensation 
is paid to Mr G. Its clear Mr G suffered some upset  when  he noticed his address was 
correctly updated.  But, Im satisfied the impact of this issues was small.  So, I think that £100 
is sufficient to recognise the trouble and upset Mr G has experienced.
Both parties  received my provisional decision. RSA didnt provide any further  comments  or 
evidence. Mr G responded to my provisional  decision. He said he accepted my decision - on 
the condition that the £100 compensation was paid by cheque  within  14 days of my final 
decision. And that I ensure RSA provides the breakdown of the escape of water  claim within  
21 days of my final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having  done this, Ive decided  to uphold 
this complaint, as detailed  in my provisional  decision.
Neither party has provided any further  information  to alter the findings noted in my 
provisional decision. Or, to alter what I think is fair and reasonable in light of those  findings.
So, my final decision  remains the same  as noted  in my provisional decision.
Mr G has detailed timescales  in which he would like my final decision to be carried out in. 
But, Im not satisfied placing these timescales  on the redress Ive recommended  is fair.
Mr G will need  to respond to my final decision, and accept this, in order for my decision to be 
binding. At that point,  RSA will need  to move forward with the requirements of the decision.   
my final decision
In light of the above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Royal & 
Sun Alliance  Insurance Plc to;
pay Mr G an amount  of £100  compensation;
provide Mr G with a breakdown of the costs incurred as part of the escape  of water 
claim previously  made.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2019.
Rachel Woods
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0015297