K820x#14Complaint
This complaint is about two payment protection insurance (PPI) policies taken  out to cover 
the repayments on a mortgage. The policies covered Mr R only. Mr and Mrs R say 
Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold them the PPI.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Rs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policies werent  mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
Mr and Mrs R first took out PPI with a further advance  on their mortgage  in 2006. They then 
took out a second PPI policy with another further  advance in 2007.
2006 sale
Lloyds has sent us a copy of a PPI application  form from this sale. This says Mr R is to be 
covered by the policy and has been  signed  by Mr R. Lloyds has also sent us a copy of a 
direct debit mandate to pay for the PPI, which has been signed by Mrs R.
2007 sale
Lloyds has sent us a copy of the loan agreement for the further  advance. This included  a 
section on optional  insurance  which listed the PPI and how much  it would  cost.  Lloyds has 
also sent us a copy of a PPI application  form for this sale and a direct debit mandate to pay 
for this PPI, both signed by Mr and Mrs R.
Both sales
Mr and Mrs R have said Lloyds shouldnt have sold PPI to cover Mr R when it had only 
spoken to Mrs R. But Mr R signed  the PPI application forms and one of the direct  debit 
mandates, so he had the chance to decide about the policies before agreeing  to them.
As their mortgage had been running for a number of years, and theyd previously taken a 
further advance  without needing to take PPI, I dont think  Mr and Mrs R can reasonably have 
thought that they had to have the PPI in order to get the mortgage or the further advance.
Based on the evidence  I have, I think its likely  that Lloyds made it clear to Mr and Mrs R that 
they had a choice about the PPI. And that Mr and Mrs R chose to take it, knowing they didnt  
have to.
Mr and Mrs R have said they had previously declined PPI and so they must have been 
pressured into taking  it. But they havent given us much detail about specifically what  was 
said at the sales  or what specific  action  from Lloyds made them  feel pressured. So I dont 
think theres enough evidence for me to say Lloyds unfairly pressured them into the PPI 
here.
Ref: DRN05557072Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs R, so it had to check that it was right for them.  
And, based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think  that it was. For 
example, Mr R doesnt appear to have been  affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on 
the PPI cover. The policy couldve paid out for longer than Mr and Mrs R have told us Mr R 
wouldve been entitled to sick pay. And it wouldve meant they didnt need to rely on any 
savings or other means they had to make their repayments if Mr R wasnt  earning.
Mr and Mrs R have said Mr R was in stable employment. But peoples financial 
circumstances can change, and Mr Rs employment could have become less stable than he 
thought. And the PPI could have  provided  protection if something went wrong.
Mr and Mrs R have also said that, when  the policies were sold,  Mr R had plans to change his 
type of employment.  And that this change would mean he wasnt paying National  Insurance  
contributions and so couldnt claim on the policies.
The terms for the 2006 policy Ive seen dont mention  a requirement to pay National 
Insurance. And the terms for the 2007 policy Ive seen say that the policyholder  must have 
been paying the correct tax and National  Insurance  contributions  immediately before a 
claim.
From what  Mr and Mrs R have said, once he changed his type of employment, Mr R 
wouldnt have been required  to pay National Insurance  contributions.  And so his correct 
National Insurance contributions wouldve been  zero. So I dont  think  the terms of the policy  
mean that Mr R wouldnt be able to claim if he wasnt paying National Insurance  
contributions, as he would still have been  paying his correct  contributions.  So I still think the 
PPI was right for Mr and Mrs R.
As well as checking it was right for them, Lloyds had to give Mr and Mrs R clear  information 
about the PPI. Its possible  the information  it gave them wasnt as clear as it shouldve  been. 
But, a mortgage  is a serious  financial  commitment. And Mr and Mrs Rs property couldve 
been at risk if theyd  failed  to make their repayments. So I think  they couldve found  the 
protection the policy offered appealing. And, for the same reasons I think  it was right for 
them, it seems  like the PPI would have been useful for Mr and Mrs R if something  went 
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better  information  about the PPI 
would have put Mr and Mrs R off taking it out.
Ive also thought about whether Lloyds needs to give Mr and Mrs R some of the commission  
they paid back.
The Supreme Court ruling and FCA rules and guidance dont  apply to certain  types of 
mortgage agreement   including a regulated mortgage. While Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage 
wasnt initially regulated,  from the information  Lloyds has provided, they took out a further 
advance in March  2005.
Lloyds has told us the entire mortgage became regulated at that point. And based  on what 
we have seen  and what we know about  how Lloyds arranged  this further borrowing, Im 
satisfied that Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage did become regulated.
As Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage became regulated  before  6 April 2008, it was no longer 
covered by the Consumer Credit Act. This means  the FCAs rules  and guidance dont apply. 
So Lloyds doesnt need to refund any of the commission  Mr and Mrs R paid for the PPI they 
had with their mortgage.
Ref: DRN05557073My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 August 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0555707