K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a two mortgage  payment protection insurance (MPPI) policies taken 
out in 2004 and 2009. Mr A says Bank  of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold him the MPPI 
policies. 
Mr A was sold two Total Mortgage Protection Plans  (TMPP).  TMPP can be split into sections, 
namely Mortgage Repayments Cover (which is a form of MPPI), Life Cover and Critical Illness  
Cover (CIC).
Mr A has complained about the MPPI cover so Ive only looked at the sale of the MPPI element of 
the package in this decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr As case.
Ive decided the policies werent mis-sold.  Ill explain why.
Mr A says that he was pressured in to taking  out the policies, and that the advisor strongly 
recommended he take the policies until he agreed to do so. He says that the advisor gave 
him several  scenarios about  what  could  happen  if he didnt have any protection in place, and 
told him that he could  lose his home  if he couldnt make  his repayments.
I cant know what was said to Mr A at the time,  however, pressure is subjective and what  
feels like pressure to one person may not to another. I would also expect a business  to try 
and sell its products. And as both sales were advised, its possible the advisor said to Mr A 
that he should take out MPPI. But recommending  cover and pointing out the implications of 
not having cover in place isnt the same as telling a customer that they have to take out a 
product. And I havent seen any evidence to support  what Mr A has said.
BoS isnt able to provide all of the paperwork  from the times  it sold the policies to Mr A  but 
this isnt unusual  given how long ago the sales happened, and businesses arent required to 
keep records indefinitely.  But it has been able to show that its sales processes presented the 
MPPI as an optional product  and that it gained proper consent to take out the policy  at the. 
I havent seen  anything to suggest that BoS did anything  differently with Mr A. So I think  its 
likely BoS made it clear that Mr A didnt have  to take out the MPPI and he chose to take it 
out. 
BoS recommended the MPPI  policies to Mr A so it had to check that they were right for him 
 and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances when they were sold, I think that they 
were. For example he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the policies and 
he seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr A about  the MPPI  policies wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But as I think he chose to take them out - it looks  like he wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful  for him if something went wrong.  It also 
Ref: DRN01863822looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the MPPI policies would 
have put him off taking them out. 
Ive thought about everything Mr A has said - including what hes said about the MPPI not 
providing him enough cover when he made a claim. He says that the policy he claimed on 
only covered him for six months  when he was off work for nine months.
In this decision, Im looking at whether  the MPPI policies were mis-sold  at the time Mr A took 
them out. But I can see that Mr As policies did provide cover that was in excess  of his 
monthly mortgage payments. BoS has also said that Mr As claim made in 2010 stopped 
because it didnt receive ongoing documentation about Mr As circumstances  it says it 
write to him twice  about  this at the time. It also says Mr A went  on to make another  claim 
after this, which continued for 12 months.  If Mr A thinks that there  has been a mistake  here,  
he can speak to the insurer of the policy he made  the claims on.
This means  I dont  think the MPPI was mis-sold. So BoS doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr A paid for it. But BoS has already offered  to give Mr A back some of the cost of the MPPI. 
I dont think it needs to do anything more. 
BoS will make arrangements  to pay Mr A now Ive issued my final decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 May 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0186382