K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Bank of Scotland plc is asking him to provide details about  his 
employment status and annual income. 
background
Mr M has a bank  account with Bank of Scotland. In December  2018 he logged  in to his 
online banking and was prompted to update his personal details.  This included his 
employment status and annual income. Bank of Scotland explained  this information was to 
help them prevent fraud and to comply with regulatory and legal requirements.
Mr M wasnt happy providing this information and so he complained  to Bank of Scotland.  He 
wanted to know  what right they had to request this information. 
Bank of Scotland didnt uphold the complaint. They explained that the process of financial 
organisations obtaining information from their customers is known as Know Your Customer 
(KYC). And the regulator, The Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA), requires them  to keep 
their KYC information compliant an up to date.
They also explained that they have  a legal requirement to obtain information  from their 
customers to enable  them to understand their personal and financial circumstances. This is 
to ensure they comply with relevant sanctions and anti-money laundering regulations, as 
well as protecting their consumers from fraud  and financial crime. 
Mr M remained unhappy and so he brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked in to the matter but she didnt think  the Bank of Scotlands request for the information 
was unreasonable. She explained  that a relevant act that applies to Bank of Scotland 
requesting this information is the Money  Laundering,  Terrorist Financing and Transfer of 
Funds (Information  on the Payer) Regulations 2017 . But while  this act doesnt specifically 
refer to income and employment details it can include a range  of information. The FCA 
however also requires firms subject to these regulations to be compliant as well as meet  
additional but complementary regulations to minimise risk.
Mr M disagreed and so the matter has been passed  to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I appreciate why Mr M may have concerns about providing his employment  status  and 
annual salary to Bank of Scotland,  as it is personal and sensitive information. But, for the 
reasons Ill explain,  I dont  think  it is unreasonable for Bank of Scotland  to ask for it.
Bank of Scotland has to comply  with regulatory  and legal requirements and this includes, 
amongst others,  preventing financial crime. And the FCA, under SYSC  6: Compliance, 
internal audit and financial  crime, expects financial firms  to establish, implement and 
maintain adequate policies and procedures sufficient  for  countering  the risk that the firm 
might be used to further financial crime.
Ref: DRN07966732The FCA provides  guidance on steps  a firm can take to reduce the risk that they might  be 
used to further financial crime - Financial  Crime Guide:  A firms  guide  to countering financial 
crime risks.  It says:
3.2.4
Firms must identify their customers  and, where applicable, their beneficial owners, 
and then verify their identities. Firms must also understand  the purpose  and intended 
nature of the customers relationship with the firm and collect  information  about the 
customer and, where  relevant, beneficial owner.  This should  be sufficient to obtain a 
complete picture  of the risk associated with the business relationship and provide a 
meaningful basis  for subsequent monitoring.

3.2.5
A firm must conduct ongoing monitoring of its business relationships  on a risk-
sensitive basis. Ongoing  monitoring means  scrutinising transactions to ensure that 
they are consistent  with what the firm knows about  the customer, and taking steps  to 
ensure that the firms  knowledge about the business relationship remains  current.
The above  guidance doesnt make  specific reference to either employment status or annual  
salary. But I think it is sufficiently  clear in explaining that a firm like Bank  of Scotland  should 
collect information about their customers, and take steps to update  and maintain it, to ensure 
they can verify their identify and to understand the purpose of the business relationship. 
I therefore dont  think it is unreasonable for Bank of Scotland to ask Mr M to provide his 
employment status or his salary details. This is because it allows them  to have a better 
understanding of Mr Ms personal and financial circumstances to be able to monitor his 
account effectively.  In turn, this allows Bank of Scotland to comply with their regulatory and 
legal requirements  which includes  - but isnt limited to - the Money Laundering, Terrorist 
Financing and Transfer  of Funds (Information  on the Payer) Regulations 2017.
Although Mr M might not have been asked for this information before, I dont think Bank of 
Scotland is acting  wrongly by asking for it now. I consider the online prompt  Mr M received to 
update his details is an appropriate method  of keeping their knowledge about the business 
relationship up to date.  If however Mr M remains dissatisfied with this then he has the option 
of using an alternative banking provider. I think it would helpful to explain though that KYC is 
a common business  practice across  the industry  and so it is likely other they will ask him for 
this information  as well.
I also understand that Mr M is unhappy  he was initially told the reason why this information 
was being requested was due to data protection. Although data protection may have been 
explained to Mr M, Im satisfied the online prompt made it clear  the information  was to help 
them prevent fraud and to comply with regulatory  and legal requirements.  In any event, 
given the personal  and sensitive information they were asking for, I think  it was reasonable 
for Bank of Scotland to address Mr Ms concerns by providing him with reassurances as to 
how they would handle (and protect) his data.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2019.
Ref: DRN07966733Daniel ODell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0796673