K822xcomplaint
Ms and Mr D are unhappy with how Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance Plc (RSA) handled their 
subsidence claim on their home  insurance  policy.
background 
Ms and Mr D made a claim for subsidence  on the rear extension of their property under their 
home insurance policy in July 2016.
The property was monitored for two years and repair work  was due to start in June 2018. 
The works were scheduled to take ten working  days. Ms D arranged for furniture  and her 
contents from the extension to be moved to other parts of her ground floor. However, there  
were problems with contractors and the repairs which meant the works took five months to 
complete. Ms D feels that she shouldve been  offered  storage for her items.
Ms and Mr D have  said the contractors didnt  attend  when they were meant to and didnt 
carry out the repairs in line with a schedule of works that they had agreed to. Ms and Mr D 
were so concerned  about this they asked for their own engineer  to carry out a report,  but 
they say this was ignored by the contractors. 
During the work, Ms D says RSAs  contractors didnt protect her belongings including her 
fridge freezer, flooring and plants. She says she was left with live electric wires in the 
extension. Ms D wants adequate compensation from RSA for distress and inconvenience 
caused due to the length of time the works took.  Ms D wants  to be reimbursed for plants that 
perished, costs for having to eat out whilst her dining  room  wasnt  accessible,  the cost of 
having to rebook piano lessons, cleaning costs,  replace the damaged fridge freezer  and fix 
the flooring.
RSA originally offered  Ms D £500  compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  caused. 
Theyve reimbursed the costs of the engineer report that Ms and Mr D instructed and offered 
to cover part of the cleaning  costs.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint and she asked RSA to pay a further  £500  
compensation to bring the total to £1000. The recommendations from the investigator 
included to refund Ms D the cost of the plant that was left outside, subject to her providing a 
receipt for the purchase of a replacement. Pay £602 for the cleaning costs and reimburse 
Ms D for the cost of her damaged fridge freezer, subject to her providing  the receipt for it. 
Organise someone  to fix the broken floor tile or make a cash  settlement to Ms D for £250.
RSA accepted our investigators view but Ms D asked for a final decision, so the complaint 
has been passed to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
All parties  are fully aware of the background of this complaint and this has been clearly  laid 
out by the investigator in her views to both parties. So, I dont intend  lay out the details 
again. Instead I will go through  the points Ms D feels she should be compensated for as this 
is what Ms D wants as a resolution to her complaint.
Ref: DRN09515532storage costs 
Ms D has said she feels RSA has saved itself money by not removing her items and placing 
them in storage. So, Ms D doesnt  think that RSA should retain that saving and she should 
be compensated with the amount.
I dont agree with Ms D on this point. Ms Ds extension was the affected room  in her 
property. It wasnt unreasonable that Ms D items werent removed to storage given the other 
rooms that were available to her. But ultimately Ms D didnt incur a financial  loss so, I wont 
be asking RSA to pay for something that never occurred on the claim.
loss of plants
Ms D had 25 plants she moved  to her sons flat whilst the repairs were  being completed.  
Ms D has said if shed  known the work would take 5 months, she wouldve insisted they 
were cared for by a florist and asked RSA to cover the cost. Ms D says some  of the plants 
died and she wants RSA to pay for the cost of these.  Its not RSA responsibility to look after 
plants and I cant hold it responsible for the loss of them. However, the large houseplant that 
appears to have been left outside  in the garden  by the contractors. RSA has agreed with our 
investigator to pay for a replacement. I agree this is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
piano lessons
I can see Ms D enrolled on two courses  for piano lessons where shed need to attend 
lessons once a week for 1 1/2 hours. I appreciate Ms D has also told us that the repair works 
caused her to feel stressed and depressed during this time, so she wants RSA to pay for her 
to restart the course. I understand that this was a difficult time for Ms D, but the first course 
of lessons only had one or two lessons within the timeframe of the work. And Ive not seen 
any evidence that Ms D didnt attend  the lessons  due purely to the actions of RSA.  The 
second course of lessons  was during the period where Ms D gave her availability to RSA 
and I can see they worked with her to accommodate this. So again, I am not persuaded 
Ms D was unable to attend these lessons purely  due to RSA actions. So, I wont  be asking 
RSA to do anything  further.
impact on work
Ms D initially  said she wasnt in employment  during the claim,  and as a pensioner, shes 
been discriminated against because she wasnt in employment. Ms D then provided  a 
doctors certificate to show  she was signed  off work for two weeks  in October 2018 with low 
mood and mental  health. Ms D explained to our investigator she does  work  two days a 
week. However, Ms D has told us she didnt have  a financial loss due to having to take time 
off work because of the claim. So, I wont be asking  RSA to do anything further on this point. 
eating out costs  and use of kitchen
Ms D has told us about three occasions  where she felt she was unable to entertain at home 
so had to eat out and shed like RSA to cover  the cost. I understand Ms D had items from 
the extension  stored  in the living and dining area so she feels  she couldnt have entertained. 
Although I can understand the frustration  and inconvenience, Ive got to consider Ms D 
Ref: DRN09515533couldve moved some of these items to other rooms in her house even if it was just 
temporary whilst  she entertained.  
Ms D also had access to her cooking  facilities in the kitchen. But Ms D has said the kitchen 
was dusty and dirty throughout the works. Unfortunately,  due to the nature of the works 
being done at Ms Ds home there will be a degree of mess  and even when protective sheets 
are being  used - dust will still get through.
cleaning costs, fridge freezer and cracked  tile
RSA has agreed with the recommendations made  by our investigator.  To pay £602 cleaning 
costs, reimburse Ms D for the cost of her damaged fridge freezer and organise someone to 
fix the broken  floor tile or make a cash settlement to Ms D for £250.  I agree this is a fair and 
reasonable outcome.
electric cables
Ms D has said RSA left live electric cables at the property, and when Mr D raised the issue, 
it was ignored and not dealt with until three months  later. RSA have said that there was a 
ceiling height  cable that was identified in an area where the main works were  being  carried 
out, and wouldnt  have posed a danger  to Ms D. So, although I can understand Ms Ds 
concerns over any exposed cables,  I cant comment on whether the contractors  adhered to 
health and safety regulations.
RSA have said that Ms D shouldve received  a certificate of structural  adequacy; if there  are 
any future issues with the repairs  this could be directed back  to them for to look at if the 
issue is within the guarantee periods.
delays and handling of claim
Ms D was only expecting to be inconvenienced  for 10 days and that increased  to five 
months. There were unacceptable issues with allowing un-vetted  sub-contractors into Ms Ds 
home, making her feel vulnerable. Ms and Mr D were  also concerned with the schedule of 
work not being  followed and it is evident  that the work needed to be redone hence some  of 
the delays. I can see the works have caused  Ms D inconvenience and distress, but I think 
the additional £500 compensation added  to the £500 RSA had already offered is a fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  So, I wont be asking it to anything more.
my final decision
The complaint is upheld, and I direct Royal  & Sun Alliance  Insurance Plc to:
Pay a further  £500 compensation (£1000 in total)
Refund Ms D the cost of the house  plant left outside of her property, subject to her 
providing RSA a receipt for purchase of a replacement
Pay Ms D £602  for the cleaning costs 
Reimburse Ms D for the cost of her damaged  fridge freezer, subject to her providing  
RSA a receipt for the fridge freezer
Organise someone to fix the broken floor tile or pay Ms D a settlement of £250
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 April 2020.
Ref: DRN09515534Angela Casey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0951553