K820x#14complaint
Mrs C, on behalf of herself and the late Mr C, complain that Santander UK Plc (Santander) 
mis-sold payment protection  insurance (PPI) with a mortgage.
background
Briefly:
In 1999 the late Mr C (from now on Ill refer to him as Mr C) and Mrs C took out PPI at the 
same time as borrowing further  money  on their mortgage. The original mortgage started in 
1991.
The policy was set up in Mr Cs name only and it provided cover for the whole mortgage 
payment for up to 12 months per claim in the event Mr C couldnt  work because of accident,  
sickness and unemployment. It cost just under £10 a month.
At the time Mr C was employed  by the post office and based on what I understand he 
wouldve been entitled to at least six months  full sick pay. Mrs C said they had no savings or 
other means  to speak  of. Mr C didnt have any medical conditions at the time.
Santanders records show the mortgage account ended in 2004.
The adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. They said they thought 
Mr and Mrs C chose to take out the policy and there was nothing to indicate it was wrong or 
unsuitable for them.
Because Mrs C disagrees,  the complaint comes to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
PPI complaints on our website and Ive taken into account whats  relevant here in deciding 
this complaint.
Having done so, while I know this will be a disappointment for Mrs C, Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint.  My reasons are set out below.
was advice  given?
Santander says this was an advised  sale where it recommended  PPI as being  suitable  for 
Mr C. I think its fair to say that Santander  is in a good position to know how sales  like Mr 
and Mrs Cs were  conducted at the time,  so Im minded to agree this was likely  an advised 
sale.
This means  Santander  had to ensure PPI was right or suitable  for Mr and Mrs C. And it had 
to give them enough  clear and timely information about the cover so they could decide  
whether to go ahead  or not. Ive kept this in mind in deciding this complaint.
Ref: DRN07084572did Santander offer Mr and Mrs C a choice about PPI?
Santander had to make it clear that PPI was optional.
Because things  happened  so long ago, Santander  doesnt have all of the paperwork from 
the time.  And this isnt surprising   businesses arent obliged to keep  records indefinitely. But 
it says Mr and Mrs C wouldve completed a separate PPI application form and a direct debit 
mandate to allow the premiums to be collected  from their bank account. And I think this is 
likely what  wouldve happened  Ive no reason to doubt some paperwork completion  was 
required.
Santander has provided a Mortgage Interview Record from the time, which records  that Mr 
and Mrs C had bought PPI - under  the heading Summary of General Insurance  Products 
Sold the adviser has circled Y next to Mortgage  Payment Cover  (there was a N option) 
and Mr and Mrs C have signed the form.
 
So in light of the very limited evidence here, Ive not seen enough to say that something  
went wrong and Santander didnt give Mr and Mrs C a choice about PPI or that they didnt 
agree to take it out  I think its likely they chose to take it out and they did so without undue 
pressure.
the advice
Because Santander no longer has much  of the paperwork from the time, I dont know what  
steps, if any, it took to ensure the cover  was suitable  for Mr and Mrs C. So I accept its 
possible there were gaps in the advice given. But in light of Mr Cs circumstances at the time 
(Ive focused on Mr C because the policy  was set up in his sole name  only)  I think  PPI was 
ultimately suitable for him. I say this because:
Mr C was eligible for the cover and all the benefits.
he was employed  and in good  health at the time, so he wasnt  affected by the 
significant exclusions on or limits to the cover  for example those relating to existing 
medical conditions  or unusual employment circumstances - which  might  have  
reduced the usefulness of the cover and made  it unsuitable.
Mr C was likely entitled to generous sick pay given his employer, but he and Mrs C 
didnt have any other means  they couldve relied on if things went wrong. So given 
the policy wouldve  paid out in addition to Mr Cs sick pay and for longer if necessary, 
I think they had a need for cover  I think the PPI wouldve helped  them  out at what  
would likely be a difficult and perhaps  uncertain time.
The policy appears to have been affordable.
So in light of the above and after careful consideration of Mr Cs circumstances at the time, I 
think PPI was suitable for him and so it wasnt wrong for Santander  to have recommended it.
the information
Again, because of the limited evidence in this case its not clear  to me how the policy was 
described to Mr and Mrs C at the time, or what information they were given and when. Given  
the context of a meeting about  a mortgage  I think they wouldve been told something  about 
the PPI - I find it unlikely  they wouldve gone  ahead without some idea of what  it was and 
what it was going  to cost them.
Ref: DRN07084573But I accept its possible Santander didnt do all that it should fairly and reasonably  have 
done, including highlighting  the features and benefits and the significant limitations / 
exclusions of cover. 
However, I dont think it wouldve made  a difference to Mr and Mrs Cs decision to take out 
PPI had Santander done things properly. I say this because,  as Ive already said I think  PPI 
was suitable for Mr C  he was eligible  for the cover; it wasnt  fundamentally wrong  for him; 
and I think it wouldve proved useful for him and Mrs C if the insured risks became a reality.  
So I think they still had good reasons to take out the policy - notwithstanding Mr Cs 
employment benefits. And in those circumstances I think Mr and Mrs C wouldve still gone 
ahead and bought PPI in any event.
conclusion
So in light of the above I think  more  likely  than not Mr and Mrs C wouldve still gone ahead 
and taken out PPI had Santander properly advised  and informed  them. And so it follows that 
I find Mr and Mrs C havent lost out by having  PPI with their mortgage. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint and I make no 
award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C, both on 
behalf of herself  and of the late Mr C, to accept  or reject my decision before 
20 January 2020.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0708457