K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains about the way John Lewis  Financial  Services Limited  handled his 
application for a credit  card.  
background
Mr H applied for a John Lewis partnership card. His application indicated that his annual  
income was significant   well into six figures. 
On reviewing the bank  statements Mr H had submitted with the application,  however, John 
Lewis took the view that they showed his income to be very much less. John Lewis  asked for 
further proof of income by, for example, tax returns. 
Mr H thought that John  Lewis was doubting  what he was telling them  about  his means, and 
felt it should have been apparent that his income was very much more than John Lewis had 
suggested. In the end he decided not to proceed with the application and asked John Lewis  
to ensure that any reference to it should  be removed from credit agencies  records.
John Lewis  didnt agree.  It explained that it had a duty to lend responsibly, and that meant it 
had to carry out the checks it did. And it had to report accurately to credit reference 
agencies, so it wouldnt be removing  any record  of the application. Mr H therefore 
complained to this service, but our investigator agreed that John Lewis  hadnt  treated Mr H 
unfairly. Mr H didnt  accept the investigators conclusions  and asked that an ombudsman 
review the case  as the final stage in our process.     
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
broadly the same conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar reasons. 
Lenders, including credit card providers, must check before agreeing to provide credit  that it 
will be affordable for the borrower. In most cases checking a persons income is relatively 
straightforward. But Mr Hs income  comes  from a number of different sources  including a 
state pension,  various  company pensions, property  rentals and shareholdings. As he has 
identified himself, his financial affairs are complex. So I can see why John Lewis  initially  
thought that his bank statements didnt demonstrate that he was receiving the income hed 
declared in his application. And I can see too why John Lewis felt it necessary to ask for 
further evidence  to support the application. 
I can however also understand why Mr H thought that this was unnecessary.  It put him to 
quite a lot of additional trouble. I dont  believe  however that what John Lewis was asking for 
was unreasonable or disproportionate.  In saying that, I must  have  in mind that regulations  
set minimum standards for affordability checks, but to a large extent its for individual  lenders 
to decide if they want  to make more thorough checks.  
I note too that there was a problem  with Mr Hs house name, which  wasnt recognised  in the 
application. I dont  believe that I can properly hold John  Lewis  responsible for that, however. 
I also agree  with John  Lewis about  the notification to credit reference  agencies. Subscribers 
to those agencies   which include most  lenders  agree to provide and to share accurate 
information. That information includes information  about credit applications that are made, so 
Ref: DRN05630492I see no reason why John  Lewis shouldnt record the fact that Mr H made an application for 
a credit card.   
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require John Lewis Financial Services  Limited  to do anything  
further to resolve  Mr Hs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, 
Im required  to ask Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 16 August 2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0563049