K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy  taken 
out with a credit card in 1995. Mr B says Northern Bank Limited  (Northern Bank)  mis-sold  
him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Northern Bank  made  it clear  that Mr B didnt  have  to take out the PPI and he 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why he cant  remember  this. I appreciate  
Mr B says that PPI wasnt discussed with him at that the application form was completed 
with the help of the bank assistants and he just signed where it was indicated that he 
should sign.  However, Ive seen a copy of the application  form and this shows  that there 
was a separate section for PPI. Mr B would have  had to tick a box to take PPI if he 
wanted it. I can see that the box to take PPI has been ticked. If it hadnt been  ticked,  it 
doesnt look like PPI would have been  applied to Mr Bs account. Even if the box was 
ticked by the bank assistant, I havent  seen sufficient evidence  to conclude  that this 
wasnt under Mr Bs instruction. Mr B signed  this form. 
Northern Bank recommended the PPI to Mr B so it had to check  that the PPI was right 
for him  and based  on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time, I think  that it 
was. For example, he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI 
cover and he seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Northern Bank gave Mr B about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  
And it seems like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  
like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put 
him off taking out the cover. 
Which means Northern Bank doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Northern Bank will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because: 
When the policy was sold, Northern Bank got a high level of commission and profit  share  
(more than 50% of the PPI premium)  - so it should have told Mr B about that. Because  
Northern Bank didnt tell Mr B, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Northern Bank  has basically offered to pay back the amount of 
commission and profit share  that was above  50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that 
offer is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr B has said - including what he has said about his existing 
repayment means at the time of the sale. But these points dont change my decision.  The 
Ref: DRN09100402PPI would have  paid out in addition to Mr Bs employee sick pay and would have been 
particularly useful when  Mr Bs entitlement reduced after the first six months. It would also 
have paid out if he lost his job. Mr B has also mentioned rental  income from some land. I 
havent seen any evidence of this income  or whether this was guaranteed. However, I do 
note that it would have been  paid annually whereas the PPI would have provided a monthly  
benefit. And in any event,  any additional income  could  have been used to meet other  living 
expenses while the PPI met the credit card repayments. Although  Mr B has mentioned  his 
family could  have helped, circumstances change  and it couldnt be guaranteed  that Mr Bs 
family would have been in a position  to help if and when the need arose. And the credit  card 
was in Mr Bs name alone so ultimately  only he was responsible for the repayments.
what the Northern Bank Limited  needs to do
Northern Bank has to pay back to Mr B any commission  and profit  share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium. Northern Bank should also pay back  to Mr B any extra 
interest he paid because of that.
Northern Bank should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Mr B the difference 
between what he owes and what he wouldve owed if the commission  and profit share  it got 
hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Northern Bank should also pay Mr B 8%* 
simple interest if Mr B paid off his credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr B can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Northern Bank  Limited does not have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Northern Bank Limited does  have to pay back to Mr B any commission and profit share  it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 November  2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0910040