K822xcomplaint
The estate  of the late Mr C, represented  by Mrs C as personal representative, and her 
representative, complain  about the way The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc has dealt with his 
bank accounts.  
  
background 
Mr C passed away in May 2011 without leaving a will. RBS paid out the money in his 
accounts to his daughter as next of kin despite  being aware he was married and survived by 
his spouse, Mrs C. It later required Mrs C to obtain a formal  grant  of letters  of administration  
to be his personal representative.  Mrs C and her representative say RBS acted negligently 
and in breach  of the laws of intestacy. And theyre unhappy with the way RBS has dealt with 
matters.
RBS said in its final response letter that it was aware the late Mr C was married. As it didnt 
require sight of a grant  of representation, because the small balance  in the late Mr Cs 
accounts fell under its probate threshold, the correct  procedure at that time in the absence of 
a will wouldve been to release the funds to the next of kin. And it accepted  as it was aware 
of Mrs C, who was Mr Cs wife and most  immediate  next of kin, it shouldnt have paid the 
funds to Mr Cs daughter in 2011. It said it can ask for a grant of representation when theres 
a subsequent claim, as in this case.  Here its prepared to reimburse  the costs of getting the 
grant of representation. It awaits  the return of completed account closure forms so that it can 
deal with the request to release the funds  to Mrs C. Its also confirmed it paid off the amount  
outstanding on the late Mr Cs credit card from one of his accounts.  
Mrs Cs representative has confirmed RBS has subsequently paid the estate £7,631.49.  But 
they also want RBS to reimburse £215  for the cost of getting the grant of letters of 
administration and £2,800 compensation for the distress Mrs Cs been caused.
our adjudicators view
Our adjudicator felt this complaint should be upheld. She said:
Mrs C and her representative say RBS has been negligent and has breached the 
laws of intestacy. But thats  something that only the courts  can decide.
Where an account balance was less than £25,000 RBS says it would release the 
funds without sight of a grant of probate and it wouldnt have contacted Mrs C in 
2011 even though  she was named  as spouse  on Mr Cs death certificate.  It would 
expect a relative to make  a claim for the money  which Mrs C didnt do until 2014. 
RBS followed its process in this case and it was reasonable for it to expect Mrs C to 
have claimed the funds.
In 2014 RBS asked for a grant of probate or letters of administration. This was 
reasonable as it had already paid out the money  to Mr Cs daughter and it needed to 
ensure Mrs C was a legitimate claimant. Its not RBS fault that this took a lot of time 
as Mrs C lives abroad.  Mrs C complains about  delay but its not solely  the banks 
fault. The grant of letters of administration wasnt supplied  until 2017.
Mrs C initially  said Mr Cs final salary  payment  had gone astray but this has now 
been resolved  with his employer. RBS has also paid out £7,631.48 to Mrs C. But 
Ref: DRN02052042given everything  thats happened she will not be asking  RBS to pay interest on this 
sum. RBS has agreed to refund  the cost of getting  the grant of letters of 
administration. Thats fair. 
We are a free service and we dont  usually compensate a complainant  for a 
representatives costs  or a representative  for their time. And it wouldnt be fair to do 
so in this case. 
RBS didnt make an error  but some of its actions have  not helped  the situation.  But it 
doesnt need to pay compensation for this.  
Mrs Cs representative remains unhappy  and has asked for an ombudsman review. In 
summary he says RBS breached the law and made an error releasing the funds to Mr Cs 
daughter. Its accepted  it didnt pay the money to his most immediate next of kin. And it 
accepted if itd done things in line with the correct procedure Mrs C wouldnt have needed  to 
get the grant  of letters of administration. 
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision in this complaint on 21 February 2019. In summary, subject to 
any further evidence  and submissions from the parties, I was minded to uphold the 
complaint. 
Taking everything into account  I felt RBS was aware  Mr C was survived by a number of 
family members and it shouldve asked  for more information before paying out money  to his 
daughter. Had it done so it wouldve  either concluded Mrs C was his most immediate next of 
kin or asked for her to get a grant of letters of representation. To put things right I felt RBS 
should pay some expenses the estate  incurred for obtaining the grant  of letters  of 
administration, some interest on the money  it eventually paid the estate in July 2018 and 
something towards the representatives expenses the estate  reasonably incurred.
Mrs Cs representative has submitted a long and detailed  response to my provisional 
decision. In it he repeats  many of his previous arguments and highlights much of the 
evidence already provided.  He says Mrs C agrees with the award of £130  towards  her 
representatives expenses. She also agrees with RBS reimbursing the costs of getting the 
grant of letters of administration but the cost was actually  £245  not £215  as copies of the 
grant were also requested. But they dont agree with other  parts of my provisional decision.  
In summary  they say RBS shouldve actively contacted Mrs C and investigated who was the 
late Mr Cs next of kin. They dont agree Mrs C shouldve done more  to mitigate her loss and 
say they would be prepared to accept  £3,158.42  for interest on the money the estate was 
eventually paid. There were obstacles  in Mrs C getting the letters of administration  that 
werent her fault. And it took the bank ten months  to pay her after the grant  was obtained. 
Overall Mrs C has been caused significant  distress  and inconvenience  by whats  happened 
and what RBS did on many occasions.  Mrs C is a consumer and is entitled to and should be 
paid compensation for this. She wants £2,800  compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience shes been caused  and doesnt  accept she shouldnt get anything.
RBS confirmed it had nothing further  to add. 
Ref: DRN02052043my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Some of the evidence in this case is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory. So, Ive made 
my decision  based  on what I think is more likely to have happened  than not. 
Mrs Cs representative has provided extensive  and very detailed  submissions to support this 
complaint and in response to my provisional decision. Ive read and considered them  all. But 
my findings  are expressed  in considerably less detail. And they focus on what  I think are the 
main issues.  
Mrs C and her representative say RBS has been negligent. But thats something only a court 
can decide. They also say its breached  the laws of intestacy which  may also be a matter for 
the courts. Even so I will take into account  the relevant  law when  deciding  what I think  is fair 
and reasonable in the individual circumstances of this case. 
Mr C passed away on 3 May 2011  and his daughter wrote to RBS on 12 May 2011 advising 
it of his death and enclosing  a copy of his death certificate. In the letter she said he was 
married and his wife resides  abroad. The death certificate noted that the informant of Mr Cs 
death was his son and it also made reference to Mr C being the husband of Mrs C and gave  
an address for her.
On 22 May 2011 a few days after the funeral Mrs C went into a RBS branch and had a 
conversation about her late husbands  accounts.  She says she wasnt given specific 
information about the accounts like the balances but she was told some expenses  might be 
paid from them before the balance would be paid to Mr Cs heirs.
Its been suggested Mrs C shouldve actively made  a claim for the money  earlier than she 
did in 2014. That isnt unreasonable as she was clearly aware of Mr Cs accounts when he 
died. Even  so I think RBS was effectively aware of her position  as Mr Cs surviving  spouse  
right from the start in May 2011 and shed demonstrated her interest in the estate when 
visiting the bank  shortly after Mr Cs funeral. 
Mrs Cs representative says it was RBS responsibility to actively contact Mrs C, to 
investigate her position under intestacy law and advise her on her entitlement. But I dont 
agree. At this point I think RBS was reasonably  aware that Mr C was survived by his wife, a 
son and a daughter.  And as such I think it shouldve given more consideration to who,  using 
its later words, was the most  immediate  next of kin. But it wasnt obliged to resolve  or 
determine their respective  claims under intestacy law. Thats something only a Court can do 
including when granting letters of administration. But if RBS had considered  matters  fully I 
think  it wouldve at very least concluded  that there  were a number  of close  family  members  
who might  be regarded  as Mr Cs next of kin and may have a claim to his estate.
I think this shouldve reasonably alerted RBS to the need to ask the family for more 
information to determine who was properly  entitled to the money in the late Mr Cs accounts. 
Had it done so I think it wouldve  done one of two things. 
Either it wouldve reasonably concluded, as it later did in its final response, that Mrs C was 
Mr Cs most  immediate next of kin and she shouldve  been paid the funds.  Or it wouldve 
said that as there were  a number of close family members and no will, it would ask to see a 
Ref: DRN02052044grant of letters of administration, as it subsequently did when Mrs C pressed her claim in 
2014, so it could pay out the money to Mr Cs appointed personal  representative.
But instead  on 16 June  2011 it paid out the funds  to Mr Cs daughter. In doing so it made 
clear to her that she should ensure all parties  entitled to the funds are paid accordingly and if 
it should later be obliged to meet more legitimate claims to the funds, she may be asked to 
repay this sum. 
RBS accepted in its final response that it shouldnt have paid the funds to Mr Cs daughter  in 
2011 although more lately theres  been some  suggestion that it didnt make an error.  
Although RBS was entitled at any time to ask for letters of administration to be obtained, it 
accepted in its final response that if the correct procedures had been followed in 2011 it 
wouldnt have been necessary for Mrs C to obtain  them. 
I think it also follows that if itd correctly applied its small estate rules  Mrs C would have been 
paid out the funds in the late Mr Cs accounts in 2011 without needed to obtain  the letters of 
administration. And in that case she would presumably have received the money around the 
same date it was paid out to Mr Cs daughter  - on 16 June 2011.
Even so RBS has eventually only paid this money to Mrs C as the late Mr Cs personal 
representative on 9 July 2018.  And I think its therefore fair and reasonable for RBS to also 
pay the estate, interest on this sum as it has been deprived of that money for around seven 
years. But I must also take into account  that Mrs C as personal representative had a duty to 
mitigate any loss the estate suffered.  
Although I understand the unfortunate  situation  Mrs C found herself in as a result  of what 
RBS did, I still think  she contributed at times to some of the delay in this matter  being 
resolved and the money being  paid out to the estate. For example I note it took Mrs C some 
time to actively pursue  the claim although  she clearly knew of Mr Cs accounts when she first 
went into the branch  shortly after his funeral. And there was a considerable delay before the 
grant of letters of administration was obtained.  Her representative  says some of the delay in 
getting the grant was outside  her control  being  caused by the court service and other  factors  
but that wasnt RBS  fault. 
Mrs Cs representative says that as the estate shouldve been paid the money in June 2011 
they want about £4,737  interest on it but theyve offered as a compromise,  to accept about 
£3,158 to reflect two thirds  blame on RBS and one third on Mrs C on behalf of the estate. 
Ive noted everything  Mrs Cs representative  has said about  RBS failings in dealing  with this 
matter on a day to day basis. Even  so, I remain of the view that I dont think  I can fairly ask 
RBS to pay interest for the whole seven  year period. 
Ive also noted  that RBS doesnt agree to the amount of interest increasing to £2,368.50  
from the figure I suggested in my provisional  decision. It says it thinks  the original offer is 
fair. 
But taking everything  into account I now think both parties contributed in fairly equal part to 
the delay in getting things  sorted and the money paid to the estate. So, I am now of the view 
that its fair and reasonable for RBS to pay the estate 8% simple interest on the £7,631.49  
for one half of the seven year period which amounts to £2,368.50. 
RBS has also agreed to pay the cost of obtaining the letters of administration.  Thats  fair. 
Mrs C says being abroad she asked friend to pay this fee and hasnt a receipt  for it. I 
Ref: DRN02052045originally accepted on balance the fee was £215.  But Mrs Cs representative now says they 
actually paid £245 to include some additional  copies of the grant.  I think its reasonable for 
the estate to obtain some copies of the letters of administration. Given that RBS accepts the 
grant wouldnt have  been needed  if things had been  dealt  with better from the start and I 
think its fair for RBS to reimburse  this slightly higher  amount even though theres no receipt 
for it. And I think  RBS should also pay interest  on this sum from 25 September 2017 - which  
is the date of the grant - until reimbursement  is made.
Mrs Cs representative has agreed with my finding  that RBS should reimburse £130 towards 
the cost of the estate obtaining assistance to correspond with the bank in English which is a 
foreign language for Mrs C and to get advice on the English law position.  
Mrs Cs representative also wants RBS to pay £70 for the late payment of a commercial debt 
under the late Payment  of Commercial Debts (Interest) Act 1998. But I dont think  that would 
be appropriate here, not least  as those provisions relate to invoices issued by creditors.
Mrs Cs representative has said RBS should pay her £2,800 compensation for the distress  
and inconvenience  Mrs C has been  caused. And hes made detailed submissions about this 
and highlighted  extensive examples of how he says RBS caused  her distress and 
inconvenience. He also says she is a consumer entitled to compensation. 
I have no doubt  Mrs C has been involved in a considerable amount of work on behalf of the 
estate to resolve things  including  dealing  with the grant and RBS.  But that is part and parcel 
of a personal representatives duties.  That was no doubt frustrating and stressful at times. 
But the simple  fact is I dont think I can award  her any compensation for this.
The late Mr C was RBS customer. And as such  I couldve awarded him  compensation for 
any distress and inconvenience RBS caused  him during his lifetime  and that compensation 
would be paid to his estate after his subsequent death. But in this case this isnt appropriate 
as by the time these matters occurred Mr C had unfortunately passed  away. 
The estate  brings  this complaint and Mrs C is its personal representative. It is the estate 
which is the consumer  and RBS customer here. And as its not possible for an estate to 
suffer distress, trouble  or upset I cannot  require RBS to pay compensation to the estate for 
something it cannot experience.
We can only tell a business to pay compensation for trouble and upset experienced by its 
customer not by a third party. For example we cant award compensation to executors or 
personal representatives who have brought a complaint by an estate. That includes Mrs C in 
this case.
Even so if the distress  a representative  experiences in turn causes the banks customer  
distress that might  be a relevant and could result in the customer  being awarded  some 
compensation. But that isnt the case here as Mr C had sadly  passed away by the time his 
personal representative, Mrs C, dealt with RBS on behalf of the estate.
Furthermore all complainants  and their representatives spend  some time and experience 
some additional  inconvenience in dealing with a complaint and putting things right. We 
wouldnt generally recommend theyre compensated for this and Im not persuaded that I can 
reasonably depart from this approach in this case except in respect of reimbursing the £130 
fee I have already mentioned earlier. 
Ref: DRN02052046Consequently although Ive taken  note of Mrs Cs representatives extensive and detailed 
submissions on this point  I still dont think I can fairly or reasonably require  RBS to pay any 
compensation to the estate or to Mrs C, either  personally or as personal representative, for 
distress and inconvenience as hed like.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  To put things  right I think The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc should  pay 
the estate of the late Mr C:
1.The sum of £245 being the cost of obtaining the letters of administration  plus simple  
interest at the rate of 8% a year* from 25 September 2017 until the date this is 
reimbursed by RBS; 
2.The sum of £2,368.50  interest* on the money it paid to the estate in July 2018; and
3.The sum of £130 towards the estates  representatives fees.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires RBS to take off tax from this interest. It must give the 
estate of the late Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if Mrs C asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C as personal 
representative of the estate of the late Mr C to accept or reject  my decision before 4 May 
2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0205204