K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Equifax Limited (Equifax) treated him unfairly  when trying  to remove  a 
disputed entry from his credit file.
background
Mr A was a victim of identity fraud,  and having  checked his credit file in February 2018 he 
found multiple incorrect entries in relation to Company A. Mr A contacted Equifax to have the 
records removed and it suggested he spoke to Company A directly. 
Following some back and forth communication between Equifax, Mr A, and Company A, the 
issue was resolved in mid May 2018. Mr A brought  his complaint to our service  and asked 
for Equifax to apologise  for the time it had taken to resolve the issue and mistakes  he said it 
made. He also asked for £200 compensation for the time spent trying to resolve  the issue.
One of our investigators  looked into his concerns and didnt uphold the complaint. She said it 
was Company As responsibility to update its records  and tell Equifax if incorrect information  
had been reported. And she said we wouldnt expect Equifax  to amend its records  until this 
had been confirmed by Company A.
She said Equifax  did contact Company  A after he raised a concern, and was told it didnt 
think the searches  needed to be removed. Equifax then let Mr A know he would need to get 
in touch with Company  As fraud team. Mr A got in touch in April 2018  to say hed not had a 
response from Company  A, and Equifax chased  this information on his behalf and was told 
the investigation was still ongoing.
Mr A said Equifax had raised concerns with the wrong department so had made  mistakes. 
The investigator said overall Equifax had let Mr A know  of his responsibility  to raise his 
concern about  the recorded  information.  And it had chased Company  A for its authorisation 
to remove the data. But Equifax said it wasnt able to remove data from Mr As credit file as 
Company A hadnt authorised this. She felt this was reasonable  in the circumstances, so 
didnt ask Equifax  to do anything further.
Mr A disagreed and so the complaint has been  passed to me for an ombudsmans final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering  this complaint I am only able to consider the actions of Equifax and not 
Company A. Having  done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Equifax is a credit reference agency.  This means it stores information about individuals,  
including Mr A. But it is lenders and other  account  providers  that will tell Equifax  what to 
record and its their responsibility to ensure the information theyve supplied  is correct. 
Where a customer is unhappy about  information  recorded about them, they need  to 
complain directly to the company that provided  that information. In this case  Mr A brought his 
concerns to both Company A and Equifax.
Ref: DRN05306772From what  Ive seen Equifax was quick to respond to Mr As requests. I think  it did try to help 
resolve the issue by chasing Company A on his behalf. It updated him with the information 
itd been given, and told him of his options going  forward.
I wouldnt expect Equifax to remove or alter data until Company A had authorised this, and in 
the circumstances I think  Equifax  acted fairly  and reasonably. So Im satisfied it hasnt done 
anything wrong  and Im not asking it to do anything  further.
If Mr A has more  general concerns about the way Equifax  or Company A processes data 
and handles security, he may want to raise this with the Information  Commissioners Office  
(ICO). Mr A has also raised concerns about  Equifaxs  complaint  handling.  But as this is not 
a regulated activity  Im unable to comment on this any further.
my final decision
For the above reasons Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 June 2019.
Jack Baldry
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0530677