K820x#14Complaint
Mrs P says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  Financial 
Insurance Company Limited  (FICL), as the insurer, have  taken  responsibility  for the sale.  To 
keep things simple, Ill only refer to FICL in this decision, rather than any other business.
Background
I sent my provisional decision on 2 September 2019.  A copy  of my provisional  decision is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background of this complaint. It explains why I did not 
think this policy had been mis-sold.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted  to send me  so long as I received it by 
16 September 2018. But neither Mrs P nor FICL have sent me anything new to consider.
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have  sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having  reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before: that I dont think  this policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mrs Ps 
complaint about  Financial  Insurance  Company  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 October  2019.    
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN06713772COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
Complaint
Mrs P says she was mis-sold  a payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy. Financial  Insurance  
Company Limited (FICL), as the insurer, have taken  responsibility for the sale.  To keep things simple,  
Ill only refer to FICL in this decision, rather than any other business.
Background
Mrs P bought the policy in 1998, at the same time as taking out a store card. It covered the card in 
case she was off work sick or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs P disagreed with the adjudicators opinion,  so the 
complaints been passed  to me to decide.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mrs Ps case.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I dont  think this PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Mrs Ps store  card application had a section for PPI. It gave an overview of what  the policy  was for 
and then had a box which could be ticked if Mrs P wanted to buy PPI, which could  be left blank if she 
didnt want it. The box for PPI was ticked and Mrs P signed  the application  to confirm  her choices. So 
I think  its most likely  that FICL made Mrs P aware  she had a choice  about buying the PPI, and that 
she chose to take it at the time.
FICL didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs P, so they didnt have to check if it was right for her. They  did 
have to give Mrs P enough information to decide if the PPI was right for her.
Its possible that the information FICL gave Mrs P about PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been.  The 
question, then,  is whether I think better information was likely to have changed her mind. Here,  it 
looks like Mrs P chose to take out the policy, which indicates she wanted this type of cover. Based on 
what Ive been told of her circumstances  at the time, it looks like she was eligible for the cover and 
wasnt significantly affected by any of its main exclusions or limitations. For example,  the policy  
excluded claims if customers were not in work  for a continuous 12 months before claiming, but Ive 
not been  given any evidence to show that Mrs P would be significantly affected by that.
It looks like the PPI wouldve  covered  Mrs P for much longer than her work benefits,  and it wouldve 
paid out on top of those  benefits.  Mrs P said she had some  savings, but not how much those were or 
how much  her salary  was, so its not clear if the savings  were relevant. If Mrs P provides evidence  of 
her savings and salary  in response to this provisional decision then I can reconsider this point. But 
from what Ive got, it looks like the PPI couldve  been useful  for her in case  something went wrong.  
And the PPI was paid on a rolling  monthly basis, so Mrs P could  cancel it at any time without a 
penalty. Overall, I dont  currently think that better information  about  the PPI was likely  to have put her 
off taking out the cover.
Ref: DRN06713773My provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont plan to uphold Mrs Ps complaint.
Please could  Mrs P and FICL send me any more  information  or comments to look at by 16 September 
2019. After that, Ill reconsider the case.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0671377