K820x#14complaint
Mr D has complained The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc allowed £5,988  to be transferred from 
his own account  and wont sort this out.
background
In 1989 Mr D got a bank  loan from RBS to help him buy a share in a partnership.  This was 
known as a Professional Practice Finance Loan (PPFL). The business (who Ill call H) 
became a limited  company in 2001.  There were two directors, Mr D and another  person, 
Mr B. Mr D understood the loan was open-ended and he could pay it on his retirement.  
At the time of taking  out the PPFL, Mr D was required to open a current account with RBS to 
fund interest payments of the PPFL.  He generally funded the current  account by making 
lump-sum deposits to cover the interest  payments.  Sometimes the timing  of these deposits 
meant that the account went overdrawn.
In 2013 he was told by RBS the loan was scheduled  for repayment. On appeal  this period 
was extended  to 2018. In 2018 RBS wrote  to Mr B asking for repayment  of the loan within  
seven days. Mr D became  concerned about his personal post being sent by RBS to Hs 
address. This had been going  on since 2005 when he changed his personal correspondence 
address followed  by confirming the business  address  (different to his personal address) in 
January 2006.  RBS offered Mr D £500  for the inconvenience. They  accepted this had been  a 
serious breach.  Mr D didnt believe this was sufficient. He was negotiating an exit from H and 
felt this meant Mr B had an awareness of Mr Ds financial situation. 
After reviewing his personal bank  statements,  Mr D noticed a payment being made from his 
PPFL account on 12 May 2009  of £5,988  to Hs account. He didnt believe hed made this 
transfer as he was out of the country  at the time.  As hed not been receiving statements, 
hed not been able to offset the resulting overdraft and penalties.
RBS believed this payment  had been  authorised. In any case the funds remained in Hs 
account which Mr D was able to access.
Mr D brought his complaint about the transfer  to the ombudsman service. 
Our investigator noted RBSs evidence. They believed no statements on the PPFL account 
had been issued since 2000. They agreed  Mr D had made a lump  sum payment of more  
than £21,500  in 2018. Theyd made a mistake but didnt believe this had had a major impact 
on Mr D. Mr D refused  to pay more towards his loan as he was concerned about the transfer 
hed not authorised. Mr D provided copies of his correspondence with RBS.
Our investigator noted thered  been a refund of charges to Mr Ds personal account in late 
2009. RBS confirmed this would only have  been  done following an approach from Mr D so 
believed this showed  even though theyd not sent him statements  Mr D was able to find 
out the status of his account and knew he was overdrawn  following £5,988  being  transferred.  
RBS also believed this complaint had been brought to us too late for us to consider within 
our rules.
Our investigator believed  Mr D only would have known about the transfer  when receiving his 
statements for the first time in 2018.  Therefore our service was able to consider his 
complaint. RBS didnt  dispute this further.
Ref: DRN06409662Mr D in the meantime  confirmed the main  aspect of his complaint was the unauthorised  
transfer. 
Our investigator noted the transfer could only have been completed by Mr D in branch or 
through his relationship manager.  There was no evidence   because of the time that had 
passed  how this payment had been made.  Mr D was out of the country the date the 
payment was made. Our investigator felt overall  he couldnt be sure how the transfer  had 
been made. But in any case the money  was in an account accessible to Mr D (and always  
had been) so was not missing or unobtainable.  He did ask RBS to pay a further  £150  
compensation for not being clear to Mr D where the money had gone.
Both RBS and Mr D disagreed with this outcome. An ombudsman has been  asked to 
consider his complaint.
I completed a provisional decision on 6 April 2020. As Id considered  additional evidence  I 
considered this was a fair thing to do. Overall  I agreed with our investigator that it was most  
likely Mr D had authorised  the transaction. On that basis I couldnt award any further  
compensation to Mr D.
RBS had no further comments to make. Mr D rejected this outcome. He reminded me of his 
professional qualifications and restated that he hadnt made the transfer himself. He also 
didnt believe hed ever asked RBS to refund fees that had been charged  to his account.
I now have all the information I need to complete a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, even considering Mr Ds 
recent email  to us, Ive reached the same outcome as in my provisional decision.
data protection  issues
Firstly Mr D has asked  us not to consider the issue of his loan or the breach of his data. I 
would just say all parties, including RBS, agree there was a serious breach of the data 
protection requirements. However this service  is not the regulator for data protection.  Thats 
the responsibility of the Information  Commissioners Office. RBS will need  to meet their 
requirements and its not our role to check what theyve done there.  
However I can consider  the impact of the breach on Mr D. RBS paid Mr D £500 in 
compensation for this aspect. I agree that amount  seems fair and reasonable. I say this 
because throughout the period from 2005  to 2018 Mr D didnt notice  he was missing  bank 
statements or his information may have been going  astray. From his own testimony  it would 
seem that Mr B, whod received Mr Ds statements, handed these over without  many  of them 
ever being  opened. So theres  no evidence that this breach has resulted in any major 
impact.
how was the transfer of £5.988 made?
To state  the obvious I dont think the answer to this question is clear. Theres  no dispute  
Mr D hadnt got online  access to either  his current or PPFL account. There was limited use 
Ref: DRN06409663made of the current account: generally deposits to fund the interest payments. RBS has 
stated Mr D could only have arranged  the transfer  either in branch in person or by requesting  
his business relationship manager to assist.  
All parties  accept that Mr D was overseas at the time the payment was made in May 2009.  
But that doesnt mean that Mr D couldnt have set this payment  up in advance  or spoken or 
otherwise communicated with his relationship manager. RBS doesnt have any evidence  to 
show this one way or the other.   
Mr D strenuously  believes  he didnt make  this payment. Although I believe he may be wrong, 
hes disputed this is the case. He only found out about this payment nine years  after it was 
made. It will have  looked  unusual because its not a rounded amount but that doesnt mean 
Id expect him to automatically recall making it.
The other thing  Ive considered here is that without some type of prompt   Mr D for example 
being in touch with his bank  I cant really see why this payment would have been  made.  I 
cover this aspect in more  detail below.
Our investigator laid out in his view of 16 August 2019 detail from Mr Ds account  statements 
at the time. These showed a higher than normal balance  just before this transfer was made. 
Thered been  three  higher-value payments into Mr Ds account. These had taken place  in 
December 2008  and January 2009.
Later in the year Mr D was repaid some of the overdraft  charges. I can only agree with what  
our investigator has pointed out  Mr D didnt seem to be surprised the account was 
overdrawn at the time and topped  it up. It certainly  wouldnt have been overdrawn  if the 
payment of £5,988 hadnt been made.  This suggests to me there is a possibility Mr D could 
have asked for this payment to be made. 
I know Mr D disputes this and says he didnt ask for overdraft fees to be refunded. It is 
possible that RBS applied some automatic refund of fees to customers  accounts 
(particularly around this time)  but in my experience,  this generally only happens when a 
customer requests a refund. I can only repeat a point Ive made  before.  This took place 10 
years ago so I wouldnt expect anybody to remember definitively calling their bank to query 
charges. 
Ive also considered who else could have made the transfer? Whats clear to me is that this 
complaint doesnt  involve  fraud as we normally recognise it. The money wasnt  siphoned off 
to an unknown account. It was transferred to one of Hs accounts. Nothing happened to it 
there. In fact since then,  that account has mostly stayed in credit by more  than the amount of 
this transfer for the whole period since.  
So there are really only two other options: RBS or Hs other director, Mr B. Neither option 
seems credible really. Firstly £5,988  is quite  a specific amount. So theres no reason that I 
can think of why RBS would have transferred this amount  to Hs account without any request  
being made for them to do so. Theres no indication that Hs account required offsetting  
which could explain what happened  if this was a linked account.  Although  this wasnt 
formally a linked account, RBS were sending statements to Hs address so had obviously 
made an error somewhere along  the line. Bank errors can and do happen but I dont think 
theres any evidence  that one occurred here to cause the transfer.
Ref: DRN06409664Mr D has suggested there  may have  been advantages to RBS conducting this transfer 
without his authority  or consent. Ive considered  these.  Theyre contained in his letter  to us 
after hed received our investigators view. But I dont believe the transfer  could have 
happened in a vacuum and if that were  the case, Id expect to see some  evidence of this. 
I wouldnt be surprised if Mr B knew  Mr D had an account which funded  his PPFL.  Theyd 
worked together for twenty years by this time.  But what would be the reason for making  a 
transfer now?  Particularly  as the payment went to Hs account  where  Mr D was a signatory 
anyway. Again I believe this is an unlikely scenario.
To help me decide what may have happened, I asked  Mr D what  further  information  he may 
have about the three  large-value payments made  around six months beforehand. So for 
example was it possible these were  temporary  loans from H to help Mr D with his cash-flow 
and make his interest payments. That would certainly explain why money was repaid to H.
Mr D didnt believe this was the case but couldnt  recall exactly where the money came from. 
He thought  as he was helping manage  his mothers finances  it was most likely  the 
money may have come from his mother.
Id also noticed  prior to this period H was making interest payments to Mr Ds loan account. 
This arrangement came to an end. It is possible, therefore, the payment for £5,988 was 
repaying money owed  to H.
I know Mr D still disagrees with me. Ive read his letters, emails and evidence  to us carefully. 
But having  reviewed the circumstances of this complaint I can only conclude  there  is not 
enough evidence  to show the transfer  wasnt authorised.
This may seem a bit of a cop out but in terms of how we consider cases  of this nature Im not 
sure it matters how or by whom the payment was made. I know Mr D disagrees. But until he 
saw the statements for his account in 2018,  he was unaware any transfer had been made. 
He has since been able to arrange for the payment to be transferred to pay off his loan. No 
actual loss has taken  place.  
The additional point  Id make is that even if I had decided RBS had made the transfer,  I still 
wouldnt have awarded a much higher level of compensation. The key here is that the 
money was not missing  and unobtainable.
I appreciate Mr D has spent a considerable time trying to resolve what happened here. And 
he still hasnt got a complete answer.  Im sorry this is the case but sometimes there is not 
enough evidence  to place liability at a banks door.
There is supporting evidence for RBSs assertion; likewise  there  is evidence  in support of 
Mr D. I have to decide  this case on the balance of probabilities, and considering  the case 
overall and on balance I have decided the facts support the outcome as Ive covered above.
compensation
Our investigator felt RBS should pay Mr D a further  £150. Theyd not given him sufficient 
information initially to help him identify  where this payment had been made. This caused  him 
undue worry that the money  was lost. Once he knew the money had gone  to Hs account, 
Mr D was able to access the money. RBS could have provided  this information to Mr D 
earlier.
Ref: DRN06409665Mr D felt this offer was deeply inadequate. RBS didnt think they should pay this amount as 
theyd not made any error (outside of the data breach).
As there isnt enough evidence to show the payment was unauthorised, I dont believe it 
would be fair and reasonable to ask RBS to pay compensation  as Im not upholding this 
complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ds complaint against The 
Royal Bank of Scotland Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 June 2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0640966