K820x#14complaint
Mr M says Santander UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold  him a mortgage payment protection 
(PPI) policy.
background
Mr M took out a regular  premium PPI policy with a mortgage in 1996. The policy  covered 
Mr M against accident, sickness and unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set our general approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive 
taken this into account in deciding Mr Ms case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ms complaint  and Ive explained why below.
Santander had to get Mr Ms consent  to take the policy and make it clear he had a choice to 
take the policy. Its not straightforward trying to decide on cases  when there are no 
documents available from the time of the sale. Its maybe not surprising that there is little 
documentation from the time of the sale as these events happened over 23 years ago. 
Where there isnt much evidence for me to consider, I need to make my decision based on a 
balance of probabilities  that is to say, Ill consider  what I do have, look at what both sides 
have said, and make a decision based  on what I think most likely happened.
Ive not seen anything that clearly shows Santander didnt make Mr M aware he was taking 
the PPI or that it was optional.  Whilst I acknowledge  that things couldve happened  just as 
Mr M said, considering how long ago the sale was in this case, I havent seen sufficient 
evidence to be able to uphold the complaint  on these points. So having considered  all the 
submissions I have  received in this case,  I think its more likely that Santander wouldve 
made Mr M aware  that the PPI was optional and that he chose  to take it, even  though he 
may not remember that now,  many years later. 
Santander said the policy was recommended to Mr M. This means  it needed to take 
reasonable steps to ensure the policy was suitable for him. Based  on what I know  of the 
policys terms and conditions and his circumstances, I dont think  the recommendation was 
unsuitable. I say this because Mr M was eligible  for the policy  and he wasnt  affected by any 
of the exclusions  from or limits to the PPI cover.
Ref: DRN06524622And I think Mr M had a need for the policy. I say this because  Mr M said his initial sick pay 
was 12 months or more.  We have also been told Mr M had some savings and other  
insurances. Because Mr Ms representative wanted us to place some weight on this, 
because the sick pay we were told about was unusually generous in nature and because we 
wished to better understand Mr Ms circumstances in respect  of his savings, we asked for 
additional details  about these matters.  We asked for this over three months  ago and have 
chased Mr Ms representative during this time. However, at the time of writing  we have not 
received any evidence to support Mr Ms testimony  about these matters. So Ive not been 
able to place the weight  on these  things that Mr M may have wished me to. 
In any event, the policy wouldve paid out in addition to any sick pay and savings Mr M may 
have had and, potentially, for longer  than his employer would have paid him at his full rate of 
pay. So having thought  about all of this and considering the potentially serious 
consequences of defaulting on a loan secured  on his home, I think  Mr M wouldve still had 
some use for the policy. 
Santander also had to give clear enough information  so that Mr M could decide whether or 
not he wanted the policy. Its possible that Santander couldve given Mr M clearer  
information about the policy cost.  But, for the same reasons I think it was right for him, it 
seems like the PPI would have been  useful for Mr M if something went wrong. It also looks  
like it was affordable. Having thought about this, I think  its unlikely that better information 
wouldve prompted him to make  a different decision about taking the policy.
So having  considered everything, I cant safely say that Mr M lost out as a result  of anything 
Santander mightve done wrong.
Ive also thought about whether Santander  needs to give Mr M some  of the commission  he 
paid back. The Supreme  Court ruling  and new rules and guidance dont apply to certain 
types of mortgage  agreement   including a regulated mortgage. As Mr Ms mortgage  
became a regulated mortgage  before 6 April 2008 they dont apply. So Santander doesnt 
need to refund any of the commission Mr M paid for the PPI he had with that mortgage.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0652462