K820x#14complaint
Ms M is unhappy with how NRAM Limited has handled her mortgage and unsecured  loan 
accounts.
background
Ms M had a Together  mortgage with NRAM which comes with a linked unsecured loan 
account. Shes been in financial difficulties for some time and both accounts have been in 
arrears. I understand that in November 2019  the accounts were transferred to a different 
lender.
I wont go into all the issues and correspondence theres been over the years  as its been 
lengthy and protracted. Weve previously  considered  two complaints brought by Ms M about 
her mortgage.
Since then Ms M has been concerned there  have  been other mistakes and shes  not happy 
about how shes been treated.
NRAM rejected the main  thrust  of the complaint, but as a gesture of goodwill it offered to 
remove all the arrears  fees, legal fees and additional interest from Ms Ms account from 
inception up to the date of that offer, which was 14 December 2018.
Our case handler thought that offer was fair. Ms M didnt agree and so its been passed  to 
me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ms M has set out her account  in 
considerable detail. I trust she wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed her 
complaint in the way that I have.  Ours  is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive 
concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint.
I dont doubt that this is very important for Ms M but although Ive read and considered  the 
whole file Ill keep  my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific  
point its not because Ive not considered  it but because I dont think I need  to comment  on it 
in order to reach the right outcome. This service  is impartial between, and independent  from, 
consumers and businesses. What this means  is that we dont represent either party,  and I 
dont act under eithers instructions or take directions on how a complaint will be looked at or 
what questions should be asked and answered.  For that reason  I wont be answering Ms Ms 
questions, nor will I be ordering  NRAM to answer  them.
Whilst I understand Ms M had a lot of concerns about the fees and charges on her mortgage 
and loan accounts I dont need to make any findings  on those as NRAM has already offered 
to pay the redress  I would award  were I to uphold a complaint about  those.  I say that 
because in its letter of 14 December 2018  NRAM offered  to reverse  all the arrears  fees and 
legal fees (plus interest) incurred from inception to the date of that letter.  So Ms Ms 
argument that various fees shouldnt have been charged are moot  as NRAM has already 
offered to reverse them.
This will put Ms Ms account in the position it would have been in had no arrears fees or 
legal fees been incurred  in the first place. The outstanding arrears  balance will relate solely  
Ref: DRN05507882to the contractual monthly payment  amounts Ms M should have paid but hasnt. It may be 
there have  been  charges since that offer, but I cant consider those here as I can only deal 
with issues that were included in NRAMs final response letter.  If any fees or charges  have  
been incurred  since then that Ms M feels are unfair, then shed need to raise that as a new 
complaint.
Ms M has said shes particularly alarmed that NRAM  have  sought  to reconstruct the 
accounts rather than reproduce the original  account they have relied  on. Worse still there are 
marked differences in the account  statements from historical sources and statements since  
NRAMs response which support my assertion that the arrears  figures  are not accurate. Why 
has NRAM not relied on original source documents, why was it necessary to reconstruct the 
accounts? It is my view that the reconstruction serves to deceive and hide the shambolic 
accounting system.
Thats easy  to answer. The original account statements had the fees and charges on them  
that Ms M has complained about  (and previously had fees and charges on them that were 
removed as part of a remediation exercise). To remove those fees and charges (hence, do 
what Ms M wants) NRAM needs  to reconstruct the accounts. By default that means the 
original account  statements  wont match  the reconstructed account statements, as the 
original ones have  the fees on and the reconstructed ones dont.
If Ms M accepts the offer made by NRAM in December 2018 then it will work with the new 
lender to reconstruct  both accounts to remove the arrears fees and legal fees (including any 
interest incurred on those) up to December 2018. Once thats  been  done NRAM and the 
new lender can send Ms M statements for each of the two accounts to cover the period from 
inception to date (so for NRAM it will be from inception to November 2019, and for the new 
lender it will be from November 2019  to date). Those will be the reconstructed accounts and 
will show  the true arrears balances. 
Revised statements cant be sent before  Ms M either formally accepts or rejects  that offer as 
the statements  will vary depending on whether full account reconstructions  are carried  out or 
not. If Ms M chooses not to accept the December  2018 offer then NRAM doesnt need to 
remove any of the fees/charges  and it and the new lender can send Ms M statements for 
each account  from inception to date (using  the dates Ive set out above) without those  
alterations on them. 
Its not the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service to provide an auditing  service or carry 
out a forensic  analysis  of accounts.  Its open  to Ms M to ask a suitably qualified independent 
accountant to do that for her. That would have to be at her expense, though  if an error was 
found to her financial detriment she could include the costs of finding it in any complaint that 
followed.
Even if Ms M accepts  the offer, if there are still arrears outstanding the new lender could 
consider taking legal action if a repayment  plan isnt agreed. If legal action is taken then that 
will be chargeable to Ms M, and missed payments (without a repayment plan) will incur  
arrears charges. 
If there are still arrears  on the mortgage with no formal repayment plan in place, Ms M needs 
to contact the new lender to discuss her options, either directly or with the help of someone 
trained to give her free debt advice - such as StepChange or Citizens Advice. That needs to 
be an open and honest conversation about  her circumstances and worries  for both now and 
Ref: DRN05507883the future.  Ms M and the new lender will need  to work together and that means Ms M will 
need to be frank about her situation.  
 
It may be NRAM  sets a deadline for Ms M to accept  its offer, after which date it will class as 
being rejected,  and thats not something Id interfere  with as the offer cant be left to drift 
indefinitely. I suggest Ms M gets in contact with NRAM directly upon receipt of this decision 
to let it know whether  or not she accepts  the December 2018  offer.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint in the sense Im satisfied NRAM Limiteds offer is fair in the 
circumstances. I leave  it to Ms M to contact NRAM directly to let it know  whether or not she 
wants to accept that offer. I make no other order or award. 
My final decision concludes this services consideration of the complaint, which  means well 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it. Under  the rules 
of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or reject  my 
decision before  4 April 2020.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0550788