K820x#14complaint
Mrs N complains that Lex Autolease Ltd applied unfair charges at the end of a hire 
agreement. She wants the charges waived.
background
Mrs N is represented in this complaint by her husband but for ease of reading Ill mostly refer 
to her.
Miss N tells us that at the end of the four year hire period she returned the vehicle in what 
she felt was excellent condition. She says following the vehicle inspection she received an 
invoice for over £1,300 of damage  and end of contract  charges  which  she immediately  
challenged. Amongst the charges were  several items of damage  which  she didnt think  were 
justified. And in addition she states  she was charged  for a missing  alloy wheel key, a parcel  
shelf and missed/ late servicing. Mrs N says she accepts a service was missed  and the 
parcel shelf wasnt with the vehicle at the time of inspection. But apart from a gouge  to one 
wheel she doesnt  accept the remainder  of the damage  charges.  She says that Lex removed 
two of the charges she disputed and suggests  this was due to them  not being justified in the 
first place. 
Lex told us the vehicle had been inspected in accordance with the fair wear and tear 
guidelines issued  by the British Vehicle  Rental  & Leasing Association (BVRLA).  It said that 
charges had been applied  in accordance with this. It said that when  some  of the charges had 
been disputed  by Mrs N the charge for two dents (£340) had been removed.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld.  She said the images  of 
the vehicle showed the items for which charges had been applied fell outside the BVRLA  fair 
wear and tear guidelines.
Mrs N wasnt satisfied with this outcome. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint 
an ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mrs N being  upset  at receiving an unexpectedly large bill at the end of the 
contract period.  And I accept that she feels strongly that after four years of use the vehicle  
was returned in good condition.
Where facts are in dispute Im required to make  my decision on the balance  of probabilities. 
And I take into account relevant industry guidelines which  in these circumstances  include  the 
fair wear and tear guidelines issued  by the BVRLA.  These provide a consistent standard 
against which vehicles  can be assessed. And theyre widely used across the industry where  
vehicles may be subject to charges at the end of a financial agreement.
Ive also been  provided with good quality colour  images of the vehicle inspection.  Our 
adjudicator set out the details of the relevant specifications in her view so I neednt  repeat 
them here.  I consider  that the damage for which charges are being applied  is made out and 
Ref: DRN04824152exceeds the relevant guidelines. I also note that as Mrs N knew  the hire period was coming 
to an end it was open to her to have the vehicle examined prior to collection and to have any 
necessary repairs completed.
In respect of charges for missing  items,  Mrs N doesnt dispute that servicing  was missed/ 
late so I think it was fair for Lex to apply a charge  in this respect. She also accepts that the 
parcel shelf had been  removed for cleaning and not replaced. As the vehicle has been sold 
its not feasible for Lex to accept the return of the missing item.  The  wheel locking nut is 
listed as a missing item on the inspection report. I accept Mrs N believes she returned  the 
item to the vehicle  having apparently used it the week before. But it seems improbable  that 
an experienced vehicle examiner would  miss such an item. Its something that would be 
routinely looked  for and if - as Mrs N believes  - it was within the glove box I think it wouldve 
been found.
In summary,  I consider the charges which Lex has applied are in line with the terms and 
conditions of the hire agreement. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 April 2020.
Stephen D Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0482415