K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco Personal Finance) didnt treat 
him fairly when he made a claim after he was charged  for car rental despite cancelling the 
contract. He says he paid for it with his Tesco credit card and that the effect  of section 75 of 
the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 (section 75) is that he has a like claim against  Tesco  
Personal Finance  as he has against the rental  company. 
background
Mr D booked car rental through a company  Ill call G in May 2018 for travel in August 2018.  
But he didnt  receive any documentation and, worried about this, he tried to contact the 
rental company by phone  as there wasnt an email address. But he was unable to get in 
touch so he says he called Tesco Personal  Finance. He told them his holiday was fast 
approaching and he was trying  to cancel the rental  agreement. He said hed have to book  
alternative car hire but didnt want G to be able to take payment for a service  he wasnt going 
to receive. 
He says Tesco Personal Finance told him they could not halt any payment but a dispute 
could be raised  subsequently  if a charge was made  to his card by G. So Mr D posted  a letter 
of cancellation  to G on 6 August; 12 days before travel and he booked  alternative car hire.
But Mr D was disappointed to find that G charged  him anyway. So he contacted  Tesco 
Personal Finance  to dispute the transaction.
Tesco Personal Finance initially tried to raise a chargeback  but explained they were unable 
to as the chargeback scheme required them to provide proof the cancellation request was 
received by G and, as Mr D hadnt  used recorded  delivery, this wasnt  available.  They  then 
considered whether a like claim could be made  to them under section 75 but they rejected 
this for similar reasons: they said they were  unable to demonstrate  thered been a breach of 
contract as there was no proof G had received  Mr Ds cancellation request.
So Mr D, still dissatisfied, brought his claim  to this service and our investigator provided her 
opinion. She thought  that Tesco Personal  Finance hadnt treated Mr D fairly.  She understood 
that the restrictions of the chargeback scheme  may have prevented them processing a 
refund but she thought they could have considered Mr Ds claim under section 75 and had 
failed to gather evidence  from both parties;  preferring  to rely on the absence  of evidence 
about Mr Ds cancellation. She said that whilst  proof of delivery of the letter  would have been 
ideal she didnt think it was reasonable to suggest it had to be provided. She noted  that Mr D 
had called Tesco Personal Finance and explained  the problems he was having contacting 
the company and his desire to cancel the contract.  She thought, on the balance  of 
probabilities and given the evidence shed been  provided by Mr D, that it was likely he had 
cancelled the contract  with the rental company  and that it would therefore  be fair for Tesco 
Personal Finance  to refund the fee hed paid, adding 8% simple interest from the date he 
raised his complaint to the date of settlement. She also thought  they should pay Mr D £100 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  hed experienced as a result of the issue.
But Tesco Personal Finance disagreed. They said they only had Mr Ds word that hed 
cancelled the hire contract and they could  only see that he contacted them  about the 
cancellation after hed sent a letter to the hirer so they couldnt  have  been  expected  to 
advise him of the need to send it recorded delivery.  They therefore asked for a final decision 
by an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN01522142my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators opinion of this complaint. I know  that will disappoint  Tesco 
Personal Finance  so please let me explain.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When considering  a complaint about a financial  services provider,  Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under Section 75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about  whats a fair way to resolve the complaint but I dont have  to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr D made  a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
When something goes  wrong  and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here,  it might  be possible  to recover the money paid through a 
chargeback claim or a claim through section 75. This section of the Consumer Credit  Act 
(1974) says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under  a credit agreement  has an 
equal right to claim against the credit provider  as against the supplier  if there's either a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation  by the supplier.
The chargeback scheme  administrator, in this case Mastercard, set rules  for the submission 
of chargeback requests, and as Tesco Personal Finance were  told theyd need to supply  
proof that the cancellation request was made, I think they were  entitled to take the view that 
a chargeback request wouldnt succeed.
But I dont think they fairly  assessed Mr Ds claim  under section 75 as I think  it was unfair to 
simply reject it on the basis that he didnt  have sufficient proof of delivery.
Im persuaded that Mr D did try to cancel  the hire but wasnt able to. I say that because:
Ive seen evidence  that he arranged alternative  car hire and I dont think he would 
have if he didnt  want to cancel the hire he already  had
Tesco Personal Finance havent got a record of Mr D calling them  before he went  
away. So I listened to the call he had with them when he returned   after hed found  
G had taken payment.  In that call he referred  on two occasions to having called 
Tesco Personal Finance before he travelled. He said he wanted to stop the payment 
because he was unable  to get though to the rental company. I think  this suggests its 
most likely he did contact Tesco  Personal Finance before he left as well as when he 
returned. 
I think Mr Ds testimony has been  reliable and consistent throughout. The detail he 
gave Tesco Personal Finance in the call Ive listened to is the same as that provided 
to this service. 
Ref: DRN01522143Ive called G and I couldnt get through to them. I think  that supports Mr Ds 
testimony.
So Im persuaded  that, on balance, its most likely  Mr D did try to cancel the rental 
agreement hed formed with G and that, through  no fault of his own,  he was unable to do so. 
I therefore think it would be fair for Tesco Personal  Finance  to refund the charge that was 
made for a service Mr D didnt want. Its clear  that Mr D has been inconvenienced by this 
issue and I agree that, in the circumstances,  Tesco  Personal Finance should also pay him 
£100 compensation.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Tesco Personal Finance 
PLC to:
pay the claim Mr D has made under section 75
add 8% simple interest per annum from the date the complaint  was logged to the 
date of settlement
pay Mr D £100 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 November 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0152214