K820x#14complaint
Mr O doesnt think  its fair for The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) to use his payment 
protection insurance (PPI) compensation to reduce the debt from which  he was discharged 
when his protected trust deed came to an end in 2011.
background
In October  2019 I issued  my provisional  decision.  In it I explained to both parties why I 
wasnt intending to uphold Mr Os complaint.  In summary, I said that I thought  it was fair for 
RBS to use the PPI compensation  it offered to reduce the outstanding debt, which  was 
written off by RBS following the closure of Mr Os protected  trust deed.
A copy of my provisional decision is attached  and forms part of this final decision.
I asked both parties to come back to me with any further information they wanted me to 
consider before I made  my final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  When considering what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable, Im required by DISP  3.6.4 R of the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA) 
Handbook to take into account:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules,  guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) (where appropriate) what [the ombudsman] considers to have been good  industry  
practice at the relevant time.
Both parties  confirmed receipt of my provisional  decision. Neither  party had anything further 
to add.
Within my provisional decision (attached)  I mentioned that there were some court cases 
which set out to whom  PPI compensation should be paid when a consumer  has been 
discharged from a protected trust deed. In one of the court cases,  Royal Bank of Scotland  
Plc v Donnelly [2019] CSIH 56. the court said RBS couldnt use the consumers PPI 
compensation to reduce a debt from which they were discharged when the trust deed came  
to an end. But I explained that this was being appealed by RBS  and that the outcome  may 
change.
Since my provisional decision, the appeal  has been heard at The Inner  House of the Court  
of Session. In short, RBS lost the appeal  and the court  reaffirmed the legal position that 
RBS couldnt use the compensation to pay down the amount that wasnt repaid after the 
trust deed ended. The court said when the trust deed ended the debtor was discharged from 
her debts, so there was no longer any debt owing from her to the bank which  could be 
subject to set-off.
Ref: DRN05279282At this moment it isnt known whether RBS intend to appeal the decision further  to the 
Supreme Court  so there  is a possibility the outcome may change.
However, as explained  within my provisional  decision  I have considered  the relevant law. 
And when  initially  providing my provisional  decision,  I did so when  the law had already found  
in the consumers favour. RBS losing the appeal confirms  the legal position within Scots  law 
about what happens when consumer is discharged from their trust deed  (although  Im 
mindful as Ive said above, RBS maybe  appealing  this further  to the Supreme  Court). But as 
I also explained with my provisional  decision, whilst I take into account  the relevant law  Im 
not bound  to follow it.  I must also apply an over-arching test of whats  fair and reasonable 
in the particular circumstances of Mr Os complaint  as required of me through FSMA 
Section 228 and the FCAs DISP rules.
Having done so, I remain of the opinion it would be unfair for RBS to pay compensation 
directly to Mr O  when Mr O, thanks to the trust deed, now wont ever have to repay the 
monies borrowed and left unpaid.
So, I see no reason  to depart from my findings set out in my provisional  decision.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr O but it follows that I dont uphold  his complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, and in my provisional  decision,  I dont uphold this complaint. I 
think its fair for RBS to use the PPI compensation its offered to reduce the outstanding  debt 
which was written off by RBS following the closure of Mr Os protected  trust deed.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 January 2020. 
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN05279283Copy of provisional  decision
complaint
Mr O doesnt  think its fair for The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS)  to use his payment protection  
insurance (PPI) compensation  to reduce  the debt from which he was discharged when  his protected 
trust deed came to an end in 2011.
background
Mr O took out an overdraft in 2002. He took out PPI alongside this overdraft to protect  his 
repayments. 
In November 2007, Mr O entered into a trust deed as he was unable to pay all his debts when they 
fell due. This became  a protected trust deed for his creditors.  This is an alternative in Scotland  to 
bankruptcy (called sequestration in Scotland). It is a legally binding agreement between a consumer  
and their creditors, which is administered by a trustee.
RBS records show that following the completion of the trust deed in 2011, two of Mr Os accounts  
were closed. This included loan account ending 5872 and a current  account  4179 (the account where 
the redress  was due). Both of these accounts were included in the trust deed. The outstanding 
balance owed  to RBS was £13,996.23 when  they were closed in January 2013. RBS confirmed  it 
received a dividend of £739.04. While RBS didnt chase for the outstanding sums the debt still 
existed. So a substantial  amount of debt was left unrecovered  from Mr O.
Mr O complained to RBS about the mis-sale  of these policies. RBS upheld  the complaint  about the 
sale of the PPI policy and offered to refund the PPI premiums and the extra  interest that Mr O had 
paid to date together with simple interest to compensate  him for the time hed been out of pocket. 
Mr O signed  the acceptance  form for this offer on 29 September  and RBS confirmed it received  this 
form on 4 October 2018.
RBS confirmed it had used the redress to offset  against its total claim  in the trust deed. But Mr O 
doesnt think  the PPI compensation he was offered should be used by RBS in this way. 
He says that as the protected  trust deed ended, he doesnt owe the money to RBS. He says that at 
the end of the trust deed everything was settled and his outstanding debt was written off. He has 
asked that the compensation be paid directly to him.
Our adjudicator said that he didnt think this complaint should be upheld.  He thought  that the way RBS 
had offered to settle the complaint was fair. Unhappy  with the adjudicators view, Mr O asked that the 
matter be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision. He said that his old debt was a separate  
issue. He also said he was tricked into PPI and there was an on-going court case which  had to be 
taken into account. So the matter has been passed to me.
To be clear  in this decision Im only looking at whether it was fair for RBS to use the compensation for 
the mis- sold PPI to repay outstanding amounts on Mr Os account. I am not looking at the amount of 
debt on the overdraft or the way in which the PPI came to be sold.
Ref: DRN05279284my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. When considering  what is, in my opinion,  fair and reasonable, Im 
required by DISP 3.6.4 R of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook to take into account:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) (where appropriate) what [the ombudsman]  considers to have been good industry practice  at 
the relevant time.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr O but Im not intending to uphold this complaint.  I will explain why.
As RBS has upheld Mr Os PPI mis-sale complaint,  Ive just looked at whether  what  its done to put 
things right is fair and reasonable.  I havent looked at how the PPI policies came to be mis-sold. And 
Mr O hasnt raised any issues about the amount of compensation offered so I also wont consider this. 
Mr Os complaint is that RBS has set-off  the amount of compensation to reduce the overdraft amount 
that hasnt  been fully repaid rather than paying the compensation directly  to him.
So in this decision I need to decide whether its fair and reasonable for RBS to use Mr Os PPI 
compensation offer to reduce the much higher amount of debt which he wasnt required to repay  back 
to it (and was written off by RBS)  after his protected trust deed was closed  in 2011.
Mr O has referred me to the ongoing court case.
Ive thought carefully about  what  the law says about  protected trust deeds. In recent years there have 
been a number of cases looking at what happens to PPI compensation after a trust deed has been 
discharged. 
In Dooneen Ltd v Mond [2018] UKSC 54, the Supreme Court considered  the effect  of a discharge  
following a final distribution by the trustee.  In that case, the discharge was held to terminate the trust 
which meant that any unrealised assets  were returned to the debtor  including the PPI compensation  
that no one had known about at the time.
So in this case the Supreme  Court said that the PPI compensation should  not be paid to the trustees 
for the benefit of the creditors. It said it should  be paid to the consumer.
In Donnelly v The Royal Bank of Scotland PLC [2017] SAC (Civ) 1, the Sheriff Appeal Court 
considered whether RBS could offset PPI compensation against the amount that hadnt been repaid 
when the trust deed came  to an end. The terms of the trust deed in this case  meant RBS had, in 
effect, agreed that the debt would be extinguished  and it couldnt later revive  the debt to offset the 
PPI compensation (I understand RBS has appealed this decision, so the outcome may change).
So I accept that, unless and until the Inner House reverses the decision of the Sheriff Appeal Court, 
and on the assumption that the relevant terms of the trust deed in Donnelly are essentially the same 
as those in this case, then RBS could  not, in court, successfully argue  for set-off in this case.
In this case I am aware of and have  taken into account the relevant  law. But I must apply an over-
arching test of whats fair and reasonable  to both parties, not just the relevant case law, in the 
particular circumstances of Mr Os complaint. Having done this, I think  its fair for RBS to use the PPI 
compensation to reduce the money Mr O borrowed and didnt repay.
Ref: DRN05279285I appreciate that RBS cant now chase Mr O in court for the money that he owed  when Mr O entered  
into a protected trust deed.  But I can see from the evidence RBS has provided that Mr O still owed 
over £16,000 more  than he repaid off his overdraft and loan. Its likely  that wont now ever be repaid.  
Just because Mr O entered into a protected trust deed - and Mr O was discharged  from the debt when 
the trust deed ended, doesnt make a difference to what is fair. I think it would be unfair  to tell RBS to 
pay Mr O compensation  when he doesnt now have to repay the borrowing which was still 
outstanding.
The fact that Mr Os protected  trust deed had come  to an end before this offer of PPI compensation  
was made and after Mr O was discharged  from it doesnt, in my opinion make a difference  to what is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances here. In reality, Mr O still had the benefit  of over £13,000 
from RBS that he doesnt  have to pay back. I dont think anyone would think it fair to require  RBS to 
repay the PPI compensation directly to Mr O when he doesnt now need to pay back to RBS a much  
bigger amount which he borrowed to take out his overdraft.
So it follows from what Ive said that I think its fair for RBS to use the PPI compensation  its offered to 
reduce the outstanding  debt which was written off by RBS following the closure of Mr Os protected 
trust deed.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, my provisional  decision is Im not intending to uphold this complaint.
Im currently  minded to decide that its fair for The Royal  Bank of Scotland  Plc to use Mr Os 
compensation for the mis-sold PPI to reduce the amount he owed and didnt  repay when his trust 
deed came  to an end. 
So unless comments or information I get by 29 November  2019 change my mind, based on what  Ive 
seen so far I dont plan to ask The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc  to do anything more to put things right.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0527928