K821x#15Complaint
Mrs P is the executor of the estate of the late Mr H. She complains that J.P. Morgan Europe
Limited (which provided and administered Mr H's Post Office account) wrongly debited
Mr Hs account with transactions  which he neither made nor authorised.  Mrs P says that
those transactions  should be refunded to the estate.
Background
Mr H opened his Post Office account in 2004.  He was issued with a card and PIN (personal
identification number) and used the account  frequently. In July 2009  Mrs P was added to the
account as a permanent agent  (PA) and she was given a card and PIN.
Mrs P explained that Mr H suffered a Thalamic stroke  in 2010  and as a consequence for
the last few years of his life Mr H was unable to get our or look after himself, including  using
a telephone. Mr H was in a nursing home and needed full time care. Mrs P says she told the
bank that Mr H had moved to the nursing home in September 2010. But, the bank has no
record of this conversation and Mr Hs account  address was never updated, meaning that all
bank correspondence   including statements  was sent to Mr Hs old address.
Ive set out a timeline of events below:
-In June 2012 Mrs P lost her card and reported  this to the Post Office   she
wasnt issued with a new card,  and consequently  she didnt have access to the
account. Mrs P explained at the time she couldnt pass the security details on
the account to order  a new one.
-In June 2012 somebody  called the Post Office to request a new card for Mr H 
this person passed security and a new card was ordered.
-In June 2013 somebody  called Post Office and reported Mr Hs card as lost or
stolen. And on the 22 June 2013  a letter was sent to Mr Hs old address letting
him know his new card was ready for collection.  This card was then collected,
using the letter, on the 25 June 2013.
-On the 1 July 2013 Post Office froze Mr Hs account as they noticed a change  
in the pattern of spending. On the same day somebody  called the Post Office,
the person identified himself as Mr H and said theyd been making the
transactions, and the account  was unblocked.
-Again  on the 8 July 2013  Post Office  sent a letter to Mr Hs old address saying
theyd placed  a temporary freeze  on his account.
-On the 11 July 2013 the Post Office sent Mr H a letter saying you recently
contacted us and couldnt answer the security questions for your account
correctly  we therefore  need  you to change your security  information details.
-On 13 July 2013 somebody  completed the form confirming  the new security details.
-On 23 July 2013 somebody  called the Post Office  passed the security details 
and requested a withdrawal of £5,000 which was completed on the 24 July 2013.
-On the 22 September 2015  the Post Office received a letter, allegedly  from Mr H,
Ref: DRN09858292which asked to change  his address. It also asked for a payment  via cheque   of 
£1,500 and £100 thereafter on a monthly  basis to someone Ill call A. And for
these payments to be made to the prison  governor  as A was currently  in custody.
-On the 29 October 2015 Mrs P notified  the Post Office that Mr H had passed  away
-On the 2 December 2015 the Post Office received  a letter,  claiming to be from
Mr H, asking for the bank  to change his address on the system. And for A to act
as a representative for Mr H on the phone. The letter  asks again for a cheque
of £1,500 and £100 a month thereafter  to be paid but on this occasion to a
different person. The letter  also mentions that today my card is stop,  so need
you to open back  up
Mrs P says that its not possible  for Mr H to have  authorised any of the transactions  from the
25 June 2013  onwards   in total just under £40,000  is disputed, the majority of which was
taken as ATM withdrawals. Mrs P says that due to Mr Hs health he wasnt  able to leave the
nursing home  so it wasnt possible for him to have  carried out the cash withdrawals.
JP Morgan  said they cant see theyve  acted with negligence as they hadnt been notified of
Mr Hs vulnerability, his change of address, Mrs Ps inability to get a new card nor of the
suspicion of fraudulent activity on the account. They also pointed out the account history
shows a record of all communication and there  is no record of Mrs P contacting them  to
change the address or notify them that Mr H had a stroke.
One of our investigators  looked into Mrs Ps complaint and thought that JP Morgan needed
to do more. They carried out further investigation  and made contact with both the police and
the care home. Although  the care home was unable to provide written  evidence Mr H was a
resident at the property  due to a change in provider  they confirmed this was the case.
Mrs P reported the alleged theft to the police  and the police identified two potential
suspects, A and B, who they had reason  to believe were involved. The police have
confirmed, that due to insufficient evidence this matter wasnt  pursued.
Our investigator also checked the electoral roll between 2010  and 2015. This showed that
following Mr H moving out A was the registered  tenant of his former address  and the
address where  all of the banks correspondence  was sent  during this time.
Our investigator said she didnt think that Mr H was capable of authorising the transactions 
and there  was no evidence that Mr H had acted with gross  negligence. So JP Morgan should
refund the disputed  transactions.
JP Morgan  didnt agree and said:
-There was an increase in withdrawals  carried  out on the PA card in the last two
months  totalling  £4,800
-Mrs P claims she notified JP Morgan that her father had a stroke  and moved to
a care home  but theres  no evidence that the bank was notified  about either the
change in address  or his vulnerability
-Neither Mr H or Mrs P notified  the bank  that they hadnt received any bank
statements between the time Mr H moved  into a care home in 2010 and
October 2015
-They find it unusual that Mrs P didnt request a new PA card
-They believe the only way its possible  for a third party to have taken over Mr Hs
account was because they werent  notified about the possibility of fraudulent activity
Ref: DRN09858293On reviewing Mrs Ps complaint I came to the same conclusion as our investigator but for 
slightly different reasons.  I asked Mrs P and JP Morgan to respond with any further 
comments by the 9 March  2020.
Mrs P responded to say she accepted my provisional decision. 
JP Morgan  initially responded to say they accepted my provisional  decision but queried 
whether 8 % should be paid for the entire  period, as the case could have  resolved  sooner  by 
the ombudsman  service. I considered JP Morgans points but explained that at any time 
during this period JP Morgan could have settled Mrs Ps complaint  so I didnt agree 8 % 
should only be paid for part of the period since the fraud occurred. JP Morgan responded to 
say they now accepted  my provisional  decision.  
My Findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And in doing so Ive come to the same  
conclusion. 
In my provisional decision I said:
Considering authorisation
The regulations relevant  to this case are the Payment Service Regulations 2009 (PSRs
2009) These explain that a payment out of someones account  can only be authorised if the
payer has consented to it. The payment service provider must show the payment was
authenticated. But its not enough for the bank to simply rely on the fact that the card and
PIN were used; that doesnt  necessarily mean  that the payment transaction  was authorised
by the account  holder.
Whether a payment has been authorised or not is important because  account holders will
usually be liable for payments theyve authorised and, generally speaking,  banks  will be
liable for unauthorised payments. But account holders can become liable for unauthorised
payments when they havent met certain obligations.  These  obligations are set out in
Regulation 57 PSRs  2009
Under the PSRs  the bank can hold the consumer liable for up to £50 of the disputed
transactions but this will only apply if its provided for in the account  terms.
Considering intent and gross  negligence
Regulation 57 for PSRs  2009 says that account  holders must use their card,  and other
payment instruments, in accordance with the terms and conditions governing its issue and
use. And they must  take all reasonable steps to keep their personalised security credentials,
such as their PIN and passwords, safe. They must  also tell their bank without undue delay
on becoming aware that their card is lost or stolen, or that its been used without their
consent. If an account holder fails with intent or gross negligence to comply  with Regulation
57, theyll become  liable for unauthorised payments instead of the bank. If a bank is alleging
that an account holder has failed in this way, they must provide supporting evidence.
Whether a customer has acted with gross  negligence  has to be assessed on a case by
case basis taking into account  all the circumstances.
The Financial Conduct Authoritys guidance  on the PSRs 2017 says:  
Ref: DRN09858294we interpret  gross negligence to be a higher  standard  than the standard  of negligence
under common law. The customer needs  to have shown a very significant degree  of
carelessness. When considering gross  negligence in a commercial  contract  context, Mance
J in Red Sea Tankers Ltd v Papachristidis (The Ardent) [1997] 2 Lloyds  Rep 547, 586
said: If the matter is viewed according  to purely  English principles of construction,  
Gross negligence is clearly intended to represent  something more fundamental than failure
to exercise proper skill and/or care constituting negligence as a matter of ordinary
language and general impression, the concept of gross negligence seems to me capable of
embracing not only conduct undertaken with actual appreciation of the risks involved, but
also serious disregard of or indifference to an obvious risk.
Negligence is often  referred to as a failure to exercise reasonable care. So, I think  it fair and
reasonable to conclude,  the use of gross  negligence, rather than negligence, suggests a
lack of care, that goes significantly beyond ordinary negligence.
With these relevant considerations in mind  I think there are two key questions in deciding
what is fair and reasonable here:
were the disputed transactions authorised by Mr H and, if they werent;
can the bank  demonstrate that Mr H failed with intent or gross  negligence to
comply with the obligations  set out in Reg 57 of the PSRs 2009?
Ive looked at the evidence provided  by both Mrs P and JP Morgan, and Im satisfied its
more likely than not Mr H didnt authorise these transactions. Ive also thought about whether
Mr H failed with gross negligence to comply with his obligations, and I dont think  he did. Ive
explained why I think this below.
although Ive not seen  specific evidence  to show Mr H was in a care home  at
the time of the disputed transactions  I find Mrs Ps account of his whereabouts
plausible and highly likely to be true.
Im satisfied  thats its more likely than not a third party fraudster sent the two
letters allegedly written  by Mr H to JP Morgan.  I say that for a number of reasons
including the fact the second letter was sent after Mr H passed  away  yet claims
to be from Mr H and says today  my card is stop,  so need you to open back  up. I
think its likely  when looking at the timing of the blocked card  that the card was
stopped due to the bank being notified about  Mr H passing away.
The requests  made in both letters are highly unusual  in particular  the first
letter where a request  is made for cheques of £1,500 and £100 a month
thereafter to be paid to a serving prisoner  A  via a prison governor. And the
activity is different to how the account  was previously  used.
Ive thought about how a fraudster could have carried out the disputed
transactions. Im satisfied  that its possible for a fraudster to have gained
possession of Mr Hs debit card in June 2013. At this time A was the registered
tenant of Mr Hs former address  and therefore would have had access  to the
letter sent from the Post Office to Mr H notifying him his card was ready for
collection. And the ability to take this letter  to the local branch to collect the card.
As the transactions  were processed using chip and PIN Ive also considered
how Mr Hs PIN was obtained. I see two possible explanations. Firstly  Mr H
wrote down the PIN at his home address, and this was obtained by fraudsters
Ref: DRN09858295after theyd moved  in. Mrs P has explained  that her family cleared out Mr Hs
address after he left the property. Even  if I thought the flat wasnt fully cleared, I
think its unlikely Mr H left his PIN in a identifiable  format and discovered by a
new tenant. And I dont  see this as a very likely  or plausible explanation. So Ive
considered the other possibility that Mr Hs PIN was sent to the address by the
bank. Im aware that theres no evidence this took place, but Im satisfied this is
the most  likely explanation. I say this because the bank sent letters   to his
previous home address  giving Mr H the chance to provide new security details
and to collect his debit card. So I think its likely   especially if a PIN reminder
was requested by the fraudster  that one was also provided.
Theres a clear  increase in spending  after the new card in June 2013  large
amounts, starting  off at £600,  are withdrawn daily for 13 days  until the first block
is placed on Mr Hs account  by the bank  due to concerns about fraudulent
activity on the account. I can see why the bank would suspect fraudulent
activity, in particular  when considering prior to the disputed transactions, no
genuine transactions had been completed  for over 12 months.  So there was a
significant increase  in spending. 
In response to the view the business said there was an increase in the PA card activity of
£4,800 being spent  in the last two months.  Ive considered this but I cant see any benefit to
Mrs P in carrying  out the transactions,  when she is the sole beneficiary  of Mr Hs estate.
Looking at the account activity at the time  I think its clear  the second  letter  in particular
wasnt written  by someone who was aware Mr H had recently  passed  away. I say this
because the letter mentions the card being blocked   without understanding the reason for
this. Id also find it very surprising that Mrs P would report the theft to the police  which, if
she was involved in the withdrawal of the funds, would put her at risk of prosecution.
JP Morgan  have also raised that Mrs P was grossly negligent in failing to notify JP Morgan
about Mr Hs change  in address, and not identifying that the statements werent received for
a period of five years. Ive considered the banks points  but gross  negligence only applies
to the account  holder, so in this case Mr H. Ive outlined how I think a fraudster could have
got hold of Mr Hs card and PIN, and I dont think Mr H failing to notify the bank of his change
in address should be considered as gross negligence. At the time when Mr H moved out of
his home  address he was suffering from significant  health problems. So I think its
reasonable he only made limited efforts to inform JP Morgan  of his change  in address. Even
so Im satisfied its more likely than not Mrs P made an attempt to notify  JP Morgan of Mr Hs
change in address.
In conclusion Im satisfied that its more likely  than not Mr H didnt authorise the disputed
transactions. Ive thought about  whether  he was grossly negligent with his security details
but for the reasons Ive outlined above I dont  think this was the case.  So Im currently
minded to uphold  Mrs Ps complaint.
As Ive already  explained both Mrs P and JP Morgan have now accepted my provisional 
decision  so I see no reason to change my outcome. And Ill be upholding Mrs Ps 
complaint. 
My Final  Decision
My final decision is that I direct JP Morgan Europe Limited  to:
Ref: DRN09858296-Refund the disputed transactions in full, £38,568.09, to Mr Hs estate and add
8% interest from the date of the transactions to the date the settlement is paid
If JP Morgan Europe Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs
(HMRC) to withhold income tax from those parts of the award constituting the 8% interest, it 
should tell Mr Hs estate  how much its taken off. It should also give the estate a tax 
deduction certificate if it asks for one, so it can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 May 2020.
Jeff Burch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0985829