K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mr W says Bank of Scotland plc, trading  at the time as Halifax (Halifax), mis-sold him 
the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr W has said the PPI was added to his account without his knowledge but I think  Halifax 
made it clear  that Mr W didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out. Halifax  
has said Mr W initially called to make his application  for the credit  card and he was then sent 
an application form to complete.  Ive been  given a copy of the application form which  was 
completed at the time and this includes a section about PPI. In this section  there is a box to 
tick if PPI is required and I can see it has been ticked on Mr Ws form. He has signed the 
application form which suggests he agreed  with everything that had been entered. If Mr W 
didnt want to take out the PPI he could have left the PPI section blank.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr W so it had to check that the PPI was right for him  and 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time,  I think that it was. For example he 
appears to have been eligible for the cover and wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI, such as unusual working  arrangements or suffering from a medical  
condition of which he was already  aware. 
Mr W has said he didnt  need the policy as he was entitled to at least six months sick pay 
from his employer if he was too ill to work. But this policy would have paid out for up to 12 
months for accident  or sickness and this would be in addition to, and potentially for longer 
than, his sick pay. And it would also provide cover if he was to lose his job. While I note 
Mr W has said his family  could have helped him, support from others cant be guaranteed as 
their circumstances can also change, meaning they cant  provide such  financial assistance. 
So I think this policy could  have  provided him with a useful benefit.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems  
like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put him off taking out 
the cover. 
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr W paid for it. But Halifax  has already offered to give Mr W back  some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  I understand  Halifax  has already paid this to 
Mr W.
Ref: DRN01689692my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 September  2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0168969