K821x#15complaint
Mr A has complained about Advantage Insurance Company Limiteds  service  after he 
claimed on his motor insurance policy.
Reference to Advantage includes its agents.
background
Mr A was in an accident. Advantage  arranged  for repairs  to Mr As car but he wasn't happy 
with those. In particular he said that Advantage  had repaired the wrong door lock and as a 
result three doors would no longer lock properly. And because  of that items were stolen from 
his car. Advantage sent an independent  engineer to review Mr As car. He said that 
Advantage needed to have the doors  inspected by the manufacturer.  He also said that the 
front wing required  a small repair. 
The manufacturer provided a report on Mr As car. Having  considered  that Advantage said 
the issue with the door locks wasn't related to the accident or the repair. But it agreed to 
cover the cost of one lock. It also paid Mr A £100  compensation for his distress and 
inconvenience because  the repairs werent  up to standard initially. 
I issued a provisional decision on 8 January 2020. For ease Ive copied my provisional 
findings below.  I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so its likely  Ill partly uphold 
it. 
should Advantage cover the costs  of the replacement locks?
When Mr A took his car to be repaired he said that, following  the accident, his drivers door 
lock would no longer work. But Advantages garage replaced the rear door lock, not the 
drivers door lock. Mr A said that following this repair the other three  locks  stopped  working.
Advantages garage explained that when it assessed Mr As car it used the central locking 
button on his key fob to lock the doors.  And at that time three of the doors, including the 
drivers door,  locked.  It said that the only door that didnt  lock was the right side rear door. So 
it assumed that was the faulty  lock and replaced it, even though that wasnt the lock Mr A 
said had stopped working following the accident. Advantage has since said that the fault with 
the lock on that door wasn't accident related, so the garage shouldnt  have replaced it. 
After the manufacturer produced its report on Mr As car Advantage spoke to its engineer. 
The engineer said that three of the doors  had intermittent faults.  So that at times they would 
lock and at other times they wouldnt.  He told Advantage that each individual  lock had a 
different fault.  And that the faults  were not caused centrally. In those circumstances I think 
Advantages conclusion, that the faults  with the locks weren't caused by either  the accident 
or the repair was reasonable. Thats because I find it very unlikely, from a lay perspective,  
that a single incident, whether thats the accident or repair, could cause three  different faults 
to three  separate locks.
Also Advantage told Mr A that if he didnt  agree  with its engineers that the faulty locks 
werent related  to the accident or repair, he could get his own engineering report. And if that 
Ref: DRN04486472said that the faulty locks were accident  or repair related  it would look again at the issue. But 
Mr A didnt provide  an independent engineers report to support  his version of events. And 
he paid to have  the locks  repaired himself.  Advantage covered the cost of one lock, 
presumably because this was the lock it had replaced earlier.  But given theres no evidence, 
beyond Mr As comments, that the other locks were faulty because of the accident or repair  I 
dont think Advantage  needs to reimburse  the costs of the other two locks. 
Our investigator noted that when the garage assessed  Mr As car three locks  were working. 
But they werent working after the repair. So she said that the repair  might have contributed 
to those faults and said that Advantage should  cover  50% of the costs.  But I don't think thats 
fair. While the drivers  door lock might  have worked when the garage assessed the car it 
clearly hadn't been working earlier, as Mr A said that he needed that lock repairing. And the 
manufacturer said that the faults with the locks  were intermittent. That is sometimes theyd 
lock and sometimes they wouldnt. And that would explain why the drivers door locked when 
the garage assessed the car but Mr A had said it wouldnt lock previously. So I don't think its 
reasonable to conclude  that three locks were working well before the repair. Its more likely  
that they simply locked  on that occasion but wouldnt do so later.  And without persuasive 
evidence that the accident or the repair caused those locks to be faulty, I dont intend to 
direct Advantage to cover any of the costs for repairing those.
Mr A also said that he had items stolen from his car because it wouldn't  lock. So he thinks 
Advantage should cover the cost of those items. But as I dont think  that Advantage is 
responsible for the locks being faulty I dont think its responsible for the stolen items. 
other repairs
The engineer who assessed Mr As car identified that the wing needed a small repair.  But 
Advantage later told him that it would only authorise  the garage to blend the paint. Its not 
clear why Advantage said this as the engineers  report doesn't refer to blending the paint  at 
all but clearly refers to the need for a repair. Mr A eventually had the work done himself.  Im 
pleased to see that Advantage has now covered the cost of that repair.  But I dont think it 
was reasonable  that it didnt authorise that work in the first place when thats what the 
engineers report  said. That meant  that Mr A had to complain  about the issue  and then 
arrange and pay for the work  himself.  And this has clearly been a further  source of distress  
and inconvenience  for Mr A. So to address that I think it should  pay him a further  £100  
compensation.
developments
Advantage accepted my provisional  decision. Mr A didn't. He said that hed taken his car to 
two other  garages  before the garage  that actually repaired his car and both of those garages 
had provided reports  to say that it was his drivers side lock that needed  attention. He said 
his locks had worked  well before the accident  and that Advantage was lying in saying that 
the manufacturer had said the locks  had intermittent faults. He said the manufacturer had 
said that in order  to examine the locks  the cars doors needed stripping. He added that when 
he had the locks repaired himself the mechanic that did the work told him that whoever had 
fitted the rear lock had played with the wiring causing the other issues. He said that 
Advantage hadn't looked after his possessions in his car even though  it was aware that the 
locks werent working. 
Ref: DRN04486473my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I'm going  to partly uphold  
it and Ive decided  not to change my provisional decision.
Mr As said that Advantage has lied about  what the manufacturers engineer  told it. Owing to 
the passage of time the recording of the call with the manufacturer's  engineer is no longer 
available. But Advantage said the manufacturers  engineer described the faults with Mr As 
cars locks  as being like a whack-a-mole game. That is the doors would lock and unlock 
unpredictably. And given the very specific nature of that description of the fault, I think thats  
likely to be an accurate representation of how Advantage  remembered the conversation with 
the manufacturer. 
Mr As said that two other garages  only found an issue with the front drivers side lock. But 
thats not supported by the evidence. Advantage has only been able to locate a report  from 
one of the two garages Mr A has referred  to. And that report refers to the front left door lock. 
That is the passengers side lock, not the drivers  side lock, which of course is on the right. 
And as we know the garage that did the repair said it found a fault with the rear door.  So, 
assuming the other garage that Mr A referred to did find a fault with the drivers side lock that 
would mean  that three different garages  found  issues with three different door locks. And 
that would  support what Advantage said that the manufacturer told it. That is there  were  
intermittent faults with each of the locks. And I find that evidence  persuasive.
Mr A said that the mechanic that repaired the locks told him that the issues  were  caused by 
faulty wiring which  happened when Advantages garage was repairing the rear lock. But 
Mr A hasn't provided a report from that mechanic.  So the only evidence we have of that is 
Mr As account of events.  So, in the absence of independent engineering  evidence that the 
faulty locks were caused by Advantages garage, I don't intend to instruct Advantage to 
reimburse Mr A for the costs he incurred  replacing  the locks.
Mr As also said that items  were  stolen from his car because Advantage didn't safeguard 
those. But Mr A knew that he had a problem with his cars locks so he could have removed 
any items himself. And as I said in my provisional decision, given that I don't think that the 
faulty locks were caused by Advantages garage  I don't  think its fair to say that its 
responsible for any items stolen from Mr As car. But, as I said in my provisional decision, as 
Advantage didn't repair the damage  to his front wing when it should  have  done,  I think  it 
should pay him £100 compensation. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I partly uphold this complaint.  I require Advantage Insurance  
Company Limited  to pay Mr A £100  compensation for his distress  and inconvenience.  It 
should take the above action within 28 days of us telling it that Mr A has accepted my final 
decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the compensation from the date 
of my final decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple1.
1 If Advantage  pays interest and considers that its required  by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr A how much its taken off. It should  also give Mr A a 
certificate showing  this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
Ref: DRN04486474Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2020.
Joe Scott 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0448647