K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains about the service she received from Santander UK Plc after she was given 
some incorrect information about  interest on her ISA. 
background
On 28 March 2019 Mrs H spoke with someone  at Santander about the interest  on her ISA. 
Mrs H raised a complaint  and discussed what happened with a call handler from Santander 
on 29 March 2019. 
The call handler confirmed that on the previous day Mrs H had been given some incorrect 
information about the interest rate payable on the ISA. Mrs H and the call handler discussed 
the number of days interest is payable on her ISA. The call handler said she would pay 
Mrs H £25 because of the incorrect information she was given on 28 March 2019 but 
confirmed no error  had been made about  the number of days  interest paid. The call handler 
also confirmed they would  arrange  for statements to be sent to Mrs H. 
Santander sent Mrs H its response to her complaint on 29 March  2018 but it was incorrectly 
dated as 26 March 2019. The letter also said the initial call that caused the complaint had 
happened on 27 March  2019 when it had happened on 28 March 2019.  
Mrs H called Santander back on 3 April 2019 as she hadnt received the statements or a 
response to her complaint. She was told the statements  had been  ordered and the complaint  
response had been  sent.  
Mrs H called back on 8 April 2019  as she still hadnt  received the complaint response. She 
went on to raise her concerns that no letter had been sent. 
Mrs H referred  her complaint to our service and an investigator looked  at what  happened.  He 
didnt agree Mrs Hs calls had been handled  badly and thought the £25 it had offered was 
fair. Mrs H didnt  accept and asked to appeal so her complaints been passed to me to make 
a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the calls Mrs H has raised  in her complaint form. Ive paid close attention to 
the call on 29 March  2019 during which Mrs H says the service she received was bad and 
the call handler  was rude. Having done  so, I didnt find any evidence of poor service or 
rudeness from the person she spoke with. 
During the call Mrs H and the person she spoke with both wanted to get their points across. 
And whilst there were a couple of points where  the call handler  spoke  over Mrs H I note she 
was also interrupted. The call handler  did threaten to end the call but, from what  I heard, that 
was because she couldnt give an explanation  of the points Mrs H asked about.  Its clear  that 
the call became heated but I didnt  hear the call handler behave unprofessionally.  
Ive also listened  to Mrs Hs follow up calls with Santander. I thought the people she spoke 
with were polite and provided  the information  she asked for. 
Ref: DRN01802292Mrs H says she didnt originally receive the final response and when she did it contained 
errors regarding the date it was sent as well as the date she discussed  her ISA account.  I 
agree there were two errors within the letter. But for me to tell Santander to increase the 
compensation paid Id have to be persuaded that giving  the wrong dates unreasonably 
impacted Mrs H. Whilst Ive considered everything shes  told us, Im not persuaded there are 
grounds to tell Santander to compensate Mrs H because it made  a mistake with the dates it 
used. I understand  Mrs H says there was a delay  in receiving the final response, but Im 
satisfied Santander  sent it as claimed.  
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs H but Im satisfied that Santander  dealt  with her complaint fairly 
so Im not telling it to take any further action. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 August 2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0180229