K820x#14complaint
Mr E is unhappy with the settlement offered him by The National Farmers Union Mutual 
Insurance Society Limited  (NFUM) in respect of a home insurance claim for storm damage 
to his garden wall.
background
Following a storm in October  2017  part of Mr Es garden wall collapsed. He made a claim to 
NFUM who appointed loss adjusters  who carried out a site visit. They determined that the 
damage to part of the wall was likely to have  been  caused by a storm (high winds of up to 
70mph). But they said the wall was generally in poor condition  along its entire length. The 
top section was leaning badly and the bricks had weathered badly over the years.  
They said that the cause of the damage appeared to be general deterioration of the wall over 
a long period of time. They further said that due to the condition  of the wall it wouldnt be 
possible just to repair the storm damaged section. They also said that the property  appeared 
to be substantially underinsured. The rebuilding cost in the policy was £500,000  the loss 
adjuster estimated the actual cost would be £860,000. The property is grade 2 listed.
Mr E supplied two quotes for the repair of the wall, one for £34,450  and the other for £35,292 
plus VAT. These  were  for the rebuilding  of the whole wall. NFUM offered a settlement  of 
25% of the higher quote and offered to pay the same proportion of Mr Es surveyors  costs  in 
relation to the project. It said it had based  its offer on:
The cost of repair for the area damaged;
The estimate submitted;
The general wear  and tear of the wall; and
The level of underinsurance.
Mr E disputed that the wall was in poor condition,  or that it leaned before the storm event. 
NFUM agreed  to pay for Mr E to obtain  a surveyors report. That report expanded on the 
condition of the wall and suggested  that a schedule of works be drawn up in conjunction  with 
the local conservation  officer.  Mr E wanted  NFUM to pay for that to be done. But NFU said it 
was satisfied it had made  an appropriate offer. If Mr E wanted  to provide any further  
evidence it would consider it. Mr E has since shown us an indicative estimate from another  
builder suggesting  that his conservative guess  for the repairs  would be in the region  of 
£130,000.
Our investigator considered the matter but thought that NFUM had made  a fair offer. Mr E 
appointed a loss assessor  who said that NFUM should be expected  to give a technical 
breakdown of its offer. Mr E pointed  out that all parties had agreed that the whole wall 
needed rebuilding and he wasnt  able to find a builder who would carry out a repair  to just 
the damaged  section.  He reiterated that NFUM should pay to get a full estimate for repair.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NFUM has agreed that there  was a storm, which caused damage  to part of  the wall. Given 
that acceptance I dont need  to review whether there was actually a storm, but I would 
Ref: DRN01079222observe that there were  strong winds of up to 70 mph which could easily  have caused 
damage to the wall.
Normally the insurer would only be liable to pay to repair the part of the wall that was 
damaged by the storm. But here all the parties  agree that its not possible to repair part of 
the wall  it has to be rebuilt in full. And here I would say that NFUM would have to carry out 
an effective repair in terms  of the storm damage, which  it seems  it cant do because of the 
state of the remaining sections of wall.
But NFUM  says that the wall was in poor condition. As Ive set out above it considers that 
the wall was generally in poor condition before the storm. In particular the top part of it is 
leaning substantially. Mr E says the wall wasnt leaning before the storm and that it was in 
good condition  and had been  standing for many  years. He has shown us a couple of photos  
showing the wall before the storm.  But the report from the surveyor  he appointed identified  
the following  issues:
Large  areas of the wall are covered in vegetation  growth  (mainly ivy).
The wall has a visible  lean noted  to the garden  side of the structure.
Areas of brickwork are noted  as frost damaged  with sections of bricks  missing to the 
base of the wall, particularly to a chicken  coop side adjacent to the collapsed section and 
a (dilapidated) dog kennel built off the wall.
Whilst the wall is noted as 'old' with typical defects associated, it is feasible that a storm 
has significantly contributed to the section of the wall which has collapsed  and largely  
exacerbated the lean.
This appears  to me to agree that the wall was leaning before the storm and was in poor 
condition in places.
NFUM hasnt given a technical breakdown of its offer of settlement but says it has taken  into 
account the general wear and tear of the wall and the cost to repair  the section actually 
damaged. It also says it has taken into account  the underinsurance (although  hasnt said it 
has reduced it by any particular percentage).  I appreciate that it hasnt  broken  down  its offer 
but I still think I can decide what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.
I have looked  at Mr Es photos but they arent  close  enough to show the condition of the wall. 
I think it reasonable to rely on the experts views who inspected the wall. And I think they 
both concur that the wall was in poor condition and more specifically that the storm only 
materially affected one part of the wall. Given those conclusions I think  it was reasonable to 
believe that but for the condition of the wall (particularly its lean), repair  would only have 
been necessary  to the damaged part. I note that the damaged part is less than 25% of the 
whole wall. In those  circumstances I think it was reasonable for NFUM to restrict its offer to 
25% of Mr Es quote,  plus the said proportion of surveying fees.  
So the next issue is was it reasonable for NFUM to base its offer on the quotes obtained by 
Mr E? I should emphasise that these were  quotes obtained by Mr E. NFUM  has assessed 
them and says they are reasonable to reflect  the nature of the repair.  And certainly the 
builder providing the higher quote appears  (from  its website) to be a reputable local builder 
with experience of dealing  with older properties. I know Mr E now has had another  builder 
look at it  he says his conservative estimate" or best guess is of £130,000 plus VAT but 
this isnt based on any breakdown of work  indeed he suggested that a schedule  of work be 
prepared for tendering. I cant  see that theres  any reasonable basis for the cost hes 
suggested and, therefore, any way to reasonably  explain the vast difference  in the cost 
Ref: DRN01079223between his guess  and the previous detailed estimates.  I think  it was reasonable for NFUM  
to accept the quote of £35,292  plus VAT and pay 25% of that (especially as that is the most 
expensive of the two comparably priced  quotes).
NFUM has said it is prepared to look at further evidence if Mr E wants to provide it. But that 
is a matter for him  I dont intend  to ask NFUM to obtain any other evidence.
On the question of underinsurance, although NFUM says it has taken it into account, from 
the evidence it hasnt made any deduction for that. But Mr E should  be aware that he should 
keep the property insured for its full rebuilding  cost or he will run the risk of future claims 
being reduced because of it.
Overall I dont intend to uphold  the complaint. If Mr E wants  to accept NFUMs  offer, or he 
wants to provide it with further evidence he should  get in touch with it directly.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint and make no award  against The National Farmers Union 
Mutual Insurance Society  Limited
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 January 2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0107922