K820x#14complaint
Ms S complained she was mis-sold a credit card payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy 
by Bank  of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (BoS).
background
Ms S took out the PPI in March 2006  when she applied for a credit card. BoS said that she 
applied for the card by post and that she wasnt advised to take the PPI. Ms S said the sale 
took place in a meeting and that the PPI was added to her account without her consent  
and neither was the suitability of the policy checked. 
The policy cost 78p per £100.00 owed. If Ms S had successfully claimed on the policy for 
accident, sickness or unemployment, each month  it wouldve  paid out 10% of the balance 
outstanding when she stopped work.  This wouldve carried on for up to 12 months per claim. 
The policy also provided life and critical illness cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  think there  was enough evidence to say that BoS mis-sold the policy, 
so didnt uphold  the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms Ss case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
BoS sent in a copy of Ms Ss credit card application  form.  I can see that Ms Ss name and 
address were pre-printed, and theres a reference to sending  the form back in an enclosed 
prepaid envelope. So it looks like the form was sent out as part of a mailshot. The rest of Ms 
Ss details  were handwritten on the form. So from all this I think  Ms S applied for the credit 
card (and PPI) by post rather than in a meeting. 
I can see that Ms S had to tick a box and sign  separately from her signature for the credit  - 
to say that she wanted the PPI. She couldve simply left that section blank to show  that she 
didnt want it. Theres nothing on the application  to say that the PPI was compulsory. So 
from what I can see, I think Ms S had a choice about  taking the PPI, and decided  to do so  I 
dont think it was added without her consent.
BoS didnt advise Ms S to take out the policy, so it didnt need to make  sure that the PPI was 
suitable for her. But it shouldve given her enough information for her to decide whether the 
policy was right for her. 
The credit card application doesnt  say much about the cover, and theres no reference to a 
separate document, although  I think its likely  that some information  was available  to Ms S  
I dont think its likely  shed have signed  for the PPI without knowing something about it. But I 
dont know how much information about the cost and benefits Ms S wouldve had available  
to her when  she filled in the form. 
Ref: DRN01195622However, from what Ms S told us about  her circumstances,  I dont  think  shed have been 
affected by any of the main exclusions in the PPI policy.  
Ms S said she wouldve been  entitled  to sick pay from her employer of six months full pay 
and six months half pay. But she said she had no other means of making the credit card 
payments if she couldnt work. 
Ive thought carefully about everything Ms S has said, but overall I think  she couldve found it 
difficult to meet the monthly payments on the card once her sick pay reduced or if shed lost 
her job. Ive kept in mind  that the policy couldve paid out for up to 12 months per claim. And 
Ive no reason to think that the cost of the PPI was an issue for her. So overall I think the PPI 
couldve provided a useful benefit. 
Although I cant be certain that BoS provided a full explanation of the policy, Im not satisfied 
that Ms S would  have acted differently  and not taken out the PPI  if it had. It couldve 
provided useful  protection for her if she couldnt work. 
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BoS doesnt need  to refund everything Ms 
S paid for it. But BoS will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Ms S because: 
BoS got a high level of commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium) 
- so it should have  told Ms S about that. Because BoS didnt tell Ms S, that was unfair. 
To put that right, BoS has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
BoS has to pay back  to Ms S any commission and profit  share it got that was more than 50% 
of the PPI premium.  BoS should also pay back to Ms S any extra interest  she paid because 
of that.
BoS should re-work the credit card account  and pay back  to Ms S the difference  between 
what Ms S owes and what she wouldve owed if the commission and profit share  it got hadnt 
been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. BoS should also pay Ms S 8%* simple interest if she 
paid off her credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Ms S can claim back  the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
Ref: DRN01195623my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Ive concluded that the PPI policy  wasnt mis-sold  so Bank 
of Scotland plc does not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms S.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Ms S any commission and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2019.
Jan Ferrari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0119562