K822xcomplaint
Mr S complains that Santander UK Plc mishandled his application  to remove  his ex-partner 
from their joint mortgage. This caused  him to incur unnecessary solicitors fees. To resolve 
his complaint he wants Santander  to reimburse  these fees.
background 
Mr S is represented in his complaint by a member of his family but for convenience  Ill use 
the expression Mr S to refer to him or his representative.
In May 2018  Mr S and his then partner  took out a joint mortgage with Santander.  After  
completion his partner decided to end the relationship and moved out of the property. Both 
Mr S and his former partner wished to have her removed  from the mortgage.  Mr S says he 
spoke to Santander and was warned there was a chance that the transfer  to his sole name  
might not be agreed.
Mr S says Santander advised him to consult  a solicitor as documentation would need to be 
drawn up. This he did. I will call the solicitor  J. Mr S says Santander told him he would 
need to provide evidence  of income and Santander would then make credit checks. It would 
then advise him of an amount hed need to pay into the mortgage account  to reduce the 
amount owing. He should contact Santander  when  hed made this payment so he could 
make the application.  
Mr S provided the evidence and Santander said the credit checks were fine and that he 
needed to pay £4,444  to the mortgage  account. He did so but was then informed that the 
application had been unsuccessful and that he would need  to find another £17,500.
Mr S made a complaint to Santander and it refunded the £4,444. He then received a bill from 
J for £300.  He says J was only instructed on Santanders advice. If it had told him hed need 
to reduce the mortgage by £21,000  hed have known this wasnt achievable and there 
wouldnt have been any point in appointing J. 
Santander replied  to Mr Ss complaint on 24 August and 14 September 2018 but didnt 
uphold it. It said it had suggested he make an overpayment to reduce the loan to value ratio 
(LTV) in order to put an application  through.  But when the application was put through  it was 
declined owing to the credit score. Santander said it had looked  at other options and it came 
to light that if Mr S reduced  his LTV to 75%,  which meant paying around £17,000, then he 
could resubmit the application, subject to final underwriting. But Santander  understood this 
wasnt an option for Mr S.
It said any solicitor's fees would be a matter between Mr S and J. As his application was 
never agreed and no offer was issued, it wouldnt be expected  that any legal  work  would be 
undertaken without  an offer in place.  If J had begun work before an offer was issued, and 
hadnt told Mr S that hed be liable for the costs, then he should  take this up with J. 
Mr S then brought  his complaint to us. Santander said that as there  was no formal  offer in 
place to state that it would  agree to lend solely to Mr S, J shouldnt have begun any work 
with regard to transferring  the mortgage  into his sole name. It was likely that solicitors costs  
would have always been incurred to advise both parties regarding  their rights to the property.   
Santander shouldnt  be held accountable  for this.
Ref: DRN07413122Santander said the change of borrower  application  was ultimately  successful and the 
mortgage was transferred  into Mr S's sole name  in May 2019. It had expected Js invoice for 
the costs incurred in relation to the initial failed application to have been dated  August 2018.
But the £300 invoice provided  was dated  31 May 2019 and was clearly for the legal work 
done for the change of borrower  in 2019.  Mr S then produced a £300 invoice from J dated 
4 September 2018 for attendance,  perusal, correspondence and phone calls with Mr S and 
his former  partners solicitor.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Ss complaint. She said the second invoice was for 
different work. Santander had informed Mr S in reasonable time that the 2018 application 
had been declined. And regardless  of whether  the mortgage was transferred from joint to 
sole names, Mr S would have required a solicitor to arrange transfer of title. And hed said on 
the phone  on 24 August  2018 that his solicitors were in touch with the former partners 
solicitors about removing her name from the title.
Mr S didnt agree. He said that for the first application Santander had required  him to 
instruct a solicitor and couldnt proceed  any further until he did. For the second application it 
had said he should  wait to see if the application was approved first.
Santander responded by sending a statement from the adviser  in which  he said:
In the years which I have  been doing this job I would never tell a customer to appoint  a 
Solicitor without prior knowledge  that the application  has been approved by Santander This 
includes change of borrower applications  and any other application involving a panel 
Solicitor.
The conversation which I had with the customer representative made them  aware of the fact 
that they would need  to have details of a panel Solicitor  ready for the acceptance of the 
application so that they would also have an understanding cost of the legal work  which  is a 
consideration of my advice.
Due to the circumstance involved, where  the customers ex-partner had decided not to be 
with him having  exchanged contracts  prior to completion, there was a discussion between 
myself and the customer at the fact that any lump sum payment made  on to the mortgage 
could end up being claimed  upon  by his ex-partner as equity available  to her and they may 
want to seek legal  guidance before making the payment on to the mortgage  so that they are 
clear of the implications. This would be before any application was commenced. I 
understood that this legal guidance was sought  could this have been misconstrued by the 
Solicitor as an instruction or unintentionally delivered to the Solicitor  by the representative or 
the customer as a means to proceed  with the other legal work involved in the process?
In the light of the parties further submissions the investigator asked Santander what  had 
changed to cause the application to be refused in 2018 and then granted  in 2019. Santander 
suggested that the original credit score decline had been reached because  the mortgage  
account hadnt been running for six months. It was usual that material  changes  couldnt be 
considered on mortgage  accounts  within the first six months of operation.  Santander couldnt 
see any other changes  in the information  supplied on the second application. Also, as 
Santander had originally assessed the mortgage on the income of both applicants, its 
systems would need to be able to see at least six months' payment history for the remaining 
account holder  to be able to evidence sole affordability. 
Ref: DRN07413123On this basis the investigator thought  Santander  knew the 2018 application was likely to be 
declined on an automated basis as the account hadn't been  running for six months - that 
was its internal policy. She thought  Santander should have explained to Mr S that there 
wasn't any exception  to its six months  internal  policy.  Given Santander knew  about its policy, 
it shouldnt have asked  Mr S to make  the overpayment before considering the application.
And it was this that eventually led to the appointment of solicitors - to understand the 
implications of the overpayments.  Accordingly she recommended Santander reimburse  the 
£300 solicitors fees Mr S incurred in 2018  with interest. 
The investigator also said Santander knew the 2018 application was likely to be declined  
because the account hadn't been running  for six months. This caused  him the further  
inconvenience of arranging money for the overpayment and appointing the solicitors earlier 
than needed.  So she thought Santander should  also pay him £100 for the trouble and upset 
caused.
Mr S accepted the investigators recommendations. Santander didnt. It said:
A mortgage adviser would never know for certain whether an application  will get approved 
or declined.  This is because they are not underwriters nor do they have access to system 
algorithms which make automated decisions.  Instead, when presented  with a situation where 
a remaining  account  holder wishes to convert  a jointly approved mortgage account into a 
sole name within a short  period of the account opening, the mortgage adviser is only able to 
make suggestions regarding how an application  may be successful. I believe this is what
happened.
As we have  stated  before, the first application  did not progress and therefore the Solicitors  
should not have completed any work  at all in relation  to the transfer of the mortgage into 
Mr S's sole name. Their purpose in the first instance was to provide legal guidance relating 
to the Capital Repayment which was suggested to support  the potential Change  of Borrower 
application. It remains to be concerning  that the two separate invoices from the Solicitors 
bear the exact same description  of the work they completed.  This surely  cannot be
the case when  they only performed the change of title in the second  application? I would 
pose the question however that if they had performed work in the first instance, and provided 
a bill for this work, why they needed to replicate it with the same cost?
I took a different view of the complaint to the investigator. So I decided to issue a provisional 
decision, setting  out my view of the case and inviting further comments. Both parties have 
now responded and so I issue  my final decision.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
At the time of the 2018 application Santander knew, and the adviser should have known, 
that:
it was Santanders  policy  that material changes couldnt be considered on mortgage  
accounts within the first six months of operation; and
Ref: DRN07413124as Santander  had assessed  the mortgage  originally based on the income  of both 
applicants, its systems would need to be able to see at least  six months payment history 
for the remaining account holder  to be able to evidence sole affordability.
Santander shouldnt  therefore have invited  Mr S to make the application to remove his ex-
partner from the mortgage, because it was bound to fail. However instead of telling him that, 
Santander invited  Mr S to make an overpayment to improve the LTV. 
Making an overpayment  carried the risk that Mr Ss ex-partner might  benefit from this on any 
later settlement between  them. J then incurred costs of £300 in dealing  with the ex-partner 
and commencing work on her removal from the mortgage. The application failed as it was 
bound to do and the costs  were  largely  abortive.
The question for me is whether or not Santander should be responsible for those costs. 
Santander should have told Mr S to wait until the six months had expired. Had it done  that, 
Mr S wouldnt have  instructed solicitors  at that point. He would have waited the six months, 
and then his application would have  been granted (as it was) and the solicitors  would only 
have had to do the work  once, as they did in 2019  at the cost of a further £300. But its not 
as simple as that, because J should  have known not to incur  costs for working on the 
removal of the ex-partner  from the mortgage  until Santander had granted the application for 
this. 
The costs  wouldnt have  been incurred if Santander had told Mr S to wait, and they wouldnt 
have been incurred if J had realised they were premature. I dont think  this was exclusively 
the fault of Santander. In those circumstances  it seems to me that the fairest course  is to 
attribute the responsibility 50% to Santander, which means that Santander should pay Mr S 
£150 plus interest. 
For the trouble  and upset caused by having  to make  the overpayment which was later 
refunded, make the abortive  first application,  and instruct  solicitors unnecessarily at a time 
when he was trying to move on with his life, I consider Santander  should  pay Mr S £200.
the responses to my provisional  decision
Both parties  accepted my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has objected to my provisional conclusions  I confirm them  here.
Ref: DRN07413125my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and order Santander UK Plc to pay Mr S £150 
plus £200 for trouble and upset.
It should also pay interest on the £150  at 8% simple per year from the date of payment 
of the solicitors 2018 bill to the date of settlement.
If Santander considers  that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct  income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr S how much its taken  off. It should also give him a 
certificate showing  this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 June 2020.
Edward Callaghan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0741312