K821x#15complaint
Miss H is unhappy with the way a claim under her home insurance policy  for water  damage 
has been handled by Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited.
background
Miss H made a claim  to Lloyds in December 2017  after a blocked drain caused sewage to 
come into her downstairs  wc/shower room and kitchen. Its claims handler visited  the 
property two days later. As this was a Friday, Lloyds says it was agreed Miss H would find 
her own accommodation  for herself,  her partner,  her partners sister and three dogs until the 
following Tuesday  and paid her £516  for the accommodation costs  and £416  towards  meals.
Lloyds arranged for a drains survey and appointed an agent  to clean the affected area. A 
second leak was discovered from the washing machine affecting  the kitchen base unit. 
Lloyds says on 12 December 2017  it was asked  to arrange accommodation for Miss H 
nearer her partners  sisters  college.  It arranged accommodation up to 5 January 2018.  
On 21 December 2017 the blockage  had been  cleared  and Miss H agreed to return home. At 
that time there was a large hole in the kitchen floor where the drains  had been  accessed. 
The hole was covered with a plastic sheet. The result of an asbestos test came  through  on 
2 January 2018 and showed that there  was asbestos in the floor. 
Since the kitchen  couldnt be used until the hole in the floor had been  sealed, Lloyds paid 
her a food allowance of £8 per person  a day up to 19 January 2018. It says the work on the 
first claim was finished on 24 January 2018. 
Lloyds put dryers in to deal with the damage caused by the second  leak. The property was 
certified dry on 1 February 2018.
Lloyds says it approved  the repair costs on 5 April 2018.
Miss H complained to Lloyds about the way her claim  had been  handled.  She didnt think it 
should have taken four months  to reinstate her property. She said she was still owed ten 
days of food allowance and the electricity  usage  from having  the dryers  in the property. She 
also said she constantly had to chase the loss adjuster and liaise with the contractors. She 
said there were various accommodation problems. Shed felt pressured  to move back home 
before it was ready and the results  of the asbestos  test had come back. Shes  provided  
evidence that in January she was diagnosed with depression. She says as a result  she 
wasnt able to work and lost her job.
Lloyds accepted that thered been  a lack of communication during the claims process which  
caused delays  in settling the claim.  It agreed  Miss H, her partner and his sister shouldnt 
have been moved  home until the area awaiting asbestos tests had been made safely 
inaccessible. It said it would refund the cost of electricity used in drying the property and it 
offered £400 compensation  for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
As Miss H didnt think that was enough,  she brought  her complaint to this service.  
Our investigator recommended that Lloyds should pay a total of £800 compensation 
(including the £400 already offered).  He also thought Lloyds should pay Miss Hs electricity  
costs for drying the property and a comparable sum for alternative accommodation between 
Ref: DRN031180322 and 8 December 2017 when theyd remained in the property. He didnt think  Lloyds should  
pay any more in respect of a food allowance as it had paid up to the point when the kitchen 
was usable again.
As Lloyds  didnt agree that it should pay additional  compensation,  the matter has been 
referred to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds has acknowledged  that it hasnt handled Miss Hs claim as well as it should have. I 
need to consider whether  its offer of £400 compensation is fair and reasonable.
I think Lloyds failed  Miss H in three main areas:
1.Suggesting that she moved  back home before the result  of the asbestos test on the 
kitchen floor was known. 
Miss H says she felt pressured  into moving  back.  Unfortunately a recording of the relevant 
phone call isnt available,  so I cant say whether that was the case.  But even if she wasnt 
actually pressured,  Lloyds shouldnt have suggested it in the first place. If the claims handler 
had checked with Lloyds supplier, he would have found that it wasnt  advisable  when there  
was a very large,  shallow hole in the kitchen floor and the hole might  have exposed 
asbestos.
2.Delays
There are two main aspects to this. At the beginning of the claim Lloyds didnt arrange 
accommodation for Miss H and the other occupants of the property straight  away. That 
meant they were living in a property without proper  kitchen  or bathroom facilities  for several  
days. 
Secondly the property  was dry by 1 February 2018. I dont think it should  have taken until 
early April for Lloyds to approve the repair costs for the kitchen and bathroom  (costing  over 
£8,000). That held up Miss Hs kitchen floor being  repaired and her kitchen units  being  put 
back. I think it must have  been stressful for her living in these  conditions  longer than was 
necessary as a result  of the claim.
3.Poor communication
I can see that the claims handler  was often unavailable and slow in responding. Even taking 
into account the holiday period I think the service  should have been  better  and this will have 
added to Miss Hs stress.
When awarding compensation  for trouble and upset caused by poor claim handling I take 
into account the impact  the insurers failings had on the consumer. I appreciate that until 
Miss H raised a formal  complaint with Lloyds, it wouldnt  have known  that shed been 
diagnosed with depression in mid-January 2018.  But conversely I think  if thered been better 
communication between  Miss H and her claims handler around this time, Lloyds would 
probably have  been  aware of the effect its service  failings were having  on her. Bearing in 
mind the fact that her depression led to her giving  up work, I think its fair and reasonable for 
Lloyds to pay Miss H a total of £800  compensation for the trouble and upset it caused her. 
Ref: DRN03118033There were a number of problems with accommodation. I appreciate  that this must have 
been difficult for Miss H, especially when  she had to move several times. But I can see it 
wasnt easy for Lloyds to find somewhere that would  take Miss Hs three dogs and there  was 
a shortage of suitable accommodation in her area. I cant fairly hold Lloyds responsible for 
that.
Lloyds paid a food allowance up to 19 January 2018 when the hole in the floor was filled in. I 
appreciate that the floor still had to be retiled and other  repairs  were also needed. But 
essentially I think the kitchen was capable of being  used for food preparation  from that point. 
So I dont  think it would  be fair to require Lloyds  to pay a food allowance  after that date.
Bearing mind the damage that had been  caused  I think Miss H and the other  occupants of 
her property shouldnt  have had to stay at home from 2 to 8 December 2017. But I wouldnt 
usually require a business to pay a consumer for accommodation when  the consumer hasnt 
actually incurred that cost. However  since Lloyds didnt disagree with our investigators 
recommendation that Lloyds should pay Miss H comparable  accommodation  costs  for this 
period, I think in this instance its right that I should include this in my award. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited  to pay Miss H:
£800 compensation  for the trouble and upset it caused her (less any amount already paid 
in respect of this);
accommodation costs for Miss H, her partner, her partners sister and their three dogs for 
the period 2 to 8 December 2017  based on the comparable amount it paid for other 
accommodation in respect of her claim;  and
if it hasnt already  done  so, pay for 325.05  KwH of electricity used in drying based on the 
charge per KwH made by Miss Hs energy supplier at the time.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 November 2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0311803