K821x#15complaint
Miss T says that Elevate  Credit International Limited, trading as Sunny, lent to her 
irresponsibly.
background
Sunny approved 6 instalment loans for Miss T between November 2018 and March  2019. 
Miss T said that she was in financial difficulty and borrowing from other  lenders.
Our adjudicator considered the complaint and thought that Sunny  shouldnt have continued to 
lend to Miss T from loan 4 onwards as she wasnt managing her money  and further borrowing 
was unsustainable.  Our adjudicator recommended that Sunny put things right for Miss T by 
refunding all interest and charges incurred on loans  4 to 6. 
Sunny didnt agree with the adjudicators  opinion  and in particular said that Miss T was 
required to repay only a small amount of her declared income towards  her repayments on 
the loans. The fact that there were a number of loans open was because  of the nature of the 
product and the flexibility it provided  for consumers. As the business  didnt agree the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Miss T could  
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure.
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny 
should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending  was sustainable 
for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers  income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult  to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number  and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer  has been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN02562212I think its important for me to start by saying that Sunny  was required to establish whether 
Miss T could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether  the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook defines sustainable as being  
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having  to borrow
to meet  the repayments.
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
consumer wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ts complaint.  
Sunny has told us about the checks it did before lending to Miss T. It asked Miss T for details 
of her income and normal expenditure. And Sunny carried out checks on Miss Ts credit  file.
I agree  with the adjudicator that it wasnt wrong  for Sunny to give Miss T loans 1 to 3 on the 
basis of the information she gave about  her income  and outgoings. It was early in the 
lending relationship and so I think the checks were enough for Sunny to agree to lend. As 
Miss T hasnt raised any objection to the adjudicators recommendation in relation to loans 
one to three, I dont  think that I need  to say more about them.
At the point of loan 4 I agree with the adjudicator that Miss Ts borrowing pattern was a 
cause for concern. Miss T had taken out 3 loans totaling £450 in a matter of days.  These 
loans were outstanding and at the point of loan 4 Miss T asked for a further £150 taking her 
total borrowing  to £600 in just over a week. Taking out this many  loans  within such a short  
time frame should have  prompted Sunny to consider whether  this lending was sustainable 
for Miss T. Her pattern of borrowing suggested that she was reliant on short term credit and 
not managing  her money responsibly.  I think that Sunny should have done further checks at 
this point about why Miss T needed  to borrow so often. If it had done  it wouldve seen  that 
Miss T had a number  of other short term lending accounts and further borrowing was 
unsustainable. 
The same day that Miss T repaid  loan 2 she applied for loan 5. Loan  6 was taken out two 
days later.  I agree  with the adjudicator  that Sunny shouldnt have given Miss T these loans 
either. It was clear from her borrowing  pattern that she wasnt  responsibly managing  her 
money and using further borrowing to repay  what she owed.
So Im upholding  Miss Ts complaint about  loans  4 to 6.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund all interest  and charges that Miss T paid on loans 4 to 6;
add simple  interest  at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
Ref: DRN02562213remove any adverse information about loans 4 to 6 from Miss Ts credit file;
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give
Miss T a certificate showing  how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Ts complaint in part and direct Elevate Credit
International Limited (trading as Sunny) to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2020.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0256221