K821x#15complaint
This is a complaint  that Bradford & Bingley Plc mis-sold Mr and Mrs C payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out in 1996 to cover  a mortgage 
which originally started  in 1983.   
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr and Mrs C disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint was passed to me. I wrote  a provisional decision 
and asked for comments. I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general 
approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into 
account in deciding this case.
Ive considered Mr and Mrs Cs comments. However, my current  view is that I 
shouldnt uphold this complaint (beyond  endorsing the proposed  resolution  of the 
commission complaint). I will explain  why.
Mr and Mrs C say they only took the PPI because they were promised a lower  
mortgage rate in return. When this didnt  happen,  Mr and Mrs C say they complained  
about it and it was only when, a few years later, they threatened to move lenders that 
they were given the discounted mortgage rate. 
Mr and Mrs C say they didnt need  PPI, as they had very secure employment and a 
high level of savings   they say these were enough to have  paid the mortgage for 
five years.  
An important consideration in this case is whether  Bradford & Bingley made a 
personalised recommendation of the PPI to Mr and Mrs C. That is to say, did they 
assess their circumstances  and tell them the PPI was particularly suited to their 
needs? This is different  from recommending  a product in the sense of saying its a 
good product   presumably Bradford & Bingley recommended all its products in that 
way. 
The importance of this is that the PPI might  have been mis-sold, if Bradford & Bingley 
made a personalised recommendation which was unsuitable. It might have been 
unsuitable if, as I believe Mr and Mrs C are arguing, they had no real use for PPI  
that is, that their savings  were so good  it meant  it wasnt really worth  them  spending 
money on PPI. First,  I should say that having enough to pay the mortgage premiums  
for five years  isnt the criteria by which I would judge this. Instead I would expect that 
any savings would need to be spent on maintaining all the household  spending,  
including the mortgage, for the period that Mr C (the person  who was covered by this 
policy) was without an income. So it would actually  have paid for fewer than five 
years mortgage payments. 
However that isnt, I believe, relevant to this case.  This is because I dont think the 
PPI was recommended by Bradford  & Bingley as being particularly suited  to 
Ref: DRN03774642Mr and Mrs Cs needs. Bradford & Bingley says it didnt make such a 
recommendation, and Ive seen no evidence that it did do this. So, instead, I think it 
just presented the PPI as something  Mr and Mrs C might find useful  but it would be 
up to Mr and Mrs C to check that it was something they thought worth spending 
money on. 
Its not clear how well Bradford & Bingley gave information about the costs  and 
benefits of the PPI. But I think  its unlikely any deficiency in the information would 
have made  a significant difference  to whether Mr and Mrs C decided  to take the PPI. 
And its also possible Bradford & Bingley didnt clearly point out the main  things  the 
policy didnt cover. But, from the information  I have, its unlikely Mr and Mrs C would 
have been affected by any of these. And theyd be paying for it monthly, so they 
could cancel it at any time without  further  cost if their situation changed.
Mr and Mrs C have said the PPI was mis-sold because  they were  made  a promise 
about the mortgage rate, and this promise wasnt kept. I dont have any supporting 
information to show how likely it was that Bradford & Bingley did clearly make that 
promise. But, even if it did, I dont agree that it would be a reason to say the PPI was 
mis-sold. It would instead be a reason  to complain that Bradford & Bingley  didnt  
keep its promise  and probably, if proved, be made to carry out the promise.  That 
might be something Mr and Mrs C may want formally to complain separately  about  to 
Bradford & Bingley  (although it seems they might already  have done  that several 
years ago). But it isnt something I think affects  the issue  before me  that of whether 
the PPI was mis-sold. 
So my current view is that Bradford & Bingley didnt mis-sell the PPI in the way 
Mr and Mrs C believe.  
In response to my provisional decision,  Mr and Mrs C said they didnt agree with me. In 
summary, they said:
The PPI would pay out for only 12 months, and Mr Cs four months sick pay, 
combined with savings, would have lasted  longer than this.
The nature  of Mrs Cs public sector role meant she would never  be without a job, and 
her salary alone  could  have  paid for all the household bills and mortgage payments. 
Bradford & Bingley  were  aware  of their salaries. 
Mr Cs employer had confirmed to Bradford  & Bingley around the time of the sale that 
there was no prospect  of him losing his employment in the foreseeable future. 
Mr C didnt believe he could cancel the PPI as he thought  he would have foregone  
both the payments made and the promised lower mortgage rate. 
The proposed  commission  refund  of everything  over 50% does not comply with a 
county court case which ordered a refund of all the commission  paid. This court case 
was more recent than the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) guidelines. 
Because some of Mr and Mrs Cs points  were significant issues that had not been covered in 
my first provisional  decision, I decided to write a further provisional decision.  I said the 
following:
Ref: DRN03774643Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general 
approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into 
account in deciding this case.
Taking first the non-commission matters, Mr and Mrs C make a number of points 
disagreeing with my provisional decision.  However  these are points that would make 
a difference only if Bradford & Bingley had made  a recommendation of the PPI, 
based on an assessment  of Mr and Mrs Cs actual circumstances. For the reasons 
given in my first provisional decision,  I have currently come to the view that Bradford 
& Bingley hadnt made that kind of recommendation. This meant it was up to Mr and 
Mrs C to decide for themselves whether the PPI was suitable for their needs, and 
whether the cost of the premiums was worth the cover offered  taking into account 
the lower mortgage  rate which they say they were  offered. As I said previously, the 
question of whether  Bradford & Bingley didnt fulfil an offer of a lower  mortgage rate, 
if such an offer was made, is a separate matter from whether the PPI was mis-sold,  
and is outside  the scope  of this decision.   
I shall now turn to the question of the refund  of commission.
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the FCA issued some new rules  about 
how businesses should deal with complaints about PPI.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit  share from 
the PPI policy   more  than 50% of the PPI premium   and it didnt tell the consumer, 
then that could create an unfair relationship between the parties. So to put that right, 
the FCA said that businesses should  pay back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Bradford & Bingley  said that the level of commission  and profit  share it received did 
create an unfair relationship. So to put things right it offered  to refund the extra  
Mr and Mrs C paid each month because the commission and profit share  it received  
was more than 50% of the cost of PPI premium. It also included  8% per year simple 
interest to compensate  Mr and Mrs C for any time they were  out of pocket. 
Mr and Mrs C say there has been another court case in relation to non-disclosure of 
commission where consumers have received everything back. So they argue that 
Bradford & Bingley  should refund all of the commission  paid for the PPI.
One of the things I need to take into account when  deciding what  is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Cs complaint is the law. But I also 
need to take into account  relevant  regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; codes 
of practice; and (where appropriate) what I consider to be good industry practice  at 
the relevant time.
In this case Bradford  & Bingley has made  Mr and Mrs C an offer of compensation in 
relation to the level of commission it received that is in line with the methods  set out 
by the FCA. But Mr and Mrs C want Bradford & Bingley to do something  different. 
I have looked  at the particular circumstances of Mr and Mrs C and their complaint to 
see if theres anything about them that would mean  the business  should do 
something different   if the remedies set out in the FCAs rules  dont lead to fair and 
Ref: DRN03774644reasonable redress for Mr and Mrs C. But there isnt anything  about Mr and Mrs Cs 
complaint or circumstances that suggest the redress to be paid by Bradford & Bingley 
isnt fair or reasonable.
In this case I think Bradford & Bingleys offer is a fair way to resolve  this complaint.
For these reasons I still intend to make the decision set out in my previous 
provisional decision. 
I didnt receive any further comments or evidence in response to this provisional  decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the reasons  given  in my provisional decisions,  I dont think  the PPI was mis-sold. But 
Bradford & Bingley  has to pay back some of its commission  and profit share as set out 
below.
what the business needs  to do 
If it hasnt  already done so, Bradford & Bingley has to pay back to Mr and Mrs C any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. Bradford & 
Bingley should  also pay back to Mr and Mrs C any extra  interest they paid because of that.
Bradford & Bingley  should pay back to Mr and Mrs C the extra  they paid each month 
because the commission  and profit share  it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. 
Bradford & Bingley  should also pay Mr and Mrs C 8%* simple  interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs C can claim back  the tax 
if they dont pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bradford & Bingley Plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs C.
But Bradford  & Bingley Plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs C any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 November  2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0377464