K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that Bank of Baroda  have  unfairly declined to refund payments totalling 
£109,000 made from his bank account,  which he says he didnt authorise.
background
Mr M held a fixed-term deposit  account  and a basic operating account with Bank  of Baroda. 
He says his email account was hacked  in May 2016, where a fraudster was able to send 
payment instructions to the bank asking them to transfer a total of £109,000 to two different 
third-party accounts. 
Bank of Baroda have  said the following activity occurred in relation to Mr Ms account, with 
all emails having been received from Mr Ms registered email address:
Date Time Event Amount
24/05/2016 08:10 Email sent to Bank of Baroda with passport copy and 
signed instruction  for payment  the sender  also provides  
a new telephone number for the bank should they wish to 
confirm the transfer.
14:20 Bank of Baroda respond saying the signature  does not 
match their records and ask the sender to provide the 
payment instruction again with the correct signature.
17:42 Email sent to Bank of Baroda with another signed  
payment instruction for £43,000 to be transferred to a 
third-party account.
25/05/2016 08:39 Email sent to Bank of Baroda chasing previous payment 
instruction.
£43,602 (£43,000 plus £602 interest paid on the amount 
withdrawn) transferred from Mr Ms fixed deposit account 
to his basic account 
£43,000 transferred  from Mr Ms basic account to third 
party account ending  364.£43,000
27/05/2016 09:38 Email sent to Bank of Baroda with another signed  
payment instruction to transfer  two payments of £22,000 
to third party account ending 364 and £24,000  to third-
party account ending  693.
£46,646.52 (including interest applied to the withdrawn 
amount) transferred from Mr Ms fixed deposit account to 
basic account. 
£22,000 transferred  from Mr Ms basic account to third 
party account ending  364.£22,000
£24,000 transferred  from Mr Ms basic account to third 
party account ending  693.£24,000
31/05/2016 09:52 Email sent to Bank of Baroda with another signed  
payment instruction to transfer  £20,000 to third party  
account ending  693.
01/06/2016 £22,550.73 (including interest applied to the withdrawn 
amount) transferred from Mr Ms fixed deposit account to 
basic account.
£20,000 transferred  from Mr Ms basic account to third 
party account ending  693.£20,000
Ref: DRN01417572Total: 
£109,000
Mr M says the first indication  he had that his email  account had been hacked was when he 
was contacted by another bank  with whom he holds a current account (W Bank)  on 
1 June 2016, where he was asked to confirm  whether he had sent a payment instruction of 
£38,000. Mr M confirmed that he had not made any such request, and W Bank were able to 
prevent any funds from leaving his account. 
However, Mr M says he didnt think there was any risk to the funds in his Bank  of Baroda 
account because  his money was held in a fixed-term  deposit account,  and he says he was 
under the impression the funds could  not be accessed until the end of the fixed  term in 
December 2019.  As a result, Mr M says he did not check  his account with Bank of Baroda  at 
the time.  So the first indication he had of the £109,000 being transferred out of his account 
was when he received his account  statements in June 2016, at which point he reported  that 
he hadnt carried out or authorised the four payments made from 27 May 2016 to 
1 June 2016.
Mr M says he doesnt know how the fraudster  was able to hack into his email  account. But 
he suspects it could  have  occurred when he was travelling in India, as the hotels he stayed 
at took copies of his passport upon check in, and he regularly used hotel computers to 
access his email account. So he thinks they may have been able to hack into his email 
account where they were then able to issue the payment instructions. 
In considering Mr Ms case, Bank  of Baroda  said:
The payment  instructions were sent from Mr Ms registered email  address and 
supported by a copy of his passport. The instructions were  also signed by him and 
the signatures matched the specimen signature held on record.  An email was further 
sent on 25 May 2016 from another email address seemingly belonging to Mr M, 
confirming that the payments had been  received. 
They were under no obligation  to verify  the instructions over the phone,  but as an 
additional measure  they contacted the sender to verify the signatures  but there was 
no answer.
They have the sole discretion to agree to the early closure  of fixed  term deposit  
accounts when  requested by their customers, which was why the funds were able to 
be withdrawn from Mr Ms account, and because he had previously issued such 
instructions in the past.
Mr M had opted to send payment instructions by email and had previously withdrawn 
£202,000 by way of email instruction on 21 January 2015. There  is no difference in 
modus operandi  between  this historic transaction and those currently  in dispute.
When questioned  about the £202,000  withdrawal, Mr M disingenuously sought  to 
dispute this transaction as well, intending  to make unfair gains. He has not acted in 
an honest and reliable manner to allow him the benefit  of the doubt.
Mr M should  have informed Bank of Baroda of the incident with W Bank as soon as 
he was informed of the attempted fraud on 1 June 2016.
The case  of Tidal  Energy Ltd v Bank of Scotland PLC [2014] EWCA Civ 1107  set 
down the legal authority that a bank cannot be held liable for facilitating  the 
defrauding of its customers so long as it follows established banking practice. So 
Bank of Baroda cannot be held liable for the amount taken from Mr Ms account as 
they had followed  their correct procedure.
Ref: DRN01417573Our investigator upheld  Mr Ms complaint. She didnt think there was enough  evidence  to 
suggest that he had authorised the payments,  so she considered  that Bank of Baroda should  
refund the money that was taken. Bank of Baroda disagreed,  so the matter was passed  to 
me to determine.
I issued my provisional decision in March  2020. I said I intended upholding Mr Ms complaint 
and set out the below provisional findings: 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required  to take into account: relevant  law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  
what I consider  to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Bank of Baroda as an FCA regulated firm provided  a deposit and basic operating payment account. 
As such the FCAs overarching  principles for business apply including the requirement to Treat  
Customers Fairly. This fraud took place  in May 2016, so of particular relevance to my decision about  
what is fair and reasonable  in the circumstances of this complaint,  are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2009 (the PSRs 2009) which apply to transfers like the ones made  from Mr Ms basic 
operating account. Among other things, the PSRs  2009 say: 
Consent and withdrawal  of consent
55.  (1) A payment transaction is to be regarded as having been authorised by the payer  for 
the purposes of this Part only if the payer has given  its consent to 
(a) the execution of the payment transaction; 
Obligations of the payment service user in relation  to payment  instruments
57.  (1) A payment service  user to whom  a payment  instrument has been issued must 
(a) use the payment  instrument in accordance with the terms and conditions governing its 
issue and use; and
(b) notify the payment  service provider  in the agreed manner and without undue delay on 
becoming aware of the loss, theft, misappropriation or unauthorised use of the payment 
instrument.
(2) The payment service  user must on receiving a payment instrument take all reasonable  
steps to keep  its personalised security features safe.
Evidence  on authentication and execution of payment  transactions
60.  (1) Where a payment  service user
(a) denies  having authorised  an executed payment transaction; or
(b) claims that a payment transaction has not been correctly executed, it is for the payment 
service provider  to prove that the payment transaction was authenticated, accurately  
recorded, entered in the payment service providers accounts and not affected  by a technical  
breakdown or some other deficiency.
(2) In paragraph (1) authenticated means the use of any procedure by which a payment 
service provider  is able to verify  the use of a specific payment instrument, including  its 
personalised security features.
(3) Where a payment service user denies having authorised an executed payment
Ref: DRN01417574transaction, the use of a payment instrument recorded by the payment service provider  is not 
in itself necessarily  sufficient to prove either that
(a) the payment  transaction was authorised by the payer; or
(b) the payer acted fraudulently or failed with intent or gross negligence to comply with 
regulation 57.
Payment service providers liability for unauthorised payment transactions
61. Subject to regulations  59 [Notification  of unauthorised  or incorrectly  executed
payment transactions]  and 60, where an executed payment transaction was not
authorised in accordance with regulation  55, the payment service provider  must
immediately
(a) refund the amount of the unauthorised payment transaction to the payer; and
(b) where applicable,  restore the debited payment  account to the state it would have been in 
had the unauthorised payment transaction not taken  place.
Payers liability for unauthorised payment transaction
62.  (1) Subject  to paragraphs (2) , the payer is liable  up to a maximum  of £50 for
any losses incurred  in respect of unauthorised  payment transactions arising
(a) from the use of a lost or stolen payment instrument; or
(b) where the payer has failed to keep the personalised  security features of the
payment instrument safe, from the misappropriation of the payment instrument.
(2) The payer is liable for all losses incurred  in respect of an unauthorised payment
transaction where the payer
(a) has acted fraudulently;  or
b) has with intent or gross negligence  failed to comply with regulation 57.
So if a payment is unauthorised, the starting point according to the PSRs  2009 is that the bank will 
refund the payment. That is unless it can be shown  that the payer acted fraudulently or failed with 
intent or gross negligence to comply with Regulation  57. This is also stated in the general  terms and 
conditions applicable to Mr Ms account at the time (section 17.2), which broadly reflect the provisions  
contained in the PSRs  2009:
the terms and conditions  of Mr Ms account
4.4.5  Security
4.4.5.1  In order to protect your Account against misuse, you must:
Keep your PIN and your other security details  secret;  and
tell us immediately if you think someone else may know any of your security details; 
and
act with reasonable  care, including  taking reasonable steps to prevent unauthorised 
use of your security details
4.4.5.2  You will be responsible for all losses caused by:
Ref: DRN01417575any fraudulent activity  on your part; and
any person  acting  with your authority
17.2  You will not be liable  for any payment instructions you did not give yourself, even if 
they were given using your card or Security Details, unless we can prove  either:
17.2.1  that you have acted  fraudulently in which case you will be liable for all payments from 
the Account that we have been unable to stop;  or
17.2.2  that you have been very careless with your card or security  details (for example if 
you do not tell us as soon as you think someone has discovered your security details  or is 
accessing your Account without your authority or you broke your obligations in condition  13, in 
which caseyou may be liable for payments from your Account.
So in light of the above, I consider there are two key questions relevant to my considerations:
1.Were the disputed transactions authorised by Mr M? and;
2.If they were  not, did Mr M act fraudulently, or fail with intent or gross negligence to comply 
with his obligations  under Regulation 57 of the PSRs 2009  in particular, did he fail to use 
the payment instrument in accordance with the terms and conditions of his account, notify 
without undue  delay upon becoming aware of the unauthorised use of the payment 
instrument, or keep  the personalised security features of the payment instrument safe?
were the disputed transactions authorised by Mr M?
Regulation 55 of the PSRs  2009 states that the payer must give consent, and it "must be given in the 
form, and in accordance  with the procedure, agreed between the payer  and its payment service 
provider". The payment services directive itself (which the PSRs  2009 implement) says "In the 
absence of such  consent,  a payment transaction shall be considered to be unauthorised. And in 
accordance with Regulation  55, its important to note that it must be the payer  that gives consent  not 
a third-party that is purporting to be the payer.   
In this instance,  funds were  transferred from Mr Ms fixed deposit account to his basic operating  
account, where payments  were then made to a third party via payment instructions sent by email.  I 
can see that Mr M did opt in for Net banking  when he opened his account, and he specified the email 
address to be used for this purpose.  However,  there does not appear to be any specific provision 
made for payment instructions sent by email within Bank of Barodas terms and conditions, apart from 
the general  position set out in section 4.4.2, which states  that instructions can be given in writing if 
accompanied with a signature. So Ive considered the relevant provisions of the terms and conditions 
to determine what the agreed form and procedure is for a payment  to be made  via written instruction. 
The terms  say: 
6. Payments out of your account
6.1  We will make  payments out of your account if;
There is available money  in your account,  either in cleared funds or an agreed 
overdraft limit
You have  signed a cheque  or other document containing payment instructions
6.3 When you give us a payment instruction (other than by cheque), you must give us the 
Sort Code and Account  number for payments in the UKand  any other details  we 
ask your for such as the name of the person  you are sending the payment to, so we 
can make the payment.
Ref: DRN01417576So in order to complete the agreed form and procedure for a payment to be made, Mr M had to 
complete the following steps:
1)He had to sign a document containing a payment instruction;
2)He had to give the sort code, account number and name of an intended payee.
And having considered  all the evidence  available,  on balance, Im not satisfied that Mr M did complete 
the agreed form and procedure  for a payment to be made, because of the following  circumstances 
which suggest  these steps were actually  completed by an unauthorised  third party:
Bank of Baroda identified that the initial  signature  provided  with the first payment mandate 
sent on 24 May 2016 did not match  the signature they held on file.
A different and unknown telephone number  was provided for Bank of Baroda to contact,  
which did not match the telephone number held on file for Mr M.
The emails containing the payment instructions  had numerous  spelling mistakes and unusual  
references e.g. referring to a Royal  bank account (instead of Royal  Bank of Scotland  
account) and Natwes   which does not match the form and style of previous genuine 
payment instructions sent by Mr M. 
Two different  email  accounts  (one from MSN and one from Hotmail) were used to correspond 
with Bank of Baroda. Mr M says he didnt  have a Hotmail  account, and that only his MSN  
address was registered  with the bank. 
Mr M was contacted by W Bank  on 1 June 2016  which is around the same date the funds 
were taken from his account  with Bank of Baroda   because  they became  suspicious of an 
email from someone purporting to be Mr M. The circumstances  were the same in that it 
involved a payment  instruction sent from Mr Ms email address with a copy  of his passport. W 
Bank were also contacted by telephone by someone chasing  the payment  requests. W Bank 
has provided  a copy of these call recordings, which show  that the calls were  placed  by a male 
with a foreign accent, which does not appear to have been Mr M (having heard his voice on 
subsequent calls). The individual called a number  of times but was unable  to answer the 
necessary security  questions to confirm his identity. W Bank  became  suspicious of this, which 
was when  they contacted Mr M who confirmed  he had not made any requests for payments to 
be made. So, given  the circumstances  and timeframe of the attempted fraud with W Bank,  I 
consider it likely it was the same individual that sent the fraudulent payment instructions to 
Bank of Baroda. 
The receiving accounts  were not held in the name of Mr M, despite the payment instructions  
stating they were. The receiving  bank  has also confirmed that the two third-party  accounts  
that the funds were  transferred to (ending 364 and 693) were both opened on 9 March 2016 
and 10 February 2016 respectively, and subsequently closed on 23 June 2016 and 17 July 
2016  soon after the money had been transferred, which can be a typical indication of third-
party fraud. 
Mr M says he doesnt  know  how the fraudster  was able to hack  into his email account and 
obtain a copy of his passport. He says he has never written down his email password but 
suspects his account  could  have  been  hacked when he was travelling in India, as the hotels 
he stayed at took copies of his passport upon  check in, and that he regularly used  hotel 
computers to access his email account.  I dont need to determine  how exactly this occurred, 
but I find this supposition plausible.  And Im not persuaded  that Mr M has acted fraudulently 
himself in this instance.  So, in the absence of any other persuasive evidence, I accept  its 
likely his email  account  was hacked, and that it was not Mr M who sent the payment 
instructions from the account.
I appreciate the payment  instructions were sent from Mr Ms registered email account. But Mr M has 
said his email  account was hacked. He says that when  he was informed  of the fraud by W Bank on 
1 June 2016,  he immediately  sought to change the password for his email account. However, he says 
that the fraudster  who hacked his account had already changed the password,  meaning he was not 
able to access  it.
Ref: DRN01417577So taking all the above circumstances into account,  Im not persuaded that Mr M completed any of the 
steps required to complete the agreed form and procedure for a payment to be made  from his 
account  i.e. providing payment instructions  with his signature  along with the account  details of the 
intended payee. I consider  it more likely that these steps were carried  out by the third party. I also 
accept Mr Ms evidence that he didnt  know or consent to someone  else completing the form and 
procedure on his behalf. And whilst the payments  were authenticated in terms of the steps taken with 
the payment instruction sent by email,  he didnt consent to the execution  of the payment transactions. 
So it follows that the payments must  be unauthorised .
did Mr M act fraudulently?
I also appreciate  that Bank of Baroda have concerns about Mr M and whether  he has acted honestly.  
They have said that when Mr M was questioned about a previous withdrawal of £202,000 in January  
2015, that he disingenuously  sought to dispute  this transaction  as well, intending to make unfair 
gains. So they submit  that he has not acted in an honest and reliable manner  to allow  him the benefit 
of the doubt. However, I havent been provided  with any evidence of this (there  is no call recording or 
call notes  of any such discussion, for example). And having put this to Mr M, he says he does not 
recall ever disputing this payment, and he has confirmed that this was a historic  payment he had 
authorised. So in the absence  of any further evidence or context  surrounding  this Im not persuaded 
he had attempted to make  a fraudulent claim  in the past or that this is what  he was doing in relation to 
these payments.
did Mr M fail with intent or gross negligence  to comply with his obligations  under Regulation 
57 of the PSRs 2009?
The key issue I need to consider here is whether Mr M failed with intent or gross negligence  to comply 
with his obligations  to:
Use his payment instrument in accordance with the terms and conditions  of his account;
Notify without undue delay on becoming  aware  of the loss, theft, misappropriation or 
unauthorised use of the payment instrument;
Take  all reasonable steps to keep the security features of the payment instrument safe. 
Mr M says he first became  aware of the fraudulent transactions when he received his bank 
statements in early June 2016, which showed that £109,000 had been taken from his account,  at 
which point he says he reported  the activity . But Bank of Baroda  submit that Mr M should have 
informed them of the incident with W Bank as soon they informed him of the attempted  fraud on 
1 June 2016.  As a result, they submit that Mr M failed (either with intent or gross negligence) to notify 
the bank without  undue delay on becoming aware of the loss, theft, misappropriation  or unauthorised 
use of the payment instrument as required  by Regulation 57.
Ive considered this point  carefully and thought about what would constitute  the payment  instrument 
in this case. The PSRs 2009 define a payment instrument as any 
(a) personalised device; or
(b) personalised  set of procedures  agreed between the payment service user and the 
payment service provider   
used by the payment service use in order  to initiate  a payment order.
Given that there was no personalised device used to make  these payment instructions,  Ive 
considered what could reasonably constitute  the set of procedures agreed between the two parties  
here. In this case, the disputed transactions were  executed as a result of a payment instruction  in the 
form of a signed document sent via email.  
Ref: DRN01417578I dont think that Mr Ms email account  can be considered as the payment instrument in this context,  
as it was simply the method of communication  in which the payment  order was sent. And as Ive set 
out previously,  Bank of Barodas terms and conditions  do not make any provision for banking by email  
specifically. But the terms do state that the bank will make payments  from the account if Mr M has 
signed adocument containing payment instructions . In light of this, it appears  to me that these 
terms likely  constitute the set of procedures agreed between  the payment  service user and the 
payment service provider  specifically the requirement for a signed document . So I consider the 
signature on the signed  document  is the payment  instrument in this context.  And I note that Bank of 
Baroda did not process  the initial payment order because the signature provided did not seem  to 
match the specimen they had on record   which further supports the supposition that Mr Ms 
signature on the document was the payment instrument used to initiate the payment order here. 
W Bank have provided evidence that shows the third party also attempted  to transfer funds out of 
Mr Ms account in the same way  of which  they alerted him on 1 June 2016 that someone was 
sending instructions  from his email account.  Bank of Baroda say that Mr M should have notified them 
as soon as he became  aware of the attempted fraud on his account with W Bank. And given that he 
failed to do so and did not notify them until he received  his statements, they submit that he has failed 
to notify  them without undue delay . But I do not consider  that he has.
I appreciate that there may have been  an unauthorised  use of Mr Ms signature on 1 June 2016  in the 
attempted fraud with W Bank. But this forms part of a different set of procedures  agreed with a 
separate bank, and was distinct from those agreed with Bank of Baroda. So I do not consider that he 
has failed in his obligation to notify Bank of Baroda at this point because the unauthorised use he 
became aware of was not in relation to the set of procedures agreed with Bank of Baroda.  
In any event, even if it could be said that there was undue delay  in Mr M notifying Bank of Baroda in 
the above  circumstances   I do not consider  that he failed  to comply with this obligation  with either 
intent or gross negligence. This is because he was under the impression that the money  he held with 
Bank of Baroda could  not be accessed until the end of the agreed fixed term.  I appreciate that the 
terms and conditions  of the account state that the bank can release funds  before the end of the fixed  
term at its own discretion. But Mr M could not reasonably  have known  in what circumstances the bank 
might exercise such  discretion. So he had little reason  to suspect  that his funds were at risk, 
notwithstanding any unauthorised use of his payment instrument. But even if it could be said that 
Mr M ought to have realised  (given the terms and conditions), I dont think his failure to notify Bank of 
Baroda in such circumstances could be said to have fallen so far below the standard of a reasonable 
person that it could be considered  as grossly negligent   which  is a much higher bar than mere  
negligence.
Ive also thought  about  whether there are any other reasons why it would be fair and reasonable to 
hold Mr M liable for the unauthorised transactions, including whether he could have notified the bank 
any sooner.  Mr M only became aware  that his payment  instrument has been compromised when  W 
Bank contacted him on 1 June 2016. And by that point, the payment instructions had already been 
sent to Bank of Baroda  by the fraudster (with  the last such  instruction  being  sent on 31 May 2016 and 
actioned by the bank on 1 June 2016). So even  if Mr M had notified Bank of Baroda as soon as he 
became aware that his payment instrument with W Bank had been compromised, its very unlikely to 
have made  any difference because the funds had already  left his account.  
Ive further  thought  about  whether any delay  in notification could  have impacted Bank of Barodas 
ability to recover  the funds from the receiving  bank.  But I can see from the statements provided by the 
receiving banks that the money was quickly removed  from these  accounts.  And I havent seen any 
persuasive evidence to suggest that the point at which Mr M notified Bank of Baroda of the fraud 
ultimately prejudiced their recovery. So Im not persuaded  it would  be fair and reasonable to depart 
from the law in these circumstances in order to hold Mr M liable for the payments.
notification of unauthorised payment transactions
Ref: DRN01417579Regulation 59(1) of the PSRs 2009  states  that Mr M is entitled to redress only if he notified  Bank of 
Baroda without  undue delayon becoming  aware of any unauthorised or incorrectly executed 
payment transaction . Mr M only became aware  of the unauthorised transactions  on his account  upon 
receiving his bank statements, at which  point he says he notified Bank of Baroda. So Im satisfied that 
he has complied with this relevant obligation  and is therefore entitled to redress.  
other relevant considerations 
Bank of Baroda have  also cited the case of Tidal Energy Ltd v Bank of Scotland  PLC [2014]  EWCA 
Civ 1107  in support of their position that they are not liable for the fraud that took place. In this case, 
they say the Court of Appeal held that established banking practice  did not require that a bank  should 
match names  to account numbers  and sort codes, therefore the bank was not under a duty of care to 
do so. As a result, Bank of Baroda  say they cannot be held liable for facilitating  the defrauding  of Mr 
Ms account  because they had followed their established banking practice. 
Bank of Baroda submit that the relevant questions we should be asking are:
a)Whether the instructions  were sent from the customers registered email with the bank;
b)Whether the instructions  were signed  by the customer;
c)Whether the bank was obliged to accept the signed instructions received from the customers 
registered email address.
They say the answer to all of these questions is Yes, which means  they cannot  be held liable for the 
transaction in light of the Tidal Energy case. However,  as Ive set out previously, the relevant  
questions here are those under the PSRs 2009, which I have already addressed above.  
Ive thought carefully about  Bank of Barodas submissions regarding Tidal Energy. However, the case  
was decided outside the Payment Services Regulations 2009 whose  application had been excluded 
under the relevant terms and conditions. It concerned a CHAPS transfer and the interpretation of the 
contractual terms contained in the CHAPS transfer form. 
Mr Ms complaint does not concern a disputed  CHAPS  transfer. It concerns unauthorised payments 
made without  Mr Ms knowledge or consent. The position regarding responsibility for such 
unauthorised transactions is dealt with in the Payment Services  Regulations 2009,  as Ive explained 
above. So I do not consider  the Tidal Energy judgment to have any further relevance  to my 
considerations in this case.  
For the reasons  set out above, Im currently minded  to conclude it would be fair for Bank of Baroda to 
provide a full refund to Mr Ms account, because he did not authorise the transactions, and I do not 
think he has failed to comply  with his relevant obligations with intent or gross negligence, or has acted 
fraudulently.
compensation
Having lost a significant amount of money, this was likely a very worrying time for Mr M, and he has 
been left in an uncertain position  since  2016  as to whether he will get his money  back. So I also 
intend asking Bank of Baroda to pay £500 compensation in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience this has caused Mr M.
Finally Mr M has said that he did not have any plans to access the money  that was stolen from his 
account until the end of the fixed term period. So I only intend asking Bank of Baroda to pay interest 
on the amount at the applicable account rate.
As a result, I said I intended  directing Bank of Baroda to refund the £109,000 taken from 
Mr Ms account plus interest at the account  rate from the date of the withdrawals  to the date 
of settlement   plus £500 compensation. 
Ref: DRN014175710I invited further comments  and evidence from both parties. Mr M responded accepting  my 
proposals. But Bank of Baroda disagreed. In summary, theyve said:
They did everything  as per the account mandate and cannot  be held liable for the 
£109,000;
The ombudsman has failed to ascertain  whether Mr M has acted fraudulently  or 
received the money  himself, and has also adopted  a sympathetic view of the 
customer when deciding the case;
It is not possible for them to refund money  in this case as the bank is not the 
receiving party of the funds;
The ombudsman has not considered  regulation 62(3) of the PSRs 2009,  and there  is 
no allegation  that the bank has acted fraudulently in this case, so the bank cant be 
held liable  according to the regulations;
An unauthorised  third party would not have been  able to change the password on 
Mr Ms email  account as they would need  to answer  security  questions and also have  
access to a recovery email address. So Mr Ms statement that the fraudster had 
changed his email address is evidence that he has acted fraudulently,  and the bank 
believes that Mr M did authorise the payments  himself;
The bank  also say it is the responsibility  of Mr M as the email  account holder to make  
sure his password  is secure and safe  and that they cannot be held liable  for his 
negligence in this respect;
Mr M has also acted  negligently by failing to inform the bank of similar suspicious 
activity reported  on his account with W Bank  which  he was aware of at least  one 
month before his funds were withdrawn  from his account with Bank of Baroda;
They maintain  that the case of Tidal Energy  Ltd v Bank of Scotland  PLC [2014] 
EWCA Civ 1107 is applicable and it is trite law that a customers bank cannot be 
liable for facilitating  the defrauding of its customers so long as it follows established 
banking practice. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Bank of Baroda have  made comments about  what they perceive to be a biased  approach  
being taken against them by this service, and a sympathetic  one being  afforded to Mr M. It is 
the role of the Financial Ombudsman  Service  as an independent person  to resolve  
complaints quickly and with minimum formality,  as set out in section 225 of the Financial 
Services and Markets  Act (FSMA) 2000. And as the ombudsman considering this complaint 
 in line with section 228(2) of FSMA  I have determined what is, in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
The DISP  section of the Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook sets out the rules which  
apply to the complaint handling procedures. And both Mr M and Bank of Baroda  have  been  
given a fair opportunity to make  submissions in line with DISP rule 3.5.4R   which  I have 
carefully considered.  All findings outlined  in my decision have been  made  on balance, in light 
of all the evidence  and arguments, and have been based on the facts  as they have been 
presented. 
Accordingly, I have  considered Bank of Barodas response to my provisional  decision. But it 
does not change my reasoning in deciding that this complaint  should  be upheld.  Ill explain 
why.
Ref: DRN014175711account mandate 
Bank of Baroda submit  that they have acted in accordance with the account mandate and 
therefore cannot be held liable for the amount  withdrawn. The question  of whether the 
payments were within mandate is governed by Bank of Barodas  terms and conditions, 
which set out the agreed form and procedure for giving consent referenced  in Regulation 55 
of the PSRs 2009.  
Ive already considered what the agreed  form and procedure is for making a payment from 
Mr Ms account when I set out Bank  of Barodas terms and conditions in my provisional  
decision. And as part of this, I considered whether  the payment was within mandate and 
authorised by Mr M. But I said that, on balance, I didnt think Mr M did authorise  the 
payments, and that the evidence suggests the payment instructions were most likely  sent by 
an unauthorised  third party. So while I appreciate that Bank of Baroda may have thought the 
payment was made in accordance with their terms and conditions, in these circumstances 
that have acted in breach of their mandate because the evidence  suggests that the payment 
instructions were forged. 
Ive taken account of the relevant legal authority in this respect, which supports the position  
that a bank has no right to debit a customers account if theyve acted  on a forged payment  
instruction. In the case of Agip (Africa)  Ltd. v Jackson and Others [1989] 3 W.L.R. 1367,  
which concerned  a signed payment order that was subsequently fraudulently  altered (to 
change the payee), Mr Justice  Millett set out (at page 283):
The defendants  correctly insist that a bank  has no right to debit its customers  
account on a forged instruction since in such a case it has no mandate from the 
customer to do so. The law is conveniently summarised by Robert Goff J. in Barclays  
Bank Ltd. v. W. J. Simms  Son & Cooke (Southern) Ltd. [1980] Q.B. 677 , 699: 
"In such  cases  the bank, if it pays the cheque,  pays without a mandate from 
its customer; and unless the customer  is able to and does ratify the payment, 
the bank cannot debit  the customers account  . . ." [my emphasis added]
Ive already set out in my provisional decision why I consider  the payment instructions sent 
to Bank  of Baroda  were forged and were not sent by Mr M. So even though the bank 
received a mandate to pay the funds, the Agip judgment confirms that where instructions 
were forged the bank had no right to debit Mr Ms account and have  therefore  breached  their 
mandate.  
In such circumstances  the payment would be deemed to be unauthorised which,  as set out 
in my provisional decision,  means  that the starting  point under  the PSRs  2009 is that the 
bank is liable to refund the money  unless it can be shown that the payer has acted 
fraudulently or failed  with intent or gross negligence to comply with their obligations.
allegation of fraud 
Bank of Baroda say I have failed to consider regulation 62(3)  of the PSRs  2009,  and that 
there is no allegation that the bank has acted fraudulently  in this instance, so they cannot  be 
held liable  under  the regulations. But it appears that Bank of Baroda have misinterpreted 
regulation 62 as they are not the payer in this instance, but the payment service  provider. 
The regulations define a payer as:
Ref: DRN014175712(a) a person who holds  a payment account  and initiated, or consents to the initiation      
of, a payment  order from that payment account;  or
 
(b) where there is no payment account, a person who given a payment  order
As such,  it is Mr M that is the payer  as the holder of the payment account. In their 
submissions, Bank of Baroda have alluded  to the possibility of Mr M having acted 
fraudulently in these  circumstances. And since issuing my provisional decision, I have been 
attempting to establish whether the bank is in fact making an allegation of fraud, and have 
asked them on several occasions to provide any evidence they have to substantiate such an 
allegation. 
In response, Bank of Baroda have said it would not have been possible for an unauthorised 
third party to change  the password on Mr Ms email account as they would need to answer  
security questions and also have access to a recovery email address. And they believe this 
to be supportive of their position that Mr M has acted  fraudulently  and authorised the 
payments himself.
Bank of Baroda have  provided evidence in the form of a screenshot from a Microsoft  website 
that sets out the steps for changing  a password, which states that a security code will be 
sent to an alternative  contact in order for the password to be reset. However, this screenshot 
is dated 19 April 2020. It does not show what the process was for resetting an MSN email  
password back in May 2016. And in response  to Bank of Barodas claims,  Mr M says that at 
the time the password could be changed just by using  the current password  which the 
fraudster could have  obtained through various  means  where  they could then enter a new 
one. He said there was no security  questions in place at the time.  And if the fraudster had 
changed the password using this process,  it would explain why Mr M was not able to access 
his email account when he became aware of the fraud. So I consider  Mr Ms submissions to 
be more persuasive  on this point, given that Bank of Baroda have not been  able to 
demonstrate what the security  process was at the time.  
It may not be possible to get a definitive answer on what the exact  process was at the time 
for changing the password on Mr Ms email account.  But even if Bank  of Baroda were 
correct about  what  the process was for changing the password, I dont consider that this 
would be strong enough  evidence to show that Mr M had acted fraudulently in any event.  
There are many ways that a fraudster might be able to surreptitiously gain access to an 
email account (through phishing  for example). And as I outlined  in my provisional decision,  
the evidence suggests that it was not Mr M who sent the payment instructions. For example, 
W Bank  have  provided call recordings of the fraudster   who does not appear to be Mr M 
talking  who was chasing up similar  forged  payment instructions sent from the same  MSN 
email account used to defraud  Bank of Baroda.  There is also the fact that the signature 
provided did not match the specimen held on file, and that a different telephone number was 
also being used.  So Im still not persuaded that it was Mr M who sent the emails  rather  than 
an unauthorised  third party. And the bank have  not provided any substantive evidence to 
suggest that the third party was sending the payment instructions with Mr Ms knowledge or 
permission either. So on balance, having  considered Bank of Barodas further submissions 
as well as the facts and evidence  Ive just outlined, I do not consider that Mr M acted 
fraudulently. And Bank of Barodas arguments have not persuaded  me that Mr M has 
benefited from the funds taken from his account, or that he is now attempting to make a 
dishonest and fraudulent claim. 
Ref: DRN014175713gross negligence
Bank of Baroda further submit that they cannot be held liable  for Mr Ms negligence in failing 
to keep his email account password secure and safe. So Ive also considered whether, 
pursuant to regulation 62(2)(b), Mr M is liable for the losses  he incurred as a result of failing  
to comply with his obligations  under  regulation 57 with gross negligence. Regulation 57(1) 
requires Mr M to: 
(a) use the payment instrument in accordance with the terms and conditions 
governing its issue  and use; and
(b) notify the payment service provider in the agreed manner and without undue 
delay on becoming  aware  of the loss, theft,  misappropriation or unauthorised  use of 
the payment instrument.
Whilst regulation 57(2)  provides  Mr M must on receiving a payment instrument take all 
reasonable steps to keep its personalised security features  safe. And according to the 
PSRs 2009, the payment service user can only be held liable  for all losses if they have failed 
to comply with this regulation with intent or gross negligence.
Based on the evidence  I have seen, Im not persuaded that Mr M disclosed his email 
account password  to the fraudster. And, as I set out in my provisional decision, I do not 
consider Mr Ms email account or password to be the payment instrument in this case, and 
there is no provision for banking by email set out in Bank of Barodas terms and conditions. 
But given that there  is a requirement in the terms and conditions  for a signed  document 
containing payment  instructions, I considered that it was the signature  on the signed 
document that constitutes the payment instrument in this context. Bank  of Baroda havent 
submitted any arguments or evidence that has changed my reasoning in this regard. And 
given that I do not think  it was Mr M who signed the payment instructions, I do not consider 
that he has failed  to comply with his obligations outlined above  with intent or gross 
negligence.
Bank of Baroda further submit that Mr M has been  grossly negligent  because  he failed to 
notify the bank  of similar suspicious activity reported on his account with W Bank one month 
before his funds  were  withdrawn. However,  they appear to be confused with the timeline of 
events here because it wasnt until 1 June 2016  that Mr M was made aware of the attempted 
fraud on his account  with W Bank, by which point the funds had already been withdrawn 
from his account  with Bank of Baroda.  And this is similarly another point that I have already 
dealt with previously  in my provisional  decision, where I explained  that the unauthorised use 
of Mr Ms signature with W Bank forms part of a different set of procedures agreed with a 
separate bank  and so is distinct from those agreed with Bank  of Baroda. So it cannot  be said 
that Mr M has failed in his obligation to notify the bank without undue delay because the 
unauthorised use of his signature that he became aware of was not in relation  to the agreed 
set of procedures  he has with Bank of Baroda. So the banks recent submissions in this 
regard do not change my findings that Mr M did not fail with intent or gross negligence to 
comply with his obligations under the terms and conditions of his account, or with regulation  
57 meaning that Bank of Baroda are still liable for the loss according to the PSRs 2009.
Tidal Energy
Bank of Baroda also maintain that the Tidal  Energy judgment of the Court of Appeal is 
applicable to the circumstances of this case,  meaning they cannot be held liable for 
Ref: DRN014175714facilitating the defrauding of their customers if they have followed established banking 
practice.
The case  of Tidal Energy  concerned a payment instruction made  to the bank  via a CHAPS  
transfer form. The claimant had correctly named  the beneficiary on the payment instruction 
but had given an account number and sort code of a different entity. The bank processed the 
payment through CHAPS  on the basis of the payees account number and sort code, rather 
than the name of the payee.  The bank argued  in its defence that this was normal  banking  
practice, such that it could  not be held liable for the funds that had since  been withdrawn by 
the unintended recipient.  
The question put before the court in the Tidal Energy case  was how the CHAPS rules 
operated in circumstances where  there  was a discrepancy in the instruction between  the 
beneficiarys name and the account information. And the Court of Appeal held that the bank 
could not be held liable for the misdirected funds  in such  circumstances.  But as I highlighted 
in my provisional decision,  Mr Ms complaint does not concern a disputed  CHAPS transfer. 
And another  important distinction  to be made  is that Mr Ms complaint concerns a forged 
payment instruction  meaning there were no valid instructions at all  unlike Tidal Energy 
which concerned  a genuine  payment instruction. So Im still satisfied that the Tidal Energy 
judgment has no further relevance to my considerations  given the factual matrix of Mr Ms 
complaint is significantly  different  to this case,  and that the position regarding  responsibility 
for such unauthorised  transactions  is governed by the PSRs 2009 .
So, having  reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments   including  Bank of 
Barodas recent submissions  I still consider  it would be fair for Bank of Baroda to provide a 
full refund to Mr Ms account because he did not authorise the transactions,  and I do not 
think he has failed to comply with his relevant obligations with intent or gross  negligence, or 
has acted fraudulently.
Bank of Baroda have  said it is not possible for them to refund money  in this instance as the 
bank is not the receiving  party of the funds. I ought to clarify  that the term refund was used 
in my provisional decision in the colloquial sense of returning  the funds, rather than in 
accordance with any legal or technical definition. It is also the same  terminology used in 
regulation 61 of the PSRS 2009, which states:
the payment service provider must immediatelyrefund the amount  of the 
unauthorised payment  transaction  to the payer.
The term itself isnt specifically defined within the PSRs 2009.  But for the avoidance of doubt 
or any further confusion, it means that Bank of Baroda must pay Mr M the amount of the 
unauthorised payments  made from his account.
Finally, I said in my provisional  decision that I intended to award Mr M £500  compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience caused  by Bank  of Barodas refusal to return  his money. 
And Im satisfied this is still a proportionate  reflection of the distress  and inconvenience 
suffered, and fair compensation in the circumstances, so I have not made any adjustments  
to this award.
putting things right
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mr Ms complaint as I do not think  it was fair and 
reasonable for Bank  of Baroda not to refund the amount  taken from his account.
Ref: DRN014175715I direct  Bank of Baroda  to:
Refund £109,000 to Mr M in full;
Pay interest on that amount at the account interest rate, from the date of the 
withdrawals to the date of settlement.  If Bank  of Baroda deducts tax from the interest 
element of this award, it should provide Mr M with the appropriate tax deduction  
certificate; 
Refund any fees or charges Mr M may have incurred on his account that directly 
resulted from the withdrawal of the disputed  payments; and
Pay Mr M a total of £500  compensation in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience caused by Bank of Barodas  handling of the matter.
Ive noted that regulation 62 of the PSRs 2009 suggests that Mr M can be held liable  up to a 
maximum of £50 for losses incurred as a result of unauthorised payment transactions.  And 
given that this is also provided for in Bank of Barodas terms and conditions, they are entitled 
to deduct this amount from the redress I have  proposed above. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold this complaint  and direct Bank of Baroda to calculate 
and pay compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2020.
Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0141757