K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) should have contacted  them 
more often when  they stopped making regular mortgage payments and that RBS asked 
them to pay too much when they were in financial difficulties, which  meant they had to sell 
their home.
background 
Mr and Mrs M took out a mortgage with RBS in 2002. Mrs M became unwell and had 
difficulty in working, which  led to them missing mortgage payments from around September  
2009.
They say RBS didnt  contact them for around five years between 2009 and 2014  when  they 
were unable to make  regular mortgage  payments. As a result  they didnt know  what  arrears,  
charges or interest theyd  incurred.  And RBS then put them under pressure to pay more than 
they could afford to clear the arrears,  which reached over £50,000, and threatened 
possession proceedings. 
Mr and Mrs M felt they had no choice but to sell their house as the monthly payments RBS 
required them to make from 2014  onwards were too high.  They  say if RBS had contacted  
them, they wouldve  been able to come  to a suitable arrangement to pay.
Mr and Mrs M think RBS should take part of the responsibility for the arrears that accrued 
when they werent  able to pay, and compensate  them  for the pressure they were put under 
in the years leading  up to their complaint in June 2018. 
RBS accepted it hadnt been in contact with Mr and Mrs M enough between 2010  and 2014  
about the arrears  that were building up on their account. But it didnt uphold their complaint it 
had caused the arrears  or their concerns  about how theyd been  treated.
Our investigator felt the compensation of £200 RBS had offered to Mr and Mrs M was too 
low. He thought RBS should pay them an additional  £800 to reflect the poor treatment RBS 
had provided overall. Neither Mr and Mrs M nor RBS accepted his initial view. 
Our investigator considered the parties  comments on his view but didnt change his opinion  
about the outcome. RBS agreed  to pay Mr and Mrs M the additional compensation our 
investigator recommended. But since Mr and Mrs M didnt accept what he said,  Ive 
reviewed everything afresh  to reach  a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RBS and Mr and Mrs M have provided  a great  deal of information which  has been helpful to 
me in looking into the complaint. Ive reviewed  this and, although I may not mention all of it 
here, Ive taken everything into consideration in reaching my decision.
The parties have  raised  arguments about  the rules that applied  to Mr and Mrs Ms loan.
So its important to clarify what the relevant  rules,  guidelines and industry practice are, so 
Ref: DRN00108422Mr and Mrs Ms complaint is looked  at in the right context.
Since Mr and Mrs M took their mortgage out in October 2002, before the Mortgage Conduct 
of Business Rules (MCOB) came in, the loan was unregulated  and still was, despite later 
rule changes. So the rules dont apply to their loan.
However, RBS is a firm thats been regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  (or 
its predecessors) at all relevant times. So RBS is subject to the principles in the FCA 
Handbook including Principle 6 which requires it to pay due regard to the interests  of its 
customers and treat them fairly.
Since MCOB sets out how the FCA expects lenders to treat residential mortgage customers 
like Mr and Mrs M fairly, its good  industry  practice for lenders to treat customers  with 
unregulated mortgages in the same way. So Ill consider Mr and Mrs Ms complaint against 
that background.
As our investigator explained, were only able to consider what  happened  from June  2012  
onwards because of the rules about the time limits within  which complaints must be made.
But I think its relevant  to look at what happened before then as it gives background to what  
happened later.
Im sorry  to hear Mrs Ms unwell and I understand thats contributed  to Mr and Mrs Ms 
financial difficulties since 2009.  Because of their financial situation Mr and Mrs M werent 
able to make  regular payments towards  their mortgage from 2009 onwards. They told RBS 
in late 2011 they werent  aware  their contractual monthly payments (CMP) werent being 
collected and they didnt  check  their statements which they got on-line.
I can see RBS wrote to Mr and Mrs M in November 2011 and again  in December about their 
arrears which  were  already high.  Around  that time RBS asked Mr and Mrs M to give details 
of their income and expenditure  to assess their financial circumstances  but it doesnt look as 
if they provided that information. 
RBS didnt review Mr and Mrs Ms account again until around May 2012 and there was very 
little contact between  them  until late 2013  when Mr and Mrs Ms financial situation  was 
assessed. From 2014 onwards RBS and Mr and Mrs M were in more  regular contact  to 
manage their account.
Id expect RBS to communicate  regularly with customers who are having difficulty  in making 
their mortgage payments  to see how it could help them.  RBS has acknowledged  it should 
have done more to contact Mr and Mrs M. But Id also expect customers  to check their 
statements and keep  in regular contact with their lender if they were finding it difficult  to pay. 
Mr and Mrs M knew in November  2011 that they were behind with their payments and I think  
they should have contacted RBS earlier to discuss things, as theyve  also acknowledged.
Looking at what happened from June 2012  onwards, I dont think its fair to ask RBS to 
reimburse Mr and Mrs M for any of the arrears that accrued to 2014 as Mr and Mrs M have  
suggested. Mr and Mrs M knew they werent  making  regular mortgage  payments and arrears 
were building up.
By the beginning  of 2014 RBS records showed  Mr and Mrs M had arrears  approaching 
£45,000. Mr and Mrs M made very few payments between 2012  and then.  But they 
managed to pay more  regularly  from around March 2014.
Ref: DRN00108423RBS agreed with Mr and Mrs M a series  of payment arrangements  under which  they would 
pay their CMP  plus an additional amount  to reduce or clear  the amount  of the arrears by the 
end of the term. But Mr and Mrs M found  it difficult to keep  up the agreed payments due to 
their personal and financial circumstances. They had other debts.  Their  arrears increased 
and their credit file was affected. And at times  they had to borrow money from relatives. RBS 
were threatening possession proceedings and instructed solicitors. I can understand Mr and 
Mrs M found  the situation very stressful. 
On the face of it, RBS was being reasonable in allowing Mr and Mrs M to enter into payment 
arrangements and holding off from taking  possession  proceedings against them.  But I think 
their actions need to be looked at in light of the review RBS carried out in 2018.
In 2017 the FCA issued  guidelines about  remedial  action lenders should take on mortgage 
accounts where arrears  had been  included in calculating the CMP a borrower had to make.  
The effect of this was that borrowers were  making unfairly inflated CMPs which  reduced  the 
mortgage balance  and interest  paid on that, but didnt reduce the arrears as they should.  
Broadly speaking, to put things right lenders had to rework borrowers accounts from June 
2010 onwards  to put them back in the position they would  have  been  in if payments had 
been allocated  correctly. The guidelines required lenders to carry out the review  by June 
2018 and to explain to their customers  clearly  and fairly what  had happened and how theyd 
put things right.
RBS argues the guidance didnt apply to Mr and Mrs Ms loan as it was unregulated. It says 
it had been calculating Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage payments in line with the terms and 
conditions of their mortgage  and, since  other lenders were calculating mortgages  in the 
same way at the time, it behaved fairly. 
The FCA guidelines  noted that the way in which lenders  had been  calculating CMPs was 
likely to breach FCA principles. Since RBS had to treat Mr and Mrs M fairly in line with those 
principles, I think  its reasonable  to consider  RBS  actions bearing the FCA guidelines in 
mind.
In fact, RBS carried out a review of Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage and reworked  it in line with the 
FCA guidelines. RBS says it did this as an exception  to the way mortgages such as theirs  
were usually calculated.  But RBS notes from the time suggest  it thought  it had calculated  
Mr and Mrs Ms loan wrongly and the recalculation  was done because  it felt this was unfair. 
So broadly  I think  RBS was acting in line with the FCA guidance. And I think this was the 
right approach for RBS to take.
The recalculation showed the CMP Mr and Mrs M had been paying  since  2010 and the 
arrears they owed were  significantly  higher than they should have been. For example,  in 
February 2014, when  Mr and Mrs M started  to make  payments again,  the arrears  should 
have been around £36,500 rather than the almost  £46,000 RBS  records showed.
Mr and Mrs M say if their payments  had been worked out properly, they wouldve been able 
to pay off more of the arrears using £200 a month  from their overdraft  facility.  From what  Ive 
seen, Mr and Mrs M may have been able to make some additional payments in some  
months but they were often close to or, on one or two occasions,  over their overdraft limit. 
So I dont  think they would have been  able to pay off all the arrears even if their mortgage  
payments had been calculated correctly. 
Ref: DRN00108424Since the arrears  were still significant  after the recalculation, I think  it was reasonable for 
RBS to carry on managing the account closely as it did from December 2013 onwards. But I 
think the pressure  on Mr and Mrs M is likely  to have been less. 
For example, I think their offer in 2017 to pay an additional £50 on top of the already  very 
high CMP - which, on recalculation reduced  by almost half - is likely to have been accepted. 
Instead, it was refused  and RBS said it would take legal proceedings if they didnt make a 
higher offer.  Mr and Mrs M were going through some difficult  personal  issues at the time, in 
addition to Mrs Ms illness, and had to borrow money from relatives to make  some 
payments. So I can understand they will have felt under a lot of pressure.
Mr and Mrs M feel they would have been  able to agree making  lower  payments with RBS if 
the correct amount of the arrears had been known.  Its possible but not certain RBS would 
have agreed this given the arrears were still very high. Mr and Mrs M also say they wouldve 
been able to extend their mortgage  since it was a flexible  mortgage. I cant see this was 
discussed and its not possible now to reach a conclusion about  what might have happened  
if Mr and Mrs M had asked for an extension.
Mr and Mrs M say they felt they had no option but to sell their house.  I can see they 
mentioned selling their house to RBS in 2013.  Theyve explained they only said they would 
sell because  they thought RBS might  repossess their property otherwise and they never  
intended to go through  with the sale at the time. 
Theres no evidence RBS explained to Mr and Mrs M why their monthly  payments reduced  
following the review  of their account. I think it shouldve explained more clearly  why and how 
their mortgage payments  had changed.  This wouldve been in line with the FCA guidance 
and FCA principles requiring it to communicate  with customers  in a way thats clear,  fair and 
not misleading. I think its likely to have reduced the financial pressure Mr and Mrs M felt 
they were under.
Mr and Mrs M were  taking  steps to sell their house around this time. But it wasnt sold until 
early this year. So, although I understand they may have felt they had to move when it 
seemed they werent going to be able to pay off the arrears, I think  there was time for them  
to reconsider after they knew the correct arrears  balance, the amount of their CMP and RBS 
was holding off on possession proceedings. 
Bearing everything in mind, I dont think RBS has treated Mr and Mrs M fairly  and 
reasonably overall  since 2012. I agree with our investigator that the right level of 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  Mr and Mrs M undoubtedly  suffered is 
£1,000. And I note RBS is prepared to pay this amount. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I direct The Royal Bank of Scotland plc to pay Mr and Mrs M a total 
of £1,000 by way of compensation for distress and inconvenience, inclusive of any payments 
it has already made to Mr and Mrs M in connection with this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 December  2019.
Ref: DRN00108425Julia Wilkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0010842