K820x#14complaint
Mr N has complained about CIS General  Insurance  Limiteds (CIS) handling of his car
insurance policy.
Reference to CIS includes their agents.
background
Mr N had a car insurance policy with CIS between 6 April 2016  and 5 April 2017 (policy  1).
Mr N was the policyholder  and main driver. There was also a named driver on the policy who
I shall call Ms A. The policy  was applied for online  and finalised over the phone by Ms A
when she called CIS on 5 April 2016. Payment  for the policy  was set up to be done by direct
debit from Ms As account.
On 4 May 2016,  Mr N called CIS and asked  for an additional driver who I shall call Ms K to
be added  to the policy, which CIS did. That same  day Ms K was involved  in an accident
(accident 1). Later, on 20 November 2016, Ms K was involved  in a second  accident
(accident 2).
On 9 August  2016, Mr N took out a separate car insurance policy (policy 2) with CIS for
another car. He was the policyholder and only driver.  That policy renewed on 9 August 2017.
On 1 February 2018, CIS wrote to Mr N and said they had found out about the two previous
accidents on policy 1. Mr N hadnt  disclosed them to CIS when he took out and later
renewed policy 2. CIS said that had they known about the two accidents  at the 2017 renewal
of policy  2, his premium would have been higher. CIS gave Mr N the option of either paying
the additional premium to continue policy 2 or for him to cancel the policy. Mr N cancelled
policy 2 shortly after in April 2017.
Mr N complained. He said he shouldnt be held responsible for policy 1 or the two accidents
that Ms K was involved  in. He said the car wasnt his and that he was wrongly  put down as
the policyholder  by Ms A when she took out the policy. He said he only wanted to use the
car occasionally  because his own car was having problems, so he asked  Ms A to be put on
the policy as a named driver. He said the two accidents were recorded on the insurance 
database against his driving history, which had caused his premiums to increase.  He wanted
CIS to correct the insurance database  by removing the two accidents against  his name.
CIS didnt  uphold his complaint. Mr N brought his complaint  to our service.  One of our
investigators looked into it. She felt that CIS hadnt done anything  wrong. As Mr N didnt
agree with our investigator, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision was issued on 2 July 2019. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be 
disappointing for Mr N, but Im not intending to uphold his complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive considered all of Mr Ns points carefully.  But, in this decision, I will focus on what 
I consider to be the key issues. My role is to decide  if CIS have  dealt with Mr N in a 
fair and reasonable way
I should explain that where a claim is made  against the driver of a car following an 
accident, that claim will affect the insurance  history of not only the driver but also the 
Ref: DRN02178832policyholder. In Mr Ns case,  he was the policyholder at the time Ms K was involved 
in the two accidents. I understand  that CIS accept Mr N wasnt  the driver  during 
either of the two accidents. I think Mr N felt that he was being accused of being  the 
driver, but that isnt the case.  But the policyholder has overall responsibility of the 
insured car and who drives it, which is why accidents/claims involving named drivers 
also get recorded against the policyholder. That is normal insurance industry 
practice.
Ms K was added to the policy by Mr N on 4 May 2016, the day of accident  1. I 
understand from CIS that its possible Ms K was added to the policy  shortly  after the 
accident, which may mean Ms K wasnt insured  at the time of accident 1. Im not 
making a finding  on this point, but if that were the case, CIS, as the insurer  of the car, 
could still be responsible to cover  any claims from other parties arising  from the 
accident. That is standard insurance  industry practice. And if CIS were to pay any 
claims, that would get recorded against Mr Ns insurance record.
Mr N said that Ms K had her own insurance policy on her own car. And, like most 
insurance policies,  her policy allowed her to drive other cars. He said that during one 
of the accidents  Ms K was involved  in, she was insured under her own policy and not 
under policy 1. Mr N said that as Ms Ks own insurer  was responsible  for the claim, 
CIS suffered no loss so they shouldnt have recorded the claim against policy  1. But 
CIS have  said that no other insurer has taken responsibility for the claim on Ms Ks 
behalf, nor has Ms K provided  CIS with her insurers details. As a result, because 
CIS were the insurer of the car at the time of the accident, they have taken 
responsibility for the claim made  by the third party. So I think  it was reasonable for 
them to record the claim against policy 1.
Mr Ns main argument as to why his insurance record  shouldnt  be affected  by the 
third parties claims against  policy 1 is that it wasnt his car and it wasnt  his policy, 
even though his name  ended up on the policy as the policyholder. But on the 
evidence Ive seen,  I think Mr N was aware that he was the policyholder and I dont 
think he did anything to change that. The policy was applied for online.  I havent been 
provided with any conclusive evidence as to who did the online application. But all of 
Mr Ns details were  entered  during the application. What is not in dispute  is that Ms 
A, the named driver and someone  Mr N accepts is an associate  of his, called CIS on 
5 April 2016 to finalise the application.  Im also aware that the direct debit payments 
for policy 1 were made  from Ms As account.
But when Ms K wanted to be added to policy 1 as a named driver, it was Mr N who 
called CIS to do that. I understand  from CIS that adding named drivers to a policy  
can only be done on the request of the policyholder.  I also understand that Ms K is 
Ms As daughter. So if, as Mr N has told us, him being put down as the policyholder  
was a misunderstanding and he believed Ms A to be the policyholder, I would have 
expected Mr N to have told Ms K to ask Ms A to add her to the policy.  But he did it 
himself. Or, if at that stage Mr N realised that he was wrongly down as being the 
policyholder, I would have expected him to have explained that to CIS during the call 
he made to add Ms K to the policy, but he didnt.  CIS have confirmed that Mr N never  
asked them to remove him as policyholder or to cancel the policy.
I have listened  to the call from Mr N to CIS. Mr N told CIS I needed  to add someone 
on an existing policy.  And when he was asked for the policy  number he said he 
didnt have it with him at that moment, but he had the quote details. After  adding Ms 
Ref: DRN02178833K to the policy, CIS and Mr N discussed the additional premium  to be paid.  Mr N 
appeared concerned that the policy would be costing more and they discussed his 
instalments. Mr N dealt with that call as though  he was the policyholder.
I also note that while  Mr N said he didnt  own the car that was insured under policy  1, 
he clearly was linked to it. I say that because for a period of around three months he 
insured the same car under policy 2, which was solely in his name.
So, on balance, I find that Mr N was aware  that he was the policyholder  for policy  1. It
follows that I think he knew about the two accidents  Ms K had. He was therefore 
required to tell CIS about those accidents  when he renewed policy 2 in August 2017,  
because by that time both accidents had occurred. But he didnt tell them.  And when 
CIS found out about the two accidents, they wrote to Mr N in February 2018 asking 
him to either pay an additional premium or giving him the option  of cancelling the 
policy. I understand that when CIS gave  Mr N those  options, claims from third parties 
had been made against  policy 1 for the two accidents. And I understand that the 
claims hadnt been concluded  but were being  investigated by CIS. Claims not 
concluded and being investigated  are known in the insurance industry as open 
claims.
An open  claim  will eventually be concluded  in one of two of ways. Either as a non-
fault claim or a fault claim. But its normal insurance industry practice to treat open  
claims as fault claims for the purposes of calculating premiums, which is what  CIS 
did in Mr Ns case when his policy was due to be renewed. Thats because insurers  
work on a worst case scenario basis. So they treat an open claim as though it will 
conclude as being the policyholders fault and they calculate the premium on that 
basis. Fault  claims usually attract a higher premium than non-fault  claims. If say after 
two years the claim concludes as non-fault, the insurer will then recalculate the 
premium retrospectively on the basis of the claim being non-fault and give the 
policyholder a refund if one is due. If on the other  hand the insurer  treated the open 
claim as non-fault  and the claim concluded as being fault two years later, it would be 
difficult for the insurer to recover any additional premium. So I think CIS treating the 
two open claims as fault claims  when they asked  Mr N for an additional  premium
was reasonable.
CIS have  told us that one of the claims has now been concluded as being a fault 
claim. The other is still ongoing, but CIS believe that will almost certainly be 
concluded as also being a fault claim.  CIS, like other  insurers, have a duty to update 
the insurance database to accurately reflect Mr Ns claims  history.  And even  though 
he wasnt driving during  either of the two accidents,  the claims have been made 
against his policy.  So CIS must record the two accidents and their claims status 
accurately. So I would currently expect to see one fault and one open claim against  
Mr Ns record.  If the second claim concludes as fault, as CIS expect, then I would 
expect that to also be recorded  as a fault claim.  I dont think  its unreasonable  for CIS 
to accurately record the claims  against his policy. Mr N will have to declare  those  
claims when taking out insurance  in the future and insurers who all have access to 
the insurance database will see those claims.
Finally, when CIS found out about  the claims they recalculated Mr Ns premium  for 
policy 2 from the date of renewal in August 2017.  They amended his premium to 
what they would have charged  him had they known about the claims. As expected, 
given he had two open claims, his premium increased. I dont think  CIS did anything  
Ref: DRN02178834wrong in doing  that. CIS gave Mr N the option of either paying the additional premium 
to continue policy 2 or cancelling  the policy himself. That was reasonable and is what  
I would have expected CIS to do. Mr N then cancelled  his policy,  as he wasnt  happy 
with paying the additional premium. I therefore think CIS dealt with Mr N reasonably 
and I dont consider  it did anything  wrong  in handling his two policies.
The parties were invited to comment on my findings. CIS accepted my provisional findings. 
Mr N didnt comment. 
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my findings remain  the 
same. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 August 2019.  
Mehmet Osman   
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0217883