K820x#14complaint
Mr As complaint is that Lloyds Bank Plc didnt do enough to help him when he fell victim to a 
scam. He doesnt think Lloyds provided  him with very good service  when dealing with his 
concerns and that it gave him false hope  that his money would be refunded  to him.
background
On 8 October 2018, Mr A made an online payment  of £543 from his Lloyds current  account 
to buy a flight ticket from a company who had contacted him after he filled in a form online.
When he didnt receive the ticket  and was then unable to get in contact with the company 
hed been dealing with, Mr A realised  that hed made the payment to a scammer.  Mr A 
managed to reach the scammer  on a different telephone number, but they were not helpful, 
and ultimately hung up on him. Mr A contacted his bank, Lloyds, on 9 October  2018 to tell 
them what  had happened, and to see if there  was anything they could do to help. Lloyds 
contacted the scammers bank straight away to see if any of Mr As money could be 
retrieved. But the scammers bank confirmed that no money remained from Mr As 
transactions.
Mr A felt that Lloyds  were  rude to him when he reported the scam via telephone.  And that 
Lloyds misled him by sending him a letter saying  he would  receive  a refund of £1100. 
Because he was unhappy  with how Lloyds handled  things,  he referred his complaint to us. 
One of our adjudicators looked  at what had happened, he explained to Mr A that he felt 
Lloyds had done all they could to try and help, so he didnt think they needed to do anything  
more. But Mr A disagrees; he thinks Lloyds should refund the money he has lost. 
Because this complaint couldnt be resolved  informally,  its now been passed to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry  
practice at the time. 
Having done so, I think Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably  in allowing the transfer  to leave 
Mr As account. And I think  it took appropriate steps  to try and recover funds from the 
beneficiary bank. So unfortunately,  I dont think it would be fair to ask Lloyds to reimburse  
Mr A with the £543 he lost to the scammers.  Ill explain why in more  detail.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account.   When Mr A made the payment, he didnt know  he was 
dealing with a scammer,  so he sent the money  in good faith. This means that  at the time  
Ref: DRN08257912he wanted the payment to go ahead and authorised it to be made. And I have  taken that into 
account when  deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But thats not the end of the story:
the law recognises  that a bank may be liable  to its customer if it makes a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of 
its customer (known as the Quincecare  duty); and   
regulated firms  like Lloyds are also required to conduct their business with due skill, 
care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle  6).
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  taken 
proactive steps  to: 
identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  
circumstances, including  those at risk of financial  exploitation (something  recognised  
by the FCA in recent years by the British Bankers Associations February 2016 report 
improving outcomes  for customers in vulnerable circumstances );
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers 
from Financial  harm  as a result of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice, which 
a number of banks and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
in relation to branch transactions  follow  the Banking Protocol when available.     
This means  that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion,  fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make  a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.  
This is particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated  
fraud and scams in recent  years  - which banks are generally more familiar  with than the 
average customer.
In this case, I need to decide  whether Lloyds acted  fairly and reasonably in its dealings  with 
Mr A when he made the payment  of £543,  or whether it should have done more than it did. 
Having thought carefully about this, I dont  think there was anything  unusual about the 
payment that would have suggested  to Lloyds that Mr A was being scammed. The type of 
payment that Mr A made wasnt particularly  out of character for him, he had made faster 
payments out of his account before, and the amount of the payment wasnt enough to make  
me think it should have  raised suspicion. So, having  reviewed  Mr As account  activity leading 
up to the transaction I dont think it was sufficiently  suspicious  to indicate to Lloyds that the 
payment wasnt legitimate. Which means that, in the circumstances,  I dont think  Lloyds did 
anything wrong  by following the instructions Mr A gave and sending the money.
Ref: DRN08257913And when  Mr A told Lloyds that he had been scammed, they acted quickly,  contacting  the 
scammers bank  straightaway by phone to see if any of Mr As money was still in the 
receiving account  and could be retrieved. Unfortunately, all of Mr As money was gone  by 
the morning of 9 October and before he contacted Lloyds to notify them of the scam. So, 
there wasnt anything  more Lloyds could do to help Mr A.
I appreciate that Mr A feels Lloyds provided him with poor service overall, but having listened 
to Mr As conversations  with Lloyds, I dont agree that they acted unprofessionally. I 
understand that Lloyds did send a letter to Mr A that incorrectly  stated hed be receiving  a 
refund for £1100, but hed already been told on the phone that none of his money  could be 
refunded, and the payment he had made  was for a different  amount. So, while I appreciate 
that this letter will have  been frustrating to receive,  I think it was clear  it was an error.
Its unfortunate that Mr A has lost out, and I understand that this whole experience will have 
been hugely upsetting  for him. But in the circumstances, I dont think I can fairly say that 
Lloyds should  have done more to prevent Mr A losing his money. I cant  hold Lloyds 
responsible for Mr A having fallen victim  to a scam, and I think they did all they could to help 
him once  they knew what had happened.  So, I dont  think it would be fair to ask Lloyds  to 
compensate Mr A for his loss. I also dont  think that Lloyds needs to make  any compensation 
payment to Mr A for how it handled  his complaint after they were  notified of the scam.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 September 2020.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0825791