K820x#14complaint
Miss K complained that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax,  gave her a secured loan 
which wasnt affordable.  She wants the loan written off.
 
background
Miss K had a mortgage with Halifax. In May 2017 she applied for a further  advance  for 
£37,000. This was made up of:
-£34,850 to pay off eight different debts; and 
-£2,150 for home improvements.
There was a special  condition in the offer which  said:
You  have  declared  an intention  to repay  some  or all of your outstanding credit  
commitments. The mortgage  advance has been  assessed on this basis and it is your 
responsibility to ensure  that these commitments  are repaid. Completion takes place on the 
condition that such repayment takes  place.
Soon after the further advance completed, Halifax realised that it had made a mistake when 
entering Miss Ks application on its computer. It hadnt recorded that Miss K had two 
dependant children, though  it had recorded  child-related benefits as part of Miss Ks income. 
Halifaxs underwriting team reviewed the case with the corrected information. It said that if 
Miss K was happy  to continue, the account  should be monitored.  Halifax  phoned Miss K and 
told her what had happened, and said that the bank would monitor  the account. Miss K 
accepted the explanation and didnt raise  a complaint.
Some 10 months later, Miss K complained. She said the £37,000 further  advance  had been 
unaffordable and she wanted Halifax to write off the loan.
Halifax didnt reply  to Miss Ks complaint within eight weeks, so it told Miss K that she had 
the right to complain to this service. So she got in touch with us. She told us about Halifaxs  
phone call saying it had made a mistake, and she said she wanted  the secured loan written  
off. Miss K told us she hasnt missed a payment, but has taken out more  credit since the 
Halifax further advance.
The adjudicator didnt uphold Miss Ks complaint. She agreed that Halifax  hadnt included 
Miss Ks children, which affected the banks affordability calculator. But she didnt believe 
that the extra borrowing had increased Miss Ks monthly expenditure. The debt consolidation 
had allowed Miss K to reduce her monthly  outgoings significantly. It had offered a structured 
way of ensuring the debts could be paid off. Overall, it would  have saved Miss K £500 a 
month, so shed benefited from the loan.
The adjudicator recognised that the further advance had initially  been offered in error, but 
she didnt think Halifax had put Miss K in a worse  position that shed have been in, if shed  
continued with her unsecured debts which the loan was intended  to consolidate.  And Halifax 
had confirmed that Miss Ks mortgage was affordable at the current  rate.
The adjudicator also noted that Miss K hadnt complained to Halifax until 10 months later. 
She asked  Miss K to provide evidence that shed paid off the debts shed listed to Halifax.  
Miss K provided evidence  for some, but said shed used some  of the money for other  things 
instead.
Ref: DRN01136132Miss K wasnt satisfied with the adjudicators view. She said that if Halifax  hadnt made a 
mistake, she wouldnt have been  given  the loan. She said that as she hadnt met the 
affordability criteria, Halifax wouldnt have allowed it as it would have been  breaking the law. 
She also said that although  the loan meant paying less each month, it was over a longer 
period, and she wouldnt have the child-related benefits for the whole term of the loan 
because her children were over age 16.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Halifax made a mistake when it didnt  record that Miss K had two children. It knew  that she 
had them, because part of her income was child-related  benefits, so it should have recorded  
this. 
But Ive looked  at the impact of this. Ive read Halifaxs underwriters assessment once the 
bank realised what had happened.  I note that, as the underwriters recommended, Halifax got 
in touch with Miss K and told her about  it, and said her account  would  be monitored. Miss 
Ks mortgage didnt  go into arrears,  and the bank  has said it considers the loan affordable.
The purpose of nearly  all of Miss Ks £37,000 further advance was to consolidate eight other  
debts. Miss K had been paying  a higher  interest  rate on these,  than on the new consolidated 
Halifax loan. She was paying around £500  less a month than if she hadnt had it  a 
considerable saving. The Halifax further  advance had a fixed  term of around ten years, 
which meant that there was a planned way of repaying money which  Miss K owed and had 
to repay.  So Halifaxs  error meant that Miss K had a opportunity to get her debts under 
control. She benefited  from a loan which should have reduced the repayments on her debts 
by £500 a month, and she continued to be able to pay her mortgage.
Getting the Halifax  loan was an advantage to Miss K, not a disadvantage.  I dont find that 
Halifax broke the law as Miss K believes. I also note that the bank  considers  Miss Ks 
mortgage affordable,  and that at the time Halifax  told Miss K about its error, in mid 2017, 
Miss K accepted  the plan for the bank to monitor the account. 
Importantly, however, Miss K has told us that she didnt pay off all eight loans which the 
Halifax further advance  was intended to consolidate. These totalled £34,850. As Ive set out 
above, the further advance had a special condition  which specifically said that Miss K was to 
use the money to repay the debts  shed told Halifax about. Miss K wasnt able to provide the 
adjudicator with proof that shed complied  with this very specific  requirement. She told the 
adjudicator shed used some  of the money  for other  purposes instead. 
So Miss K broke the conditions of the further advance. And as she didnt repay all her debts,  
she couldnt have  got the full £500 a month  benefit from having paid off her more costly  
debts and making lower  overall monthly  payments.  By not paying  off the more expensive 
debts as shed  agreed to do, Miss K was much  more likely to struggle. I consider that this, 
and not the original loan,  was why she didnt complain to Halifax  until some ten months  later. 
Halifax wasnt to blame for this.
Finally, I recognise that Miss K has said that the further advance was over a longer period 
than the other debts,  and she wont have child-related benefits  once her children become 
Ref: DRN01136133financially independent.  I cant comment on what  benefits Miss K has now,  or might  have  in 
future. But Miss K can discuss her financial situation with Halifax,  providing it with full details 
of her income and expenditure,  if she experiences financial  difficulties in future.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 February  2019.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0113613