K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs Ps complaint is about  the settlement offer made under a removals insurance
policy with The Baxendale Insurance Company.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this matter in September 2020, part of which  is copied  
below: 
In November 2018, Mr and Mrs P had to move  out of their home  due to flooding. They
arranged an insurance  policy  to cover their possessions while in transit. One of the items
moved and insured was a specialist orthopaedic bed worth  approximately £7,000.
When Mr and Mrs P arrived  at their accommodation, they found several parts  for the bed
missing and so it could not be put together properly and was unusable. Baxendale accepted
the claim and offered  £500 for the bed, which is what it says the bed had been insured for.
Mr and Mrs P had been asked to specify any items  that were worth more  than this and the
bed had not been listed as being worth more  than £500.
After Mr and Mrs P complained, Baxendale offered  £2,000 for the bed as a gesture  of
goodwill. Mr and Mrs P didnt  accept  the offer and referred the matter to us. In the meantime,
they also claimed under their home contents  insurance and were  paid the full value of the
bed, less a £350 excess.
Mr and Mrs P are also unhappy that Baxendale has refused a claim for damage to the feet of
a pool table, on the basis they had not notified  the claim  within seven days of the move, as
required under  the policy.  Mr and Mrs P say this is unfair, as they only noticed the damage
when they put it up over the Christmas period.
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. He recommended  that Baxendale pay Mr
and Mrs P the £350 excess under  their contents policy, on the basis  that it would have had
to cover the claim up to £500 anyway.
Baxendale does  not accept the investigators  assessment and so the matter has been
passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs P were  asked to notify  Baxendale of any items  worth more than £500  before
taking out the policy.  It appears that they understood the requirement to do so, as some
items had been  listed as being worth more  than £500 but the bed had not.
The policy says:
High value items High value item must be listed on the ... acceptance form. If an item is not
listed it will be assumed for the purpose of dealing with the Claim that its value is less than
£500."
So the bed would have been covered  to its actual value, if it had been  specified at the
Ref: DRN06950202outset. However, as it had not Baxendale was entitled to offer £500 for it. Baxendale  later
increased that offer to £2,000, which was declined.
Mr and Mrs P have  said this is unfair  as they were  trying  to put the list together while  in
temporary accommodation, without a computer or proper wi fi. While I understand it may
have been difficult  formulating the list of items in such circumstances and some details might
be overlooked, I am not persuaded that this means Baxendale should be required to provide
£7,000 insurance  for a bed which was not notified. Baxendale has explained  that high value
items are treated differently during the moving process and the higher value of the total
shipment might have  affected the premium.  It is therefore entitled to rely on the policy  terms.
It also made a reasonable additional  offer to settle the claim. I do not therefore consider  that
Baxendale did anything wrong  in the handling  of this claim.
In the meantime, Mr and Mrs P had also made  a claim for the same bed under their home
contents insurance cover and this was successful for the full value of the bed, less an
excess of £350.
The investigator recommended  Baxendale pay the amount of that excess on the basis  it
provided £500 cover for the bed.
I do not agree this is justified. Baxendale covers the loss/damage of the bed and the home
contents policy covers the same. Mr and Mr P can claim under either policy but not both.
As they have already been indemnified  for the bed, Mr and Mrs P are unable  to seek further
recovery for the same loss from Baxendale; and there is no cover  under this policy for
excesses payable under  another unrelated policy. So, there is no reasonable basis  on which
to ask Baxendale to make  any payment to Mr and Mrs P for this.
I understand Mr and Mrs P will be disappointed with this decision, having already received a
recommendation from the investigator that Baxendale should pay the excess. However, both
parties are entitled to appeal to an ombudsman - the final stage in our process - and it is my
role to review the matter  afresh and make my own decision as to the appropriate outcome.
With regard to the claim for the pool table,  I agree with the investigator that Baxendale was
not unreasonable in refusing this claim.  The policy requires claims to be notified within seven
days of delivery of the goods.
We would  expect any insurer to apply such time limits reasonably  and would normally
require it to show how it has been prejudiced by any breach of the time limits such  as these.
In this case, delivery took place on 23 November 2018 and the claim was notified to
Baxendale on 17 January 2019.  While I can understand why this might not have been
noticed within seven  days of the delivery, the delay of almost two months  before notifying
Baxendale does  mean it has been  prejudiced as it is more  difficult to establish what has
happened and if this was during the move  or not. I am not therefore persuaded it is
reasonable to require  Baxendale to disregard the time limit conditions  under the policy.
my provisional decision
I do not intend to uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN06950203responses to my provisional  decision
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional  decision with any further information or 
arguments they want considered. 
Baxendale has confirmed it has nothing further to add.
Mr and Mrs P do not accept my provisional  decision. They  say there  may be some confusion  
as to what they were  expecting and have made the following points: 
They were asked  to compile a list of items  worth  over £500.  So all the items listed  
were worth over £500, items  worth less than this were  not listed.  Some  items  listed 
had a value recorded  next to them but they were unable to do this for every item. 
They were not able to replace or repair the bed for the £2,000 offered, so declined  
the offer. 
Having been  without the medical  use of the bed for some  time, they made the claim 
under their home  insurance.  They told the investigator they would like the case  to 
continue so they could reclaim the excess from Baxendale and compensation for the 
way the claim was dealt  with. Considering  it was an enormous drop from the initial  
offers, it did not seem unreasonable.
They feel very unsettled that it is suggested  they expected anything else,  as they 
have been open  and clear  about making  the second claim. They  cannot  accept,  or
understand, why Baxendale  should  not meet the excess. It was Baxendales actions 
that led to this position and they have gone above  and beyond  to resolve matters, 
which has worked in Baxendale's favour.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs P were  asked to provide the value of the whole consignment  and list any 
individual items worth  more than £500.  They suggest therefore  that as the bed was on that 
list, it should have  been accepted as an item worth more than £500. 
I dont accept that they reasonably thought everything they listed was valued  at more than 
£500, or that Baxendale should have treated the list as such. The list included several small 
kitchen appliances  and many other household  items that would unarguably be worth less 
than £500 each. And the bed was listed with no reference to any special feature or other 
indication that it would  be worth more than £500.  
 
I remain of the opinion therefore  that the maximum  that Baxendale was obliged to pay for the 
bed, if it had met the claim, was £500.  
Mr and Mrs P told us about their home insurance  claim  when they were  asked to both sign a 
further complaint  form in September  2019; and they said in the form that they wanted 
Baxendale to pay the excess of £350  and compensation  for the trouble  it caused them.  The 
investigator asked them  for evidence of when this claim was settled and the excess  paid in 
January 2020  but this hadnt  been provided. 
Ref: DRN06950204However, Mr and Mrs P say the home  insurance covered the full value of the bed, less the 
pre-agreed excess.  The Baxendale policy only covered £500 towards the bed. So Mr and 
Mrs P were  better off claiming under their home insurance. Mr and Mrs P had the right to do.  
to claim under the home  insurance policy but having  done so, they cannot expect any 
payment from Baxendale. Mr and Mrs P made a successful insurance  claim for the bed 
under their home insurance.  They cannot therefore  also claim under this policy with 
Baxendale for any part of the value  of the bed; and the Baxendale policy  does not provide 
cover for an excess payable under a different policy. 
And, as I do not think Baxendale acted  unreasonably in considering the claim, I do not think  
any compensation is warranted. I remain  of the opinion therefore that Baxendale is not 
obliged to make any payment to Mr and Mrs P. 
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to
accept or reject my decision  before  8 November 2020.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0695020