K821x#15Complaint
Mr E complains Elevate  Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) lent to him irresponsibly.
Background
Mr E took one running credit facility (RCF) and then 4 instalment loans. Ive included  some 
of the information weve  received from Sunny about  these loans below:
loan number loan amount received date actual repayment date
1* £1,000.00 21/06/2014 30/04/2015
2 £200.00 12/01/2015 31/03/2015
3 £500.00 14/02/2015 outstanding
4 £800.00 31/03/2015 outstanding
5 £400.00 09/05/2015 outstanding
 
The RCF is different to the instalment loans. The RCF allowed Mr E to either request funds up 
to his agreed credit limit in one go or take multiple  drawdowns up to that limit. It appears Mr E 
had a credit  limit of £1,000. Each drawdown  could  be repaid via five monthly  instalments. 
In our assessment our adjudicator didnt think it was wrong of Sunny to have initially 
provided the RCF. But he did think it was wrong of Sunny  to have allowed drawdowns from 
14 September 2014 under the RCF and all of the instalment loans.  
Mr E appears to have  accepted has accepted the adjudicators  assessment.
However, Sunny didnt  agree. It made  a number  of points, including:
Mr Es repayments were a small percentage of his disposable income
Sunny carried out a credit worthiness and affordability check  before each loan and 
Sunny allows its customers to have up to four loans running concurrently.  
But, Sunny has already  accepted that something may have gone wrong when it provided 
loans 4 and 5, so it agreed to remove all the interest  fees and charges added  to the balance. 
Sunny also told us that the final three loans have been sold to a third party  and at the time 
the complaint  was brought  to us Mr E hadnt  made any further  repayments.  
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed  to me for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Mr E appears to have  accepted the adjudicators  findings. Sunny hasnt  accepted what the 
adjudicator said about the lending from 13 September 2014  (when  Mr E took a drawdown  
under the RCF) until 14 February 2015  (loan 3). However, Sunny has accepted  that 
something wen wrong when loans 4 and 5 were  granted.  
Ref: DRN04497372So, this decision will focus on whether Sunny did anything wrong when it granted  the RCF 
drawdowns from 14 September 2014  and the first two instalment loans. But I have kept the other 
lending in mind  when thinking  about  the overall lending relationship between Sunny  and Mr E. 
For the lending  that remains in dispute Sunny had to assess Mr Es situation to check  if he 
could afford  to pay back the amounts  hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do 
this in a way which was proportionate  to the circumstances.  Sunnys checks  could have 
taken into account  a number of different things,  such as how much was being  lent, the size 
of the repayments  and Mr Es income and expenditure. With this in mind,  I think in the early  
stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks might have been  proportionate.
But certain factors might  suggest  Sunny should  have  done more to establish that any 
lending was sustainable for Mr E. These  factors include:
Mr E having a low income  (reflecting that it could  be more difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being  especially high (reflecting that it could be more  difficult 
to meet a higher  repayment from a particular level of income);  
Mr E having a large number of loans  and/or  having these loans over a long period  of 
time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had 
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr E coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been  repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming  unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr E.
Sunny was required to establish whether Mr E could sustainably repay his loans  not just 
whether he technically  had enough  money to make  his repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments  could of course  be an indicator that Mr E was able to repay his 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically  follow that this is the case.  The FCAs 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC)  states payments are sustainable if they are made 
without undue difficulties  and in particular, made on time, while  meeting other reasonable 
commitments and without having  to borrow  to make them. If a lender realises, or ought 
reasonably to have  realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further, then it follows that it should conclude  those  repayments  are unsustainable.
There was also an expectation  in September 2014, that Sunny would  review  and monitor 
how Mr E was using the RCF facility. CONC 6.7.2 says; A firm must  monitor  a customers  
repayment record and take appropriate action where there are signs of actual or possible 
repayment difficulties. 
So it wasnt  enough  for Sunny to just assess the further lending based  on what  it knew  when 
the RCF had initially been approved  in June 2014.  It also needed to monitor how Mr E was 
using the facility - and then step in and provide help when or if it could see Mr E was, or was 
likely, having financial difficulties.
Ref: DRN04497373Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and 
thought about what this means for Mr Es complaint.
I can see that Mr E had a credit limit under the RCF of £1,000. He initially  took £100 followed  
by £500 a few days  later. But the next day, Mr E had repaid all of what  he had borrowed  
plus interest. On the same day the repayment was made Mr E returned a few hours later for 
a drawdown of £800 and then a week later another £100. Another £100 was then drawn  
down before Mr E repaid  all the capital plus interest by the end of July. 
A similar pattern was apparent in August  Mr E took four drawdowns totalling £600  before a 
few days after the final drawdown Mr E repaid  what he had borrowed and brought his 
balance back to zero. 
Following three repayments on 29 August 2014, Mr E then took a large drawdown of £500,  
followed a week later by another £300  and two days later £200.  By then Mr E was up to his 
credit limit. 
I think Sunny  should have  been aware  by 14 September 2014 that Mr E wasnt using his 
account as intended or making  any headway  in repaying his loan. The way in which Mr E was 
using the facility I think was a sign that Mr E was having actual or possible repayment 
difficulties. I think its fair to say that Mr E was most  likely needing  to borrow further from 
Sunny in order to fill a hole in his finances  that was made by making repayments to Sunny. 
Mr E continued to drawdown quite large amounts, indeed, in October  it seems  that Sunny must  
have increased  his credit limit as he was able to drawdown £1,200. This isnt a sustainable form 
of borrowing  and suggests to me that Mr E was having problems managing his money. 
Before the RCF was fully repaid Sunny provided  Mr E with three  instalment  loans  of those 
loans that are in dispute  Sunny provided  further advances totalling  £700. And given the 
way these loans  were provided  along with the amounts lent, I agree with our adjudicator  that 
these loans had the same effect  as unfairly  allowing Mr E to continue to drawdown on the 
RCF in a way that was unsustainable.  
In these circumstances, I dont think Sunny could have reasonably believed that Mr E would 
have been able to repay  drawdowns  on the RCF from September  2014, or any further loans,  
without undue difficulty or without the need to borrow again. So I dont  think  Sunny shouldve 
allowed any further  drawdowns from this date. 
So, Im upholding  Mr Es complaint about  his borrowing under the RCF from 14 September  
2014 to loan 5. And Ive set out what Sunny should do to put things  right as detailed  below.
Putting things  right
It is my understanding that the final three loans have been sold to a third party.  If Sunny 
wishes to buy the loans back it should then carry out the redress  Ive outlined below. If 
however, Sunny isnt in a position to the buy the loans back, then it needs  to work with the 
third party in order to achieve the same results. But if Sunny doesnt buy the loans back, it 
isnt able to off set any outstanding balance. 
Considering what  Sunny has already  agreed to do, in order to put things right it should:
refund all interest  and charges Mr E paid on drawdowns on the RCF from 14 September 
2014 as well as all interest, fees and charges applied to loan 2;
Ref: DRN04497374pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
Sunny should remove all unpaid interest,  fees and charges from loan 3, 4 and 5, meaning 
Mr E only has to repay the principle sum for these loans. Sunny should then apply all 
payments made by Mr E as if they had been  repayments  towards the principal sum lent. 
If after doing  this, Mr E has already paid enough  for each individual loan (3, 4 and 5), 
then any overpayment  needs to be refunded, from the date the over payment became 
due to the date of settlement. In addition Sunny needs  to pay interest of 8%* simple a 
year on any over payment  from the date it became due to the date of settlement.
Sunny can then use any overpayment from the RCF and loan 2 to offset against any 
outstanding principal balance due. If after the offset, Mr E still owes  an outstanding 
balance, then Sunny should try and agree an arrangement with Mr E to repay the 
balance. But Id remind Sunny  to treat Mr E fairly.  
Sunny should remove any negative  from Mr Es credit file about the RCF from 14 
September 2014 and loans 2  5.  
HM Revenue & Customs  requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give
Mr E a certificate  showing  how much tax it has taken  off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I partly uphold  Mr Es complaint. 
Elevate Credit International Limited should  put things right for Mr E as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 June 2020. 
Robert Walker 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0449737