K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained that Aviva Insurance Limited failed to recover  his loss of earnings 
following a road traffic  accident that he wasnt responsible for; after a claim was brought  by a 
third party against  his commercial vehicle policy.
background
Mr B was involved  in a road traffic  accident in 2015.  Liability  was disputed and the other 
party issued court proceedings and obtained  a county court  judgment  (CCJ)  against  him. 
Mr B complained to Aviva who appointed  solicitors  and set the judgment aside. The other  
partys claim  against Mr B was eventually dismissed and Mr B was awarded his witness  
expenses.
Mr B complained to us about the CCJ and its effect on him. Another  ombudsman issued a 
decision awarding Mr B £1,000 compensation for the distress and inconvenience Avivas 
handling of the claim  caused him. 
Mr B later made a further complaint to Aviva  to say that its panel solicitors  failed to make a 
claim for his loss of earnings and his vehicle  damage against the third party. Aviva rejected 
the complaint  about the loss of earnings and referred Mr B to the panel  solicitors. It made a 
cash in lieu of repairs payment to Mr B for around £2620. 
Mr B then complained to us. He said he was unhappy Aviva didnt pay his loss of earnings.  
He said Aviva told him that as soon as his vehicle damage had been paid it would pay his 
loss of earnings itself.  But it hasnt. 
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. She said as Mr B didnt have 
legal expenses cover, Aviva didnt have to instruct solicitors to claim for losses  such as his 
loss of earnings. She said such losses arent  covered under Mr Bs motor insurance policy-  
so they are uninsured losses. She also said if Mr B was unhappy with the panel  solicitors he 
could complain to them  and then to the Legal Ombudsman.
Mr B didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He said the investigator failed to 
consider important information  relating  to his complaint. He told us the investigator didnt 
listen to his call with an Aviva handler who told him Aviva would pay for his loss of earnings 
after his repairs were  done.
Our investigator said the call wouldnt change her view. She reviewed the file again and 
added that its likely  Aviva  wouldve told the solicitors about  Mr Bs other claims (including 
the loss of earnings) and therefore  after the solicitors took over it would be for them  to 
pursue those. She said this is something Aviva  wasnt responsible  for.
Mr B was still concerned  we hadnt  considered all the evidence. 
Our investigator got in touch with Aviva  to check it had indeed paid for the vehicle damage. 
Aviva confirmed it had and had also waived the excess  and allowed  Mr Bs no claims 
discount (NCD). It also said the claim was still open  on the claims  and underwriting  
exchange (CUE, which is a shared  record of insurance claims and incidents).
Our investigator got in touch with Mr B who acknowledged that the vehicle damage had 
been settled, his NCD allowed and his excess waived. But he said the call he had referred 
Ref: DRN07373732us to was very important  because during the call Aviva told him it would  pay for his loss of 
earnings because  of its poor handling  of the claim.  But in the same  week  that it paid the 
vehicle damage  it refuse to pay for his loss of earnings. 
Our investigator told Mr B that I had considered the file and saw that the conversations 
regarding his loss of earnings had been recorded in Avivas notes. For that reason  I didnt  
think it would  be necessary for me to listen to the call he had referred us to. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it. 
Its been over three years since the accident and I have no doubt  it has been a long and 
stressful process for Mr B. I can appreciate  this will make my decision even more 
disappointing for him. But I will explain as clearly as I can why I have reached the decision I 
have. 
As the complaint about the CCJ and the distress that caused has already  been considered  
by another ombudsman I am only able to consider  the complaint and events the followed the 
other ombudsmans decision.
Mr Bs policy  includes  cover  for defending claims brought  against  the policy from third parties 
following an accident  for, including others, personal  injury and vehicle  damage.  It includes 
cover for any damages the insured may have to pay if held at fault for the accident and also 
their legal costs in defending such a claim.
The policy also includes  optional legal expenses cover but, from what  Ive seen, this wasnt 
taken out by Mr B. This type of insurance  wouldve included cover for legal representation to 
recover the insureds  financial losses in the event  that they werent held to be at fault for the 
accident. This policy is subject to terms such as the chances of the claim succeeding being 
reasonable. 
Following the ombudsmans decision Aviva instructed  one of its panel solicitors to apply to 
court to set the CCJ against  Mr B aside. I thought this was reasonable. The solicitors 
managed to do so and got the claim against  Mr B dismissed. But, from what  Ive seen Mr B 
was only awarded  his witness costs in those  proceedings.  
Mr B told us he wanted to bring a claim for loss of earnings. He said he wasnt able to open 
his vans back door after the accident  and so he wasnt able to work for a week.  
As I said above, Mr B didnt have legal expenses cover so Aviva didnt have to instruct  the 
solicitors to recover those costs from the other  side. In any event from what Ive seen, Mr B 
made the solicitors  aware of this while  the court proceedings were ongoing. Ive seen  letters 
sent to him by the solicitors  asking him to provide  further information and documentation  
regarding his loss of earnings claim  while  they were handing his legal  claim.  And Ive also 
seen notes of conversations  between Aviva and the solicitors, while the court  case  was 
ongoing, about Mr B wanting to make a loss of earnings claim and a claim for his damages 
(presumably his vehicle  damage). 
Ref: DRN07373733Ive also seen a note where  the solicitors said that an application  to add Mr Bs counter  claim  
to the proceedings would be unlikely to succeed. And Ive seen another note, I presume, 
from the barrister who represented  Mr B at trial who said they had tried to add the loss of 
earnings and vehicle damage  claims to the proceedings but werent allowed to by the judge.
So from what Ive seen  I dont think Aviva did anything to prevent or prejudice Mr B in 
respect of his loss of earnings claim. It seems the solicitors were aware of it and were  
prepared to take it forward but said they required further evidence. As our investigator said 
the handling of the legal  claim was the solicitors responsibility, as the legal experts, and not 
Avivas. I think Aviva  did enough by referring  the matter to solicitors. If Mr B is unhappy with 
this he may complain to the solicitors and to the Legal Ombudsman.
For completeness I will also say Ive also seen a note where the solicitors said Mr B may be 
able to bring separate proceedings against  the other party or their insurer.  But I dont think 
this is something Aviva  can assist Mr B with. This is something Mr B may have to get 
separate legal  advice  for. 
Mr B said Aviva told him it would pay his loss of earnings after his van was repaired. I have 
seen that Mr B had conversations with Aviva  after the court  proceedings came  to an end and 
said he wanted his loss of earnings  paid after the solicitors failed to recover  those from the 
other party. Ive seen notes of conversations  where Mr B was told by Aviva to provide 
evidence of his loss of earnings. There is also a note to say that Mr B got in touch with his 
accountant but they were no longer able to provide that evidence.  After that, Aviva told Mr B 
it wouldnt entertain any further  claims.
Mr B said these conversations show that Aviva was going to pay his loss of earnings claim 
but has failed  to do so. Though I can see why Mr B would get that impression, because  it 
asked him to provide evidence, I dont think Aviva  confirmed  it would  pay the claim. Even if it 
had, it told Mr B shortly thereafter that it wouldnt be entertaining any further  claims from him. 
So I think it made it clear it wouldnt compensate Mr B for his loss of earnings. And I dont 
think the short space  of time between it asking for further evidence  and then saying it 
wouldnt pay any further claims put Mr B in a worse position than he wouldve otherwise 
been in. Also as I said above, this is something  the solicitors were aware of during the court 
case so I dont think Aviva is responsible for the non-recovery of this aspect of Mr Bs claim. 
Aviva told us it paid for all of Mr Bs repairs after he presented invoices from a garage of his 
choice. Mr B has also told us he has received payments for his repairs.  Aviva also told us it 
waived Mr Bs excess and allowed his NCD. So, though Mr B had to claim on his own policy, 
Aviva doesnt seem  to have treated this as a claim in terms of his NCD. I think this is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances, particularly as this shouldve formed  part of Avivas  outlay 
which it shouldve been able to recover from the other party. 
Aviva has also told us this still appears as an open claim on CUE. It isnt clear why this 
claim is still marked as open  but if this is something Mr B has questions  about, he may 
discuss this with Aviva.
Ref: DRN07373734As Ive already  said I appreciate  Mr B will be disappointed with my decision but for the 
reasons Ive given  I wont be asking Aviva  to pay him further  compensation on this occasion.  
my final decision
For the reasons  above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Anastasia Serdari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0737373