K821x#15complaint
Mr Ds unhappy with the way Metro Bank PLC has dealt with him. 
background
Mr D says Metro  Bank didnt action his request  in April 2017 to close his account  until a year 
later which has caused  an adverse impact on his credit file. Hes also unhappy with the way 
it responded to his data subject access request, how its communicated  with him, how its 
responded to an assault  allegation and that it hasnt acted in line with its customer  charter  
regarding sharing data with this service.
Our investigator felt that this complaint should be only partly  upheld. In summary  she said:
Mr Ds account was closed on 7 April 2018  following a current account  switch request 
received on 30 March 2018. Theres  no evidence Mr D asked for it to be closed 
before this. Metro  Bank hasnt done  anything wrong by not closing the account 
earlier. Its also removed any adverse information on Mr Ds credit file about a small 
debit balance on the account.    
Mr D has remained in contact with Metro  Bank  staff after the account  was closed 
particularly about an alleged assault in branch. Its responses  have been inconsistent 
at times but it continued to deal with him even though  hes no longer  a customer  and 
the matter has been  looked into. The bank also took action  to seek  information  from 
the branch managers  and co-operated with the police although CCTV was no longer  
available. Once the police didnt  take things further it was reasonable for Metro Bank 
not to engage with Mr D further.  Metro Bank has acted reasonably.
Mr D says Metro  Banks customer charter says it needs  his consent before sharing  
information with this Service. But by completing  our email declaration Mr D has 
provided his consent for us to seek data from Metro Bank.  It hasnt done anything  
wrong sharing  information with us.
Mr Ds DSAR was delayed by three  months  which isnt acceptable. That caused Mr D 
inconvenience and stress. Metro Bank  should  pay him £50 compensation for this.
Metro Bank  accepted the investigators  view and its confirmed  its paid the £50 into Mr Ds 
nominated bank account.
Mr D says hes now received the DSAR  information  and compensation. But hes still not 
happy with the outcome and hes asked for an ombudsman review. He says Metro Bank 
offered him £8,000, a credit card, a donation  or a security box.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators conclusions for the same reasons.
Theres nothing to suggest Mr D asked Metro Bank to close  his account  before he submitted 
a switch request  in April 2018. And I think Metro  bank closed his account  appropriately  and 
Ref: DRN00499542promptly after he submitted the current account switch  request. Its also acted reasonably by 
removing any adverse information on his credit file relating  to a small debit balance on the 
account.
Metro Bank  has also acted reasonably when dealing with Mr D over an alleged assault in the 
branch. It investigated matters, co-operated with the police and continued to communicate 
with Mr D, only ceasing to do so after the police  confirmed no further  action was being taken. 
There was a short delay  in Mr Ds DSAR being  dealt with. But this has now been resolved 
and Mr D has confirmed he has received the relevant information. I accept the delay caused 
him some distress  and inconvenience but I agree with the investigator that a payment of £50 
compensation for this is fair and reasonable. And I note Mr D has received this amount from 
Metro Bank.
Metro Bank  also hasnt done  anything wrong or against its customer  charter  by sharing 
information with us given the terms of the declaration Mr D signed when he started  his 
complaint with us.
Mr D now says Metro Bank offered him £8,000, a credit card, a donation or a security  box.
But theres no evidence  to suggest this was the case. And, taking everything into account,  
including the level of awards we make, I dont think I can fairly or reasonably require  Metro  
Bank to do or pay any more than its done  already.
my final decision
I partly  uphold  this complaint but theres  nothing further Metro Bank PLC now needs to pay 
or do.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 February  2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0049954