K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains about National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest)  regarding  rude and 
aggressive behaviour  by a member of staff,  and the way the business  has dealt with Mr Fs 
resulting complaint. He wants the member  of staff to be dismissed.  
background
Mr F is a longstanding customer of NatWest. 
In June 2018, Mr F attended  his local branch to make a cash transfer. 
Mr F had to queue to speak with a member of staff to carry out his transaction. 
When he was served,  the member of staff suggested that in future  Mr F use the banking  app 
in order to avoid  queuing. Mr F advised  the member  of staff that he did not want  to use the 
app. 
Mr F says that the member of staff continued to discuss digital services, disregarding Mr Fs 
confirmation that he was not interested. Mr F felt that the member  of staff delayed  his 
transaction in order to press the use of the app. He began to feel pressurised and 
uncomfortable. 
Mr F says that he felt bullied by the member of staffs  behaviour  and tone, and that he then 
used an inappropriate  word while waiting for his transaction to complete.  
The member  of staff ultimately  came  into the public area and asked Mr F to leave, which  Mr 
F found  threatening and abusive. 
He complained to NatWest by letter the following day. 
NatWest wrote back to him approximately  a week later. In this letter NatWest apologised for 
Mr Fs experience and said it would provide feedback to the member  of staff.
Mr F wrote again to NatWest,  explaining that he didnt feel that the response took him 
seriously, and that he wanted to be assured that action would be taken against the member 
of staff. He wanted  his complaint to be escalated.  
NatWest wrote back to Mr F. NatWest and explained that it had received differing accounts 
of the encounter between Mr F and the member of staff, and that where accounts of a 
conversation were different the business was not able to wholly accept one account over 
another. 
NatWest again  apologised  for Mr Fs experience,  offered to arrange a meeting between Mr F 
and a local complaint officer,  and offered him £75 compensation as a tangible  reflection of its 
apology to him. NatWest  reiterated that any disciplinary process  or feedback  that may be 
given to a member of staff was confidential. 
Mr F replied rejecting this response. He felt that NatWest did not believe his account as the 
member of staff had not been dismissed,  and Mr F pointed out that NatWest had tried to call 
him from withheld  numbers and so he had not answered. 
Ref: DRN09540042NatWest sent its final response to Mr F in September 2018.  It upheld his complaint  about 
calling him from a withheld number and apologised. NatWest considered  that it had done all 
it could in respect of Mr Fs complaint and gave him information on referring  his complaint to 
us. 
Mr F was not happy with NatWests response and contacted us. 
One of our adjudicators has looked into this matter and has set out her considered  view to 
the parties. This was that NatWest had dealt with the complaint reasonably in the 
circumstances. She therefore did not recommend that NatWest do anything further. 
Mr F does  not accept that view and has asked for an ombudsman decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I would like to set out that I understand Mr Fs strength of feeling over this issue.  It is 
very clear from Mr Fs correspondence  that during the encounter  in branch he felt 
pressurised and anxious due to the approach  of the staff member  and that this caused him 
distress, when he simply wanted to carry out his transaction. 
Mr F has acknowledged  that he used an inappropriate word during the exchange and he 
apologised for that in his initial letter. He feels that the type of inappropriate language he 
used has been  misrepresented  unfairly and he has said that he wants the member of staff to 
be removed from his position to prevent others from being put in this position. 
Throughout Mr Fs correspondence with NatWest, complaint handlers  have  explained that as 
they were not there to directly witness a conversation it is difficult  to form a view on precisely  
what happened, and the tone and behaviour of all involved. 
That difficulty, in resolving exactly what was said and how it was said,  continues at this 
service and we are not able to know definitively what happened during the initial incident. 
However, NatWest has not disputed  Mr Fs account  of what  happened, and has apologised 
for how he was made to feel. I also accept Mr Fs account of what happened.  
NatWest confirmed that it provided feedback  to the member of staff and his line manager. It 
also offered to arrange a meeting between Mr F and one of its local officers to further 
discuss how he felt.
 
Mr F declined this. Whilst it is entirely reasonable of Mr F to decline the meeting, I think it 
was appropriate  of NatWest to offer it.
Mr F thinks that NatWest has not taken  him seriously because it has not dismissed  the 
member of staff and updated  Mr F accordingly.  
NatWest has explained  that all disciplinary actions and processes are confidential,  so it 
could not report  back to Mr F. That is a reasonable position and I would not expect a 
business to disclose confidential  actions  or discussions  outside  of the business. 
Ref: DRN09540043I realise that Mr F does  not think that the complaint response has gone  far enough, but 
having reviewed  the correspondence I think that everyone who has dealt with Mr Fs 
correspondence has taken it seriously,  and has responded to him fairly  and courteously. 
NatWest has also made  an offer of compensation in a tangible  way by crediting £75 to Mr 
Fs account.  
I think that this is a reasonable response, and I would not ask NatWest  to do anything further 
in respect of this complaint. 
Whilst I realise that this will be disappointing  to Mr F, for these reasons I do not uphold this 
complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold Mr Fs complaint and do not ask National 
Westminster Bank Plc to do anything further.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2019.
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0954004