K822xcomplaint
Mr V has complained Lloyds Bank plc wont refund him for transactions  he didnt authorise.
background 
In September  2016 Mr V enquired about  a training course. He wasnt completely sure the 
course would  suit him. Specifically he wanted to see the relevant course material to assess 
this as he isnt a native English speaker. He noted  two transactions (of £100 each) from his 
account soon  after. He didnt believe hed entered into any contract so didnt understand how 
this had happened.
He went into a Lloyds  branch. He was reassured by a member of staff that if he hadnt 
entered a contract, then the training company wouldnt be able to take any money  from his 
account. This didnt  prove to be the case as two payments of £100  debited his account  on 
21 September 2016. Then in October and November two further transactions  of £1,026.82 
were taken. This caused Mr V considerable distress as he had little spare funds.
In 2017 after two further withdrawals were made from his account (both for £804.60),  Mr V 
complained to Lloyds.  They attempted to claim back the last four transactions  from the 
training company under the chargeback rules. The training company provided a copy  of the 
contract and invoice they had with Mr V. This resulted in Mr V being re-debited the two 
transactions of £804.60. The training company  hadnt defended the two transactions of over 
£1,000 so Mr V retained those funds.
As Lloyds  wouldnt  help further, Mr V brought his complaint  to the ombudsman service. As 
well as the two transactions for £804.60, Mr V had also paid the training company a further 
£2,000 by bank transfer in August 2017.  He was convinced the company had acted 
fraudulently. He also raised a claim against them in the small claims court in October 2018. 
This proved successful.  Mr V was awarded  £3,690 in settlement of the debt plus court fees 
and expenses.
Due to the number of fraud-related cases brought to this service, we didnt start our 
investigation until April 2019.  Our investigator confirmed we couldnt  review issues which  
had been the subject  of the court case. But she was concerned that Lloyds customer  
service hadnt been sufficient. She asked Lloyds  to pay Mr V £200 to compensate  him for 
what had happened.
Mr V has been supported  in his complaint to us by a representative. She confirmed Mr V 
didnt accept this compensation. She felt Lloyds had not treated this issue properly and had 
allowed transactions to be made without Mr Vs permission. Shes  asked an ombudsman to 
consider Mr Vs complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator  and for roughly the same  reasons. Ill explain why.
Ive looked at the two main aspects of this complaint separately.
Ref: DRN06067642what can we consider?
Our investigator is right. I can only look at cases which our rules  allow  me to look at. Our 
powers are set out in the Financial Conduct  Authoritys Handbook on Dispute  Resolution:  
Complaints. These say I am able to dismiss a complaint where  the subject matter of the 
complaint has been the subject of court proceedings where there has been  a decision on the 
merits.
Theres no dispute Mr V brought a claim against the training company and obtained a 
judgement in his favour. Part of this judgement included comment  on the two £100  payments 
Mr V was charged.  The judge stated:
It was to secure a place on an early course  if the claimant came to take it up. I regard it as 
similar to a deposit for a fee-taking school.
This means  the £200  that Mr V paid on 21 September 2016 was not part of the disputed 
contract but a pre-payment in case. This money was not part of the money  the training 
company was asked  to repay to Mr V.
It would therefore  be unfair for me to decide  that Lloyds should repay this money.
I cant look at the merits of the case against Lloyds because of this court case.  But I would 
say to Mr V that our consideration would be on different grounds. We would look to see 
whether Mr V had authorised the transactions under the relevant legislation,  the Payment  
Services Regulations. This would be different to the consideration the judge made about 
whether Mr V had entered a contract  with the training  company.  There would be no 
guarantee wed have asked Lloyds  to refund the money involved.
service aspects
Lloyds doesnt  dispute the service they provided  to Mr V wasnt  up to scratch. They  no 
longer have any records to show what may have been discussed when Mr V went into 
branch in September 2016. I dont doubt  his recollections. And Im in no doubt  Lloyds  should  
have gone further to help explain to Mr V what his options  were and how to protect  his 
account.
So for example  if these  transactions were being processed as part of a continuous  authority 
 which  I think most  likely  Mr V should have been  told he was able to cancel that authority. 
That would also have  stopped further debits being  made from Mr Vs account.
I suspect that may have  resulted in the training company taking Mr V to court for payment 
rather than the other  way around.  But it would have put Mr Vs mind to rest that his account  
wasnt at risk.
Like our investigator I think a payment of £200  is fair and reasonable to reflect what  
happened.
I dont doubt this whole experience has been horrible for Mr V. Its taken up a good  part of 
his time over the past three years and obviously caused emotional distress.  However most 
of this seems to be down  to the behaviour of the training company rather  than Mr Vs bank. I 
wont be asking Lloyds  to do anything further than give £200  compensation.
Ref: DRN06067643my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  Lloyds Bank plc to pay £200 to 
Mr V for the trouble  caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0606764