K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains about how Santander UK plc dealt with him following his balance  request.
background
Mr C contacted Santander for an account balance but was told he had failed security.  He 
says he was told he could  call again  and so he did. But he was then told he would have to 
attend a branch which again he did. Mr C says he told Santander  staff that his account had 
been blocked and was told he needed  photographic identification  such  as a driving  licence 
or passport which he doesnt have.
Mr C says he provided evidence of letters, sent to him by a Member of Parliament, to 
Santander staff and heard them comment on his return. He says the documents were shown 
to other  staff before he was taken  into a room to speak to another  staff member. Mr C says 
he left the office  for fresh air and the staff member also left at the same time. Mr C says on 
his return he noticed the room being used by others and his personal  documents were 
visible to those in the room.
Mr C says hes also unhappy with how his complaint was dealt  with. In summary he says he 
was promised calls back that he didnt receive and was given conflicting information  about  
what had happened  in the room  when he left for some fresh air.
Santander says Mr C failed security when he first called. It accepts that Mr C shouldnt  have 
been told he could  call back but should have been told to attend a branch.  Santander  now 
accepts that Mr C and its staff member left the room at the same  time and has agreed  to 
look at its policy for the use of its private rooms to avoid  future  problems. Its paid Mr C £30 
compensation for what happened.
Mr C brought his complaint to us but our adjudicator thought Santander  had dealt fairly with 
the complaint.  She thought Mr C had failed security by providing an incorrect date of birth 
but shouldnt have been told to call back a second  time. The adjudicator thought  Santander 
hadnt made a mistake  by referring Mr C to a branch or by asking Mr C for identification 
evidence. She also thought  Santander had fairly agreed to look at its policy  on the use of its 
private room and had paid a fair amount of compensation.
Mr C remains  unhappy with that view and says he spent some considerable amount of time 
in the branch trying to sort matters out and questions why Santanders staff couldnt make  a 
decision on the documents he gave  it. He would like an apology and compensation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the adjudicator for the same reasons. I realise that Mr C will be disappointed  
by my decision  and I appreciate how strongly he feels about whats happened. I also confirm 
that Ive read Mr Cs latest letter to us and reviewed  all of the information  and letters  he has 
provided.
Ref: DRN08104472Ive listened to the calls between the parties  and Im satisfied that Mr C failed Santanders  
security question about his date of birth. I appreciate  that Mr C was unwell at the time but I 
dont think Santander  acted unfairly in those circumstances by blocking the account where I 
think it had reasonable security  concerns.  I accept  that Mr C was given incorrect information 
that he could call Santander back to re-try the question. I think that call ended  fairly soon 
after being  made and Mr C was given the correct information, that he should attend a 
branch. I also accept that Mr C would  have been caused what I think is a small  amount  of 
inconvenience in having to make  that fairly short second call.
I dont think Santanders  staff acted unfairly by asking Mr C for photographic evidence  when 
he attended the branch. And I think Santander staff were prepared to try and help Mr C 
when he said he didnt  have either  a passport or photographic driving  licence. I can see that 
Santander did accept  the documents Mr C was able to get from his car. I think it likely  that 
the delay in removing the block was due to Santanders staff seeking approval from a senior 
staff member as Mr C didnt have the type of documents it would normally accept. And that 
some of the delay was caused by this being a Saturday rather than a normal working day.
I appreciate that security  measures can cause customers  of banks and building  societies 
inconvenience. But I think they are in place  to protect customers  money and I cant fairly  tell 
a business what  its security measures should  be or what documents they ought to accept. 
There is no question here that Santander  should not have allowed other  staff or customers 
to use the room in which  Mr C had left his documents  and was still using. I understand Mr 
Cs concern that they were private  documents and available for those  persons  using the 
room to read. I also appreciate that Mr C was given  conflicting information  by Santander 
about how the documents were left and if Mr C was left in the room when the staff member  
left. I can see that Santander no longer disputes  what Mr C says and has apologised for 
what happened and what it initially  told him. I appreciate Mr Cs frustration and concern  in 
those circumstances  but I think the correct sequence of events is now agreed by both sides.
Im satisfied that Santander has paid a fair and reasonable amount of compensation of £30 
in respect of the mistakes it made by giving Mr C misleading information  about the second 
call and by the sequence of events  in the branch. Ive not seen any evidence that Mr C 
suffered any financial  loss as a result of his documents being  left in the room or that his 
personal data was compromised. But I can see that Santander has acted fairly by agreeing  
to change its policy and procedures to avoid this type of problem in the future.
Overall, as Im satisfied Santander has dealt with this complaint fairly,  I cant  order  it to pay 
Mr C any further compensation. And I can see that it has apologised for its mistake about the 
call. I appreciate Mr C says the CCTV of the branch should be viewed. But I dont think thats 
necessary as I think both sides  now agree that what Mr C says about the sequence of 
events in the private room and leaving that room is the correct version.
Ref: DRN08104473my final decision
My final decision is that Santander UK plc has paid a fair and reasonable amount of 
compensation and I dont  require it to do anything further in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 June  2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0810447