K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) settled a claim, against 
his policy, as a fault one when he believes it should have been defended and the third party 
held at fault.
background
Mr R was involved in an accident on a roundabout where he and a third party collided. Mr R 
reported the accident to Admiral and gave his version of events to it. 
The third party was also insured by Admiral,  and also reported the accident to it. Although 
the third Party gave  a different version  of events  and said that Mr R was liable for the 
accident.
There was no CCTV available and no witnesses to the accident. The damage to the vehicles 
didnt prove  or disprove either version  of events, so Admiral decided  to settle the claim on a 
50/50 split liability.  
Mr R complained to Admiral as he was unhappy with the liability decision and also the 
service he had been provided. Admiral stood by its liability  decision but did offer £50 as it 
didnt feel it offered the right support to Mr R at the start of the claim, it also offered to 
reimburse Mr R £10 he had paid to the local council to try and obtain CCTV.
Mr R was unhappy with this so brought his complaint to us. Our investigator didnt uphold the 
complaint, she thought  Admiral had acted fairly when settling the claim and that the offer for 
the lack of support had been  fair. Mr R disagreed and so the matter has been passed  to me 
to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where theres a dispute about  what 
happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks most likely to have happened in light of 
the evidence.
Although a number  of issues  have been raised,  this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
claim settlement
In deciding whether  Admiral acted fairly  in how it settled the claim I note the policy,  like every 
other motor  insurance  policy Ive seen, allows it to take over and conduct the defence or 
settlement of any claim. But when doing so it must  treat Mr R fairly, and by that I mean  when 
its more likely than not the claim against Mr R would  succeed in court. This is because 
Admiral wouldnt want to risk all the costs and expenses  in defending a claim that theyre 
likely to lose in court.
Ref: DRN07952912Mr R reported the claim to Admiral on 6 February 2017. Admiral acted quickly  and on 7 
February 2017, tried to obtain CCTV footage from the Tesco store  located  by the 
roundabout. It contacted Tesco; Tesco told Admiral it would only release the footage to the 
Police. Admiral let Mr R know this and said that he might want  to try to obtain it himself,  he 
did, but he was also unable to get this.
Mr R applied for a copy of the CCTV footage  from the cameras located on the roundabout 
from the local council,  but unfortunately at the time of the accident the cameras  were facing 
the opposite direction.
Mr R provided  photos of the damage  to both vehicles  and Admiral  inspected these but felt 
the damage couldve been  sustained  with either  version  of events. 
I understand that Mr R feels very strongly  that the third party was at fault for the accident,  but 
when settling a claim Admiral has to consider what can be proven. I can see from the claim 
notes Admiral provided to us that it considered if it would be able to defend, in court, a 
settlement more in favour of Mr R, such as a higher  split or non-fault.  But with the absence  
of CCTV, witnesses or any evidence to conclusively  support Mr Rs version of events,  it felt it 
wouldnt be successful. I think Admiral did all it could in the circumstances to try to support 
Mr Rs version  of events. So it follows, I dont uphold this part of Mr Rs complaint.
lack of support
Mr R said that he felt there had been  a lack of support throughout the claim,  and that he had 
had to defend himself.  Admiral offered Mr R £50 for this, it said the questions it had asked 
Mr R in the first notification of loss call were  necessary in order  to understand  the claim but it 
could understand  why he felt he was unsupported during  the call.
Having reviewed the file I can see that Mr R found  it very frustrating dealing with the claim, 
as he felt he was being blamed for the accident.  And while I understand this wouldve been  
upsetting for him, I think Admirals offer of £50 is fair in the circumstances, so I wont be 
asking Admiral to do anything more.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Amber Mortimer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0795291