K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 1999. Mrs S says Canada Square Operations  Limited mis-sold her the PPI.
The card and policy were  originally sold by Egg, but Canada Square  has taken 
responsibility for the sale, and for this complaint, so Ill refer to Canada  Square in my 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mrs S applied  for her credit card and PPI online. Canada Square  has shown that Mrs S 
wouldve been presented with two options - to take PPI or to decline it. Both were  equally 
prominent, and Mrs S wouldve had to select an option before she could complete her 
application. And I havent seen  anything to suggest  that Canada  Square wouldve sold 
Mrs S her card and policy in a different way to its usual  process. 
So with this in mind, I think Canada Square made  it clear that Mrs S didnt have to take 
out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although I can understand why she doesnt  
remember this as it was so long ago.
Canada Square  didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs S so it didnt have to check if it was 
right for her. But it did have to make  sure Mrs S got the information  she needed to decide 
if it was right for her.
Its possible the information Canada Square  gave  Mrs S about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as 
it shouldve been. But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks  like she wanted this 
type of cover. Based on what  Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time it doesnt look 
like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  - so it could 
have been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about the PPI would have put her off taking 
out the cover. 
This means Canada  Square doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs S.
But Canada Square has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs S because:  
When the policy was sold,  Canada Square  expected to get a high level of commission  
and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs S 
about that. Because Canada Square didnt tell Mrs S, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Canada Square has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN08062542Ive thought about everything Mrs S and her representatives have said, including what  
theyve said about  Mr Ss generous sick pay. But the PPI couldve paid out on top of, and for 
longer than Mrs Ss sick pay  and also covered her if she was to become unemployed. So 
this point doesnt change my decision, and for the reasons set out above, I dont uphold  this 
complaint.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada Square  Operations Limited does not have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs S.
But Canada Square Operations  Limited  does have  to pay back to Mrs S any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has 
already done this, so I dont award  any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0806254