K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs S have  complained that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold  them  a Premier 
packaged bank  account in 2008.  They paid a monthly fee for the account which provided 
several benefits in return.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision dated  May 2019. An 
extract from this is attached and forms part of this final decision, so I will not repeat that 
information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I was minded  to reach  a different outcome to our 
adjudicator and uphold the complaint. In the interests of fairness to everyone I invited both 
parties to let me have any further comments and evidence,  before making  a final decision.
Lloyds and Mr and Mrs S replied to my provisional  decision, agreeing  with my findings.
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I havent  been  provided with anything  to change my decision,  I see no reason to depart 
from the conclusions  I reached in my provisional decision. 
It follows that I uphold  this complaint.
putting things right
Lloyds should  put Mr and Mrs S in the position  theyd be in now if Lloyds hadnt mis-sold 
them the Premier account.  I require Lloyds to: 
Pay Mr and Mrs S the amount they paid each  month for the Premier account
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr and Mrs S saved  money because of a better rate on their overdraft, loan or savings 
account by having  the Premier account and Lloyds can show  exactly  how much 
Mr and Mrs S saved,  it may deduct  these savings  from the amount it pays them.  Lloyds 
must explain clearly and simply to Mr and Mrs S how it has worked out any deductions.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Lloyds  to take off tax from this interest.  Lloyds  must give 
Mr and Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
Ref: DRN01226042my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, and in my provisional  decision, I uphold this complaint. I 
require Lloyds Bank Plc to put things  right by doing  what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 June  2019.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN01226043EXTRACT OF PROVISIONAL DECISION DATED MAY 2019
background
Mr and Mrs S held two packaged accounts with Lloyds  a Gold  account and a Premier account. 
Before Mr and Mrs S brought their complaint to this service, Lloyds agreed it had mis-sold  the Gold 
account and refunded the fees Mr and Mrs S paid for it, plus interest.  So in my decision Ive only 
considered whether the Premier account was mis-sold.
Our adjudicators didnt think that Lloyds  mis-sold the Premier account to Mr and Mrs S and didnt 
recommend that Lloyds  should pay them  any compensation. 
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree so they asked  for an ombudsman to look at the complaint and make a final 
decision. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. Ive used 
this approach to help decide  what  to do about Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. 
Where evidence  is incomplete and matters are in dispute, as they are here, I make my decision based 
on what I think is most likely to have happened  keeping in mind  everything Ive seen and been told.
After giving  Mr and Mrs Ss complaint a lot of thought, I currently  think that Lloyds  should also refund 
the fees Mr and Mrs S paid for the Premier account.  Ill explain why.
Lloyds had to give Mr and Mrs S enough clear  information  about  the Premier  account and its benefits 
for them to decide if they wanted it. And Ive noted Lloyds comments  about  why it thinks it did that. It 
says that Mr and Mrs S were  told about the accounts car breakdown cover and home  emergency  
cover, and it has provided documents  that it says were completed at the time of the sale, which  
Lloyds says supports its position.
Its fair to say that the documentation Lloyds has provided  was most likely completed around the time 
the account was sold. But the contact note it has provided  suggests  that Mr and Mrs S were  
interested in the accounts  car breakdown  cover, although the note is barely a few words  long and 
doesnt go into much  detail.
Lloyds has also provided a summary of the document it says it completed at the time, showing that Mr 
and Mrs S were interested in the accounts identity  theft assistance and home emergency cover.
Whilst I dont  dispute the information Lloyds  has provided, I have to weigh  up what  I think  is most 
likely, also taking  into account  Mr and Mrs Ss testimony. And from everything theyve said,  Im 
persuaded that they werent given  enough of the right information before  making the decision to 
upgrade.
Mr and Mrs S say they were told theyd get a preferential  rate on a personal loan if they agreed to the 
Premier account. I can see they did indeed  take out a loan around the same  time, although it looks as 
though that loan was taken the day before the upgrade. 
From what I know  about  the Premier account in 2008, it didnt offer preferential interest rates  on loans 
as a benefit. And although  Lloyds systems do suggest Mr and Mrs Ss loan was agreed at some sort 
of a preferential rate as the account name shows as Lloyds Bank Special Offer  Loan  I dont think 
that was the result of them holding a Premier  account.  
Ref: DRN01226044Lloyds has also confirmed that it did occasionally offer special offers  on loan interest rates  although 
these varied  by branch  and Lloyds  cant now check that in relation to Mr and Mrs Ss specific loan. 
But I think its more likely than not thats what Mr and Mrs S were  given  possibly under  the pretence 
of this being  linked to upgrading  to the Premier  account. 
Lloyds has highlighted that Mr and Mrs S have  used some of the benefits linked to the Premier 
account  such as the breakdown cover and the mobile  phone insurance. And I agree, they appear to 
have made  several  breakdown callouts and registered a number of mobile phones. But Im also 
mindful that they didnt engage with any of the accounts benefits for around four years after the 
upgrade. 
Mr and Mrs S explained that they only became aware  that they should be entitled to certain  account 
benefits in 2012 after speaking  to a friend. And this is supported by their benefit  usage,  which started 
in 2012. So again,  Im persuaded that they werent  given the right information  at the time of sale  and 
so the fact that the account  ultimately became useful to them once they found out what  the benefits 
were doesnt  make me think they knew what they were signing up for at the time. 
Looking at the way Mr and Mrs S used the Premier accounts benefits after they found out about 
them, Im persuaded that theyd have made more use of them earlier, had they known  about them. 
And because  they didnt,  I dont  think Lloyds gave them enough information about the account. And I 
think Mr and Mrs S have lost out because of that.
For this reason I intend to uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN0122604