K821x#15complaint
Mrs G complains she has received lower pension benefits than she expected from Legal and 
General Assurance  Society Limited (L&G).
background
Mrs G enquired about taking her pension benefits  through an L&G Cash-Out Retirement  
Plan in July 2018. She proceeded with her application in early  September  2018 and chose to 
take a tax-free  cash lump  sum and buy a fixed-term annuity with the rest of her pension  
funds. Her Selected Retirement Date (SRD) was 16 October 2018.  On 11 September 2018, 
35 days before her SRD,  Mrs G was sent an updated quotation  for the annuity.  This gave 
the amount of the tax-free lump sum and the annual  income she would receive. But when  
Mrs G received her benefits,  she says there  was a shortfall of £1,750.25.
Mrs G complained to L&G in November 2018.  She said: shed received a lower  payment 
than the figure given  in the quotation; shed received her tax-free cash payment three  days  
later than shed been  told; and she was unhappy  with the customer  service  shed received 
during a telephone call with L&G on 2 November 2018.
L&G issued a final response letter on 14 November 2018, saying it didnt agree with Mrs Gs 
complaint. L&G made the following points:
It had told Mrs G several  times  that her pension fund wasnt guaranteed and could go up 
and down on a daily basis.
Although Mrs G may have chosen  a specific SRD, her pension funds wouldnt be 
disinvested until after the SRD  and it could  take at least  four weeks to set up her plan.
From  listening to the telephone calls, it wasnt clear what Mrs G had been  told about the 
payment of the tax-free lump  sum which led her to believe it was paid three days  late. It 
said that the phone calls advised it could  be at least four weeks  or before the end of 
November 2018. 
It agreed that the telephone call on 2 November 2018 could have gone better; it 
apologised for any upset that may have been  caused.
Unhappy with this outcome,  Mrs G complained to us. In summary her complaint said:
Shed  been  paid £1,750.25 less than shed expected.
She understood the figures shed been  given  in the quote  were guaranteed for 35 days.
She understood the process took longer than anticipated and her initial  tax-free cash 
lump sum was paid to her three days later than shed been told.
She was unhappy  with the customer service shed received from L&G during a phone 
call on 2 November 2018.
She was unhappy  with L&Gs  response.  She felt it was unexplainable,  unreasonable  and 
unfair. And it had caused her stress and unnecessary inconvenience.
Our investigator looked into what Mrs G said. She said:
Mrs G had been given  contradictory information. The quotation said the rate used in this 
quotation will be guaranteed until 16 October 2018  but the cover letter to the quotation 
says the amount  of the pension pot isnt guaranteed so this means the amounts Mrs G 
would receive may be different from the amounts shown on the quote 
In terms of the delay  in paying the tax-free  cash lump sum, our investigator said the 
cover letter  of 11 September 2018  says that the lump sum can take up to 10 working 
days from your retirement date for the money to show in your account.
Ref: DRN07637682She thought  L&G took reasonable steps  to set up Mrs Gs policy.
Due to the conflicting  information and the poor customer service provided  by L&G she 
recommended L&G pay £150 compensation to Mrs G.
Mrs G didnt agree with our investigator.  She reiterated her view that figures given in the 
quote were guaranteed. She also said L&G took too long to process her request. She asked 
for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.
L&G also didnt agree with our investigator, saying the rationale for the compensation 
suggested by our investigator  was misplaced. It made two points. First, it didnt agree 
contradictory information had been  provided. It said it was referring  to two different things; 
the rate is guaranteed  but the value of the pension pot isnt. It asked  for further  clarification 
of the poor customer service our investigator mentioned. Our investigator accepted that the 
information given  by L&G hadnt  been  conflicting, but explained  her suggested 
compensation was based on Mrs Gs comments  about the poor customer  service.  
The case  has been referred to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Gs complaint has three separate parts; the shortfall in the payment  she received, the 
delay in receiving  the lump sum,  and issues around the phone call between  Mrs G and L&G 
which took place  on 2 November 2018.
Mrs Gs main concern is the shortfall  in the payment she received so I will look at this first.
Payment shortfall
Ive seen the quotation of 11 September 2018  and the policy document  issued by L&G which  
confirms the amount paid. I can see that the figure  in the quotation is higher. So I can 
understand why Mrs G thinks she has been paid less than she thinks she should  have been. 
In the Important Information section of the quotation it says, The rate (my emphasis) used 
in this quotation will be guaranteed until 16/10/2018, if all the details remain  the same . So 
looking at this in isolation I can see why Mrs G might feel that the figures given in the 
quotation would be guaranteed and she should have received the amounts given in it. 
But the rate being  referred  to here is the rate of the annuity being  offered by L&G, not rate 
meaning the amount that will be paid. By way of explanation, the annuity rate is used  to 
calculate the income that will be paid following the lump sum investment into an annuity. 
This rate is based on many factors, such as the purchasers age, their circumstances, the 
size of the lump  sum and market conditions. Rates can vary between providers and they are 
often only guaranteed for a limited  period of time.
A covering letter was sent with the quotation. The second paragraph  of the letter  says, Your 
pension pot value and income  are not guaranteed and are likely to change by your 
retirement date. They  might be higher or they might be lower. There is also an Important 
Information leaflet  which accompanied  the quotation. It says your quote is not guaranteed. 
The actual amount you will receive  may be higher  or lower  than the figures in your quote.
Ref: DRN07637683The accompanying Important Information  leaflet says We use your pension pot value to 
calculate your benefits. This value is not guaranteed and may vary. This means the 
amounts you receive when you take your benefits may be different from the amounts shown  
on your quote.
L&Gs notes  from the telephone calls Mrs G made  to L&G from July to November 2018  show 
that Mrs G made nine calls to L&G. From what I can see Mrs G was told during three of 
those calls that the value of the pension fund can go up and down. Ive also seen a letter
Mrs G sent to L&G on 22 November 2018.  In this letter Mrs G says she understands that 
pension funds rise and fall. Although she goes on to qualify this by saying that she 
understood the quotes shed received would be valid for 35 days.
Mrs Gs payment was lower than she had been expecting. But I can see Mrs G is aware  that 
the value of her pension  fund could vary. And I think there is sufficient  information  in the 
letters L&G sent to Mrs G and was mentioned during phone calls for her to be aware  that the 
value of her pension pot and the amount she might receive is not guaranteed and might 
differ from the quote. Ive noted that our investigator  has clarified this with Mrs G but its 
worth reiterating; the guarantee  applied  to the rate being offered by L&G but not the size of 
the pension pot. So, for this part of the complaint I dont  think L&G has done anything  wrong.
The late payment of the tax-free lump sum
I can see that the covering letter to L&Gs quotation on 11 September 2018  says, If you have 
requested a tax-free cash sum, please  note that it can take up to 10 working days from your 
retirement date for the money to show in your bank  account. This is repeated in the 
Important Information  section of the accompanying leaflet where it says, Please note that it 
can normally take up to 10 working days for the money to show in your bank  account.  
Mrs Gs chosen retirement  date was 16 October 2018. So she should  have received her 
payment by 30 October 2018. I note that L&G has said that payment would normally take 
up to 10 working days to be paid. But L&G hasnt told us (or Mrs G) of any unusual 
circumstances that would have led to the payment being late.
Ive also listened  to the phone call Mrs G made to L&G on 2 November 2018. During this call 
Mrs G says she received the lump  sum the day before, so on 1 November 2018.  This is two 
days later than when she should have received it. L&G told Mrs G in several phone  calls that 
it would  take around  four weeks for the payments to begin. And L&Gs final response  letter  
of 14 November 2018 confirms that the timescales  for the payment were at least  four weeks 
or before the end of November 2018 . However, the written information shed received 
contradicted this, and I think  it was reasonable for her to rely on that timeframe.  With such a 
large sum of money to be paid and with L&G offering contradictory information, I think  Mrs G 
was right to have relied on L&Gs earlier  letter for the detail of when the lump sum would be 
paid. L&G said the lump sum would be paid within 10 working  days  which  was a concrete 
timescale. But the lump  sum wasnt paid within 10 working days.  And L&G didnt let Mrs G 
know the payment  would be late or offer a reason for this.
Mrs Gs phone call with L&G on 2 November 2018
In her complaint to us, Mrs G mentioned the call she had with L&G on 2 November 2018. 
She said the call operator  didnt  want to listen to her complaint,  talked over her and made 
her feel as if she was totally in the wrong.  In its final response letter,  L&G agreed the call 
should have been more  professional and could  have gone better. 
Ref: DRN07637684Ive listened to the phone call and agree  that it didnt go as well as perhaps  it could  have. I 
can understand her upset  at being  made to feel that she was in the wrong.  Ive noted L&G 
has acknowledged the call was upsetting, apologised  for the upset  Mrs G felt, and agreed  
feedback would be given to the call handler.
In addition to the upsetting phone call, Ive also considered that Mrs G has received 
contradictory information from L&G about  the timescale for the payment of the tax-free lump 
sum. Mrs Gs lump  sum was then paid late and she wasnt told it would be. Taking all this 
into consideration, I think Mrs G should be paid £150 compensation for the customer  service 
issues she has experienced.
For clarity,  L&G doesnt need  to pay the shortfall  in the payment Mrs G has asked for in her 
complaint. But L&G made the lump sum payment later than it said it would and there  have 
customer service  issues  around Mrs Gs complaint  for which L&G should pay £150  
compensation.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. Legal and General Assurance Society 
Limited is to pay Mrs G £150 compensation for the late payment of her lump sum and for 
customer service  issues  she experienced when dealing with L&G.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 May 2020.
Geoff Pearson
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0763768