K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that BMW  Financial Services(GB)  Limited (BMWFS) have unfairly charged 
him for excess mileage  under a hire purchase agreement.  
background
In 2015, Mr L acquired a new car using a hire purchase agreement from BMWFS. The total 
repayable under the agreement was £43,170.75. Mr L was required to make  47 monthly 
payments of £561.09  and there  was a final optional payment of £14,799.52 if he wished to 
buy the car at the end of the agreement. 
The agreement set out that Mr L had the right to terminate the agreement at any time before 
the final payment  was due. In doing so, BMWFS would be entitled to the return of the car 
and at least half of the total repayable under  the agreement. The agreement set out that this 
was £21,585.38.
In 2018, Mr L says that he enquired  about part-exchanging the car. However, that proved to 
be difficult, so he chose to exercise his right to terminate the agreement early.  
As he hadnt yet paid at least £21,585.38, BMWFS said he needed to pay £508.32. After 
Mr L handed the car back, BMWFS later charged  him a further £2,681.14 as he had 
exceeded the mileage allowance on the agreement. 
The agreement set out that Mr L had an annual mileage allowance  of 15,000 and a total 
mileage allowance  of 60,000. It said that if he exceeded this allowance BMWFS  could 
charge him 8.46 pence for every mile that he exceeded the allowance  by. It said that in the 
event he terminated  the agreement early,  the mileage allowance  would be pro-rated for the 
time the car was on hire. 
Mr L didnt think this charge was fair. He said there was case law to prove that the excess 
mileage charge wasnt enforceable. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. He was satisfied that BMWFS 
had calculated the excess mileage charge correctly in line with the terms of the hire 
purchase agreement  and the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 (CCA). He also found  that the 
terms of the agreement were clear  around  the possibility of an excess mileage charge being  
payable on voluntary termination.  
In summary,  he said:
S99 of the CCA sets out the right for a consumer to terminate a hire purchase 
agreement early  and S100  sets out what liabilities a consumer  has on termination;
In brief,  on termination a consumer is liable to pay at least  half of the total price of 
the agreement. Total  price is defined by S189 of the CCA as the total sum payable  
under the hire purchase agreement. It does not include charges for items that are 
payable as compensation for breach of an agreement. This means  that any charges 
for breaches of the agreement are in addition to any liability for termination;
S99 sets out that any liabilities  that the consumer accrued prior to termination are not 
to be affected by the termination;
Ref: DRN08036362The hire purchase agreement sets out that the excess mileage  charges  will accrue 
immediately prior to termination. The term in Mr Ls agreement  was clear  that the 
charge accrued before  termination  and was therefore not affected by the termination;
The terms of the agreement dont set out that exceeding the mileage allowance  is a 
breach of the agreement. The excess mileage  charges must therefore be included in 
the total price  of the agreement;
The mileage charge therefore accrued prior to termination and counted  towards the 
total price of the agreement. Mr Ls accrued liability under S100 therefore included 
paying an additional amount of £2,681.14;
The credit  agreement  set out clearly  the terms surrounding when excess  mileage 
would be charged,  when  it would  accrue  and how much it would cost;
The agreement made it clear that this charge would be payable on voluntary 
termination of the agreement  if any pro-rated mileage allowance had been exceeded;
The investigator concluded that when  considering all the terms of the agreement as a 
whole, he was satisfied  it was made  clear and not misleading  about when an excess  
mileage charge could  be applied  and for how much. He was therefore satisfied it was 
fair and reasonable for BMWFS  to charge  the additional amount.
Mr L disagreed and said the charge  was unfair.  He reiterated his thoughts about the 
available case law. He said the case law found a finance  company has no legal right to claim 
excess mileage charges from a consumer.  He also said that BMWFS  were  reporting a 
default on his credit file for non-payment of the excess  mileage charge. He didnt feel this 
was fair. 
The complaint has been passed  to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In paying a deposit and his monthly rentals to BMWFS, the hire purchase agreement  
allowed Mr L use of the car for the duration of the agreement. He also had the option to 
purchase the car outright  at the end of the agreement in exchange for the final payment of 
£14,799.52. While Mr L was entitled  to use the car, that use was subject to certain 
conditions, such as maintaining and taking  care of the car and only driving  a maximum 
mileage each year and overall  throughout the lifetime of the agreement.  The agreement set 
out what would happen should Mr L not meet those requirements. 
Mr L exercised his right to voluntarily terminate the agreement. In some instances, voluntary 
termination allows the hirer to simply hand  back the car without having to pay anything more.  
But this is dependent on, amongst other  things, how much  has been paid to the agreement, 
whether there are arrears to be paid,  the condition of the car and whether any excess 
mileage or other charges  are due. 
In this case Mr L disputes the excess  mileage charge of £2,681.14 that has been  added to 
the voluntary termination figure  of £21,585.38.
The CCA sets out the rights the consumers have to voluntary terminate their hire purchase  
agreements and the liability that is due on termination. The termination: your rights section of 
Mr Ls hire purchase agreement also refers to the liability that is due on termination and in 
his case, that was £21,585.38.  Various sections of the agreement Mr L had with BMWFS  
Ref: DRN08036363also referred to the liability on early  termination, including where excess  mileage, damage 
charges or other charges may increase  the final liability. 
I note that Mr L has referred to case law, the most recent of which is Mercedes-Benz  
Financial Services UK Limited  v Estrella Cahalane , in support of his view that lenders arent  
legally entitled  to charge for exceeding  a mileage allowance. 
Im aware of these cases, and Ive read the transcript Mr L provided in respect of the case of 
Mercedes-Benz Financial  Services UK Limited  v Estrella Cahalane. But Im not persuaded 
the cases help him. 
This is because whether  or not its fair for a lender to apply the charge will be unique to 
every case,  as it will depend on the terms of the agreement that has been entered  into. In 
other words, what Ive to decide is has the agreement Mr L entered  into, rather than what  
another party might have  entered  into with another business, been  constructed  in a way as 
to allow  the charging  for excess mileage without contravening what  is set out in the CCA 
regarding voluntary termination? In Mr Ls specific case, I think  it has. Ill explain why.
As explained by the investigator, S99 sets out that any liabilities  which accrue  prior to 
termination are not affected by the termination. What this means  is that Mr L is liable to pay 
any charges which have built up prior to the termination of the agreement,  and that these 
charges are in addition  to the other liability for early termination.
The first page of Mr Ls hire purchase  agreement has a section headed:  Excess  mileage 
charges for depreciation. This section sets out the mileage allowance and what  charges will 
apply if that mileage is exceeded.  It says that if the agreement is terminated  early the 
mileage allowance  will be pro-rated to the reduced period of hire and that your  obligation to 
pay any excess mileage charges will accrue immediately prior to termination. Im satisfied 
Mr Ls agreement is worded clearly in setting out when excess  mileage charges accrue.
The agreement also has a section headed Termination: your rights . This section contains 
specific wording which BMWFS were required to include in the agreement, and in summary  
sets out that so long as Mr L has paid at least half the total amount payable under the 
agreement, he will not have to pay any more. Ive thought about  whether this conflicts  with 
the rest of the terms of the agreement, specifically those  that explain charges for exceeding  
the mileage might apply.  
Having read all of the terms of the agreement as a whole, I dont think  the agreement  is 
unclear or misleading concerning the charges for excess  mileage. I think it explains that the 
excess mileage charge can be applied in addition  to other charges for voluntary termination. 
I dont therefore  consider  that the way this specific agreement has been constructed  has 
prejudiced Mr L. 
Im also satisfied that any excess mileage charge that would be applicable under this 
agreement will have accrued prior to termination. It follows  that Mr L is liable to pay the 
excess mileage charge and that this is consistent  with what  is allowed to be charged under 
S99 of the CCA.
Mr L says that BMWFS  are unfairly  reporting arrears on his credit  file in relation to his 
agreement. However,  as Mr L hasnt paid all the sums which  fell due when he terminated the 
agreement early, I cant reasonably say that what BMWFS are reporting  is either  inaccurate,  
unfair or unreasonable. 
Ref: DRN08036364Overall, Im not persuaded BMWFS have acted  unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr L.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 August 2021.
Kevin Parmenter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0803636