K820x#14complaint
Mr V complains that TF Global Markets (UK) Limited unfairly withheld profits  he made  when 
trading Contracts  for Difference (CFDs) on its platform. 
background
In June 2018 Mr V opened a CFD trading account  with ThinkMarkets. In his application form 
he explained  that he had 3 to 5 years trading experience in Forex and CFDs, and around the 
same amount of experience in other  securities. He indicated that he traded, on average, 10 
to 50 times  a month on an execution only basis. 
Mr V invested €2,400  and on 12 July opened two very small trades of 0.01 lots. One was a 
short position on the EUR/USD currency  pair, and the other  a short  position  on the USD/JPY  
currency pair. Mr V held those trades open  until the following day  he closed one at a €2.17 
profit, and the other  at €2.22 loss. 
Mr V placed  no further trades until 20 July 2018,  when  he placed three short trades  on the 
USD/CAD currency  pair. 
2 lots, opened at 15:30:00, at an opening  price of 1.32141, was closed three seconds 
later at a closing price  of 1.31630,  generating a €664 profit. 
1 lot opened at the same time and the same  price, but closed 14 seconds later at a 
closing price of 1.31837  generating a €197 profit. 
1 lot opened at the same time, and the same price, but closed 22 seconds later at a 
closing price of 1.31776  at a €237  profit. 
In total these three trades generated  over €1,000  in profit. 
Mr V requested to withdraw the money from his account. But shortly after, ThinkMarkets 
contacted Mr V to explain that it had identified a number of orders  that were trading in an 
arbitrary manner and explained that it was voiding his profits. It invoked a number of 
reasons why Mr Vs profits had been voided. In short, it said on 20 July 2018, during an 
economic announcement, the USD CAD price feed was inconsistent  with the real market  
price, and hence the system (EA) that you used to trade on your account  identified a price  
error which it took advantage of, and hence breached our terms. 
Only the USD CAD orders that were deemed  in breach were nullified  Mr V had carried 
out two other manual orders which were not in breach  of [the] terms. 
It referred to a number  of clauses in its terms and conditions which allowed it to revoke 
trades placed due to price latency, or otherwise clearly outside the prevailing market  price 
or resulting from arbitrage strategies. 
ThinkMarkets also said that based  on the user account access  data, a multitude of users 
were accessing the same  account  this wasnt permitted under its terms. 
Mr V complained to ThinkMarkets. In short, he asked it to explain which specific  clause he 
had breached and why. ThinkMarkets looked  into Mr Vs complaint and, essentially 
reiterated the terms it thought allowed it to do what it did:
Clause 7 of its terms and conditions allowed it to revoke trades which  had exploited  
price latency  on the price feed it offered. Having reviewed  the trades Mr V had 
Ref: DRN08875442placed, ThinkMarkets said it had concluded this is what he had done  on some, but 
not all, of his trades.
Clause 7.8 of its terms and conditions also allowed it to refuse trades which  were 
clearly outside the prevailing market price such that they may be deemed non-
market price Transactions, whether due to manifest error or stale, incorrect  or broken 
price feeds.  That clause  allowed  ThinkMarkets  to treat any such trade as void where 
the issue came to light after the trade  had been  filled. 
Clause 7.9 allowed  ThinkMarkets to decline any quote  or refuse  to be bound  to any 
contract, including  those arising from any manipulation of the quoting mechanism of 
our Services  generally, notwithstanding  our undertaking to provide a clear and fair 
service to you without barriers at all times. 
It was apparent from the account access data that there were a number of users 
using the account,  and that wasnt permitted. 
Provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision in February  2021. In it I said:
Ive carefully looked at what Mr V has said about  his trading and why he opened  the 
account. Mr V has explained  in his complaint that he traded  daily and traded news  events  or 
other market  movements. He said that he traded manually and also with a robot. A robot is 
a computer program that carries out trades  automatically on the basis of parameters set by 
the user  some such programs are specifically  designed to exploit a brokers price  latency.
 
ThinkMarkets has raised a number  of reasons why it voided Mr Vs profits  including  access 
to his account by multiple IP addresses. Ive seen insufficient evidence  that this happened 
on Mr Vs account and so I make  no further  finding  on this issue  here. 
That said,  ThinkMarkets terms and conditions, which Mr V agreed  to when he opened his 
account, do cover circumstances which are relevant to this complaint. 
For completeness, Ive set out the ones  I consider  relevant here:
Clause 7.8: We reserve  the right to refuse  any trades  placed  by you that we judge to be 
clearly outside the prevailing market price, such that they may be deemed non-market price  
Transactions, whether  due to a manifest  error,  or stale, incorrect  or broken  price feeds. 
Where we have opened  or closed a trade before becoming aware of the price disparity, we 
may at our absolute discretion [] treat that trade  as void.
Clause 7.10: Internet  connectivity delays and price  feed errors may create a situation where 
the prices displayed on the trading  platform do not accurately reflect  market  rates.  
ThinkMarkets does not permit the practice of arbitrage, nor does it allow Client  to take 
advantage of price  latency. Transactions that rely on the price  latency or arbitrage 
opportunities may be revoked at our discretion. ThinkMarkets reserves  the right to make  the 
necessary corrections or adjustments  on the Account(s) involved, including, but not limited 
to, withholding any profits made by Client while using these trading tactics.  Accounts that 
rely on arbitrage strategies may at the sole discretion of ThinkMarkets be subject  to 
ThinkMarkets intervention and approval  of any Transactions. 
Im satisfied Mr V was bound  by the terms above  when  he opened his account. And Im 
satisfied Clause 7.8 allowed ThinkMarkets  to treat trades as void if it judged the trade to 
have been opened or closed clearly outside  the market price, due to a stale or incorrect  price 
Ref: DRN08875443feed; and Clause  7.10 allowed it to revoke  transactions which it judged to have been  made  
in reliance on either price  latency or an arbitrage  opportunity.
These clauses allow  Thinkmarkets to make the judgments  I have described.   However,  in 
making those judgements,  the law did not allow ThinkMarkets to act arbitrarily,  capriciously 
or unreasonably  (in the sense of not taking into account the relevant, and only the relevant, 
considerations and of not arriving at a conclusion that is outside  the bounds  of what  could be 
considered reasonable).  It also did not allow ThinkMarkets to act in bad faith. Those 
constraints were imposed as implied  terms of the agreement; see Braganza v BP Shipping  
[2015] UKSC  17 and R (On the application  of TF Global  Markets (UK) Ltd) v Financial 
Ombudsman Service [2020] EWHC 3178 (Admin).     
So Ive looked  at the three trades which ThinkMarkets voided in order  to determine  whether 
the actions it took were  contractually permitted and fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. 
The first question is whether Im satisfied, on balance, that ThinkMarkets was in fact quoting 
an incorrect price on its platform  when Mr V opened his three USD/CAD trades. 
Stale or incorrect prices  arent unusual at times  of news announcements (or other  external  
events), which can cause currencies to fluctuate suddenly  and significantly.  ThinkMarkets  
derives the prices  it offers on its platform from underlying markets (in the case of currencies 
usually liquidity providers  that are trading these  currencies  in real time). There  is therefore a 
potential for occasional delays in its own price  feed adjusting to the underlying  market,  
particularly if theres  been  a sharp  and sudden  movement. This is what the evidence shows 
happened here. 
The evidence ThinkMarkets  has provided  demonstrates that the prices which  Mr V opened 
his trades  at where  in fact over 44 pips higher  than what  the underlying market was trading 
at. This is a substantial difference. In other  words,  when Mr V opened these short trades at 
these incorrect prices,  he was essentially guaranteed an immediate  risk-free  profit  because  
ThinkMarkets prices were guaranteed  to fall in line with where  the market  was already 
trading at. In order to benefit from such a price  lag, the trader is required to open  the trade at 
an exact moment (to the fraction of a second), before the price feed catches up with whats  
happening in the underlying market. 
In this case, given  the evidence ThinkMarkets has provided, Im satisfied, on balance,  that 
ThinkMarkets was displaying clearly incorrect prices  at the time, due to stale  or incorrect  
price feeds and price latency  and therefore, in principle, clauses 7.8 and 7.10 apply. And 
Im not persuaded it was acting outside those terms, or the implied terms I have  mentioned, 
when it decided to reverse Mr Vs trades.  
However, its clear that the terms allow ThinkMarkets a range of actions  in circumstances 
such as these. And although I must  take into account the relevant law and the rights  it gives 
to the parties,  including their contractual rights, I must ultimately  decide  this matter according  
to what I consider fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. After  all, Mr V had no part to 
play in ThinkMarkets failure  to display correct prices at the time.  On the face of it, Mr V 
simply opened three trades at the price ThinkMarkets offered to him. 
ThinkMarkets terms make it clear, in clause 7.6 that:
Ref: DRN08875444In executing Transactions for or with you we will always deal with you as principal and in 
accordance with our Best Execution  Policy  dependent on your MIFID client  classification. 
In other  words, Mr V wasnt  trading  in the underlying market. He was trading a bilateral 
contract with ThinkMarkets  at the prices it was offering to him. So its clear to me that it 
wont always be fair for ThinkMarkets  to simply void trades when it identifies it has made a 
mistake. Itll need to consider all the circumstances  including the customers trading 
behaviour and the extent to which it is satisfied, based on the evidence  it has, that the 
customer was in fact trying to exploit  opportunities for arbitrage  or price latency, whether 
through the use of software or by themselves. 
In Mr Vs case, ThinkMarkets  has explained that it considers his trading behaviour 
demonstrates he was able to exploit  the latent prices it was offering at the time. And that the 
software he was using identified the pricing  issue, and took advantage  of it. ThinkMarkets in 
fact has said that Mr V only opened the account in order to specifically take advantage of 
this issue. Given these  conclusions, it therefore voided the trades. 
Ive therefore  gone  on to the consider the evidence  available in order  to determine  whether it 
was fair and reasonable for ThinkMarkets  to have taken this approach  in Mr Vs case.  And, 
for the avoidance  of doubt,  Im currently persuaded it was. 
In the particular circumstances of this case,  I dont  think  it was unreasonable  for 
ThinkMarkets to consider  the following:
Two very small trades placed  in unrelated  currencies, held over a number of hours, 
and which netted themselves off almost perfectly. 
No further trading  at all until the USD/CAD trades. At which point, Mr V essentially 
used all the equity  available in his account on three individual trades   which  were  
placed at the precise moment that ThinkMarkets was displaying an old price. 
These trades were  held for less than 30 seconds (the most  profitable one was closed 
after 3 seconds). 
Mr V then attempted  to withdraw the funds and didnt  carry out any further trades.  
Im satisfied ThinkMarkets was entitled to consider these factors,  when taken together,  to be 
highly unusual. Especially  when viewed in the context of the high risk nature of this type of 
trading. As ThinkMarkets explains on its website, over 75% of clients  that trade CFDs lose 
money. I acknowledge  that simply being  a successful trader would be insufficient to 
conclude that ThinkMarkets had acted fairly.  But Mr V wasnt  just a successful trader in this 
instance. The size of the three trades he placed,  the lack of any other trading activity,  as well 
as the speed at which the trades were closed all point to a remarkable ability  to anticipate  
how this currency pair was going  to perform. 
In addition, this was combined with the fact that the prices being displayed  were incorrect.  In 
other words, Mr V not only appeared to know how the market  would  move, and accordingly 
invested all the money  in his account, he was also apparently adept enough to have traded 
at the exact time, and on the exact currency pair, that was suffering from price latency  
which, as explained  above, meant Mr V was guaranteed an immediate profit  on these very 
large trades.  
Given all this, Im satisfied  that it wasnt unreasonable  for ThinkMarkets  to have looked at 
these circumstances  as a whole and concluded that the most likely explanation was that Mr 
Ref: DRN08875445V (or the software he was using) knew the prices were not reflective of the underlying  
market, and for that reason  decided to exploit the error. 
In circumstances  where its clear that trading was carried out to try to exploit the price 
latency, and no market  risk is in fact being  taken by the trader, as was the case  here, Im 
satisfied its fair and reasonable for ThinkMarkets to exercise its discretion to void the trades  
and cancel any profits in line with the applicable  terms  and conditions. 
Responses to the provisional decision
TF Global agreed with my provisional findings.  Mr V did not reply.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from my provisional conclusions,  and I therefore  
confirm them  as final. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2021.
Alessandro Pulzone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0887544