K821x#15complaint
Mrs S complains that Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance Plc (RSA) declined  her pet insurance 
claim. My references to RSA include its agents.
background
Mrs S took out pet insurance for her dog on 26 October 2017  which  she renewed in 2018.  
Its a Premier policy which provides lifetime cover while the policy  is in force.  She made  two 
claims for investigation and treatment  her dog had for ear problems in his left ear from 
September to November  2018. 
RSA declined the claim. It said Mrs S dogs vet notes showed her dogs left ear condition  
began in August  2017, before the policy started, so under the policy  terms there was no 
cover.
Mrs S complained to us. She said her vet had told RSA her dogs ear problem was a 
different condition to his ear problem before the policy started  but it still wouldnt pay the 
claim.
Two of our investigators considered the complaint and thought RSA had unfairly declined the 
claim. They thought the evidence didnt show the dogs  claimed  for ear infection developed 
from his earlier ear infection, as the policy exclusion RSA relied  on required.
RSA disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. RSAs  vet had provided evidence 
which it said supported  the claims decline.
Mrs S vet provided evidence in response  which we sent to RSA.  It didnt provide any further 
evidence.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I uphold this complaint.  I have to decide  whether RSA fairly and reasonably  declined  the 
claim, and I dont think it did. Ill explain why.
The policy excludes  claims  for:
any changes you or your vet notice  in the health  or behaviour  of your pet before this 
policy started, we will not pay for treatment of these  changes  or any illness or injury 
that develops  from them.
The vet records show Mrs S dog had treatment for ear infections for his right and left ears in 
2017 before  the policy started. So I need  to decide whether the claimed  for ear condition 
developed from the earlier ear conditions.
Theres a lot of detailed evidence from both parties vets, which both parties have seen. 
Theres some dispute about  whether Mrs S vet used  the term normal  ear infection in her 
evidence and what that means, but thats  not relevant to the issue  I need to decide. Ill 
summarise the main relevant points.
Ref: DRN06432622Before the complaint came to us Mrs S vet told RSA:
the dog had bouts of simple otitis (ear infection) in his right ear in March 2017 and 
his left ear in August 2017, both of which responded to routine treatment. He was 
clinically normal  for one year after so she concludes both bouts were fully treated
the dog developed signs  of ear infection  in September 2018 and they presumed it 
was the same as hed developed the year before but actually it was very different
the infection from September 2018  didnt respond to the treatment shed given 
before. The dog had a ruptured left ear drum
swab results  found a very rare fungus  in his ear, aspergillus. Theres  only one case  
study reported in the literature about  that condition and she had to seek  specialist  
advice on how to try to treat that condition
there can be no connection between previous simple ear infections the dog had in 
the past and the very unusual aspergillus.
So the initial  evidence from Mrs S vet is the claimed for ear condition  didnt develop from the 
earlier ear condition.
During our investigation RSAs vet told us:
ear infections have a primary cause.  Bacteria, yeast or fungi (including  aspergillus) 
are secondary causes meaning  they make  the infection worse after the skin barrier is 
damaged. He sent a research paper showing the most common primary cause of ear 
infections is atopy  (allergic  skin disease)
the investigation results for Mrs S dog show  he has a wide range of underlying  
allergies which are highly  likely to be the primary cause for all his ear infections,  
including the one with aspergillus.  Aspergillus is an opportunistic  infection meaning 
it can only establish itself when  the primary defence barrier of the ear is 
damaged/inflamed. The research paper shows the only other case  of aspergillus 
otitis was in another allergic  dog, which wasnt a coincidence
he wasnt saying aspergillus was a component of the previous ear infections but that 
the dog has underlying  allergies  which links all his ear infections. The time at which  
allergies are confirmed isnt important, but when the dog showed clinical signs of ear 
infection is important  
how quickly an ear infection clears isnt an indicator  of whether theres an underlying 
allergy. Mrs S vet never identified any other usual primary causes (such as foreign 
bodies, tumours, immune conditions and ectoparasites)  in the previous infections.  
Allergy is the primary cause of the all the dogs ear infections.  
So RSAs  vet evidence  is the main cause  of Mrs S dog ear infections before and after the 
policy started is his allergies. So the infections are linked.
In response Mrs S vet told us:
animals with allergies can suffer from recurrent  ear infections. Its common  to see 
infections like staphylococcus and a yeast called malasezzia in animals with allergies 
but they respond to standard ear medications. In twenty years of vetting and 
thousands of cases of ear infections  shed not seen aspergillus cultured from an ear 
even though she treats animals  for allergies all the time. The specialist she consulted  
knew of only one reported case.  
Ref: DRN06432623So Mrs S vets evidence  is it would be extremely rare to see the fungus that caused Mrs S 
dogs infection  in any ear infection,  whether or not caused by an allergy.
Even if I thought it more  likely than not that Mrs S dogs ear infections before  and after the 
policy started were due to his allergies, Im not persuaded that's  enough for RSA to fairly rely 
on the above policy exclusion to decline the claim.  I say that because:
the exclusion requires  that the claim condition develops from the dogs ear 
infections before the policy stared.  Develops isnt defined in the policy. But a 
common and reasonable understanding of the word  is as defined in Collins  English 
Dictionary  the gradual growth  or formation of something. I dont think the evidence  
shows the dogs  claim condition was a gradual  growth or formation of his earlier ear 
infections, particularly  as the later infections secondary cause was extremely rare 
with only one other reported case  on record
when Mrs S bought  the policy she didnt know her dog had allergies.  Those were  
identified as a result of the tests in 2018.  She knew hed had an ear infection,  but at 
the time she bought the policy I don't think she should have reasonably  known that 
would likely mean future claims as the ear infections had been quickly treated by 
routine methods. The claimed for treatment is for an infection which has an extremely 
unusual cause as one of its factors, not something that Mrs S should have 
reasonably anticipated.
Overall I think  the fair and reasonable outcome for these two claims is for RSA to pay the 
claims subject  to the policy limits and excess, plus interest as Ive detailed below.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to pay the claims subject to the policy limits and 
excess. If Mrs S has already paid the vet interest* must be added at 8% simple a year from 
the date of claim to the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2020.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
*If Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue  & 
Customs to take off income tax from that interest  it should tell Mrs S how much  its taken  off. 
It should also give Mrs S a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN0643262