K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains that Western Circle Ltd gave him loans that he couldnt afford to repay. He 
asks that it pays compensation for his distress, refunds interest  and charges and removes  
information about the loans from his credit file. Mr R is represented by a claims management 
company.
background
Mr R took out eight loans with Western Circle between February 2016 and September 2017.  
Mr Rs representative says if Western Circle had carried out proper checks it would have 
known Mr R was dependant on short term loans. 
The adjudicator recommended that the complaint  should be upheld.  She said the checks 
made by Western  Circle were proportionate for the first loan and the information  it received 
suggested the loan was affordable. But Mr Rs stated income fell between loan 1 and loan 2 
and was less than his stated expenditure.  It wasnt reasonable for it to take Mr Rs partners 
income into account as its Mr Rs responsibility  to pay the loan. The adjudicator  said Mr R 
confirmed his share of household expenses and based on this loans 2 to 8 werent 
affordable. 
The adjudicator said that Western Circle should refund interest and charges on loans 2 to 8, 
with interest at 8%, and remove  adverse information about the loans from Mr Rs credit  file.
Western Circle didnt agree. It said it has to make  reasonable assumptions,  such  as how 
expenses are shared.  It says it apportioned  household  expenditure relative to Mr R and his 
partners incomes. Western Circle said Mr R paid the loans on time and his overall  borrowing  
didnt increase significantly during the period he took out the loans. It said this suggested the 
loans were affordable.
my provisional decision
I didnt agree with all of the adjudicators recommendations. So I sent a provisional decision 
to the parties  to explain why. In it, I set out the following provisional findings:
Loan 1 (February  2016)
When Mr R took out loan 1 he told Western Circle his monthly income  was £3,500  and 
his expenditure,  including short term loans  and other  credit commitments,  was £1,575. 
Western Circle increased the food and utilities costs  from the amounts stated by Mr R. Its 
estimate of Mr Rs monthly expenditure was about £2,200. 
Loan 1 was for £250 and was repayable  in two monthly instalments of about £170.  I think 
the checks made by Western Circle were  proportionate and the information it received 
suggested the loan was affordable. Mr R repaid the loan in April 2016.  
Loan 2 (May 2016)
Loan 2 was for £350 and was repayable  in three  monthly instalments of about £175. Mr R 
said his monthly income was £1,000.  He said his expenditure was about £1,575, which  
Western Circle increased to about  £1,860 based  on statistical data. 
Ref: DRN03348382Couples usually share household expenses. When assessing whether a loan is 
affordable, Id usually  consider it reasonable to assume that household expenses are 
shared in proportion to the partners relative  incomes. Here,  Mr R said his income was 
£1,000 and his partners  income was £2,500 and they had additional income of £82. 
Western Circle recorded household expenses  housing, utilities, food and transport  of 
about £1,300. I think  its reasonable to say that Mr Rs share of household expenses was 
about £375. 
However, I dont think its reasonable to assume that credit commitments  (which are the 
responsibility of the borrower) are shared  in the same way as household  expenses.  Mr R 
told Western  Circle his monthly credit commitments were £275 and his short  term 
commitments were  £275. Its possible that Mr Rs partner was jointly  responsibility for 
some of this. But I think Western Circle should have asked Mr R if this was the case.
Ive considered what Mr R would likely have said if Western Circle had asked him this. 
Mr R hasnt provided a complete set of bank statements which  might  have helped me to 
assess whether he paid these credit  costs or whether they were paid by his partner  or 
shared. On balance, I think  its likely hed have told Western Circle the monthly credit 
commitments were  shared.  Mr Rs share (proportionate to his and his partners income) 
would have been about £78. 
Even if Mr R was solely responsible for his stated short term commitments,  hed have had 
enough income to meet  his share of household expenditure and monthly credit 
commitments, his short term commitments and the instalments for loan 2.
Loan 3 (August 2016)
Mr R repaid loan 2 in August 2016  and took out loan 3 a few days  later.  The loan was for 
£500 and was repayable  in four monthly instalments of about £197.  Mr R said his monthly 
income was £1,000. He said his expenditure was about £1,200,  which Western Circle 
increased to about  £1,600 based on statistical data.  This included £275  for short  term 
loans and zero for other credit commitments. 
Assuming household expenses were shared between Mr R and his partner, hed have 
had monthly household expenditure  of £375  and short term commitments of £275.  This 
would have left him with enough income to meet the loan repayments. 
Loan 4 (January 2017)
Mr R repaid loan 3 in late December  2016 and took out loan 4 in early January 2017.  
Loan 4 was repayable in two instalments of about £162. Mr R said his monthly income  
was £1,000. Western Circle recorded his expenditure as £1,865,  which included short 
term credit  commitments  of £275  and monthly credit  commitments  of £275. 
I think Mr Rs share  of household expenses was about £375  and his share of monthly 
credit commitments  was about  £78. Based on the information he gave Western  Circle 
hed have had enough income to meet these expenses, his short term commitments and 
the loan instalments. At this point, I dont think Western Circle needed to ask Mr R to 
provide evidence of his income, expenditure and credit commitments. 
Ref: DRN03348383Loans 5 to 8 (February to September  2017)  
Mr R repaid loan 4 in February 2017  and took out loan 5 the same day. He took out three  
more loans in 2017 (in May,  August and September)  without any significant breaks 
between the loans. Monthly  instalments  were  £193  (loan 5), £197  (loan  6), £266  (loan  7) 
and £276 (loan  8). 
I think Mr Rs pattern  of borrowing should have alerted Western  Circle to a possible 
problem, such as financial difficulty or reliance on short  term loans. I think  it should have 
asked for information  to gain a full understanding of his financial circumstances. 
While there  are different  ways of doing  this, one is to look at Mr Rs bank statements. I 
have some bank statements for Mr R, but not a complete set. Ive also looked at his credit 
report.
Based on Mr Rs bank statements and his credit report,  I think, when he took out loan 5, 
he had short term commitments  requiring payments in March 2017 of about £645. When 
he took out loans 6 to 8 he had short term commitments outstanding which required 
payments of £790  (June 2017), more than £1,100  (September 2017) and about £675 
(October 2017). 
Mr Rs bank statements show his monthly income was about  £1,000  and sometime less. I 
have 2016 statements for a joint account  and I think this was used for household 
expenditure. While Mr R makes transfers to other  accounts its not clear what these are 
for. I dont have 2017 statements for the joint account. So Ive considered  the information 
Western Circle recorded about Mr Rs household  expenditure and monthly  credit  
commitments. I think Mr Rs share  of monthly  household expenditure and monthly credit  
commitments was between about  £300  to £450.  
I think if Western Circle had made proportionate checks it would have known Mr R 
couldnt afford the repayments for loans 5 to 8. I also think it would have been alerted to a 
possible problem: that Mr Rs use of short term loans  wasnt sustainable.
I dont think Western Circle should have offered loans 5 to 8 to Mr R. So it should:
Refund all interest  and charges that Mr R paid on loans 5 to 8;
Pay interest of 8% simple a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement*;
Remove any negative  information about loans 5 to 8 from Mr Rs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Western Circle to take off tax from this interest.  It must 
give Mr R a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Western Circle didnt agree. It commented  on my provisional findings  as follows:
You state that, at the time of Loan 4, Mr Rs share of his monthly credit  commitments 
was £78. Yet, for Loan 5, which was taken out in the following month, you state that his 
monthly credit commitment had increased  to £645.
This does not seem  very likely to us, particularly since  the results  of the credit checks  are 
very clear, and Mr Rs total indebtedness did not change significantly over the months in 
question. His total short term indebtedness was £2614 at the end of February 2017, and 
Ref: DRN03348384had only increased  to £2845 in August 2017. These  results come from TransUnion,  and 
were based  on real-time data.
You write  in your letter  that "I think Mr Rs share of monthly household expenditure and 
monthly credit commitments  was between about  £300 to £450." You also state that 
Mr Rs net income  was about  £1000 monthly. On this basis, the loan repayments were 
affordable, since he had disposable  income of between £550 and £700 from which to 
make loan repayments of between £200  and £280.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
I dont think Western Circles comments on my provisional findings are fair. In particular, it 
says its unlikely Mr Rs monthly  credit commitments  increased  from £78 to £645 between 
loans 4 and 5. This isnt what Id said happened.
When I set out my provisional  findings about loan 4, I said Mr Rs share  of monthly  credit  
commitments was £78. This was based  on his likely share of the monthly credit 
commitments hed declared to Western Circle. And hed told Western Circle he had short 
term commitments of £275. At that point,  I didnt think Western Circle needed  to ask for 
evidence of Mr Rs expenditure. It was reasonable for it to rely on what Mr R had told it.
But when Mr R applied for loan 5, I said Western Circle should have looked more  closely  at 
Mr Rs financial  circumstances  and asked for suitable evidence  such  as bank statements. 
Had it done so, it would  have known that when Mr R took out loan 5, he had short term 
commitments requiring payments in March  2017  of about £645. This was in addition  to his 
share of monthly  credit commitments  and household expenses  of about  £300 to £450.
I dont think Mr Rs credit commitments suddenly increased  its more likely the information 
Western Circle relied on when assessing loan 4 wasnt  correct. Had it made  proportionate 
checks, it would have had better information  about  Mr Rs expenditure, and particularly his 
short term loans, before offering him loans  5 to 8. It would  have known  Mr R didnt have 
enough income to meet  his share of household expenses and monthly credit commitments, 
his existing short term loans and the repayments  for loans 5 to 8. It would have known  the 
loans werent affordable.
Having considered what Western Circle said, I see no reason to change my findings from 
those set out in my provisional decision.  
Ref: DRN03348385my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order Western Circle Ltd to:
Refund all interest  and charges that Mr R paid on loans 5 to 8;
Pay interest of 8% simple a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement*;
Remove any negative  information about loans 5 to 8 from Mr Rs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Western Circle Ltd to take off tax from this interest. It 
must give Mr R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0334838