K820x#14complaint
Miss D says Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds)  mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI)  
policy. 
Miss D has been represented  throughout her complaint.
background
Miss D took out a credit card in 1996. Due to the time thats  passed,  Lloyds isnt sure when, 
where or how the policy was sold. So it assumed that PPI was sold at the same  time that 
Miss D applied for her credit card.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss D disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
This decision focuses on her Visa card (ending ****2301).  Miss D has another  credit  card 
and this has been looked at separately by our service, under a separate  reference number.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ds case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Ds complaint. Ill explain why.
First, Lloyds is unsure as to when  or how the PPI was sold.  But Im not surprised by this as it 
was a long time ago and Lloyds arent obliged to keep records indefinitely
But Lloyds says that it has statements from 2000  and these show that PPI was on Miss Ds 
account. So it seems  likely  to me that PPI was already  in place. 
Lloyds has assumed that the PPI was added when the card was applied  for. And this could 
well have been what happened,  but it isnt definite,  its only an assumption.  Lloyds has 
provided a sample  application form from around  1996. And this shows  that Miss D, if the 
policy was taken then,  would have most likely  had to tick a box if she wanted  PPI. 
But, as mentioned above, the PPI could have been sold at any point between  1996 and 
2000. If this was the case, I cant safely conclude that Miss D wasnt  given an option  to take 
out the PPI. And this is because it would  be unfair  for me to assume something went wrong  
when I have no evidence  that it did. 
So, on balance, and given  the limited information  as to when and how this PPI policy was 
sold, I cant fairly say that Lloyds didnt make Miss D aware that she had a choice about  
buying the PPI. If the PPI was added  when Miss D applied for the card, which  I think  is the 
most likely scenario, she would have  been aware  that she had a choice about buying  PPI.
Ref: DRN02291572Because Lloyds  isnt sure how the policy was sold, and to be fair to Miss D, its decided that 
it likely  provided a personal recommendation to her to buy the policy. This placed more  
responsibility on Lloyds  and it meant it had to make sure it was right for Miss D.
Based on what Ive seen  of Miss Ds circumstances at the time, I think the PPI seems  to 
have been suitable for her. I say this because whilst Miss D received some  sick pay from her 
employer, the PPI would have paid out at the same time as she received any sick pay and 
for longer. It would have covered 10% of the outstanding credit card balance for up to 
12 months per claim if she was unable to work  or if she lost her job. All things considered, 
I think the policy could  have been useful  to her.
And if Lloyds  didnt provide a personal recommendation to Miss D, then it had to provide  
Miss D with clear, fair and not misleading  information about the PPI so that Miss D could 
make up her mind as to whether she felt the policy would have been  useful  to her.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Miss D about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it should 
have been, like explaining the cost of the policy. Lloyds hasnt been able to confirm  the exact 
cost of the policy. But due to the amount of time thats passed since the sale its not 
surprising Lloyds doesnt have this information.  Lloyds say the cost of the policy would  have 
been between  59p and 79p per £100 of the outstanding monthly balance. This is in line with 
what I know about how Lloyds priced  other policies at around  the same  time.
Ive carefully thought  about the cost of the policy and even  looking  at the higher price of 79p 
and taking into account Miss Ds circumstances at the time,  I still think she would  have 
bought it. I say this because  as I explained above I still think  the policy would have been 
useful if Miss D was out of work  for a lengthy period.
Miss D also doesnt appear to have been  affected  by any of the main things the policy  didnt 
cover. So I dont think better information  about  this wouldve stopped her buying the policy.
All things  considered and based on the available information I have regarding the sale and 
Miss Ds circumstances,  I dont think this PPI policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 October  2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0229157