K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) refused to pay for the cost of his original 
flights, following  his early return from holiday as a result of ill health.
background
Mr A booked return flights last year, to travel on holiday  early  this year. He then purchased 
an annual worldwide travel insurance  policy, underwritten by AXA.  He informed  AXA of his 
medical history, including the new symptoms he had experienced. 
Mr A took the outbound flight and unfortunately became unwell. He says he contacted his 
carrier to book a return flight home  but the flight it offered  was too expensive  and departed  
late at night. So he decided to stay overnight instead  and made arrangements  to take a 
different flight home the next day.
On his return home Mr A managed to bring  forward a hospital  appointment he had, to that 
afternoon. He says the doctor he saw said he was right to have returned home and 
prioritised him for various tests.
He then made a claim under his travel  insurance  policy for his flights  and accommodation.
AXA initially  refused Mr As claim because he had failed  to contact it before curtailing his 
holiday. However, after looking at his circumstances  again, it agreed  to pay for his flight 
home and his accommodation for the night. 
Mr A was unhappy with AXAs offer. He wants it to pay for his original outbound flight and 
unused return flight. So he brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator thought that AXA had acted fairly  in offering to pay for the flight  Mr A had 
returned home on and also the single night of accommodation he was charged  for. 
Mr A disagreed with our investigators  recommendations,  so his case has come to me for a 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I have thought about whether AXA should  also pay for Mr As original flights.
I have looked  at Mr As insurance policy and the relevant terms and conditions. Section A  
Cancellation or curtailment charges and early  return confirms the following: 
What is covered.
We will pay You up to £5,000 (inclusive  of any valid claim payable under Section K  Ski 
pack and Section Q  Travel disruption  cover) for any irrecoverable  unused travel and 
accommodation costs  
But its also clear that unused flight tickets are not covered under the What  is not covered  
section:
Ref: DRN03089242The cost of Your unused original tickets  where  AXA Assistance or We have arranged  and 
paid for You to come Home following Curtailment of the Trip.  
The fact that Mr A cut short his trip is not in question. I also acknowledge that AXA didnt 
arrange Mr As return flight but has clearly  agreed to pay for it. So I think  that AXA,  in-line 
with its terms  and conditions, has reached  a reasonable decision not to pay Mr A for his 
unused return flight. 
Mr A thinks  that AXA should cover  his outbound flight but I dont agree. Ill explain why. The 
policy doesnt offer cover  for flights that have been used. His policy, like most available  that 
offer curtailment cover, pays for things that the policyholder hasnt been able to use. 
Mr A had the benefit of taking the flight,  even though his trip was cut short through no fault of 
his own. I understand  that Mr A didnt get to enjoy his holiday, but the policy doesnt cover  
that. 
AXA has offered  to pay the cost of the flight Mr A returned home  on and one night of 
accommodation, less the policy excess payable. In all the circumstances  I think  that the offer 
was fair and reasonable. This being so I dont uphold  this complaint or make  any further 
award.
my final decision
AXA Insurance UK Plc has already made an offer to pay for the flight  Mr A returned home on 
and the single night of accommodation - which I think  is fair in all the circumstances.
I make  no further award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 November  2019.
Greg Callander
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0308924