K820x#14complaint
Mr W and Ms B complain that Lloyds Bank  plc (trading  as Cheltenham & Gloucester) mis-
sold payment protection insurance  (PPI) policies.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  sold in 1998 in connection with a mortgage that Mr W 
and Ms B took out, and another  policy sold in 2002  in connection with a further advance. The 
policies provided  cover for Mr W and Ms B if they couldnt work because of accident, 
sickness or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr W and Ms B disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I consider  is most likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr W and Ms Bs case.
It seems  to me that the relevant considerations in this case  are materially the same  as those 
set out on our website.  And the main  questions I need to consider are:
- If Lloyds gave  any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the products it 
recommended were suitable for Mr W and Ms Bs needs?
- Did Lloyds give Mr W and Ms B the information they needed to decide whether to 
take out the policies?
If there was a problem  with the way the policies were sold then I need to consider whether 
Mr W and Ms B are worse  off as a result. That is, would they have  done  something different 
 such as not taking out the policies  if there  hadnt  been any problems with the sales?
I have decided not to uphold Mr W and Ms Bs complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr W and Ms B say they were told they had to take the PPI to get the borrowing they 
wanted, and that Lloyds  didnt give them a proper choice. Ive noted  everything theyve said.
The difficulty  I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between  Mr W and Ms B and 
Lloyds when the policies were sold. In addition, Lloyds hasnt been able to provide much  
documentation from when  the 1998 policy  was sold. Thats not surprising as the sale took 
place many years ago, and its similar  to some other cases Ive seen.
But I can see that Mr W and Ms B had to complete an application for the PPI that was 
separate to the mortgage application. So on balance, I think  they wouldve realised that the 
two products werent linked. 
Ref: DRN04263932Without anything  else to support what Mr W and Ms B have told me, I havent  been able to 
safely conclude that Lloyds didnt make them aware that the 1998 policy  was optional.
Lloyds has provided  a copy of the 2002 loan application, which  included  a section about PPI. 
There was a tick against the phrase  that said:
I wish to take out C&G Payment Protection  Plus cover. I have completed the relevant 
proposal form and am returning it with this application.
Immediately below there was a phrase  that said:
I do not wish to take out C&G Payment Protection  Plus cover.  C&G  have  explained to me 
the consequences of not having protection to cover my mortgage  commitments should I 
become unemployed or unable to work because of sickness  or accident.
So I think Mr W and Ms B wouldve  realised from the application form that the PPI was 
optional. And there was nothing else in the application form to suggest  that buying  the PPI 
was a condition  of getting the mortgage. 
Again, from what Ive seen, I havent been  able to safely conclude  that Lloyds didnt make Mr 
W and Ms B aware that the 2002 policy was optional.
Lloyds advised  Mr W and Ms B to take out the policies and it doesnt look like they were  
unsuitable for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the relevant times. I 
say this because:
- Mr W and Ms B were eligible for the policies given their circumstances  and the PPI 
terms and conditions.
- Mr W and Ms B say they were entitled to sick pay from their employers if they 
couldnt work because of sickness  or accident. But the policies wouldve paid out in 
addition to those  benefits and would  do so, it seems for longer. Mr W and Ms B 
couldve used their employer benefits  to pay for other  expenses. So I think Mr W and 
Ms B wouldve had some  use for the policies despite  their existing arrangements. 
- Mr W and Ms B werent affected by any of the conditions limiting  the policies  main  
benefits, such as those affecting  self-employed  people or people  with pre-existing 
medical conditions. As they could have benefited from the full extent of the cover 
I think it unlikely they needed better advice or information  about the policies 
exclusions and limitations.
- I cant be sure that the cost of the policies  was clearly communicated  to Mr W and Ms 
B before they agreed to buy them. But Mr W and Ms B took out the policies knowing 
they would  have to pay something  for them. It seems  the policies were  competitively 
priced and apparently affordable.  So I think it unlikely Mr W and Ms B would have 
made a different  decision if better  information about the cost had been  provided.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr W and Ms B about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
should have been. But as Ive already  said, Mr W and Ms B werent affected by any of the 
exclusions or limitations and the policies seem to have been affordable. So I think it unlikely 
Ref: DRN04263933Mr W and Ms B would have made a different decision if better information had been 
provided  overall,  I think they would still have taken  out the policies.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W and Ms B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 May 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0426393