K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with 
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited,  trading as Mini Financial Services, wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
background
A new car was supplied  to Mr S under a hire purchase agreement with Mini Financial  
Services that he signed in September 2017. Mr S became aware of an issue  with the cars 
drive train when the warning light came on in September 2018.  He returned the car to the 
dealer but it was unable to find a fault with the car. Mr S complained  to Mini Financial  
Services but it didnt  uphold his complaint. The same issue  then recurred in October 2018 
and the car broke-down  and was recovered by the dealer. Mr S told Mini Financial Services  
that he wanted to reject  the car but he wasnt satisfied with its response so complained  to 
this service.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld.  She said that there  was 
no dispute that there were issues with the car  which was brand new when it was supplied  
to Mr S. And she believed  that Mr S had provided  Mini Financial Services with the 
opportunity to repair the problem and it was only after the car had repeated issues that he 
advised it that he wished to reject  the car. So she said that it would be fair and reasonable 
for Mini Financial Services to collect the car at no cost to Mr S and end the agreement  with 
nothing further  to pay. She also thought that Mini Financial Services  should remove  any 
record of finance  from Mr Ss credit file and refund any deposit that hed paid.
Mini Financial Services has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. It 
says that, as Mr S was able to drive  the car fault free for the first twelve  months  of ownership 
and approximately  11,700 miles, theres no evidence to suggest that the car wasnt  of 
satisfactory quality at the point of sale and that rejection of the car isnt justified and not 
covered under the Consumer Rights Act 2015. It says that whilst it doesnt expect any of its 
cars to require repairs early in its life, no manufacturer is able to guarantee the lifetime of 
parts  and a warranty is put in place  to cover any repairs  that may be required within  the 
first three years of manufacturing. Its sorry to hear that the repair has allegedly failed but it 
feels that the warranty is serving its purpose.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mini Financial Services, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that the car 
was of satisfactory quality. That will depend  on a number of factors, including  the age and 
mileage of the car and the price  that was paid for it. The car that was supplied  to Mr S was a 
new car and the price  of it was £29,683 so I consider that it was reasonable for him to expect 
that the car would be free from even minor defects. Satisfactory quality also covers durability 
which means that the components within the car must be durable  and last a reasonable 
amount of time  but exactly how long that time is will depend on a number of factors.  
Mr S says that there  was an issue with the cars  drive train just under twelve  months after 
the car was supplied  to him. He returned the car to the dealer in September 2018 but it was 
unable to find a fault. Mr S says that the car broke  down in October 2018 and was recovered  
Ref: DRN04788762to the dealer and that a drive train warning  appeared.  Mr S has provided a photo which  
shows the warning:  Drive train fault  full performance not available. 
Mr S told Mini Financial  Services  that he wanted to reject the car  but it said that:
As the drive train warning  light appeared on your car approximately 12 months  after 
purchase, theres no evidence to suggest  your car was not of satisfactory  quality at 
the point of sale. Were unable to accept the rejection of your vehicle as a result.
And the dealer delivered the car back to Mr S  even  though  hed said that he was rejecting 
it and didnt want it back. The dealer then offered Mr S £3,000 towards a new car (though  
theres a dispute  about what was actually offered).
Mr S has provided a photo of the warning  light that was displayed on his car in October  
2018. And hed already reported a similar issue to the dealer the previous month  but it was 
unable to find a fault. At that time the car had been  driven for less than 12,000  miles.  I dont 
consider that its reasonable to expect a new car to have these issues  within  13 months of it 
being supplied  to Mr S  particularly as the price of the car was £29,683. I consider that 
theres an issue with either  the warning light or the drive train  and that the warning is that 
full performance isnt available. So I consider that the car isnt as durable  as it was 
reasonable for Mr S to expect it to be. And for that reason I consider that the car wasnt  of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr S.
I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Mr S to reject  the car. 
So I find that Mini Financial Services should  end the hire purchase  agreement and collect  
the car from Mr S. The agreement shows that there was an advance  payment of £3,000 but 
Mini Financial Services says that Mr S didnt contribute to that payment and Mr S has 
confirmed that he didnt pay a deposit for the car. So I dont consider that it would be fair or 
reasonable for me to require Mini Financial Services to refund all or any part of the advance 
payment to Mr S.
Mr S has been able to use the car  and he was able to drive the car for nearly 12,000  miles 
in the first year after it was supplied to him. So I dont  consider that it would be fair or 
reasonable for me to require Mini Financial Services to refund to Mr S any of the monthly 
payments that hes made for the car  Mini Financial Services  can keep them, as payment 
for the use that Mr S has had from the car. But it should remove  any information about  the 
agreement from Mr Ss credit file.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint. And I order  BMW Financial 
Services (GB) Limited, trading as Mini Financial Services, to:
1.End the hire purchase agreement and arrange  for the car to be collected from Mr S  
both at no cost to him.
2.Remove any information about the agreement from Mr Ss credit file.
Ref: DRN04788763Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 August 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0478876