K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains about the service she received from the Capital One (Europe) plc 
(Capital One) when  she closed her credit  card account with them in March  2019.
background
Mrs C had two credit cards at the relevant time;  one with Capital One and the other with 
NewDay. She was wanting to do a balance transfer  from her Capital  One account to her 
New Day account, but decided not to go ahead with it because  she was worried  about 
sending Capital One her NewDay card information  through the post.  
She therefore called  Capital  One to close her account and offered to pay half of her 
outstanding balance which Capital One didn't  accept. She is unhappy that Capital One then 
offered her a repayment plan and sent her debt advice letters,  as she doesnt have any 
problems with her finances.
Capital One said that once Mrs C had offered to pay only half of the outstanding  balance, 
they wanted to review  her account  which is why they sent her an income  and expenditure 
form. They also sent the debt advice letters because Mrs C had said she only wanted  to pay 
half of the balance, which led them to believe she may be struggling financially.  And they 
said that a Bank has a duty to help customers who are struggling financially. 
Capital One did acknowledge that they hadnt followed their procedures  correctly by failing 
initially to refer Mrs Cs request for a reduced settlement to their specialist team, but 
confirmed that they did in fact do so when they realised the error. They  also said that they 
had fed back the complaint to their associate concerned to prevent any recurrence.
Mrs C was unhappy with Capital Ones response and so an investigator from this service 
looked into the complaint but didnt  think  it had done anything wrong. Mrs C disagreed  with 
that view and so the matter has been passed  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I will not repeat the investigators 
summary of the background  to this complaint because it is accurate  and full and I want to 
avoid repetition.  But, if it appears that I havent mentioned something it is not because I have 
ignored it, but because  I dont think  its relevant  to the issues I have to decide.  
When Mrs C said she wanted to close her account she offered to pay £134.51 from her 
outstanding balance of £263.87.  I think it is a reasonable  assumption to make from such  an 
offer, that the reason she wasnt offering to pay the entire balance  was because  she was 
experiencing some financial  problem at that time. So I think  it is reasonable for Capital One 
to have sent Mrs C both an income  and expenditure form, and their debt advice letters  in 
those circumstances.  
As our investigator found, Mrs C had previously operated her account  well, paying back  
more than the minimum monthly  repayment. That indicates that Mrs C was managing her 
account and would be able to pay the debt in due course. On that basis there  was no valid 
reason for Capital  One to accept her partial offer of settlement as she had not been 
experiencing financial difficulty. But, it was reasonable  for Capital One to make an enquiry 
Ref: DRN02825902into whether she then was, as her financial circumstances could have changed and led to 
her making the reduced offer to repay the balance.
What I need to decide is whether Capital  One acted fairly and reasonably in how it dealt with 
Mrs C. They  listened to her offer of partial settlement, considered  it and then decided  not to 
accept it. That was perfectly reasonable and they were entitled  to do that, and in doing so 
have not been unfair.  
Capital One also reacted  to her offer by sending her the advice letters and the income and 
expenditure form. I am satisfied that what  they were trying to do was to help Mrs C given the 
implication contained  within  the partial  settlement offer.
So I cant say that Capital One has done  anything wrong nor treated Mrs C unfairly,  and so 
Im not going  to ask it to do anything further.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold the complaint against 
Capital One (Europe) plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 August 2019.
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0282590