K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that the Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold him a 
monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  in 1989 when he applied  for a 
store charge  card.
background
Mr G complained to this Service. He said he applied for credit  at a store  in 1989  to pay for 
some home improvements. At the same time, he said he bought a PPI policy and that the 
PPI was mis-sold to him by FICL.  
FICL said it was not the insurance provider  for Mr G in 1989, so it concludes  it was not 
responsible for the PPI sale. It could not identify who sold the PPI or who was the insurance 
provider from the PPI documents. FICL concludes it is not responsible  for looking at Mr Gs 
PPI mis-sale complaint.
Our adjudicator explained why we could  not take the complaint  any further against the 
company which  gave Mr G the credit. Our adjudicator also explained that he would see if the 
complaint could be made against the insurance  provider, FICL.  However, he agreed with 
FICL - and he said FICL  was not responsible  for the PPI sale.  Mr G disagreed with our 
adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at again.
I issued my provisional decision in January 2019.  We sent a copy  of my provisional  decision 
to all parties and invited them to make  any further  comments. FICL had nothing  further  to 
add. Mr G added the following  main points:
At the time of the sale, he was young and nave and felt pressured by the salesman 
to buy the store  charge  card and the PPI;
He produced several documents which all helpfully confirmed he had paid for PPI 
and the name of the company which gave him the credit.
I have looked  at all the further documents and emails Mr G has produced. I have  not seen 
any new evidence to make me change  the conclusions I made in my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account, along  with 
the law, in deciding Mr Gs case.   
The first thing I need to decide is whether FICL  is responsible for the sale of the PPI policy. If 
I decide it is, then I can decide whether the sale happened  as it shouldve done.  If I dont  
think FICL was responsible for the sale to Mr G, then Im not able to consider a PPI mis-sale 
complaint against  it. 
Having looked  at the evidence, I do not think that FICL was involved in selling the PPI policy 
to Mr G. So it follows that if FICL did nothing wrong  during the PPI sale,  I cannot  uphold  this 
PPI mis-sale complaint against FICL. I know this will disappoint  Mr G, so I will explain why.
Ref: DRN06211912Ive looked at all the evidence provided  by Mr G throughout the time this case  has been with 
this Service. He recalled  he was buying  home improvements and he opened a credit 
account in a store to pay for it. He produced his credit agreement  and many credit 
statements to show the name of the company which gave him the credit and to show he was 
paying a monthly  PPI premium; I have looked at them all very carefully. He is certain  the 
policy was mis-sold but there is no conclusive evidence on the documents produced by Mr G 
and FICL  to show FICL was involved in selling this policy to him. So I understand Mr Gs 
frustration at the time this case has taken to be investigated by all parties   particularly as he 
has taken up his own time to produce  so many documents from his own records.   
FICL explained it was not the insurer at the time Mr G bought his policy and it could not say 
who the insurer was. Neither was there  any proof that FICL was the insurance underwriter or 
that it was involved  in this sale at all. So having considered everything weve  been  told I 
dont think FICL can be held responsible for looking at this PPI mis-sale  complaint.
As I think  FICL was not involved in the PPI sale, it follows  that it was not responsible for 
carrying out the PPI sale properly.  So I am not going  to uphold this PPI mis-sale complaint 
against FICL. 
I am sorry  the case has taken so much time to reach  this stage but unfortunately, this is 
unavoidable whilst we sort out the issues if the business will not or cannot accept 
responsibility for looking at a consumers complaint. I can see our adjudicator  did a very 
thorough investigation and reported  on all possible  avenues  of complaint to Mr G  including  
looking at whether the complaint could  be made  against another company. But our 
adjudicator clearly explained to Mr G why we would not be able to look at a complaint 
against the company which gave Mr G the credit. 
Taking everything into account   and I am sorry to disappoint Mr G - this will be as far as this 
Service can take this complaint  against  FICL. 
my final decision
My final decision is that the Financial  Insurance Company Limited is not responsible  for 
looking at this complaint  and I do not uphold this complaint against the Financial Insurance 
Company Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2019.
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0621191