K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains that National  Westminster Bank  Plc is holding  him liable for several large 
credit card payments which he says he neither made nor authorised.  He also complains that 
payments were made  to his credit  card account without his knowledge and then reversed   
and that these facilitated the payments made  from the account. 
background
At the beginning  of March 2017 four payments, totalling £16,100, were made to Mr Os credit 
card account. At around the same time, transactions totalling over £9,000 were debited  to 
the account. These included three  large  retail payments, a cash  machine withdrawal and a 
smaller contactless payment. 
In June 2017 all the payments to the account made in March were  reversed, leaving Mr Os 
account with a balance due of over £15,000  significantly higher than his credit limit. 
Mr O said he knew nothing about the credits to the account between  2 and 5 March  and that 
he wasnt responsible  for the payments and the withdrawal made on 3 and 4 March 2017.  
He had been at work  or out of the country at the time. He said his card had been with him 
and that he hadnt divulged his PIN to anyone.  He kept a record of his PIN on his phone, 
which he kept locked;  he hadnt lost his phone.  
NatWest investigated  what  had happened but concluded that it was more  likely than not that 
Mr O was responsible for the transactions. It was satisfied the payments and the cash 
withdrawal had been made using the genuine card and (save  for the contactless payment) 
the correct PIN. It hadnt been responsible for the reversal of the payments to the account; 
they had been initiated by the payer. 
For a while  Mr O continued  to make some payments to the credit  card account, although he 
was consistent  in saying he wasnt responsible for the transactions hes complaining about. 
He referred the matter  to this service  and one of our investigators considered it. She agreed 
with NatWest, however;  she thought that Mr O had authorised the transactions  and so didnt 
recommend that the bank refund them. Mr O asked that an ombudsman review  the case.        
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
the same  overall  conclusions as the investigator  did, and for similar reasons. 
Ive considered the electronic records relating to the payments and the cash  machine 
withdrawal. They show that, in each case,  the electronic  chip embedded in Mr Os credit 
card was read when  the transaction was made. Mr O suggested, in response  to the 
investigators opinion,  that his card might have been  cloned. However, cloning involves  
copying information from the magnetic stripe  on the back of a card to the magnetic stripe on 
a different card  a relatively simple exercise.  But copying information to produce a duplicate  
card chip is a very different matter. Because the chip was read in each case here, I think  its 
most unlikely  that a cloned card was used. It follows that, wherever Mr O says he was at the 
time of the transactions, his card was at the retail  outlets and the cash machine where the 
transactions took place. Mr O says, however, that he always  had his card with him. 
Ref: DRN02075412Mr O has provided  time sheets showing he was at work on 3 March, when the first two retail 
payments and the cash machine withdrawal  were made. They dont show  however what  
hours he worked or that his work  made it impossible for him to have made  the payments and 
the withdrawal. He hasnt  said he was at work  the following day, a Saturday, when the other  
payments were made.  He also said that he was abroad,  but the flight  information hes 
provided shows that he didnt leave the UK until a few days later. 
All the disputed transactions apart from the contactless payment  were verified using  Mr Os 
PIN. Theres no rational  explanation as to how someone else could have known Mr Os PIN, 
unless he shared it with them. But Im satisfied  in any event  that nobody  else had his card, 
and so nobody  else was in a position  to make the transactions  hes disputing  even if they 
did know his PIN.
Mr O has asked if CCTV is available, showing who made the transactions.  Its most unlikely 
that its available after this time.  But I believe the evidence I do have shows clearly that, even 
if Mr O didnt make the transactions himself, he must have allowed someone else to do so. 
Ill deal finally with the payments to Mr Os account, which  were  later reversed. I accept that 
NatWest wasnt responsible for the reversals. I think it likely  that the financial business that 
made the payments was satisfied that its customer hadnt authorised them  and so took the 
money back. But whoever was responsible for those payments must have known theyd be 
able to use Mr Os credit card in order to take advantage of the large credit balance  they 
would create  until they were reversed. Since  Mr O was the only person who had and was 
able to use the credit card, I believe he probably knows  more about those payments than he 
has suggested. 
In the circumstances, it wouldnt be fair to require NatWest to refund the disputed 
transactions in this case. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require National Westminster Bank Plc to do anything further 
to resolve Mr Os complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 April 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0207541