K820x#14complaint
Mr K is unhappy with Santander  UK Plcs as he thinks  the put pressure on him to apply for a 
new account and it then decided to withdraw his banking facilities.
background
Mr K had been a customer of Santander since March 2018 and he held three separate  
accounts with it. Those accounts were a basic current  account,  a top-up debit card account 
and a savings  account.
Mr K applied for one of Santanders standard current accounts,  also in March 2018, but the 
application was denied.
Mr K called the bank  on 30 November 2018  to move  money between his accounts. The idea 
of opening a new account comes  from this call. Mr K said its this call, along  with others, 
where the bank  pressured him into applying  for a new standard current  account.
The application was submitted the same day. But after the bank carried  out some checks  it 
declined the application. It also told Mr K it would  be withdrawing all of his banking  facilities 
after 60 days. Santander told Mr K hed only be able to withdraw funds in branch and thatd 
hed need to present identification  to do so. He was told direct debits wouldnt be paid from 
his account.
Santander told Mr K to contact CIFAS  a fraud  prevention agency  if had concerns about 
why he might have been  denied  a new account. 
Mr K was unhappy with the banks decision and complained about it. He also complained  
about a text he received in relation to charges on his accounts  when no charges had actually 
been applied.  On the former issue the bank did not change its position. On the latter it 
offered Mr K £50 to resolve the complaint.
Mr K further complained  that the banks actions had meant hed incurred charges on failed 
direct debits. The bank  investigated here as well but didnt believe it had been at fault. It 
pointed out that Mr K only had two automatic payments set up on his account  and he was 
complaining about neither of those.  It also pointed out he had no money  in the account at 
the time they fell due anyway as Mr K had withdrawn all funds from the account.  It found 
there had been  bank  transfers and card payments  to other merchants but the same  issue of 
a lack of funds in the account  still applied.
Mr K had difficulty withdrawing funds in the account  that had been  paid in after hed received 
his notice of closure.  Mr K received a credit of £2,719.56  which Mr K said was his wages.
The bank asked  Mr K for proof of entitlement to the funds that had credited his account. Mr K 
provided evidence  from his employer but the bank initially said it wasnt  enough and wouldnt 
release the funds. Mr K was in branch  at the time and at one stage the police were  called. 
He was taken  to a different branch by the police and the bank released the funds to him on 
7 January 2019. 
The bank didnt  think itd done anything wrong  here either. It felt it had taken appropriate 
steps in asking for evidence Mr K was entitled to the funds. It also felt the contact  with the 
police was appropriate in the circumstances.
Ref: DRN05249422One of our investigators  considered Mr Ks complaint as he remained unhappy with the 
banks explanations. But the investigator  didnt find the bank had done  anything wrong. 
He thought Mr K had freely applied for the new current  account   particularly referencing the 
calls from 30 November 2018  and that the banks actions were  reasonable in the 
circumstances. He asked  Mr K for any evidence of failed direct  debits or late payments 
charges from merchants. He also asked  Mr K for a copy of his credit  report to show  any 
adverse effects.  But Mr K didnt provide anything further and so our investigator wasnt able 
to comment further or say whether the bank had caused Mr K any loss. 
Mr K didnt accept the investigators opinion. He didnt think enough calls had been listened 
to in regard to the account opening. But there were no further additional  points raised or 
specific disagreements with what the investigator said. The case has now been passed to 
me for a final decision and no further  evidence or information has been presented in the 
meantime. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im not upholding it. Ill 
explain why.
the decision to apply for the new account
 Ive listened to the two calls Mr K has with the bank on 30 November  2018.  Im completely 
satisfied he decided to make the application for a new account and that there was no 
pressure from the bank to do so. 
Mr K did say to our investigator  that the bank called him to get him to apply for a new 
account. He said he told the bank that he was very happy with his basic  account. But thats 
not the case.
In the first call Mr K has phoned the bank to ask for money to be transferred between  his 
accounts. Once thats done he also asks the advisor about upgrading his account  as he 
wants one where he doesnt have to transfer money  around. Mr K is quite clear that hes 
unhappy with the accounts he has at the time.
The advisor says he could be eligible and that his account his up for review. The advisor 
offers to go through  the application  but Mr K says hell call back  later.  
On the second  call Mr K tells an advisor he wants to upgrade his account.  The advisor tries 
to get some  more information from Mr K but he doesnt want  to provide it. The advisor 
transfers Mr K through to another advisor  to take him through  the process.
The new advisor  makes clear they wont be giving any advice on what  account to apply for. 
She goes  through some eligibility questions and presents  Mr K with three  account  options, 
explaining the features of each. Mr K opts for an account without a fee.
The advisor then takes some  personal  information  and the application is immediately 
referred. The advisor explains what that means.
Ref: DRN05249423Theres nothing in any of these calls to suggest Mr K is pressured into applying  for a new 
account. At most hes told his account  is up for review and that he may be eligible for a new one. 
I appreciate that Mr K didnt imagine an application might  lead to his banking  facilities being 
withdrawn. But there  was certainly no pressure for him to apply  for a new account.
Mr K told our investigator  there are more calls that should be listened to. But the two Ive 
referred to are those  relevant to a new account application. Its clear from these that Mr K 
took the decision to apply  for a new account of his own free will.
the withdrawal of banking facilities
The bank was within its rights to withdraw Mr Ks banking facilities. I can see it did so 
following ordinary checks on Mr Ks new application. Its withdrawn facilities  in line with the 
account terms and conditions and gave Mr K sufficient notice and suitable information 
around withdrawing any money  that was left in the account.
I can also see the bank  did try to contact  Mr K on 4 December 2018  to let him know what  
was happening but it couldnt  reach  him. The phone was answered but the advisor  was told 
Mr K would be available in half an hour.  
Mr K then called back the same day as his card wasnt working and this is when he found 
out about the closure of his accounts.  Im therefore  satisfied the bank did try to notify  him as 
soon as possible. 
Santander also told Mr K what he might do to try and shed  more  light on why his application  
had been declined. And so I think its acted fairly throughout.
As Ive said above,  I can see how the closure  of his accounts would have come as a shock 
to Mr K given he was trying to apply for a new account. This was certainly an unforeseen 
consequence of that application. But I cant say the bank has been wrong to react to 
information it discovers on reviewing one of its customers accounts. Such a review  could 
take place at any time and could lead to the same result as it did here.
access to funds in the account
I can see Mr K was paid by his employer  on 3 January 2019 but he wasnt able to withdraw 
the money until 7 January 2019.  The reason  for the delay was the banks requirement for 
Mr K to provide proof of entitlement to the funds.  And whilst  that was no doubt inconvenient  
for Mr K I dont  think the bank has acted unfairly in the circumstances.
The situation  at the time was that the bank was closing Mr Ks accounts. And during that 
closure period  the payment Mr K received was the largest into the account for a few months  
and by quite some distance.  So it looked  a somewhat unusual in of itself.  Its also the case  
that there  hadnt  been payment in from the sending account holder in the previous few 
months either. With those  points in my mind  I think the bank acted fairly when it asked Mr K 
for proof of entitlement. 
I understand there were then some  issues when Mr K did present his evidence  to the bank 
and it asked for more.  And again,  while certainly  frustrating for Mr K, I think the bank  was 
trying to be responsible  in its actions. 
Ref: DRN05249424Ultimately Mr K was able to withdraw  his money  four days after it was paid to his account. 
So there doesnt seem to have been  an unreasonable  or undue delay in the bank paying 
those funds to Mr K, having established the need to check his entitlement to them.  
costs incurred by Mr K.
Weve not been sent any evidence of costs incurred  by Mr K resulting from his account  
closure. None was presented to the bank at the time Mr K complained  to it either.  And so I 
cant make  any award here as theres no evidence of any loss.
But even if Mr K did have  evidence of costs incurred  Im not persuaded it would make a 
difference. I know Mr K has said hed like to provide  such evidence. But Ive decided  to 
proceed with my final decision here. I think Mr K has had sufficient time to present such 
evidence already given both the bank and our investigator have requested it. 
And importantly, even if there have been  late payment charges, I wouldnt make the finding 
that the bank should  be responsible for them. Therere a few reasons for my saying so:
Mr K had already been informed of the account  closure and so was aware of the need to 
make alternative arrangements;
theres no evidence of regular automated payments to all of the merchants  Mr K has 
talked about;
the regular payments that were  set up werent due to be collected for around 25 days after 
Mr K was notified  of the account  closure and that existing direct debits wouldnt be paid;
hed withdrawn  all of his money from the account  on 6 December 2018 and so there 
was nothing  left to make  payments  after that date until early January 2019.
Its true Mr K had trouble  withdrawing money  in January 2019. But its difficult to see how a 
delay of four days would have led to a number of missed payments, particularly given when 
they appear to normally fall due later in the month.  
With these factors in mind  I cant say the bank is responsible for Mr K not having made 
payments to any merchants.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 October  2019.
Ben Murray
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0524942