K820x#14complaint
Mr P says Lloyds Bank PLC, Cheltenham & Gloucester at the time (Lloyds),  mis-sold him a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background and summary to complaint
Mr P bought the policy in 1998  at the same time as taking a mortgage. He applied  for the 
mortgage and PPI policy at a meeting.
At the time,  Mr P was employed as a process operator and had been there around 8 years.  
He has told us he was entitled to six months or more  but less than 12 months sickness  or 
redundancy pay. He has said he was entitled  to at least  six months  full sick pay and at least  
12 months redundancy pay (which, with all Ive said above  in mind, Im not persuaded was 
worth as much as a years full pay). Mr P has told us he was in good  health at the time of the 
sale and didnt have  any other means of repaying  his mortgage if he couldnt work.
The policy provided  cover  for Mr P for disability  and unemployment - subject to its exclusions 
and limitations. It would pay Mr Ps monthly  mortgage payment (around £218 at the time of 
the mortgage offer)  plus £3 for every £1000 of their initial mortgage (around £96) and 
premiums for certain associated insurances if those  insurances were taken with Lloyds.  The 
policy was expected to cost £16 according  to its schedule.
Lloyds has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account closed in 2006. 
Mr Ps representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on his behalf.  I will 
not restate  them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all carefully. In summary,  
Mr Ps representative says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mr P wouldnt have taken the 
policy and the complaint  should  be upheld. Mr Ps representatives believe there to be no 
evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  Lloyds  should  have told Mr P about 
the poor value;
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained the 
significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr P and the impact they would 
have had on his chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is generally 
someones biggest ever long-  term transaction  cover would stop at the time it would  be 
most needed; and
Ref: DRN06016272The information Mr P received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mr P disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion for several  reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been  
passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ps. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ps complaint.
This sale took place  in 1998 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2006. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Ref: DRN06016273I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Lloyds  at the time. So Im satisfied I should take the ABI Code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr Ps case.  
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   the Office of the Banking Ombudsman  in this 
case  might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note that 
under the Banking Ombudsmans  terms of reference the Ombudsman was required to 
decide complaints  by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required  to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial  authority.
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mr Ps complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Mr P with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  and 
circumstances. 
-Whether Lloyds gave Mr P sufficient,  appropriate and timely information to enable him to 
make an informed choice  about whether to take the policy,  including drawing to his 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions 
of the policy  and significant limitations  and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr P, I must 
then go on to consider  whether  and to what extent Mr P suffered loss or damage  and 
what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr P and 
Lloyds, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr Ps complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mr P know he had a choice?
Ref: DRN06016274Lloyds had to make it clear the PPI policy was optional. Mr P has said he had no interest in 
PPI and it was included as part of the mortgage  package. But to take the PPI, Mr P signed  a 
separate PPI application form. So, it looks like the PPI was presented as separate  from the 
mortgage. Ive not seen  anything from the time to suggest Mr P had to take the PPI or had to 
sign the application form for it if he didnt want it. Taking everything into account, I think its 
more likely Mr P knew the policy was optional and agreed to take it without undue pressure.
did Lloyds provide  advice?
Lloyds says it did provide  advice  during this sale. Mr P hasnt  said that Lloyds didnt.  Taking 
all this into account, Im persuaded that Lloyds  provided advice. This means Lloyds had to 
advise Mr P with reasonable care and skill, in particular  whether the policy was appropriate 
or suitable given  his needs and circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the documentary evidence suggests  
that Lloyds took some  steps to establish whether the policy  was a suitable recommendation 
for Mr P. The adviser had information  about  some of Mr Ps financial circumstances as part 
of the mortgage  application  for example  his salary and approximate  length of service  with 
his employer. But I dont  think Lloyds did enough  to ensure the PPI was suitable  and 
establish Mr P had a need for it. For example,  Ive nothing  to show  that Lloyds asked about 
Mr Ps work sickness or redundancy  benefits.
The declaration signed by Mr P on the PPI application, asked that he confirm  that he was 
working at least 16 hours per week, wasnt aware of any impending  unemployment or 
hospitalisation and wasnt receiving  ongoing treatment for persistent or recurring conditions. 
But I cant see that Lloyds  established that all these  points  applied to Mr P before giving him 
the application to sign.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr P given his circumstances. So Im not 
persuaded Lloyds advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr P, I do think  its more likely  than not that the policy  was ultimately  suitable  for 
him. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Mr P met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Although Mr P says he was financially stretched  at the time, Ive seen nothing  else to 
suggest the monthly cost of the PPI wasnt affordable when he took it.
-Mr P had a need for the policy.  He would suffer a loss of income  if he became, for an 
extended period,  unemployed or too sick to work   and he didnt have any savings to fall 
back on. So the policy benefit  wouldve helped Mr P manage  the consequences if he lost 
his income. Also,  bearing in mind what hes said about having  been financially stretched 
at the time, its possible that without the policy benefit such  a loss of income, particularly 
if prolonged, couldve put Mr Ps finances under strain.
Ref: DRN06016275-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr P. There  was 
nothing about  his employment  or occupation  which wouldve made it difficult for him to 
claim. And, from what  hes told us, he didnt  have any pre-existing medical  conditions  
that couldve affected his ability to claim. There were  also no additional restrictions on 
cover for mental health or back  problems.
-While  there were  limits to the cover provided  by the policy  (including:  the any similar 
gainful occupation condition, the fact no benefit  was payable for the first 60 days  of 
disability or unemployment and the fact the policy would only pay benefits for a 
maximum of 12 months for each claim), the policy still provided valuable  cover given:
Mr Ps circumstances, including his work sickness and redundancy provisions (which 
he might  expect to provide an income  during the policys 60-day qualification period), 
the limits  to those  provisions, the loss of income he could  suffer as a result due to 
disability or unemployment and the consequences this might  have,  particularly if 
prolonged, on his ability to meet mortgage  related  costs;  and
The fact the policy protected  the mortgage  repayments relating to Mr Ps home and 
the potential consequences  should  he be unable to make the repayments on loans 
secured against  his house.
the information
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Mr P sufficient information 
about the cover provided by the policy to enable him to understand  what Lloyds was 
recommending to him and make an informed decision about whether to follow  that advice 
and take the policy.
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr P was given a broad description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect his payments if Mr P was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate costs.  I 
have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr P would  have taken the policy  
without any sense of what the policy was for and of how much the premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Lloyds  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr P agreed to take the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr P, Im not persuaded Lloyds did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to him. Im not persuaded Lloyds gave Mr P all of the information he needed  
about the policy to make an informed decision about whether to follow the recommendation 
and take it.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Ps representative has raised a number  
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
Ref: DRN06016276PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Ps. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mr Ps representative  considers  to be poor  value  and the 
fact that much of the premium went to the business  rather  than the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mr P about the limitations and exclusions,  it should have gone further and explained the 
significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Ps representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr P has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Lloyds ought  to have done either. 
what effect did Lloyds  shortcomings have  on Mr P? To what extent did Mr P suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mr P. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr P suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mr P would have 
still taken the policy,  had Lloyds done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Lloyds took the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr P, I have found that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for him.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr P has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Lloyds had explained  things properly, 
Mr P would have acted differently, or whether  he would have taken the policy  in any event.
Mr P says he wouldnt have taken it and believes I should presume this to be the case  given 
the significant failings identified above.  Ive considered the representations of both sides and 
the evidence relating  to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take insurance  requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr P had some interest in taking payment protection 
insurance. By this I mean when Lloyds advised  him there was a suitable product  he could 
buy that would protect  his mortgage payments in the event he was unable  to work because  
of accident, sickness  and unemployment, Mr P concluded he wanted that product. But he 
made that decision based on incomplete  information, meaning what he thought he was 
getting is not exactly what he got. 
Ref: DRN06016277As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr Ps circumstances at the time 
of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for him.
It doesnt appear Lloyds  told Mr P the exact premium at the point  he applied for the policy.  
But I consider it more likely than not that he knew he would have to pay something for the 
policy, and was made aware of the approximate  cost. I also bear in mind that the actual 
premium was set out on a policy schedule sent to Mr P when  the policy began  so if this 
was significantly at odds  with what he had expected at the point of sale,  its possible  he 
might have raised this with Lloyds at the time or reconsidered his decision. 
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr P would have found  the cost unacceptable if he had been  
given the exact figure during the meeting in which he agreed  to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Lloyds  made  clear  exactly what Mr P would get back in return 
if he made a successful claim. But I think its likely  he expected, if he wasnt  also told, that in 
the event of a claim the policy would pay an amount sufficient to meet  his monthly  mortgage  
payment. So I think the policy at least  met Mr Ps likely expectations about that and, if 
anything, actually paid more in the event of a claim than he would have expected  - as there 
was an additional  cash payment.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr P thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims for disability due to any pre-existing health  issue  (a health  
issue Mr P knew  or ought to have known about  at the policy  start date or had seen or 
arranged to see a doctor  for in the 12 months before the policy  start date) occurring or 
re-occurring during the first 24 months of cover;
The policy limited and in some situations  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr P wasnt  a 
permanent employee;
The requirement that, to be eligible for a disability claim, Mr P not only be unable to do 
his own job but also be unable to do any similar job the insurer thought  he was or might  
reasonably become  qualified for in view of his training, education  and ability;
No benefit  was payable for the first 60 days of disability or unemployment;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months per claim, rather than the remaining  
term of the mortgage; and  
The cover  provided  for Mr P ended once he turned 65 or, for unemployment and if 
earlier, when he retired or started  receiving  his state pension.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr P pause  for thought   and may well have caused  him to conclude  the policy wasnt  as 
good as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the cover,  
when coupled with the other shortcomings  in this sale,  might have dissuaded some 
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr P from taking  the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr Ps circumstances  at the time of sale shows the policy wasnt  
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to him should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest he 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mr P didnt have any pre-existing 
medical conditions  and was in permanent  employment. So, I think he still had some good 
reasons to take the policy.
Ref: DRN06016278The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions, or place  any additional 
restrictions or more onerous  evidential  requirements in the event of a claim on those 
grounds than would have applied to any other  disability claim. And I think its unlikely Mr P 
would have expected to make a disability claim on the policy  without first providing some 
evidence to support  that claim.
If Mr P had known he could only claim for disability if he were not only unable to do his own 
job but also unable  to do any similar job the insurer thought he was or might reasonably 
become qualified for in view of his training, education and ability, it might  have  played  into 
his thinking about what to do. And I accept it may have given him pause for thought   
although its possible he may not have  been  too concerned given that if Mr P were  unable 
(through disability) to do his own job, the chances  that he would  be able to take up a similar 
job would  also, in all probability,  be limited.
Lloyds may not have  told Mr P that the first 60 days of disability or unemployment wouldnt 
be covered  and it may not have  told him that any claim he made would be limited  to a 12 
month period.  All this may have differed from what Mr P expected  and might  have hoped for. 
But 12 months was longer  than the period for which Mr P wouldve received  full pay if he 
were sick, and his redundancy entitlement was also likely less than 12 months income.  So, 
given the loss or income Mr P could suffer if he became unemployed or too sick to work, and 
also bearing in mind his other circumstances as discussed above, I consider it likely  Mr P 
would still have thought a policy that after 60 days paid the mortgage  payments for up to 12 
months, would  be of benefit  to him and would help him manage the consequences if he 
couldnt work in the circumstances covered by the policy. The policy  allowed for multiple 
claims to be made and it could help reduce  Mr Ps outgoings at a difficult  and uncertain time, 
making it less likely his home  would  be placed at risk.
Mr P has complained that at the time of the sale he already planned to retire   and he says 
he did retire around  six years later. If at the time of sale Mr P planned to retire in six years, I 
think its more likely  than not he wouldve still thought hed get some  value out of having the 
PPI, as it wouldve  covered him for a reasonable period of time before that retirement ended 
the unemployment cover.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr P would  still have taken the policy. The policy  was suitable for him, sufficiently 
close to what its likely  he thought he was getting and provided benefits that would help Mr P 
manage the consequences  if he were  made  redundant or unable to work through disability. 
In the circumstances, I consider it more likely than not Mr P would have taken the policy in 
any event notwithstanding  the limitations on cover.
Mr Ps representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) make 
it clear that, where a significant failing is identified,  it should be presumed  the consumer 
wouldnt have taken  PPI, unless there  is evidence  to outweigh the presumption. They say we 
should follow this other  than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.
Ref: DRN06016279Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr P would not have bought the PPI he bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr Ps 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr P 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position he would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr P believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments.  
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr P in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that he would not have taken the policy,  I am 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that he would  still have taken it 
had he been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy he was buying. 
So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable  in those circumstances, to conclude 
Lloyds should  pay Mr P compensation, as that would put him in a better position than he 
would have been in if everything  had happened as it should have done.  
Im also aware that Mr P thinks Lloyds misrepresented  the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Lloyds statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Lloyds failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Lloyds gave Mr P, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
1998 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Ps representative says a court might take if it were 
to find Lloyds negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr P and about the remedy  a court  
might award if it were  to find that Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of utmost good  faith.  
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont think  it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr P in a better position  than if everything  had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Ref: DRN060162710Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 November  2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0601627