K820x#14complaint
Mr M has complained that Santander UK Plc mis-sold him a mortgage payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr M took out the PPI over the phone in 2003 at the same  time as arranging  his mortgage.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr M disagrees with the adjudicators  opinion  
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in deciding  
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint and Ill explain  why.
Santander has some limited paperwork available relating to the mortgage. But it doesnt  
have any documentation  for the sale of the PPI and it doesnt have a recording of the phone  
call in which  the sale was made. This isnt surprising given the time that has elapsed, but it 
does make the case more  difficult to decide. In reaching my decision I have considered the 
evidence that we do have and what I consider is most likely to have happened,  on a balance  
of probability.
Mr M says he was led to believe that the mortgage  wouldnt go through  unless he agreed to 
buy PPI.
The sale was made over the phone.  We know that Santanders phone scripts at the time 
presented the PPI as optional. I havent  seen anything to persuade me that the script was 
deviated from in this instance. Also, Mr M has taken out unemployment  cover  only,  rather 
than the more usual full cover of accident, sickness and unemployment.  This suggests that 
there was some discussion about  Mr Ms needs  at the time.
Ive no doubt that Mr M has provided his genuine recollection of events. However,  the sale 
took place a long time ago and so it wouldnt  be surprising if Mr Ms memory has faded 
somewhat. Ive thought very carefully about what Mr M has said, but on balance  Im unable 
to conclude that he wasnt given a choice  about having the policy.  Overall  I consider that he 
probably decided  to buy it, knowing that he didnt  have  to.
Santander says that it advised Mr M to buy the policy.  Therefore, in recommending the PPI 
to him, it needed to ensure that it met his needs.  And from what I know of Mr Ms 
circumstances at the time, the policy was suitable for him.
Mr M says that his employer would  have had to pay him for a three month  notice period if it 
was making him redundant. He says that, together with his savings, meant  that he would 
have had the equivalent of six months  pay. But the policy had the potential to pay out for up 
to 12 months per claim.  And having the PPI would have allowed him to retain  his other  funds 
or use them to cover  other outgoings  at what would  have been a difficult  time.
Ref: DRN06038232Mr M has also said that hed have received redundancy pay. Contrary to what Mr M seems 
to believe, the policy  would still have  covered  him, in spite of his work benefits. So the policy 
would have paid out in addition to any redundancy payment.
Mr M says that his skills are in demand and that hes never been out of work. But it is the 
nature of insurance  to insure  against any unforeseen  events and changes  in circumstances. 
As Ive found that Mr M decided to take out unemployment cover, it appears he had an 
interest in protecting himself against being  out of work.
Mr M has said that hes never taken out PPI since redeeming the Santander mortgage. That 
is a matter for him and what he feels his ongoing  needs are. It doesnt  mean  that the policy  
was unsuitable  when it was sold to him in 2003.
Mr M was a first time buyer at the time. A mortgage  is a significant financial commitment  and 
defaulting on a mortgage can have serious consequences.  So it wouldnt be surprising if Mr M 
had an interest in protecting his repayments.  Overall I consider he had a need for the policy  
and could have  benefitted from it  so it wasnt wrong of Santander to recommend it to him.
On another point,  Mr M has said that Santander  originally  told him it couldnt  find any record  
of him having a policy, so he wonders how he could have  possibly claimed if hed needed to. 
Santander has explained it had difficulty finding Mr Ms policy because his last name was 
mis-spelt on its systems.  However Im persuaded that Mr M would have received the policy 
documentation at the time which provided  details of the policy. The insurer has a record of 
Mr M calling them in February 2008 to cancel the policy, therefore it is apparent that Mr M 
knew who to contact  if he had any issues relating  to the PPI.
It is possible that Santander didnt provide as much  information about  the PPI as it should 
have, particularly in relation to things that it didnt cover. But Mr M was not affected by any of 
those things  for instance he did not have  a pre-existing  medical  condition  that would  have 
been excluded.  As I consider that Mr M had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I 
dont consider that further information  would have caused him to change  his mind. So he 
isnt any worse off as a result of anything Santander may have done  wrong,  so theres  
nothing Santander  needs to do to put things right.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 November  2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0603823