K820x#14Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2005 
alongside a credit card. Mr O says Capital One (Europe)  plc mis-sold him the PPI.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Os case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Mr O says he took out his credit card online and he didnt speak to anyone at the time. So he 
has disputed the fact that he was sold PPI over the phone. He also said was advised to take 
out the policy, but that he wasnt aware it was optional. While Im sure what  Mr O has said 
are his honest recollections of the sale, the PPI was sold a long time ago  around  14 years  
ago  which is something I have to keep in mind when deciding what I think is more  likely to 
have happened. 
Capital One says the PPI was sold to Mr O over the phone when he called to activate his 
credit card. Ive seen  a copy of Mr O credit card application form which shows  he didnt 
select PPI at that time. Ive also seen a screen shot of Capital Ones internal  system which  
shows Mr O activated his card a few days after the credit card had been applied  for and that 
the PPI was added on the same day as the activation. So while  I dont have a call recording 
to listen to, based on the evidence Ive seen I think its likely the PPI was added to the 
account during  the activation  call.
Capital One has supplied a copy of a call script it says wouldve been used for this type of 
call - and in the absence of a call recording  or any notes from the call this is the best 
evidence available  of what  is likely  to have happened at the time. This shows that the PPI 
wouldve been presented as optional  and Capital One wouldve explicitly asked Mr O if he 
wanted the cover. As the PPI was then applied to his account I think  its likely he said yes to 
the policy.
So based  on what Ive seen, and in the absence of any stronger evidence  to support what  
Mr O has said,  I think  its likely Capital  One made it clear Mr O didnt  have to take out the 
PPI and that he chose to take it out  although  I can understand why he cant  remember this.
As Ive mentioned  above, Mr O says Capital One advised him to take out the policy.  But he 
has also contradicted  this by saying that his individual needs and wants  werent taken into 
account when  the PPI was added.  Capital One says it didnt advice Mr O to take out the 
policy. Based on what weve seen of these types of sales in the past, these are usually non-
advised sales, and I havent seen any persuasive  evidence that anything different happened 
in this case. So I think its likely the PPI was sold on a non-advised basis.   
So as Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mr O it didnt  have to check if it was right for 
him. But it did have  to make sure Mr O got the information  he needed to decide if the policy 
was right for him. 
Ref: DRN01647232Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr O about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time it doesnt look 
like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  - so it would have 
been useful for him if something  went  wrong. Ive considered what Mr O has said about his 
sick pay, but the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to this and for longer. So these funds 
couldve been used  for other expenses. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont 
think better information about  the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover. 
My final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, I dont think this policy was mis-sold. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 July 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0164723