K820x#14complaint
Mrs K says Lloyds Bank Plc mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs K bought the policy when she took out a loan in 1997. The loan included an amount to 
pay for the policy. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs K disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ks case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ks complaint because:
The loan agreements in use at the time required the customer to tick a box to show they 
wanted PPI, which  was described  as optional loan repayment  protection. So I think  
Lloyds made Mrs K aware  that she had a choice about buying the PPI, and that she 
chose to take it out.
Lloyds recommended  the PPI to Mrs K  and it seems to have been right for her based 
on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time.  It appears she had little in the way of 
sick or redundancy  pay and had no savings or other way of making repayments if she 
couldnt work.  
The cost of the policy was broadly shown on the loan agreements  in use at the time  
including the amount  of the premium  and the monthly  cost. Although the interest  and total 
cost wasnt shown,  I still think  Mrs K would have understood that she would be paying  for 
PPI. And I think Mrs K would still have bought  the PPI if Lloyds had explained  the cost 
better. 
Given how long the policy could have paid out for, if Mrs K made a successful claim she 
couldve got back quite  a bit more than she paid for it. 
Mrs K wouldve  got back only a limited  refund  of the PPI premium  if she cancelled  the 
policy early. I dont  know  if Lloyds thought  about  this when it recommended the policy, or 
if it explained  the situation clearly  to Mrs K. But I havent  seen anything that suggests she 
thought shed repay the 12 month loan early. So I dont think this meant  the policy wasnt  
right for her  or that better  information  about this wouldve stopped  her buying it
Its possible that Lloyds didnt point out the main  things  the policy didnt cover.  But Mrs K 
doesnt appear to have  been  affected  by any of those  things. While she was self-
employed this wouldnt  have made it harder for her to make a claim. 
Ref: DRN01161302Ive taken into account Mrs Ks comments,  including what  shes said about commission  and 
profit share. But these  points dont change my conclusion. The new rules on this dont apply 
to her PPI because her loan ended in 1998.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ks complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs K to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 October  2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0116130