K820x#14complaint
Mr Rs complaint is that MBNA Limited  (MBNA)  should have defaulted his account  in 2011, 
but failed to do so.
background
Mr R held a credit card account with MBNA.  He also held similar account with other  lenders, 
and had some company  debt in respect of which hed given personal guarantees.
In 2009, Mr R went into financial  difficulties,  and was unable  to maintain his contractual 
payments to MBNA. So an arrangement  was made  whereby  his repayments were reduced, 
interest frozen, and no fees or charges  would  be applied.  
Mr R continued with this arrangement, but as time went on, he struggled to make  the 
payments, so they were reduced  twice. Each  time with his agreement.
Mr R says that given his problems, and the obvious lack of affordability of the arrangement,  
MBNA should have  defaulted him in 2011. But it didnt, and in 2012 the debt was sold to a 
third party, and then sold on again in 2015.  
The current  situation  is that Mr Rs paid circa  90% of his debt, but his concern is that once 
satisfied, a default markers going to remain on his account for six years. He doesnt think 
this is fair, and is contrary to his interpretation  of the relevant guidance  from the Information 
Commissioners Office  (ICO) on credit files. 
MBNA responded  to his complaint saying that he was never more  than two months in 
arrears, and the ICO guidance  suggests that a default may be applied after three months  
arrears, and much more certainly  after six months. While Mr Rs monthly  agreed  payment 
under the arrangement was reduced on two occasions, MBNA maintained that he largely 
kept to the arrangement and therefore  didnt ever meet  the criteria for a default to be applied. 
Mr R disagreed and brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into matters, and her initial view was that MBNA should have 
recorded a default sooner and the complaint should be upheld.  However, MBNA then 
provided further evidence from the ICO guidance, and from Mr Rs account,  maintaining  its 
position that when it failed  to apply a default  in 2011/2 this was because  it had entered into 
an arrangement with Mr R, which he was largely maintaining well, and that the ICO criteria  
for applying  a default hadnt been satisfied.
Our investigator was persuaded by this, and explained to Mr R that she could no longer 
uphold his complaint. 
Mr R responded, re-iterating his complaint and why he felt the ICO criteria supported his 
view that his account should have  been defaulted  much sooner. He asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN02407572Having done so, Im afraid Im going to disappoint  Mr R by saying that I dont think  it would 
be fair to uphold his complaint.
I know this will be upsetting for Mr R, and that a later default has real life practical 
consequences for him. But my role is to look at what MBNA did and decide if I think it was 
fair and correct, or not. In doing this I consider all of the evidence, and ensure I reach a 
conclusion thats  fair to both parties. 
MBNAs position is that it didnt apply a default  in 2011/2 because Mr R had entered into an 
arrangement with it specifically to avoid that. This indicated to it that he wanted to avoid a 
default at that time. 
It concedes that on two occasions  in the life of the arrangement, the monthly payment had to 
be reduced in order  for Mr R to continue  to afford  it. But that was within  its discretion  to 
agree. On each occasion it was a consensual agreement  between two parties. And at no 
time in his relationship with MBNA was Mr R ever more than two months in arrears. As such,  
both Mr Rs intentions to avoid a default (by entering the agreement), and the fact that he 
didnt meet the ICOs three-months missed  payment condition to begin to consider applying  
a default, were clear. 
Mr R says that while he never met the default  criteria, cumulatively it was clear  he was 
struggling and couldnt  afford the payments. He was in two months arrears on six occasions. 
And so he maintains that the ICO guidance should extend to his circumstances. 
He also said that all his other lenders defaulted him in 2012. 
I can see some merit in Mr Rs argument  that the ICO guidance covers him. Indeed, you can 
see that two months  arrears is close to three months, and indeed on repeated  occasions  it 
becomes more persausive.  However,  the guidance is in place to benefit both lenders and 
borrowers. Lenders need some certainty as to whats expected of them in treating their 
customers fairly. In this respect, I think MBNA  was entitled to look at the fact Mr R had never 
been three months in arrears, and had instead  willingly agreed to a payment arrangement  on 
three occasions, and so decide that a default wasnt appropriate at the time. 
Indeed, back in 2011/2,  a default it likely to have  been exactly  what  Mr R wanted to avoid, 
and MBNA  did what it could to help with this. And I think this was done in good faith. So I 
also cant agree with any speculation that a decision whether or not to default  a debt is 
influenced by the likelihood of it being sold on at a later date. 
Ive had another look at the ICO Guidance, and note the following  (NB. italics/bold  are 
mine);-
4. If you fall into arrears on your account, or you do not keep to the revised terms of an 
arrangement, a default may be recorded to show that the relationship  has broken 
down. 
As a general guide, this may occur when you are 3 months in arrears, and normally by 
the time you are 6 months  in arrears. There are exceptions to this which  may result  in 
a default being recorded at a later stage, such as secured or long term loans e.g. 
mortgages, or if the product  operates in a more flexible way e.g. current accounts,  
student loans,  home  credit. If an arrangement is agreed (see Principle 3 above), a 
default would not normally be registered  unless the terms of that arrangement 
Ref: DRN02407573are broken.  Apart from being 3 or more months  in arrears there are other 
circumstances which may lead to the recording of a default: 1. Property such  as a 
house or vehicle  has been repossessed or handed  back with no indication  to pay a 
remaining balance. 2. The provider takes steps to cut off a service.  3. The account  is in 
arrears and the provider  receives an indication that you have left your address without 
notifying them. 4. Evidence of fraud. 5. The account  is or has been  included in a 
bankruptcy, CCJ, Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA)  or similar.
I think the guidance is clear, and I think Mr Rs argument that MBNA  should have defaulted  
him back in 2011/2 before the debt was sold, fails on three counts;-
1.A default may occur  after three months arrears.  Thats to say, three months is the 
earliest it can be considered; 
2.There are stated  exceptions even to the above  standard, on which is where an 
arrangement is agreed, and the terms of it arent broken.  Mr Rs arrangement was 
varied, but never broken;  and 
3.While  there are other circumstances besides the three  months plus condition where 
defaults may be applied (see above),  none of these 5 grounds are applicable here.
While Im sorry to disappoint Mr R, having been  pleased to see that hes spent years 
repaying his debts and is nearly there,  it simply  wouldnt be fair for me to say that what  
MBNA did, or failed  to do, in 2011/2  was a mistake, or that it treated Mr R unfairly.  Indeed, I 
think it acted in good faith and did the right and proper thing at the time. Crucially,  the 
relationship between it and Mr R hadnt broken down. 
In retrospect, from a practical  perspective  it may have  been better for Mr R to have been 
defaulted at that point,  rather  than continue with a payment  arrangement.  But I can only look 
at what happened  at the time, and in doing so it appears Mr R was happy with what was 
proposed. 
On the basis I dont think MBNAs done  anything wrong, Im not going to uphold this 
complaint. And I wont be asking it to take any further action.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2020.
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0240757