K820x#14complaint
Ms D has complained that, on 7 January 2019, Kensington Mortgage Company Limited paid 
an outstanding  rentcharge of £1,874.02 when there was a payment plan in place with the 
management company.
background
Ms D has a mortgage account with Kensington on a property which is subject to a 
rentcharge and management fund.
In December 2018 Kensington was contacted by a firm of debt collectors acting on behalf of 
the property trust (the trust) which levied the rentcharge. The debt collectors said that 
£1,874.02 was outstanding and had not been  paid by Ms D. Kensington  wrote  to Ms D on 
21 December 2018 asking her to contact  the debt collectors,  or to provide Kensington with 
proof of payment.
On 7 January  2019 the debt collectors  confirmed the debt was still outstanding. Kensington 
paid the outstanding amount of £1,874.02  (plus  an administrative fee of £55) in order  to 
prevent action being taken to forfeit Ms Ds lease.
Ms Ds son complained on her behalf to Kensington, saying that he had paid the rentcharge 
in November 2018, in line with a payment  arrangement agreed by the trust. He was also 
unhappy that Kensington had failed to carry out due diligence  and that Kensington 
contacted the debt collectors without authority.
Kensington didnt  uphold  the complaint. It said it had dealt with the same  debt collectors  in 
the past in relation to money owed on Ms Ds property. Kensington also said that the debt 
collectors had confirmed in January 2019 that the debt was still outstanding.
Ms D complained to us where an investigator  looked at the complaint. The investigator didnt 
think Kensington had done anything wrong and so didnt uphold the complaint.
Ms D disagreed with the investigators findings. She said that the trust has dishonestly  made 
false representation, knowing  that the representation was untrue and misleading, with intent 
to make a gain for itself whilst exposing her to risk and loss. Ms D also said that the trust 
fraudulently failed to disclose  information to Kensington,  whilst  under a legal duty to disclose 
that information with the dishonest intention of making a gain and causing loss to her.
Furthermore, Ms D says that when Kensington was challenged about the payment it had 
made, there  was a failure  to refund  the transaction, which Ms D says was in breach of 
regulations. Ms D argues that where a customer has not authorised a payment, Kensington 
is required to reimburse it. 
Finally, Ms D is unhappy that she is being  charged  interest on a dishonest, false  and 
fraudulent representation  made by a third party for money to which it is not entitled.
my findings
I confirm Ive read everything  provided by Ms D and Kensington. Ive considered all the 
available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN01215972The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents.  Ive 
read everything, and its apparent that some  parts of the evidence  are less relevant  to the 
underlying case  than others.  There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition  of 
arguments. In what  follows,  I have, by necessity, summarised  events in rather less detail 
than has been  presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection  of the informal service  we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think  it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint.  This approach is consistent with what  our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which  I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact  on the 
broader outcome.
I will begin by explaining  that the Financial Ombudsman Service  is not a regulator,  and we 
have no power to police financial businesses. What I have to decide is whether  Kensington, 
in making the payment to the debt collection agency, has acted fairly and reasonably.
The starting point  here is the mortgage contract, which  includes the terms and conditions 
(T&Cs). Ive looked  at the T&Cs carefully  and note they contain the following provisions. 
Kensingtons T&Cs state at 33.3 that Ms D must promptly settle any rent, rates,  taxes or 
other bills that are due in connection with the property.
At 51.2 the T&Cs say If default is made  by you in performance or observance  of any of the 
terms of your Mortgage, we may (without being  obliged to do so) take such reasonably steps 
as may be necessary to remedy or secure performance of the same.
At 51.3 Kensington states that Ms D is responsible for any costs,  charges or expenses 
(including legal expenses) at all that we have to pay or bear, as well as our reasonable 
administrative expenses in connection  with any steps we take:(b)  to protect  or perfect  our 
security; (c) to remedy or secure the performance or observance of any of the terms of your 
Mortgage.
Given the above, Im satisfied that Kensington has the right to pay outstanding  rentcharges  
and other  expenses and to recover  the cost of doing  so from Ms D. It doesnt need Ms Ds 
prior authority to enable it to do so. Given this, whilst  Ive noted the points Ms D has made 
about what she says is her entitlement to a refund due to an unauthorised payment, that 
doesnt apply  in these circumstances.
Ive noted what  Ms D has said here about what happened  which is that the trust made a 
false, misleading and fraudulent demand  for money  and that the trust fraudulently failed to 
disclose material information  to Kensington.  If that is, in fact, the case, then thats something 
Ms D will need  to take up with the trust  or with the police if she believes that the trust has 
defrauded her.
But what  I have to decide is whether Kensington acted reasonably in paying  the debt 
collectors £1,874.02  on 7 January 2019.
Im satisfied Kensington was entitled  to rely on the information given to it by the debt 
collectors about the amount outstanding in December 2018. I note that before making 
Ref: DRN01215973payment Kensington both wrote to Ms D and  on 7 January 2019  checked  with the debt 
collectors that the debt was still outstanding.
In the circumstances, Im satisfied Kensington acted reasonably   and in line with the terms 
and conditions of the mortgage  contract   in paying  the amount demanded. If, as Ms D 
contends, the information  given to Kensington was false, shell need to take that up with the 
debt collectors or the trust.
I know this isnt the outcome Ms D was hoping for. I can see she feels  very strongly about 
what she perceives to be a fraud perpetrated on her by the trust. But for the reasons given 
above, I dont  think Kensington  has done  anything wrong.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2020.
Jan OLeary
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0121597