K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains that Bank of Scotland  plc (BoS), trading as Halifax, mis-sold  her payment 
protection Insurance (PPI) as part of a Total Mortgage Protection  Plan (TMPP).
I understand that Miss M has also complained about the advice she received more  recently 
from the insurer of this policy about certain  of its terms and conditions. But this decision only 
addresses her complaint  about how the policy was originally sold to her by BoS.
background
In 2003, Miss M took out a mortgage  with BoS.  At the same  time she was sold a TMPP 
policy. This policy protected  her mortgage  repayments if she was unable  to work because  of 
an accident, sickness or unemployment.  
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Miss M disagreed  with the 
adjudicators view, so the case has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
reasons that Ill now explain.
BoS has provided a copy of the form which Miss M signed at the time of the sale to confirm  
that she wished  to apply for PPI cover. And taking account of what  I know  about how BoS 
normally sold these policies at the time, together with what  Miss M has said about this sale 
herself, I think  she actively decided to take the cover knowing that she had a choice.
As the PPI was recommended  to Miss M by BoS,  it needed to ensure  that it was suitable for 
her. BoS has provided a computer screenshot  which  shows the answers  Miss M gave to 
some questions about her eligibility for the policy and her circumstances at the time. And 
although I cant now know what other steps  it took to ensure the policys suitability, from 
what I know about her circumstances then, I dont  see any reason why it wouldnt have been 
suitable. I say this because:
Miss M appears  to have been  eligible for the policy and not affected  by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations.
Miss M says she had a pre-existing medical  condition at the time of this sale.  But the 
policy didnt exclude  Miss M claiming for this condition if it had been the cause of her not 
being able to work. I say this because the policy covered pre-existing medical conditions 
if, as was the case here, it was taken out with a new mortgage.
Miss M has also said that she didnt realise when she was sold the policy that she would 
not be able to rely on a medical  certificate from her GP if she needed to make a claim 
because her pre-existing medical condition meant she was unable to work. Ive looked at 
the policy document which  does make it clear that additional radiological evidence would 
be required  from a doctor  - at the insureds expense - to support a claim for a medical 
Ref: DRN05693762condition of the type Miss M suffered from. And I think its quite possible that this 
requirement wasnt specifically drawn  to her attention when she agreed to take the PPI.
But I dont think that this requirement  would  have made it that much  more difficult for her 
to make a successful claim if her pre-existing  medical condition was the cause  of her 
having to take an extended  time off work.  So I dont think that this policy requirement 
would have made the policy unsuitable  for her - or put her off taking the policy - even if 
she had been  fully aware of it.
Miss M say she was entitled to some sick pay from her employer. But this policy would 
have paid out in addition  to any other  means  she might have had available  for making 
her monthly mortgage payments.  It would  have paid out for up to twenty four months if 
she was unable to work because of an accident,  sickness or unemployment. And a 
mortgage is a big financial commitment  where  ones  home  is potentially  at risk if 
repayments cant be made  so I think Miss M would have valued the extra  security  that 
the policy gave  her.
Ive no reason to think that the policy was unaffordable  for Miss M. And as the premiums 
were paid monthly, she could have  cancelled it if it no longer met her needs.
BoS also needed to give Miss M enough  information  for her to decide  if she wanted  to take 
the PPI policy. I think its possible that the information it gave her could have been better 
than it was. But for much the same reasons that I dont think the policy was unsuitable for 
Miss M, I dont think that better information  would have changed her mind about taking it. I 
think shed still have  thought the policy gave her useful protection  at an affordable  cost.
So I dont  think that Miss M has lost out by anything  that BoS may have done wrong when it 
sold her this PPI policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, Im not upholding this mis-sale complaint against 
Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 June 2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0569376