K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that AXA Insurance  UK Plc declined  their cancellation claim under 
their travel insurance and about its service. My references to AXA include its agents.
background
Mr and Mrs D have travel insurance through a bank account. The insurer  is AXA.
Mr and Mrs D were due to go on a cruise. The evening before leaving  home  they put their 
suitcases in their car in their drive to prepare  for an early start the next morning. On the 
morning of departure  at about  9.30am they discovered all the suitcases, with belongings 
worth several thousand pounds, had been  stolen. They immediately reported the theft to the 
police.
A police officer arrived at Mr and Mrs D home  about  11am. Mr D says the police officer told 
them to stay indoors  with locked doors  while she made local enquiries and she would return 
to take a statement. Mr D says the police officer returned to them at about 2pm and left 
about 2.45pm.
Mr and Mrs D had been due to board the cruise  ship at 1pm which  departed at 4pm. They  
didnt have enough time to get to the ship before it left. They  claimed for theft of their items 
and the cancellation cost of the holiday.
AXA said neither claim  was covered by the policy terms. Mr and Mrs D accepted the theft 
claim wasn't covered but want AXA to pay the cancellation claim. They say they acted as the 
police officer told them to. They had no choice  but to cancel the holiday  and the policy 
doesnt state their circumstances arent  covered. They are also unhappy about how AXA 
dealt with the claim. It asked for lots of information from themselves and the police officer  
over about  a three month  period then declined  the claim on a point it should have known 
from the start.
Our investigator thought AXA had fairly declined the cancellation claim.
Mr and Mrs D disagreed  and wanted an ombudsmans decision.
my provisional decision
I made  a provisional decision  explaining  why I was intending to uphold this complaint. I said:
I need to decide whether AXA fairly and reasonably declined  the cancellation claim and 
gave reasonable service.
The policy covers cancellation for specified  events listed in the policy. Most, if not all, travel 
insurance policies  cover cancellation  only for specific situations  and many policies have the 
same or similar cover  as Mr and Mrs Ds policy. Their situation doesnt  have  to be included  
under the what  is not covered part of the policy section. The policy  is already clear  that 
cancellation is only covered as a result of one of the specified events.
However, the policy does  give cancellation cover for:
Ref: DRN02469072The Police requesting  You to remain at or return to Your Home when a loss in excess  of 
£1,500 is involved  due to serious  damage to Your Home caused by fire, aircraft, explosion,  
storm, flood, subsidence,  malicious persons or theft  (my emphasis).
I accept there was no serious damage  to Mr and Mrs Ds home from the theft. But on a fair 
and reasonable basis  I think their circumstances could fit the purpose of that cover if there is 
sufficient evidence that the police  told them to remain  at home due to theft of their property 
which meant they had to cancel their holiday.
Mr D has been clear  about what he understood the police  officers instruction to be. AXA 
asked to speak  to the police officer and weve listened to the recording  of the call between 
the police  officer and AXA.
AXA asked the police  officer whether she told Mr and Mrs D to stay at home due to the 
investigation. The police officer said they were initially told to stay at home  because  
I needed to speak to any witnesses, so they were  asked to remain contactable at that point, 
to help identify  the luggage  if they were  ever found.
AXA then asked if that was for a certain  amount of time. The police officer  said there  wasnt 
a timeframe as such, I just asked them to stay contactable.
AXAs taken  the police  officers comments to mean that she didnt tell Mr and Mrs D not to 
go on holiday. But the key point is whether the police  officers instruction to stay at home 
meant they had to cancel their trip.
AXA asked Mr D for a timeline  of when the police  officer arrived,  departed and the timing for 
the cruise. Mr D gave it those details which AXA hasnt disputed.
From the evidence I'm satisfied that the police  officer confirmed to AXA that Mr and Mrs D 
were initially  told to stay at home as she needed to speak to any witnesses. They  acted 
reasonably in following the police  officers instruction. From Mr Ds timeline,  by the time the 
police returned  to speak to Mr and Mrs D it was too late for them  to reach  the cruise ship.
A fair and reasonable outcome is for AXA to pay the cancellation  subject to the remaining 
policy terms and limits, plus interest  as Ive detailed below.
As to AXAs service, I think it acted reasonably in asking for the additional  information.  I see 
that it gave consideration to the additional  information in making its decision, although I dont 
think its decision was fair.
AXA did offer Mr and Mrs D £50 compensation for not replying  to some of Mr Ds emails 
during the complaint process,  which was a reasonable amount for their stress  and 
inconvenience.
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr and Mrs D had nothing to add.
AXA disagreed with my provisional decision. In summary it said:
The purpose of the policy term Id quoted is if a consumer is unable to travel  due to 
serious damage to their home  to ensure  the property is secure. The policy  defined  
Ref: DRN02469073home as the consumers  place of residence. Mr and Mrs Ds home wasnt damaged  
so they werent  covered under the policy term. 
There wasnt enough evidence that the police officer told Mr and Mrs D to remain at 
home due to the theft or that they needed to cancel their holiday.  They  were  only told 
to remain contactable. 
Mr and Mrs D could have picked up the cruise at the next port and mitigated their 
loss. They didnt  want to travel  without their holiday belongings.  
The policy said a consumer had to take reasonable precautions  to avoid theft and 
take all reasonable steps to safeguard property from loss. Mr and Mrs D left 
thousands of pounds of belongings in their unattended car overnight so they hadnt 
taken reasonable  precautions to safeguard their baggage. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AXAs additional points  havent changed  my mind. Ill explain why.
I accept that on a strict interpretation of the policy terms the claim isnt covered. But I need  to 
decide a fair and reasonable  outcome.  
In my provisional decision I noted  there  was no serious damage to Mr and Mrs Ds home  
from the theft. AXA says the only purpose of the relevant policy term is cover when a 
consumer cant travel because they have to secure their property. I think  Mr and Mrs Ds 
circumstances are a fair comparison. A police officer had told them to remain  at home to 
give a statement about the theft of their personal  property from their car in their home  
driveway, which AXA says was worth thousands  of pounds.
There is enough evidence  that the police officer told Mr and Mrs D to initially stay at home 
while she made local enquires about the theft. There doesnt need to be evidence  that the 
police officer told Mr and Mrs D to cancel their trip because of the theft. As Ive said,  the 
issue is that the police officers  instruction  to Mr and Mrs D to stay at home, which  they 
reasonably followed, meant they couldnt  get to the cruise ship on time.
AXA has now raised that Mr and Mrs D could have mitigated their loss by getting on the ship 
at the next port. But its not provided me with any evidence of likely costs of Mr and Mrs D 
getting to the next port or whether that was practically possible. I havent got enough 
evidence to say AXA can reasonably rely on non-mitigation to decline the claim.
AXA has also now raised that it doesnt think Mr and Mrs D took reasonable precautions to 
avoid the theft.  Ive not seen the detailed evidence of the circumstances of the theft from the 
car as AXA declined the theft claim because the theft was at home  and not during a trip. Im 
not considering  AXAs  decline of the theft claim  as Mr and Mrs D accepted the decline. 
AXAs policy  for theft of baggage accepts there might be some circumstances where there is 
cover for theft of baggage  from a vehicle. Ive no evidence that Mr and Mrs D didnt take 
reasonable precautions with their baggage.
Neither party has commented on my provisional  findings about AXAs service.
Ref: DRN02469074For the reasons  in my provisional findings  and these findings  I uphold this complaint about  
AXAs decline of the cancellation claim. Im satisfied AXAs offer of £50 compensation for 
service issues  was a reasonable amount.
AXA must pay Mr and Mrs Ds cancellation claim in line with the policy terms and limits,  plus 
interest as detailed below.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay Mr and Mrs Ds cancellation claim in line with the 
policy terms and limits. Interest* is payable at 8% simple  a year from the date of claim to the 
date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 June  2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
*If AXA Insurance UK Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to take off 
income tax from that interest it should tell Mr and Mrs D how much its taken off. It should  
also give Mr and Mrs D a certificate showing  this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim  the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN0246907