K820x#14complaint
Mr M says Provident Personal  Credit  Limited  (trading as Satsuma Loans) irresponsibly 
lent to him.
background
This complaint is about four instalment loans Satsuma provided to Mr M between October 
2015 and February  2018. Mr M borrowed amounts ranging between £500  and £1,200 to be 
repaid in instalments over 6, 7 or 12 months. The highest expected  monthly instalments 
ranged between  £116 and £342. There was a twelve month gap between  Mr M repaying 
loan one and taking out loan two. And there  was an eight month  gap between  him repaying 
loan two and taking out loan three.  Mr M repaid all his loans. Satsuma offered redress  for 
loans one to three, but Mr M was unhappy with this. He said hed been in a debt 
management plan at the time.
our adjudicators view
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Ms complaint in part and thought loan one shouldnt have been  
given. Mr M disagreed. He thought Satsuma had been irresponsible in providing all the loans. 
He said it was the later loans that had caused him financial difficulties and a check of his credit 
file would have  shown defaults.  And so the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr M 
and to Satsuma  on 23 January  2020.  I summarise my findings:
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I thought  less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.   
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers  income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult  to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number  and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer  has been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Ref: DRN09130842There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I thought that it was important for me to start by saying that Satsuma was required to 
establish whether  Mr M could sustainably repay  his loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict  pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
I carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information provided  in this context 
and what this all meant  for Mr Ms complaint.
Mr Ms complaint was about four loans, but I could  see that Satsuma had already made the 
redress for loans one to three that I would have required if Id upheld  the complaint about 
these loans. So I could  see no reason  to consider  loans one to three further.  
I thought the gap between  Mr M repaying  loan two and three was significant. So I thought it 
was reasonable  for Satsuma to carry out the affordability checks  that were proportionate to 
the start of a new lending relationship from loan three. By this I meant checks  that took 
regard of the size of the repayments  compared to Mr Ms salary, the length of the loan 
agreement, and the number of previous loans. 
Satsuma asked Mr M for information  about his income and expenditure and it carried out 
credit checks. Mr M said his monthly income was £3,854 for loan four. Mr M said his monthly  
expenditure was £1,235. Satsuma also calculated an additional amount of outgoings  which 
increased this to £2,788. Satsuma wasnt required to check  Mr Ms credit  file before 
approving his loans, so I couldnt see that it knew  that Mr M had defaults  on his record.    
For loan four, given  the loan amount, what was apparent about Mr Ms circumstances at the 
time and his history  with Satsuma, I didnt think it wouldve  been  proportionate to ask him for 
the amount of information needed to show the lending was unsustainable. There wasnt 
anything in the information Mr M provided  or the information Satsuma shouldve been aware 
of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start verifying  what Mr M was saying. 
From the information Mr M provided  and what Satsuma calculated, I thought it looked as if 
he had sufficient disposable income to meet his repayments for loan four sustainably. So I 
couldnt say that Satsuma  was wrong  to provide  this loan. 
Subject to any further representations by Mr M or Satsuma, my provisional decision was that 
I intended to not uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN09130843my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Satsuma didnt respond to my provisional  decision.  Mr M replied that he thought Satsuma 
shouldnt have given  him the loans. He said these had caused him financial difficulties. He 
said hed had to sell his house and he was in a debt management plan. He said his 
complaints had been upheld in other cases.  
I was sorry to hear about Mr Ms circumstances and I can understand that he feels the loans 
were unsuitable  for him. But, as Ive explained  above, I think Satsuma carried out 
proportionate affordability checks for loan four. I think that from the information  he provided 
to Satsuma it looked as if he could afford to meet the loan repayments. So I cant  say it was 
wrong for Satsuma to provide  loan four. 
Mr M drew my attention  to his other complaints that have been  upheld. But we decide each 
complaint on its merits so the findings of one complaint wont  be applied  to another. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0913084