K820x#14complaint
Mrs S is unhappy with the premiums shes been charged for her home  insurance by 
St Andrews  Insurance Plc.
background
Mrs S took out her policy  with St Andrews in 2009. Shed had a subsidence  claim in the past 
and was limited in respect of what was available on the market. When  her policy  came  up for 
renewal in 2010, she was told St Andrews couldnt offer her a discount.  She contacted it in 
subsequent years. For the 2012  renewal the premium decreased  slightly when she opted to 
increase the excess. 
She contacted St Andrews each subsequent year but it wasnt able to offer her a discount 
until 2016. She queried why it hadnt  offered her a discount in previous years and was told it 
was because she hadnt asked for one. St Andrews later confirmed it hadnt been able to 
offer discounts in previous  years  and it wasnt in fact because she hadnt asked. Its pricing  
model changed in 2015  which  is why it was then able to offer a discount  in 2016.
Mrs S remained unhappy.  She felt that shed been  taken advantage  of because she had a 
previous subsidence claim on her record. She felt that St Andrews hadnt taken account of 
her particular position when the subsidence claim was related to coal mining activity.
On referral to this service  our adjudicator didnt think that Mrs S had been treated unfairly. 
Mrs S was unhappy with this and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
The matter  has been referred to me for consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
price
We have explained  to Mrs S that St Andrews has shared commercially  sensitive  confidential 
information with us concerning the pricing of her policy.  I recognise  that Mrs S is unhappy 
that we cant share this with her, but I can assure  her that we have considered  the 
information given  to us carefully.  In Mrs Ss case I can tell her that her circumstances,  claims 
history and the information St Andrews has shared with us does indicate that for this policy,  
it assessed the premiums  fairly in accordance with its own pricing structure and assessment 
of risk. 
Generally insurers are free to assess risk and to charge premiums in accordance with their 
own pricing models. Clearly the history of subsidence  would  have been  taken  into account 
but I cant see that it had a disproportionate effect on this policy. Mrs S feels  that St 
Andrews took advantage  of her position. But I cant see any evidence of that. We are 
generally concerned  to see that consumers arent unfairly treated compared to other 
policyholders in a similar  position. In this case St Andrews has applied  its price increases 
across the board for risks similar to those  of Mrs S. So I dont think  shes  been unfairly 
singled out.
vulnerable customers
Ref: DRN07974352We generally look to see that where a policy premium is increased  from year to year that the 
policyholder is able to query it and that they arent treated unfairly  because  they may not 
have had access to all the information they needed  to make an informed  decision about  
renewal. This could  potentially lead to unfairness, particularly where an insurer  isnt taking 
appropriate care. I dont  think  this was an issue in Mrs Ss case.  She was clearly  able to 
address her concerns about the price every  year the policy renewed and she wasnt  misled 
by St Andrews when  she did, other than the mistake in 2016  about the lack of availability of 
discounts in previous years.
Mrs S is also unhappy that St Andrews will only offer discounts if policyholders query  the 
renewal premium. It has explained that its only in a position to review individual policies if 
the policyholder  contacts  it. With a large  number  of policyholders it isnt always  possible to 
contact each and every policyholder individually to ask if they have  specific concerns about 
their policies. But I wouldnt expect  an insurer to take advantage of a consumers lack of 
contact to raise their price  to unreasonable levels, not connected with any risk of that 
particular consumer needing to make a claim;  the costs of servicing their policy; and/or their 
commercial requirements to make a reasonable profit on the policy. Having taken her 
circumstances into account,  Im satisfied in Mrs Ss case that St Andrews didnt treat her 
unfairly or unreasonably. 
availability of other policies
Mrs S has now been able to find a policy  that suits her needs for a greatly reduced price. 
That doesnt  mean she would have paid that price in previous years. As she is aware, new 
policies can have large introductory  discounts.  In Mrs Ss case,  I havent  seen any evidence  
that St Andrews had a cheaper  policy available  that could have been offered to her before 
2016.
specific policy
Mrs S complains that she asked St Andrews each year to carry out an actuarial assessment 
of her policy. Im not aware that St Andrews offers such  a service but any policy that is 
tailored to a consumers specific needs  can sometimes  significantly increase the price.  
Typically there is a more  in-depth application process and sometimes  a home visit from the 
insurer. St Andrews offers standard policies to many different customers  and it will have 
carried out its risk calculations centrally and applied those to all its policyholders.  I dont  think  
its reasonable for Mrs S to expect  St Andrews to have  carried  out a bespoke  calculation for 
her policy every year - rather than relying  on its system generated risk prices for her area.
Insurers often take different attitudes  to risk. And as Mrs S has told us, she was previously 
unable to find any other insurer that was prepared to take the risk of her property on at a 
price that was acceptable to her. But risk models do change over time and that can cause 
insurers to change their minds about the price they need to charge to cover a risk and 
indeed whether or not theyre prepared to provide a policy to that customer  in the first place. 
Mrs S has clearly  now found a cheaper price from another insurer.  But I dont think it would 
be fair for me to say that St Andrews acted unreasonably because it took a different view of 
risk, and hence cost,  to that of the other insurer.
Ref: DRN07974353pricing structure
Mrs S has concerns about the pricing structure operated  by some insurers which  offers a 
large discount at first and then increases the premiums after that. She also says that 
because she may have been  treated the same as other  policyholders in a similar position, 
just means that as a class they were all treated unfairly.
We can only look at individual consumer  complaints.  But where our decisions find 
wrongdoing on the part of a business, it is generally required to learn from that and amend 
its conduct accordingly. Any complaints about  the overall practices of insurers should  be 
addressed to the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. Its fair to say that in recent  
years, the way insurers deal with pricing and renewals has been  the subject of a lot of 
discussion on a more  general level. 
This in part is why it has taken some  time for this service to address these sorts of 
complaints. And Im sorry that this has meant  that Mrs S had had to wait a while for this 
decision.
overall
Overall, I think St Andrews has priced Mrs Ss policy  fairly  in accordance with its risk pricing 
structure and that it has treated Mrs S, as an individual, fairly.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0797435