K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains that a used car he got with finance  from N.I.I.B. Group Limited  (trading as 
Northridge Finance) (Northridge) was of unsatisfactory  quality. 
background
Mr P got this car near the start of October 2018 with a hire purchase agreement  (HPA) from 
Northridge. He took the car back to the dealer about  six weeks  later,  after he noticed  an 
abnormal noise when  the car was in first gear. The dealer replaced the clutch  but the noise 
returned and Mr P took the car back again.  The dealer replaced the dual mass flywheel and 
slave cylinder in December 2018 but the noise  persisted and Mr P complained to Northridge. 
Northridge was satisfied  that the dealer had repaired the car so it asked for more  evidence 
and Mr P arranged for a third party expert to carry out an inspection in February  2019.  
Amongst other things, the expert  confirmed there was an abnormal noise coming from the 
clutch. Northridge didnt  think this was sufficient to show  that the car was of unsatisfactory  
quality when it was supplied. Northridge says any issues still present were probably  caused 
by Mr P using the car as a taxi - given how far he was able to drive the vehicle after supply. 
One of our adjudicators looked  at the evidence. Hes satisfied that Mr P reported  unusual 
clutch noise within two months of supply, the dealer accepted there  was a problem and 
carried out repairs and the noise was still there  when the independent expert  checked  the 
car in February 2019. He thinks its likely the car has a fault that was present at the point of 
supply. He says it was fair the dealer had the chance to fix things (in line with legislation) but 
hes satisfied those  repairs were  not successful. 
He recommends the complaint should  be upheld and Northridge should  cancel the HPA,  
take the car back  and refund any deposit along with the experts fee of £272, plus interest. 
He doesnt think  Northridge should  have to refund  any monthly finance payments - as Mr P 
was able to use the car most of the time. But, he considers Mr P probably  experienced upset 
and inconvenience  and Northridge should  pay him £100 compensation for that.  
Northridge didnt agree so the matter was referred  to an ombudsman.  Northridge said (in 
summary)
the car was subject  to a pre-delivery inspection  that gave it a clean bill of health and, 
while that was some months  before sale,  the car was only driven about 99 miles after 
that, before supply;  
Mr P used  the car as a taxi and drove  around  12,000 miles in four months - which  is 
a typical annual usage - meaning  the car was put to abnormal use;
no qualified party has deemed the goods to be of unsatisfactory quality and the 
expert did not say the issues he found  were  present at the point of supply; 
the expert did note a number of wear and tear items - such as worn tyres,  scuffed  
wheels and a low oil level (but no leak) - and he highlighted that "further regular 
expenditure is likely in order to maintain vehicle roadworthiness";
issues recurred due to substantial use over a relatively short  period of time; 
the adjudicator  speculated that parts being  replaced and repairs completed  during 
Mr P's use means there was an inherent fault without taking into account the much 
higher degree  of wear and tear due to commercial use; and
Ref: DRN06390492it is contradictory for the adjudicator  to both accept that Mr P had fair use (and 
shouldnt have  any monthly payments refunded) but also find the car was of 
unsatisfactory quality  when it was supplied.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 5 May 2020 and my provisional findings are set out below  
(in italics).  
the Consumer  Rights Act 2015 (CRA) 
When considering  whats fair and reasonable, I must  have regard to relevant law and 
regulations - amongst other things. For the purposes of the CRA a consumer is an 
individual who is not acting wholly or mainly  in the course  of a business or trade.  Theres  no 
dispute that Mr P used  this car as a taxi but he told us he didnt acquire it with that use in 
mind. He said he got the car for private  use mainly  but lost his job not long after and started 
work as a taxi driver.  I think what he says sounds credible and Mr P seems  to come within 
the definition of a consumer under the CRA,  meaning its provisions are relevant here. 
satisfactory quality
Northridge supplied the car to Mr P under a HPA and Northridge was required - under the 
CRA - to ensure the car was of satisfactory quality  when  Mr P got it. What amounts  to 
satisfactory quality varies, depending  on individual circumstances, but its generally 
considered reasonable to take the age, cost and mileage into account in the case  of a used  
car. The car supplied to Mr P was about three  and a half years old, cost around £10,000 and 
had just over 21,000  miles on the clock. I think most people would accept that a car like this 
wouldnt meet the same  standard as a brand new vehicle - some parts would be worn  and 
need to be repaired  or replaced sooner or later - and thats reflected in the lower price paid. 
what, if anything,  went  wrong with this car?
Ive seen paperwork from the dealer that shows Mr P took the car back  in late November 
2018 because  he was concerned about  a noise  in 1st gear, crunching noise. The dealer 
confirmed this sound was present on a road test with Mr P and, on checking  the gearbox,  
found some  fluid contamination. The dealer didnt think this would affect the service life of 
the gearbox but agreed to book  the car in for investigation and flush and renew  this fluid. 
The dealer  removed the gearbox and inspected the clutch about a week later. The car had 
just over 27,200  miles on the clock at this stage so Mr P had driven  about  6,000 miles since 
supply. The dealer found an automatic repair validation code using the manufacturers 
diagnostics system and the clutch was replaced  at no charge to Mr P under  a warranty  he 
got with the car. Im satisfied (from documents the dealer provided) that Mr P took the car 
back again about a week or so later - having only driven about another  600 miles since the 
previous repair  - as the clutch noise was still present.  The relevant job card says a master 
technician carried out a road test and the flywheel was found to be leaking grease between 
the mating faces causing a noise  when taking up the drive and the flywheel  and slave 
cylinder were replaced under warranty. 
satisfactory quality
Ref: DRN06390493I accept engine parts like the clutch and flywheel will wear over time and need to be replaced 
at some point. But, I dont think most people would expect to have to replace  a clutch and 
flywheel in a three and a half year old car with around 21,000  miles on the clock - that theyd  
only acquired about six weeks before and driven about 6,000  miles. 
The CRA says (broadly speaking)  that faults  which appear within the first six months  are 
deemed to have been present at the outset - unless theres good reason  to think  otherwise. 
Im satisfied that abnormal clutch noise appeared here within  two months of supply  when Mr 
P had driven about 6,000 miles. I dont think cars normally  make this sort of sound. On 
balance, I am not persuaded  that its likely the work done by the dealer  was required as a 
result of Mr Ps use of the car. I think its more  likely  than not there was something wrong 
when it was supplied,  meaning the car was of unsatisfactory quality at the outset.   
Under the CRA, Northridge  was entitled  to one opportunity to have  the car fixed  and I think  it 
was reasonable  of Mr P to agree that the dealer should have the chance  to carry out repairs.  
If those repairs had resolved the problem, I think that would probably have been  the end of 
the matter. But, Mr P says the repairs didnt work, the noise returned very soon after and the 
car is still faulty. Northridge, on the other hand  says Mr P has been able to carry on using the 
car - and drive it much further  than average  - so the car must  be of satisfactory  quality.  
the experts report  
Mr P got an expert to inspect the car in February 2019. Im satisfied the expert  is 
independent and seems to have  relevant qualifications and experience. He took the car on a 
test drive, carried  out a visual inspection and provided a report.  I think this is fairly  detailed 
and makes sense. I find it reasonable to give some weight to what the expert says and I 
have summarised his conclusions below. 
The expert found the car had essential  issues as follows:-  
two tyres close to the legal tread  limit; and 
a droning type noise coming from the clutch system and/or flywheel which  is 
present while  taking up drive at clutch bit pointthe reported noise is particularly 
noticeable when  reversing from [the] driveway which  is slightly  sloped upwards and 
further investigation was needed  to diagnose this present fault. 
The expert also found several  desirable  items that needed fixing  including  
a fly within the lamp of a tail light
out of date spare tyre gel repair liquid 
engine oil level showing half level on dipstick, he couldnt see a leak but 
recommended this should be investigated;
nail in tread of one tyre;
the rim of one wheel was scuffed;
air conditioning was inoperative during static checks; and
the rear parcel  shelf was missing. 
The expert said the defects he found may prove  costly to rectify. I am satisfied the expert 
considered the noise  he heard was not normal and suggested the car still had a fault that 
needed investigation and may prove  costly  to repair. In light of the experts  findings,  I am not 
persuaded the repairs undertaken by the dealer were successful. 
Ref: DRN06390494Mr Ps use of the car
I accept Mr P used this car as a taxi and he had driven more  than 12,000 miles by the time 
of the experts  inspection.  But, Im satisfied hed only travelled about half that distance  when 
he first reported the problem with the clutch. And theres  no mileage limit - or prohibition  on 
commercial use - in the HPA terms. I dont think the relatively minor issues  noted by the 
expert - like a nail in tyre tread  and a scuffed wheel - mean  Mr Ps use was out of the 
ordinary. And I think other desirable  items  the expert noted  - such as the inoperative air 
conditioning, out of date spare tyre gel and the missing  parcel  shelf - could  easily have been 
present when the car was supplied.  
If there had been signs of abnormal use when the expert checked the car Id expect him to 
say so in his report. I acknowledge the expert found wear and tear present when he saw the 
car but - aside  from specific faults noted above  - he considered this was consistent with the 
cars age and mileage. It was open  to Northridge to have the car checked  elsewhere if it 
disagreed with the experts view but it chose  not to do so.
I appreciate Northridge  considers  the fact Mr P carried on driving  the car means it must be of 
satisfactory quality. But, Im satisfied satisfactory  quality involves considering more than a 
cars basic roadworthiness. The CRA  says it includes fitness  for purpose,  appearance and 
finish, freedom from minor  defects and durability, amongst  other things. And I am not 
persuaded I can fairly find this car must  be of satisfactory  quality just because Mr P 
continued to use it in the way that he did.  
putting things  right
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  Im satisfied  this car has parts that are not performing as 
they should. I cant say what  the problem is exactly - or what  the long term effect  may be - 
from the evidence  I have. But, I dont think Northridge has done  enough to demonstrate that 
this car didnt have  faults present at the point of supply - or show that any issues present 
then were fixed within a reasonable time.    
The CRA says Mr P has a final right to reject in this situation. And, taking everything Ive 
seen so far into account, I am minded to find its fair that Northridge should  take the car back 
and refund his deposit. The sale invoice says Mr P paid a deposit of £1,000  plus a £500 
part-exchange contribution so Im inclined to find Northridge should refund £1,500. 
Northridge asked Mr P for more evidence  so he arranged for the experts inspection that cost 
£272. I think it is reasonable  for Northridge to refund that as well - and pay interest on the 
refunds. 
Theres no dispute that Mr P continued  to use the car - I understand he would have  preferred  
not to but he had no alternative. Im inclined to agree with our adjudicator that Northridge 
shouldnt have to refund any monthly payments in these particular circumstances. But, I 
think Mr P is likely to have  experienced some upset and inconvenience as a result of being 
supplied with a faulty car. I can see he had to take it back several times for investigations 
and repairs. He arranged  the experts  inspection and hes also had to drive  a car that makes 
an odd droning  sound - which  is probably  unsettling. I am minded to find it is fair for 
Northridge to pay £100 compensation in recognition of that, overall. 
I invited the parties  to consider my provisional conclusions and let me have any further 
submissions by 5 June 2020 and explained  that I would review all of the evidence available 
and make my final decision after that. . 
Ref: DRN06390495the responses received from the parties.  
Mr P accepted my provisional conclusions. Northridge provided a detailed response over 
several emails, which included some comments and paperwork provided by the dealer, so 
Ive summarised whats been said below:-
paperwork Mr P completed when he took out the finance shows he was employed  as 
a taxi driver at that time meaning  he got the car in the course  of a business and 
doesnt meet  the definition of a consumer under the CRA so provisions in respect of 
the supplier having  only one opportunity to repair  dont apply;
if Mr P acquired the car for private use thats not consistent with the mileage covered;
the car was not faulty at the outset,  it was fit for purpose  and Mr P is still using it;
the noise didnt appear until the car had travelled over 6,000  miles and theres  no 
reasonable basis to conclude  that it was faulty at the point of supply;
the experts report was some  four months after supply  by which time the car had 
covered 12,000 miles since supply but also 6,000 miles  since  Mr P reported that the 
noise had returned but I have  not considered whether Mr Ps continued use caused 
the problem or made things worse;
I have overlooked the fact that Mr P did not just use the car for essential  travel such 
as commuting  he used it as a taxi and MOT records (as at December 2019) show  
he was able to cover over 20,000 miles after supply; and 
on the figures I proposed in my provisional decision Mr P would only pay about 14p a 
mile for usage, which is too low (especially  as he used  it as a taxi), the courts would 
allow a higher rate and Mr P should  pay more  specifically 45p a mile for the first 
10,000 miles and 25p a mile after that.
my findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of 
the available  evidence and the wider circumstances.
Ive considered the additional evidence provided and the comments made, carefully. Ive 
seen some paperwork from the dealer that says Mr P declared that he was working as a taxi 
driver when he took out the finance for the car. But, Im not persuaded that must mean Mr P 
intended to use this particular vehicle for his work as a taxi driver when he first got it. 
Mr P told us that he first noticed a problem with the car when  he took his family on holiday - 
which suggests he made some personal  use of the car at the outset. I appreciate that 
doesnt exclude using the car for work at the same  time but Mr P has consistently  stated that 
this was not his original  intention - and he only decided to use the car as a taxi after he took 
out the HPA. I dont  think what  he says sounds unreasonable or implausible. And Im not 
persuaded, on balance, that I can safely conclude he was not an individual  acting for 
purposes that are wholly or mainly outside  his business when he first got the car. 
For the reasons  Ive explained already, Im satisfied Northridge was required to provide a car 
of satisfactory quality here. And I dont  think a reasonable person would expect to find the 
sort of issues that were  present here in a three  and a half year old car with around 21,000  
miles on the clock that cost about £10,000.  Im satisfied that Mr P took the car back  to the 
Ref: DRN06390496dealer because he thought there  was something wrong with it within a reasonable time - less 
than two months after supply. I think the issues the independent export  found  sound  similar 
to the problems Mr P reported early on. And I remain of the view its more likely than not the 
car had a fault that was present at the outset and persisted, notwithstanding  the repairs the 
dealer carried out. Im not persuaded this car was repaired within  a reasonable time and 
without causing  Mr P significant inconvenience.  And I find its unreasonable  to expect  Mr P 
to keep the car, in this situation. 
I appreciate Northridge  thinks Mr P hasnt paid enough  for the use he had of the car  and a 
court would require  him to pay more for that. This service provides informal dispute 
resolution as an alternative  to the courts. Im obliged  to take account  of relevant law, 
regulations and industry practice (amongst other things) - and I have done so here. But, I 
make my decision  based on what I consider to be fair and reasonable overall. 
Im satisfied that the HPA doesnt prohibit Mr P from using  this car as a taxi or require that he 
put it to essential use only - nor does it impose mileage limits  or additional  mileage 
charges. I think it was open to Northridge to include this sort thing  in the HPA terms and 
conditions, if it wanted to do so - but it didnt. And I am not persuaded it would be reasonable 
to apply additional charges retrospectively  now. For the reasons Ive explained already, I find 
it fair that Mr P should pay something  for the use he had of the car and Northridge should 
retain the monthly payments  made  - as set out in my provisional  findings. 
Having considered all of the available  evidence, I think the outcome I proposed  in my 
provisional decision is fair and reasonable overall, in these particular circumstances. And I 
am not persuaded that there  are reasonable grounds to depart from my provisional 
conclusions. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my decision is I uphold this complaint and I require N.I.I.B. Group 
Limited (trading as Northridge Finance) to:- 
1.end the HPA with nothing  further  owing and mark  the finance as settled on Mr Ps 
credit file;
2.take the car back at no cost to Mr P;
3.refund  the deposit of £1,500 along  with the experts fee of £272;
4.pay interest on those refunds at 8% simple  a year from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement;  and 
5.pay Mr P £100 compensation for upset and inconvenience.
If Northridge considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from that interest, it should  tell Mr P how much  its taken  off. It should also give Mr P a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 November  2020.
Claire Jackson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0639049