K820x#14Complaint
Mrs H says The Funding Corporation Limited (FCL)  mis-sold her a single  premium  payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy alongside a loan.
Background
Mrs H bought the policy in September 2005  in a meeting,  at the same time as she was 
taking out a loan. The loan was for £2,700 plus interest, to which PPI and interest of £882.36 
was added. The PPI would protect  Mrs Hs Loan  repayments if she became ill or had an 
accident so that she was unable to work. 
Mrs H has said she was made  to feel she had to take out the PPI to get the loan she wanted. 
She has also said that she never agreed  to buy PPI.
 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Hs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Hs complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mrs H bought the PPI at a meeting. FCL has confirmed that it made a recommendation that 
she should take out PPI to go with her loan. It also said that it checked the PPI was suitable 
for her situation  although it is no longer able to trace  the demands and needs paperwork it 
says it would have  prepared for her at the time.  
As a recommended  sale, FCL needed  to make sure that the PPI was right for her and that 
the information it gave her about  the policy was clear enough so that she could make an 
informed choice before she decided to take out the cover. 
I can see from the credit agreement for the loan that Mrs H ticked  a separate box for the PPI, 
although she didnt  sign the PPI section  to confirm she was purchasing it. But she did sign 
the adjacent box to show she wanted  to take the loan. So an issue  for me to consider is 
whether I think Mrs H had wanted  to take out the PPI. Although Ive seen that Mrs H says 
she never agreed to it, I have to weigh this up alongside what  shes  told us about not being 
given a choice.  Having thought carefully  about  what Mrs H has told us, I think  its likely that 
Mrs H was aware at the time that she was taking out PPI to go with her loan.
As far as I can see Mrs H was eligible  for the policy. And Ive not seen that she was 
adversely affected  by any of the policys main  terms or exclusions that might have made it 
difficult for her put in a successful claim. 
It also looks as if it was suitable for Mrs H based on what Ive seen of her circumstances and 
given what shes told us. Mrs H appears  at that time to have been entitled  to only limited 
benefits from her employer if she couldnt  work due to accident or sickness. And she didnt 
Ref: DRN05314222have any other sources of funds to fall back on if she could meet the loan repayments.  
The PPI would cover  her payments for up to 12 months if she needed it. 
I cant say that FCL did enough to fully explain the cost of the PPI. But from looking at the 
credit agreement I can see that the total single premium cost and the total with interest 
added are shown,  together with the total cost of the borrowing,  including the PPI. The 
agreement also set out the amount for each monthly  loan repayment,  including the PPI. And 
from the way the document  is set out I think it ought to have been  fairly clear to Mrs H that 
the PPI would be added to the cost of the loan she was taking out. So overall, I cant say that 
Mrs H might have  changed her mind about  taking out the PPI if the costs had been  better 
explained to her at the time.
Having considered the policy terms, I think  Mrs H wouldve received a limited  refund of the 
PPI premium if she decided to cancel the policy early. I dont know  if FCL thought about this 
when it recommended the policy  or explained the situation clearly to Mrs H. But given it 
seems the loan was to be used for a combination  of providing disposable income,  to put a 
deposit on a car and/or  for home  improvements, Ive not seen anything  to suggest that 
Mrs H thought she would repay the loan early at the time of taking it. Therefore, taking into 
account the loan term, I dont  think  this issue made  the policy  unsuitable or better 
information about this wouldve stopped her buying it at that time.
For the reasons  given  Im satisfied on balance that Mrs H did choose to take the PPI policy, 
that any failings  in information provided wouldnt have made a difference  and that the 
recommendation to take it wasnt unsuitable  in his circumstances.
All of this means  that unfortunately  Mrs Hs complaint doesnt succeed.  Im sorry to have to 
disappointment her.
My final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 October  2019.
Michael Goldberg
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0531422