K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Northern Bank Limited,  trading as Danske Bank,  have not upheld a 
chargeback or a claim under section 75 of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 (section  75).
background
Mr M signed up for a home study course in October 2018. He paid for the course using his 
Danske Bank credit  card. 
But he was disappointed with the course.  He thought it wasnt  as simple  as the sales  
material had suggested  and that it was cumbersome.
He complained to the provider but when they rejected  his claim he contacted Danske Bank. 
They didnt process a chargeback as the claim was made outside  of the chargeback  time 
limit. So they considered  a claim under section 75. But they also rejected that claim as they 
said Mr M had withdrawn  his right to cancel  the agreement by accessing the course 
materials.
So Mr M referred his complaint to this service  and our investigator  provided an opinion.  She 
wasnt persuaded there was enough  evidence to suggest the course had been mis-sold to 
Mr M. She understood that he found  the course cumbersome and not as simplistic as hed 
hoped for but she didnt  think that would be the case for everyone.  
Mr M disagreed with the investigator and he therefore asked for a final decision by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators opinion. I know that will disappoint Mr M so please  let me 
explain.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When considering  a complaint about a financial  services provider,  Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section  75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about  whats a fair way to resolve the complaint but I dont have  to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr M made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
When something goes  wrong  and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here,  it might  be possible  to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim or through a chargeback request. This section of the Consumer Credit  Act (1974) 
Ref: DRN03005722says that in certain circumstances, the borrower  under a credit agreement  has a like right to 
claim against the credit provider as against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract 
or misrepresentation by the supplier.
Mr M suggests the contract was misrepresented to him. Hes said it was not simplistic and 
was cumbersome and hes supported that claim by explaining he could not have been  aware  
of the need to transfer money into various  currencies within the course  or of the requirement 
to register with various trading accounts.  Hes explained that the course  was advertised as 
point and click  and he expected it not to be some cumbersome.
Ive thought about what was advertised  and if its fair to say Mr M was mis-sold. If I thought 
that was the case  and if I thought Mr M would  not have signed up for the course if hed not 
been mis-sold, then Id think it fair to hold Danske Bank accountable and Id ask them to take 
some action.
But Im not persuaded there  is sufficient  evidence this course was mis-sold to Mr M. I can 
see that the sales literature explains:
Can anyone really do this? 
As long as youre prepared to take a little time to set everything  up and deposit a bit of cash  
into a digital currency account
So I think its reasonable to suggest  Mr M should  have expected to transfer cash  into digital 
currency and to establish trading accounts.  I understand  that may prove complex but I dont 
think its a reason to suggest the course was misrepresented.
The terms of Mr Ms contract explained that access to the members  area is granted  once 
purchasers have  confirmed they wish to continue  with their purchase  and give up their right 
to cancel.
As Mr M chose to access  this area I think its fair to say he accepted he had waived his right 
to cancel as before he accessed the area he was warned:
 by clicking  the Continue with Payment button  above I am asking to make my purchase 
available immediately and giving up my automatic right to cancel and receive a full refund.
Hes explained that he doesnt think it would have been possible for him to understand that 
the course was cumbersome and not simplistic unless he had accessed it. But, as Ive 
explained, Im not persuaded  that the complexity  Mr M has explained, in the evidence  hes 
provided, could  not have  been reasonably expected  or have been  viewed  as cumbersome 
by others. 
So Im not persuaded there  is sufficient  evidence that the course  was mis-sold to Mr M and I 
therefore dont  think Danske Bank  were unfair  when  they rejected his section 75 claim.
Ref: DRN03005723my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0300572