K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that AXA Insurance  UK Plc has paid only part of their holiday 
cancellation claim under their travel insurance  policy.
My references to AXA Insurance UK Plc include its agents. 
background
I set out the background  to this complaint in my provisional decision, which forms part of this 
final decision. I said I was likely to uphold the complaint.  This is what I said:  
Mrs G took out multi-trip  travel insurance  with AXA for herself,  Mr G and their children. They 
were due to go on a family holiday on 26 August  2018. Unfortunately Mrs G was 
unexpectedly taken into hospital on 12 August 2018. Following a blood  transfusion  and 
surgery she was discharged on 14 August. Her doctor said she couldnt safely travel.  
On 14 August 2018 Mrs G called  AXA from hospital,  to ask about  how to claim given the 
familys holiday was less than two weeks away. She says AXA told her just to get the 
medical certificate signed and not to worry about doing anything  else at that time. She did 
email her travel company, which told her that if she cancelled that day then shed only 
receive £615 back for the holiday which had cost around £1,860. The travel company said 
the cancellation costs would increase each day. 
Mrs G put in her claim to AXA and chased it many times. She wanted  to know whether her 
claim would be successful  as if not then shed see if her husband and children could  travel  
on their own or with another family member. On 21 August AXA told her that shed need to 
cancel the holiday  in order to make a successful claim. She did so, but lost more  than the 
amount her travel company told her shed get back when she first contacted it. 
AXA paid the claim but only for the amount it would have cost Mrs G to cancel the holiday on 
14 August. It said that this in line with the policy terms. Mrs G thought this was unfair,  
because of what AXA told her at the outset.  Shed not made a claim  before  and if shed 
known that AXA would  pay them only the cancellation costs  at the time of claim then shed 
have cancelled the holiday earlier. AXA said that it had asked for the cancellation invoice in 
its email to her at the outset, so it had told her what she needed to do. Mrs G asked  us to 
look into the complaint.  
Our investigator thought AXA had settled the claim fairly. Mrs G didnt agree so the 
complaints been  referred  to me for review. I noted that Mr G is also insured under the policy  
and his share of the holiday is included with the claim. So our investigator has arranged  for 
him to be added to this complaint. 
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Ive listened to all the telephone calls. Having done  so I think the fair outcome is for AXA to 
pay Mr and Mrs G the difference in the amount it actually cost them on cancelling  the holiday  
and the cancellation costs  AXA paid,  plus interest,  and £100  compensation. Ill explain why. 
Ref: DRN03130822When Mrs G called AXA from hospital on 14 August 2018 she explained that she was due to 
travel the following week  (26 August 2018). She said that she was concerned that if AXA 
didnt pay the claim  then she and her husband  would have wasted the money theyd spent  
on the holiday. So she said that she would wait for the outcome of the claim and if AXA 
didnt pay the claim  then her husband and children might still be able to travel. 
Mrs G called AXA again on 15 August 2018.  She asked whether AXA had received the 
medical certificate and repeated that she wouldnt cancel the holiday until she had the claim  
decision. AXA said that it needed the cancellation  certificate. Mrs G explained  that she 
hadnt cancelled  the holiday yet (the flights were  non-refundable),  and explained  again  that 
she didnt want to be in the position of being left without either the claim payment  or the 
holiday. She said shed only get £615 back if she cancelled the holiday. She didnt want to 
lose all her money. She said she had the booking invoice and the email with the cancellation 
information but she hadnt cancelled  the holiday. AXA told her that was not a problem  and 
asked her to send the booking confirmation and everything.  Mrs G said shed forward that to 
AXA, which she did. 
It wasnt until 21 August 2018 when Mrs G chased  AXA for the claim decision that she was 
told that she would have to cancel the holiday before AXA could process the claim. She then 
cancelled the holiday immediately. But AXA paid the cancellation claim for the cost of 
cancelling the holiday on 14 August  2018.  This meant Mr and Mrs G didnt  receive the full 
cost of cancellation. (They would always have  paid the £95 excess per person and they 
dont dispute the excess deductions). 
Mrs G was relying on AXA to give her enough information to make  an informed decision. 
She explained very clearly from the first call on 14 August that she didnt know  whether  to 
cancel the holiday  as she was concerned theyd lose their money and their holiday if AXA 
didnt pay the claim.  
AXA was aware  that it would  only pay the claim from the date Mrs G knew  she would have 
to cancel the holiday  14 August 2018. It was also aware as the travel insurance expert that 
the cost of cancelling the holiday would likely increase sharply given  that the family was due 
to travel on 26 August.  The travel  company had included this information  on its email  with 
the cancellation charges, so Mrs G did know this as well. But what  she didnt know was that 
AXA would only ever pay the cancellation  charge from the date she knew  she had to cancel. 
I dont think it was enough for AXA just to ask for the cancellation charges. It needed to 
explain the consequences of Mrs G not cancelling  the holiday. 
We dont always consider it reasonable for an insurer to expect a consumer to cancel  their 
holiday on the date they suffer a sudden  illness  and know they cant travel. Understandably 
they might  have other priorities. But here Mrs G acted as if she was uninsured. She knew 
the family  was due to travel the following week and she made  a point of calling AXA from her 
hospital bed to make sure she did everything  she could to protect the cost of the familys 
holiday. 
Ive thought about whether Mrs G would have  cancelled the holiday even if AXA had told her 
that it would  only pay the cost of cancelling on 14 August 2018. She says, and I accept, that 
she would  have done. Importantly the evidence is that when AXA did explain the correct 
position to her about needing to cancel the holiday to have the claim assessed she cancelled 
it straight away. So it seems clear to me that shed have done  that on 14 August  despite her 
concern that the claim might not be paid. So the fair outcome is for AXA to pay Mrs G the 
Ref: DRN03130823difference between  the cancellation  costs it did pay and the cancellation costs  on the date 
she actually cancelled the holiday. 
I think Mrs G took every  step to minimise her losses. She had to chase her claim,  and wasnt  
given all the information she needed  to make an informed decision.  She made many calls to 
chase the claim assessment and to check AXA had all the information it needed (which it 
didnt). She then made calls explaining her complaint  and her frustration  that AXA couldnt 
see why she was complaining is clear.  AXA was aware that Mrs G had just had a medical 
emergency and I think its poor handling of her claim caused her and Mr G unnecessary 
distress and inconvenience at an already difficult time. I intend to award £100 compensation 
to reflect  this. 
responses
Mrs G responded to say that she was happy with my provisional  decision.
AXA responded to say that the link it sent to Mrs G on 14 August when she registered the 
claim included  documentation  needed  for the claim to be paid, including the booking  invoice 
and the cancellation invoice. The FAQs section  also said the cancellation  invoice would be 
needed before it could  make the payment. The claims handlers  couldnt confirm payment 
until AXA had received the evidence  to support the claim. AXA doesnt think  it could have 
done anything  more to advise of the need  for a cancellation invoice before the claim could 
be paid. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about AXAs comments  but they dont  change my mind about the fair outcome in 
this case. 
Mrs G called AXA from hospital  on 14 August and clearly told its staff that she didnt intend 
to cancel the holiday. She called again the following day and explained this. AXA was the 
expert and should  have  known that Mrs Gs failure  to cancel the holiday would affect  the 
amount it would pay, given she and her family were due to travel the following week. I accept 
that AXA sent her a link about the cancellation  invoice  and that it couldnt tell her whether it 
would pay her claim until it assessed  the claim.  But it also told her it wasnt  a problem if she 
didnt cancel the holiday when it knew this would have an impact on her claim and the time 
taken to assess it.
I think AXA should fairly have explained from the outset that if Mrs G delayed  in cancelling 
the holiday then shed receive  only the amount it would  have cost to cancel her holiday on 
14 August. If it had then I think shed  have cancelled the holiday on 14 August. It isnt 
enough in this case for AXA to rely on information sent in an email link given that Mrs G had 
explained what she was doing during an earlier telephone conversation  with its staff. When  
AXA did clearly explain that she must  cancel her holiday before it would assess the claim 
she did cancel it, even  though the claim decision hadnt been  made  at that point.
For these reasons and the ones set out in my provisional decision I uphold this complaint. 
I require AXA to take the steps below to resolve it. 
Ref: DRN03130824my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I uphold this complaint. I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to 
pay Mr and Mrs G: 
The difference between the actual amount it cost Mr and Mrs G to cancel the holiday 
on 21 August 2018 and the lower cancellation cost AXA used as the basis  of the 
claim payment. AXA must  add simple interest* to the remaining balance due to 
Mr and Mrs G at 8% per year from the date it paid their claim to the date it pays them  
the remaining  balance; and 
£100 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 November 2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
*If AXA considers  that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs  to take off income tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Mr and Mrs G how much its taken off. It should  also give Mr and 
Mrs G a certificate showing  this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN0313082