K821x#15complaint
Mr S has complained about Zenith  Insurance plc cancelling his van insurance policy.
Reference to Zenith includes  their agents.
background
Mr S took out van insurance online through a price  comparison website. His cover started on 
5 November 2018. During the application he was asked:  have  you made  a claim in the 
last five years? to which  he replied no. 
Mr S had, during the last five years,  been involved in an accident while he was insured as a 
named driver on another policy.  The other driver involved in that accident  had claimed 
against the policy, but Mr S said he didnt know that claim was paid out as he was told by the 
policyholder that the insurer had settled it without telling him (the policyholder).
Very soon after the start of the policy, Zenith found  out about the accident and wrote to Mr S. 
They sent a letter to Mr S dated 6 November 2018 asking him to make contact with them to 
discuss the accident. They said that if he didnt  contact  them  they could either  add an 
additional premium  or cancel the policy. As Mr S didnt respond, the broker sent a further 
similar letter  on 12 November  2018,  again saying  they might  cancel the policy unless he 
responded. Zenith then cancelled the policy on 20 November 2018 and a letter  of the same  
date was sent to Mr S confirming the cancellation.  A further letter about the cancellation 
dated 23 November  2018 was sent to Mr S. On 24 November 2018, Mr S was stopped by 
the police  while driving. He was charged with driving without insurance. 
Mr S complained. He said it was unfair  for Zenith  to cancel  the policy without first telling him. 
He said he only received a letter telling him about  the cancellation after he was stopped by 
the police. He said Zenith could have called or emailed him. Zenith didnt uphold Mr Ss 
complaint.
Mr S didn't  think that was fair and brought his complaint  to us. One of our investigators 
looked into the complaint. She felt that Zenith hadnt  treated Mr S fairly. She said that Mr S 
didnt make a misrepresentation and Zenith shouldnt  have  cancelled  the policy.  She 
suggested that Zenith should: correct all records to remove  any reference to Zenith  
cancelling the policy and provide him with a letter to that effect; reimburse Mr S the 
difference in the cost of his current policy he took out with another  insurer  and the cost of the 
policy with Zenith; reimburse  Mr Ss legal costs of defending the charge of driving without 
insurance; and pay Mr S £750  compensation for the distress and inconvenience he suffered. 
As Zenith didnt agree with our investigator, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision was issued on 28 May 2019. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im intending to 
uphold this complaint.  Ill explain why.
Zenith have said that they didnt cancel the policy because Mr S failed to disclose the 
accident or for not paying  the additional premium of just over £1,000  they would have 
charged him had they known about the accident. They said they cancelled the policy 
because Mr S didnt reply to their letters. But I dont think  thats  correct.  The letters 
Ref: DRN07205852sent to Mr S said they wanted to speak  to him because  they had found  out about  the 
past accident. And in a letter to Mr S dated  7 December 2018 and in their final 
response letter, Zenith said that on discovering  the past accident which they added  to 
his policy, an additional premium of just over £1,000 was due. Zenith havent said 
that the past accident meant they wouldnt have offered cover to Mr S. But it seems 
clear to me the reason  they wanted  to speak with Mr S was to ask him to pay the 
additional premium.  The first letter Zenith sent to Mr S on 6 November  2018  said 
Failure  to contact the office will result  in an additional premium being charged  or the 
cancellation of your policy. Had Mr S contacted  Zenith  after that letter  and paid the 
additional premium  there  would  have been no reason  for Zenith  to have cancelled 
the policy.
I think its quite important  to look at the circumstances that led to the situation  where  
Zenith wanted to speak  to Mr S about  the past accident for which  they would have 
charged him over £1,000 more had they known about it.
Under the Insurance Act 2015,  Mr S had a duty to make a fair presentation of the risk 
when he bought his policy. That means he needed  to tell Zenith about anything  that 
would affect their decision about  whether to offer him cover, on what terms and at 
what cost. 
When a customer makes  an application for insurance, the insurers questions are 
designed in a way to find out all the relevant information to enable  them  to decide  
whether or not they will offer cover, on what terms and at what  cost.  So I expect 
customers to answer all the questions asked accurately during the application.  That 
way the insurer  will have  all the necessary  information to set the correct premium  and 
terms.
In Mr Ss case, he was asked: have  you made a claim in the last five years? to 
which he replied no. Mr S didnt make a claim in the last five years  so I can 
understand why he answered no. So, by answering the question  in the way he did, I 
think Mr S made a fair presentation of the risk. 
It seems  that Zenith wanted to know if Mr S had been involved in any incidents or 
accidents, not just if hed made a claim. And if theyd known about Mr Ss previous 
accident they would have  charged him over £1,000 more  for his policy.  But thats not 
what Zenith asked him. So their question was unclear and inadequate to elicit that 
information. And Zenith have accepted that the question was unclear.  The question 
asked could have  been something like have you been involved in any accidents in 
the past five years. 
Where a policyholder  has breached the duty of fair presentation, and the breach was 
neither deliberate nor reckless and the insurer would still have offered cover  but 
would have charged a higher premium, under the Insurance Act the only remedy  
available to the insurer is to reduce proportionately  the amount to be paid on a claim. 
But in Mr Ss case I dont think he breached his duty of fair presentation so Zenith  
didnt have available to them the remedy under the Insurance  Act. But even if Mr S 
had breached his duty, Zenith  wouldnt have  been  able to charge an additional 
premium or cancel the policy,  both of which they threatened to do in their letter  of 
6 November 2018. When they didnt  hear from Mr S, Zenith went  ahead  and 
cancelled the policy, which  they werent  entitled to do. Their action was 
unreasonable.
Ref: DRN07205853The consequences of their action meant that Mr S was driving while  uninsured from 
20 November 2018 onwards. And within days he was stopped by police and charged 
with driving without insurance. Zenith  said they wrote to Mr S a number of times 
warning him of the potential of cancelling his policy.  They said if he had acted on 
those letters he could  have avoided being  uninsured. While Im satisfied from the 
evidence that Zenith  sent the letters to Mr Ss correct postal address, Mr S said he 
only received a letter after he was stopped by the police.  Its not clear  why Mr S didn't 
receive Zeniths letters, but I believe that's the case as Im persuaded that he would 
have contacted them if he had received those given the importance of Mr Ss driving 
licence for his livelihood. But given that the need for Zenith to further investigate 
Mr Ss driving history  and request an additional premium only arose because the 
question they asked him, and which Mr S answered  honestly, was inadequate  and so 
caused the situation to arise, I don't  think its fair that Mr S is being  penalised  for 
what was essentially Zeniths  mistake in the first place. So I think Zeniths 
cancellation of the policy was unreasonable. I think Zenith  are responsible  for Mr S 
driving without insurance and for the consequences of being  stopped  by the police 
and prosecuted for that. So, as far as is possible, they need to put him back  into the 
position that he would otherwise have been  in. So I intend to uphold  this complaint.
I intend to require Zenith to do the following:
Correct all records on the insurance  databases  to remove any reference to Zenith 
cancelling the policy. Zenith should  provide  Mr S with a letter confirming they 
have done that.
Reimburse Mr S the difference in the cost of his current  policy  he took out with 
another insurer and the cost of the policy with Zenith. Simple  interest should be 
added to that amount at a rate of 8% a year from the date he made payment until 
he is refunded.
Reimburse Mr S £2,400 that he spent on legal fees to successfully defend the 
criminal charge of driving without insurance.  Simple interest should be added  to 
that amount  from the date he made payment to the date he is reimbursed at a 
rate of 8% a year.
I am aware that being  subjected to a criminal prosecution has been  a great 
source of distress and inconvenience  to Mr S. To address that Zenith  should  pay 
Mr S £1,000 compensation.
The parties were invited to comment on my findings. Mr S agreed with my provisional 
decision. But Zenith disagreed with my findings  and said:
The complaint  should be against  the broker who administered the policy.  And it was 
the brokers decision to cancel  the policy.
The reason  for the cancellation  of the policy was for non-compliance  because  Mr S 
didnt respond  to the brokers letters.  
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my findings remain  the 
same. But I would like to respond  to the additional  comments as follows:
Ref: DRN07205854While the broker administered and cancelled the policy,  they did so on Zeniths  behalf.  The 
broker confirmed that they had discovered the past incident relating to Mr S. And when they 
informed Zenith, Zenith said they wanted the incident added to Mr Ss record  which  
generated an additional premium. The additional premium was for Zeniths benefit. So the 
letters sent by the broker to Mr S were because Zenith wanted him to pay an additional 
premium because of the new information  that had been discovered about Mr Ss driving 
history. So I don't think its reasonable for Zenith to conclude that the reason for the 
cancellation was because Mr S didn't respond  to the brokers  letters, especially as the broker 
would have had no reasons to write  those  letters  if Zeniths questions had been  clear.
As I explained in my provisional decision,  the question Mr S was asked was unclear. In 
answering the question in the way he did, he didnt fail in his duty to make a fair 
presentation. And Zenith  are ultimately  responsible for the questions Mr S was asked  when 
he applied  for the policy.  Had the question been  clear, I think Mr S would have given the 
information about the past incident  and the chain of events leading to the cancellation  
wouldnt have been triggered.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Zenith Insurance  plc to:
Correct all records on the insurance  databases  to remove any reference to Zenith 
cancelling the policy. Zenith should  provide  Mr S with a letter confirming they have done  
that.
Reimburse Mr S the difference in the cost of his current  policy  he took out with another  
insurer and the cost of the policy with Zenith. Simple interest  should  be added  to that 
amount at a rate of 8% a year from the date he made payment until he is refunded.1
Reimburse Mr S £2,400 that he spent on legal fees to defend the criminal  charge of 
driving without insurance. Simple interest should  be added to that amount from the date 
he made payment(s) to the date he is reimbursed  at a rate of 8% a year.
Pay Mr S £1,000 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience caused  to him. This 
should be paid within 28 days  of us telling them that Mr S has accepted my final 
decision. If they pay later than this they must also pay interest on that amount from the 
date of my final decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 July 2019.   
Mehmet Osman 
ombudsman
1 If Zenith consider  that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, they should tell Mr S how much they have taken off. They  should  also give him a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.  
Ref: DRN0720585