K822xcomplaint
Mr A has complained on behalf  of P, a limited company, about how Society  of Lloyds has 
handled a commercial property insurance  claim.  Hes complained that a witness  statement 
he was asked to sign didnt accurately reflect a meeting that took place, and that the claim 
hasnt been settled.
background 
P bought  a policy covering a commercial building on 22 December. The policy documents 
were issued the same day, but the policy didnt start until 24 December. A new tenant signed 
a lease on 23 December  to rent the building from P. The lease started on 26 December.
A few weeks  later there  was a fire at the building. The building  had been  unoccupied since 
the start of the policy as the new tenant  hadnt  started trading. P lodged a claim for damage 
caused by the fire and for loss of rent.
Lloyds loss adjuster  met Mr A and following  the meeting the loss adjuster prepared  a 
statement and sent it to Mr A to sign. Mr A didnt think the statement accurately reflected 
what was discussed  so he prepared an amended statement and signed that.
Lloyds declined the claim.  In summary, it felt P/Mr A should have told it at the application 
stage about a previous claim and that the building was unoccupied. It also felt the claim was 
fraudulent as P/Mr A had dishonestly misrepresented the risk posed  and the circumstances 
of the claim.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision which explained why I was minded to uphold the complaint. 
The relevant  parts of my decision  are outlined below and form part of this final decision.
witness statement
I didnt reach a conclusion on whether the original  statement was accurate or not. That 
was because even  if I decided it was inaccurate, I wouldnt uphold the complaint as I 
wasnt satisfied there  was any detrimental  impact to P or that there would be anything  
Lloyds needed  to do to put things right. Mr A was given the opportunity on Ps behalf to 
correct anything he felt was inaccurate, which he did. So any impact on P was negated 
by Mr A producing the amended statement.
misrepresentation
P, or anyone acting  on its behalf,  was required for to give Lloyds a fair presentation of 
the risk when it bought the policy. So P must have told Lloyds about every material  
circumstance which it knew about (or ought  to have  known about).
I thought Ps duty to give Lloyds a fair presentation of the risk went  beyond  just 
answering the questions asked. I also thought Ps duty to give Lloyds a fair presentation 
of the risk extended to ensuring  the answers  were correct as at 24 December when  the 
policy started.
Ref: DRN00801032Lloyds asking Is the ground floor currently occupied during normal business  hours? 
showed the occupancy of the building was important. P knew it wouldnt occupy the 
building from 24 December. Further, P would have known  the tenant wouldnt be 
occupying the building  from 26 December  Mr A told our investigator its reasonable and 
expected for a new tenant to require  a reasonable amount  of time to settle  in before 
trading.
I wasnt persuaded by Mr As argument that the fire occurred  while the building was 
occupied by P during normal business hours. Ps only involvement in the building at that 
time was as owner/landlord. It didnt occupy the building. I also didnt agree with Mr As 
argument that by answering three  other questions  he made Lloyd's aware  that the 
building would be closed  for up to 45 days from the policy start date. The three  questions  
and answers were:
Will the entire property be occupied within 45 days of the policy  start date?  Yes
Can you confirm the entire property  will never be left unoccupied for more  than 45 
consecutive days,  once tenants  have  moved in? Yes
Do you use a commercial  lease agreement with business tenants? Yes
Whilst answering yes to the first question  could mean the building  is going  to be 
unoccupied up to 45 days,  it could  also mean  its going  to be occupied from day one.
I was minded to conclude that P/Mr A didnt give Lloyds a fair presentation of the risk in 
respect of the occupancy of the building.  This was because Lloyds was told the building  
would be occupied  from the start of the policy, when that wasnt the case.
However, if Lloyds wasnt given a fair presentation of the risk posed,  it was only fair for it 
to have declined  Ps claim on that basis if knowing the full facts would have changed its 
decision to offer insurance cover.
Lloyds told us that any building that was unoccupied when a policy was sold or started  
fell outside of the scope  of what it deemed  acceptable  for insurance purposes.  However, 
there were things Id noticed which caused  me to question whether what  Lloyds had told 
us was true:
1.Lloyds asking about the building  being  occupied within  45 days  of the policy  start 
date suggested  to me that it was prepared  to provide cover for up to 45 days from the 
start of the policy whilst a building  is unoccupied.  If it wasn't prepared to provide any 
cover at all, it wasnt clear to me why it wanted to know  about occupancy  of the 
building in the first 45 days. If Lloyds wasnt going to provide any cover  at all, it 
wouldnt have needed to know if the building was going to be occupied  on, say, day 
25.
2.Lloyds also asked  if the building would be left unoccupied for more than 45 
consecutive days once the tenants have  moved  in. Again, if Lloyds wasn't  prepared  
to provide any cover when a building was unoccupied at the start of the policy, there 
wouldn't need to be any question about it being unoccupied once tenants moved in.
3.There was reference in one of the loss adjusters reports to Lloyds restricting  the 
type of cover it would  have offered  and to adding a specific  unoccupancy condition 
to the policy  if it had known the building was unoccupied. That was a direct  
contradiction to what Lloyds now says it would  have done.
Ref: DRN00801033Mr A was also asked In the time that you've owned the property,  have there been any 
claims or incidents  at the property that you could have claimed for, but either chose not 
to, or didn't have insurance in place at the time?.  P/Mr A answered  no. Although the 
question was specific to the insured property, I thought it showed that previous claims 
and incidents  that might  have resulted in a claim were important to Lloyds. And, as 
above, I thought  Ps duty to give Lloyds a fair presentation of the risk went beyond just 
answering the questions asked.
I agreed with Lloyds argument that Mr A/P should have told it about a previous fire claim 
another of his companies made for damaged contents. It was a major claim for damage 
caused by fire. And the other  company operated a similar type of business to that being  
run in the building Lloyds  was being  asked to insure. But Lloyds hadnt provided 
anything to show what it would  have done had it known  about the previous claim.
I was minded to conclude that Lloyds treated P unfairly when it declined the claim due to 
misrepresentation. Although I thought P should  have  told Lloyds about the occupancy of 
the building  and the previous claim, Lloyds hadnt adequately shown that not knowing 
about them  affected its decision to provide the policy.
fraudulent claim
In order to decline the claim for fraud  Lloyds had to show  that P, or someone on their 
behalf, acted dishonestly with the intent on deceiving it into paying more  than P was 
entitled to receive. Lloyds said P/Mr  A dishonestly misrepresented the claim 
circumstances in order to present the claim.
Lloyds had some  concerns with the claim eg P hadnt previously insured the building, 
but just over two weeks after doing so there was a fire; it looked like the fire was 
deliberately lit by someone who had a set of keys; and Mr A was the last known person 
in the building. But having concerns about  a claim wasnt the same  as showing that it 
was fraudulent. I didnt think Lloyds had provided anything to show  that P/Mr A acted 
dishonestly with the intent to deceive it into paying more than P was entitled to receive. It 
wasnt actually clear  to me precisely what Lloyds  thought P/Mr A had done that was 
dishonest and tainted the claim.
For these reasons, I was minded to conclude  that Lloyds treated P unfairly when it 
declined the claim  on the basis of fraud.
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr A confirmed that he had nothing  further to add.
Lloyds agreed  to not continue to decline the claim on the basis of the occupancy of the 
building. However,  it reminded me of the concerns it had with the claim and felt the fraud 
element of the investigation should be allowed to continue. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN00801034There isnt anything further for me to consider as neither party has provided  any new 
information or comments. My final decision therefore remains  as outlined in my provisional  
decision, for the same reasons.
I will clarify however regarding the fraud  aspect that Im aware of Lloyds concerns. However, 
it knows that to decline  the claim for fraud it has to show that P, or someone on their behalf, 
acted dishonestly with the intent on deceiving  it into paying more than P was entitled to 
receive. I said in my provisional  decision that Lloyds having  concerns isnt the same as 
showing the claim is fraudulent. And it remains my view that Lloyds hasnt provided anything  
to show that P/Mr A acted dishonestly with the intent to deceive  it into paying more  than P 
was entitled to receive. Simply repeating the concerns isnt going to persuade me to change  
my mind. So I remain of the view that Lloyds treated P unfairly when it declined the claim on 
the basis of fraud.
Nevertheless, I can only decide the complaint  as it currently stands. And my decision is for 
Lloyds to settle the claim subject to the necessary  validation of the claim and the terms of 
the policy. I cant comment  on what Lloyds  might do going forward  in respect of that 
validation and policy terms.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Society  of Lloyds  to settle Ps claim subject to the terms 
and conditions of the policy.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask P/Mr A to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 October  2019.
Paul Daniel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0080103