K822xcomplaint
Mrs W complains that information Vanquis  Bank Limited recorded on her credit file is 
incorrect and hasnt  been removed. 
background 
Mrs W opened a Vanquis  credit card in November 2011. In October 2012 she entered  a debt 
management plan through a debt charity  and Vanquis accepted  £5 per month from 4 
October. Mrs W continued to make  the repayments.  
In January 2019 Mrs W complained to Vanquis. She said a default had been reported  on her 
credit file and that it had remained  on there for over six years. She included  screen  shots of 
her credit file from December 2016 which appeared to note a default.  
In its final response Vanquis  said it hadnt reported  a default to Mrs Ws credit file. It said it 
had provided regular updates to the credit  reference  agencies  and had reported a debt 
management plan.  It did accept that during a call on 11 January 2019  an agent  had provided  
incorrect information regarding a default which incorrectly led Mrs W to believe a default  had 
been applied.  It paid Mrs W £25 as an apology for this lapse  of service. 
Mrs W brought her complaint to this service.  She maintained  that a default had been applied, 
had come off, then went back on again  the following month but reported  slightly differently. 
Our investigator examined  the information  Vanquis is currently  reporting  to the credit 
reference agencies  and a default hadnt  been  reported and she found  no default on Mrs Ws 
credit file. She said a debt management plan is reflected on the credit file and she was 
satisfied that Vanquis was reporting  correct information. She said in addition to Vanquis  
accepting it made an error when  it provided incorrect  information,  it had now amended her 
file to show when  Mrs W started making repayments from October 2012. It offered an 
additional £50. 
Mrs W asked  for a decision  from an ombudsman. She said she couldnt  understand why we 
are siding with Vanquis when it says a default  was never applied because  she said a default 
in previous reports is clearly shown.  She said her main complaint is that after the account 
was defaulted  for six years Vanquis proceeded to add the account back onto her credit file.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I realise this will come as a 
disappointment to Mrs W, but having  done so Im satisfied £75 in total is a fair and 
reasonable remedy so I wont  be asking Vanquis to do anything more.  
Mrs W is concerned  that a default was recorded and then as that expired the debt 
management plan was added to her credit file which, she says, will affect her credit score  
and ability  to get a mortgage for many  years. I do understand  her concern and I realise it 
must be frustrating for her especially as she is honouring her payment schedule.  
Mrs W provided screen shots of her credit file from 2016. These  are taken  from a credit club 
app. The screen  shots appear to be from a mobile phone and there is limited information  
included. The first screen says the current status of the Vanquis account to be 
Ref: DRN04530422default/ended. It shows the last update  on 28 December 2016. The second  screen  shows 
latest update on 3 February 2019 and shows the account up to date with a debt 
management plan recorded. These are only partial views of the credit  reports  with little to no 
further detail so it is difficult to establish exactly what was reported. 
I can see why Mrs W feels that Vanquis recorded  a default based on this screen shot. But 
Vanquis has said it did not record a default  nor does it have any record  of doing so. If it had 
recorded a default I would  expect  to see a number of references to it in contact notes, copies 
of letters  and mentions in account records and there arent  any. It is also possible that the 
credit reference agency has recorded  an error.  My role is to be impartial  and make a 
decision based on the evidence available. Where  evidence is missing, contradictory  or 
unclear Ill look at whats available and the surrounding circumstances  to decide what  I 
think is most likely  to have happened. Id like to reassure Mrs W that it is not a case of siding 
with one party or another. 
We are, unfortunately, dealing with information  held and processed  by a third party,  the 
credit reference agency and a fourth  party which is the phone app hosting the credit 
information. A finance provider gives information  to the credit  reference agency. This agency 
then records it and provides it as part of a report to the consumer, in this case  through  a 
fourth party app. So its difficult for me to say with any degree of certainty  that Vanquis 
recorded a default with the credit reference  agency because there is the possibility that it is a 
reporting error from the credit reference agency. As I would expect to see more than one 
mention of the default in Vanquis records and I havent seen any I find it more likely it didnt 
record a default.  But even if Vanquis did record a default at the time, there  is no default on 
the credit  file now so it would have no impact on Mrs Ws current  credit  rating.  
Mrs W has said that after the six years  passed Vanquis proceeded to add the account back  
to her credit file as a debt management plan.  Mrs W does have a debt management plan 
and is still making repayments to Vanquis. So it is legitimate information  for Vanquis to 
report to credit reference agencies. Vanquis are required to report accurate information.  If a 
creditor such as Vanquis accepts an offer of payment through a debt management  plan then 
it can add a marker to a credit file that shows repayments are being  made through  such  a 
plan. So I find it reasonable that Vanquis has added this information to Mrs Ws file. 
Mrs W has said that no amount of money  will compensate for the fact she will now be unable 
to get a mortgage in this lifetime since her credit file will be affected for another 15 odd 
years. I do understand why Mrs W is upset but Mrs W freely  entered into the debt 
management plan and it is this which may affect  her credit rating.  Im satisfied  Vanquis  
hasnt done anything wrong  by recording her plan with the credit reference  agencies, as 
being a true reflection  of the situation.  Mrs W still has a financial relationship  with Vanquis so 
I would expect to see it accurately  reflected  on her credit report. And while I understand this 
may have  an impact on Mrs Ws ability to get further credit this isnt something I can hold 
Vanquis responsible  for. 
Vanquis has accepted it made an error  when  it gave Mrs W incorrect  information  regarding a 
default in January 2019 and it paid her £25 compensation which  I believe  is fair and 
reasonable. 
Vanquis has also amended the date on Mrs Ws credit  file for when she started  making the 
debt management  plan repayments. And Im pleased to see that Vanquis  has agreed to pay 
her £50 in compensation which I feel is fair and reasonable. 
Ref: DRN04530423my final decision
My final decision is that Vanquis  Bank Limited  should pay Mrs W £50 in compensation for 
the inconvenience caused.  For the avoidance of doubt this is in addition  to the £25 already 
awarded. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 August 2019.
Maxine Sutton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0453042