K821x#15complaint
Miss V says Elevate Credit International  Limited  (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about five instalment loans Sunny provided to Miss V between May 2015 to 
April 2017. Miss Vs borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date  Repaid Instalments Amount Highest monthly Repayment*
1 16/05/2016 14/06/2016 6 £100.00 £28.99
2 08/07/2016 26/09/2016 6 £200.00 £61.50
3 30/09/2016 11/11/2016 6 £300.00 £96.71
4 18/12/2016 19/07/2017 6 £950.00 £317.06
5 11/04/2017 19/07/2017 6 £250.00 £392.15
*Loan five was taken out while loan four was still running  so this takes in to account the highest 
repayment due in total.
Our adjudicator partially upheld Miss Vs complaint and thought the loans from loan four 
onwards shouldnt have been  given. Sunny disagreed and the complaint was passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Miss V could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ref: DRN04077622There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Miss V could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments  were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Vs complaint.
Our adjudicator explained that they didnt think that loans four and five shouldve been  given  
to Miss V as they thought that by the time that Miss V applied for loan four that Sunny 
shouldve realised that Miss V was showing signs that she was struggling to repay her loans 
sustainably.
However, I dont think that Miss V was necessarily was showing signs  of difficulty  by loan 
four  but I still think that loans four and five shouldnt have been given to Miss V. Ill explain 
why.
By the time that Sunny  provided Miss V with loan four, she had been  a customer  of Sunny 
for over six months. And loan four was over three times the amount of loan three. The types 
of loans provided by Sunny are intended as a short-term solution  but by this time, Miss V 
had been indebted to Sunny for over six months   and as loan four was again intended to 
run for a period of another six months  wouldve meant that she would then have been 
indebted for over a year to Sunny. 
Sunny shouldve realised  by this point that Miss V was not borrowing to fill a short-term gap 
in her finances  and that this type of borrowing was not likely to be repaid in a sustainable 
manner. So, it should not have continued the lending relationship at this point,  and loans 
four and five should not have been given
So, Im also partially upholding the complaint about  loans  four and five. And Sunny should 
put things right.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Miss V paid on loans four and five;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loans four and five from Miss Vs credit file;
Ref: DRN04077623 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest.  Sunny must  give Miss V a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Miss Vs complaint.  Elevate Credit 
International Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss V to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 April 2020
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0407762