K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that the interest  rate being charged  on his buy to let mortgages  with The 
Mortgage Works (UK) Plc (TMW) isnt fair.
background
Mr W has two buy to let mortgages with TMW. When he first took them out they were on 
fixed interest rates. At the end of the fixed rate period both reverted to the standard variable 
rate (SVR).
In 2016, the Bank of England base rate fell by 0.25%. TMW  didnt change its SVR at that 
time. In 2018, the Bank of England base rate rose  and this time TMW did change the SVR, 
raising it in line with the change in base rate. Mr W complained. He said it wasnt fair that the 
SVR didnt fall when base rate fell but it increased  when base rate rose.  He said the rate 
TMW was charging wasnt competitive compared to other lenders or compared  to his 
residential mortgage.
Our investigator didnt  recommend upholding the complaint, so Mr W asked for an 
ombudsman to review  his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr W took his mortgages out, the offers explained what  interest rate he would be 
charged. They said his mortgages would be on a fixed rate for two years, and then from 
2012 would  be on TMWs SVR, known  as the managed  variable rate. The offer didnt say 
how or when the SVR could be changed  but nor did it say it would track the Bank of 
England base rate, or any other  external rate or benchmark.
The terms and conditions  of the mortgages say that TMW can change  the interest rate 
applicable to Mr Ws mortgage  for one of the reasons set out  and only for those reasons. 
One of the reasons given  is to reflect changes in general interest  rates, including  the 
interest rates or terms on which similar accounts  are offered by other providers of financial 
services.
This doesnt give Mr W a great  deal of clarity about exactly how his mortgage  interest  rate 
will be varied. It does say that it can be varied  to reflect  changes  in general interest rates , 
which I think would be commonly understood as including the Bank of England  base rate.
However, the terms and conditions  dont say that TMW must or will change  the interest rate 
of Mr Ws mortgages to reflect changes  in general interest rates. The terms say it can 
change the rate  as long as its for one of the specified reasons, but not that it must  do so.
So nothing in the terms of Mr Ws mortgages says that his interest rate tracks the Bank  of 
England base rate, or that it will definitely change when the base rate changes. 
Ive said that the term could be clearer about  exactly how the interest rate was set. But I 
dont think that resulted  in any unfairness  to Mr W. Thats  because  hes not tied in to the 
mortgages  there  are no early repayment charges, for example  and so if he wasnt happy 
Ref: DRN09700112about changes  to the rate (or the fact there was no change) he could either  take a fixed  rate 
from TMW or move to another lender. I know in practice thats difficult  for Mr W because  his 
circumstances have  changed since he took the loans out. But theres nothing in the 
mortgage agreements  themselves, nothing that could have been foreseen when he took the 
loans out, and nothing TMW is responsible for that is now stopping  him taking the mortgages 
elsewhere. And those  problems wouldnt  stop Mr W from asking TMW  for new fixed  rate 
products instead  of the SVR.
Ive also considered that these are buy to let mortgages  not consumer finance. Buy to let 
mortgages are generally (though  not always) more  expensive than residential mortgages.  
And, importantly, theyre different types of financial products, taken  out for different purposes  
and priced in a different way. So I dont  think a comparison with Mr Ws residential mortgage, 
or with residential mortgages TMW may offer,  has any relevance  to whether Mr W was 
treated fairly in respect  of these mortgages.
The mortgage documents dont  require TMW to reduce the rate when base rate falls, and 
give it the power to raise  it when base rate increases. So its not acted in breach of contract. 
The term itself isnt unfair because Mr W isnt tied into the mortgage, and when TMW  put the 
rate up it did so in line with a change in base rate. Taking everything into account,  I dont 
think TMW has acted unfairly.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 April 2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0970011