K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out 
with a mortgage that was applied for in 1989.  Mr and Mrs S say Santander UK Plc (trading at 
the time as National & Provincial) mis-sold  them the PPI. The policy  only covered Mr S and 
for accident and sickness, not unemployment.  Ill refer to the business as Santander in this 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Due to the length of time thats passed  since this policy was sold,  not all of the paperwork 
completed at the time of sale is now available. This isnt surprising considering  that the sale 
took place almost 30 years ago.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ss case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold because:
Ive considered the available paperwork from the sale and I think  that its more likely 
than not that Santander made  it clear  that Mr and Mrs S didnt have to take out the 
PPI and they chose  to take it out  although I can understand why they may not 
remember this.
I say this because:
oon their mortgage application form, in section  48, theres a heading that says 
Other insurances available. There are two options below this for 
redundancy, accident and sickness cover and an option  for personal accident 
and sickness cover. Theres a tick next to the accident and sickness option.  
Mr Ss name has been handwritten  below this, but I think  its possible that    
Mr Ss name has been added by the adviser.  
oMr and Mrs S have  signed the overall mortgage application to agree to what  
theyre applying  got 
oIve also seen a separate  PPI application form thats been  signed by Mr S 
dated 6 November 1989. Its also been  ticked on this form that the level of 
cover is accident and sickness cover - single cover  only.
Santander recommended  the PPI to Mr S so it had to check that the PPI was right for  
him  and based on the nearest relevant policy document and what Ive seen of his 
circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example he wasnt affected by any 
of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover and he seems to have  had a need for 
the cover.  
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr and Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted 
this type of cover. And it seems  like it would have been useful for them if something 
Ref: DRN06476602went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think  better information 
about the PPI would have  put them off taking  out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs S have  said - including  what theyve said about  
their existing means of making their repayments  meaning that they didnt need PPI. But this 
policy could have paid out for up to 24 months which is for longer than Mr and Mrs Ss 
existing means would have covered their repayments for if Mr S was unwell and unable  to 
work.
So these points dont  change my decision.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs S paid on their PPI  and whether 
Santander treated  them  unfairly. 
Santander has told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs Ss PPI was less than half of what  
they paid for each  premium. Weve looked  at how Santander has been working this out and 
based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs Ss commission  was less than 
half the cost of the PPI. As thats the case,  I dont think it needed to tell them about the 
commission  so I dont  think  Santander  treated them unfairly. This means it doesnt need to 
pay Mr and Mrs S back any of the commission they paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 February  2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0647660