K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) upgraded  his account to a Gold  packaged 
bank account  (PBA)  without his consent by September 2001. He also complains that Lloyds 
failed to provide  him with the correct bank card for the Gold account, meaning he couldnt 
use all the benefits.
background
When he took his complaint  to Lloyds, it said Mr S was too late to complain about the 
upgrade to the Gold PBA. He didnt agree, and came to this service for help.  The adjudicator 
considered the evidence  and also concluded that this part of his complaint was brought  too 
late. Via his representatives, Mr S didnt accept that and asked an ombudsman to consider 
his case.
His complaint point about not being  sent the correct bank card was looked into by an 
adjudicator, who didnt find any evidence that Mr S had lost out or been disadvantaged by 
any possible  mistake by Lloyds. He didnt accept that either, so both issues have come  to 
me for consideration,  which I will deal with separately.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Can I consider Mr Ss complaint about the upgrade to the Gold PBA?
The rules  about  complaining to the ombudsman set out when we can  and cant  look into 
complaints. Ive considered all of the available evidence and arguments provided by Mr S 
and Lloyds to decide whether Im able to look at this complaint.
There are rules about the types of complaints that this service  can and cant look at. One 
of those rules is about how quickly complaints need to be raised. It says that, where a 
business doesnt agree, I cant consider a complaint made more  than six years  after the 
event complained of. Or, if later,  more  than three years after the complainant  (in this 
case, Mr S) was aware, or ought reasonably to have been  aware,  of cause for 
complaint. Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R can be found on the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys website, or a copy can be provided on request.
Mr S has complained that he never knew he had a PBA that he was paying for, 
because he didnt agree  to it. The upgrade to the Gold  PBA happened at some point 
before September 2001, which would  be the event talked about in the rules.  I can see 
that he raised a complaint with Lloyds in March  2018. So, clearly more  than six years  
after the sale happened.
The question is whether  I think he knew, or ought  reasonably to have known, that 
he had cause to complain more than three years ago. In that way, I can decide 
whether his complaint was made within the second part of the time limit or not.
Lloyds said that it sent Mr S an Annual Eligibility Statement (AES) in February  2014  and 
set out that Mr S held a Gold account  with benefits.  So, on the back of that, I think  that the 
AES ought to have  made Mr S aware that he had a PBA, rather  than a regular current  
Ref: DRN07237382account. Because thats why hes unhappy, I think the latest point at which  Mr S ought to 
have realised he had cause to complain is February  2014. That is more than three years 
before he complained to Lloyds. This means I think that the complaint wasnt  brought  
within the three year time limit.
I can consider complaints made late if that lateness was because  of exceptional  
circumstances. That means that the complainant was unable  to make  a complaint for some 
reason. Mr Ss representatives  say that the AES didnt make it clear  that Mr S could 
complain. But people are generally aware that they can complain if they think something has 
gone wrong, and this submission does not equate to an exceptional circumstance.
Having looked  at all the evidence, I think that Mr Ss complaint about the upgrade  to the Gold 
PBA was made  outside  the time limit I must apply. And I dont think that was due to 
exceptional circumstances.  I understand that this decision will be disappointing for Mr S and 
Im sorry  that we cant  help on this occasion.
Was Mr S disadvantaged by not having the correct bank card for his Gold account?
It is unclear why Mr S didnt have a Gold debit card for the majority of the time that he held 
the PBA. Lloyds  has suggested that may have been  agreed with Mr S to prevent him going 
overdrawn on his account. However, there is no evidence  of that, so I have considered  this 
complaint point on the basis that it does represent  a mistake on Lloyds part. But that doesnt 
mean I should automatically uphold this point  I would also need to be satisfied that any 
mistake by Lloyds has left Mr S worse  off financially.
Mr Ss representatives have said that not having  the Gold  card meant that he couldnt 
have used all of the benefits. However, they have given no specifics  or examples, and I am 
not aware of any of the benefits  of the PBA that required a debit card in order  for them  to be 
used. So Ive got no evidence that Mr S was disadvantaged in this way.
They have also raised the concern that the type of card Mr S had (which wasnt the Gold  
card) couldnt  be used in all cash machines. I accept that is entirely  possible  and that it 
might have been an inconvenience  to Mr S. However, Ive been given no evidence  of him 
being out of pocket or having  lost anything tangible as a result.  It therefore follows that I 
dont uphold this complaint about the bank  card.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint and Lloyds doesnt  need to do 
anything.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 October  2019.
Siobhan McBride
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0723738