K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G have complained about a life and critical  illness cover policy that was sold to 
them by a business which is now under the responsibility of Reassure Limited. They  have 
said they were told the policy was a condition of the mortgage they were applying for at the 
time and that they didnt need  the policy.
background
Mr and Mrs G took out the policy in September 2001. At the same time they were applying  
for a mortgage of £25,000 which was set up for a term of eleven years.  They were married  at 
the time and the mortgage was in joint names. 
They were  sold a decreasing life policy which also provided critical illness  protection. The 
policy was set up for an initial sum assured  of £25,000, which matched the borrowing as did 
the term of the policy, eleven years.
The complaint was assessed  by one of our investigators who felt it couldnt  be upheld.  He 
discovered the policy was a condition of the lending  Mr and Mrs G were  applying for so they 
had to take the policy if they wanted that particular mortgage. He also felt that even if the 
policy wasnt a condition  of the mortgage given they were married  and jointly liable for the 
mortgage the policy with the protection it provided  was a useful one to have in case  one of 
them passed  away during the mortgage  term.
Mr and Mrs G didnt agree with the assessment  so the complaint has been passed  to me to 
resolve.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  the 
complaint can be upheld.
ReAssure has confirmed  that at the time the policy was taken, September  2001,  the 
particular mortgage  Mr and Mrs G were  applying for had a condition  that suitable life cover  
also be taken. Without such a policy being  taken  the mortgage would not have been granted.  
So because of this Mr and Mrs G had to take out a life protection policy  which matched the 
terms of the mortgage.  If Mr and Mrs G didnt agree with the policy  being a condition of the 
mortgage they could have  applied  elsewhere  for a mortgage by a different provider who may 
not have had such polices as conditions  of their lending.
However, its worth noting that it was very common at this point in time for most  lenders to 
require life protection policies to be taken as part of their mortgage conditions.  This was a 
legitimate commercial decision on the part of businesses and one which  this Service  cant 
challenge. Its also reasonable  that a business  attempts  to minimise its risk when providing 
lending.
Even though  the policy had to be taken  with the mortgage Mr and Mrs G were applying for, I 
have also considered whether the policy was suitable for them. Given  their personal and 
financial situation at the time I think it was. Mr and Mrs G were taking on a joint liability.  So if 
one of them passed away during the term of that liability the other  could struggle to pay back  
the borrowing. This could  lead to the remaining partner having to sell the property quickly to 
Ref: DRN06224982discharge the liability. However, the life protection policy  they took out meant  that on the 
death of the first person  during the term of the policy and mortgage a lump  sum payment 
would be made  that could  be used  to pay the remaining mortgage without the need to 
lose/sell the house during a time which would be undoubtedly difficult.
I appreciate the critical illness part of the policy wasnt  a condition of the mortgage  but the 
critical illness element would have been  of use to Mr and Mrs G had this type of claim had to 
be made. Again the lump  sum payment could be used to discharge  the remaining liability  on 
the mortgage which would have been  of use at a time when one of them  was suffering  a 
critical illness.
Overall, therefore, the life protection policy was a condition of the mortgage Mr and Mrs G 
were applying for and this isnt something this Service  can challenge. Also, regardless of 
whether the policy  was a condition or not, for the reasons  explained above, I think the policy  
was suitable for Mr and Mrs G given their circumstances at the time of the sale.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 March  2019.
Ayshea Khan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0622498