K820x#14complaint
Miss Ks complaint is about  a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy taken out alongside  
a credit card with Capital  One (Europe) plc (Capital One).
background
Miss K took out a credit  card with Capital One in 2002 and at the same time applied for a 
PPI policy. The account and policy ran until 2008 when Miss K got into some  financial 
difficulties. The PPI ended in June 2008  and Miss K entered into an individual  voluntary 
arrangement (IVA) in September 2008.
In 2018 Miss K complained to Capital One that the PPI was mis-sold.  Capital  One didnt 
agree that was the case, but it did say she had paid some unfair commission as part of the 
premiums she had paid for the PPI and it offered compensation to refund this. The IVA had 
ended and the Insolvency Practitioner said they had no interest in the compensation. So 
Capital One set this compensation  against  the debt still remaining on the credit card that had 
never been settled.  
Miss K wasnt happy with what  Capital One said and did so brought  her complaint to this 
service.
Our adjudicator investigated and recommended upholding the complaint that the PPI was 
mis-sold. Capital One eventually agreed  and offered to pay compensation that would refund 
all the PPI costs less the amount it had already  paid for the excess commission part of the 
cost. Miss K agreed this was acceptable.
But Miss K heard nothing from Capital One for several months  and had not received any 
compensation. So she came back to this service. 
Capital One initially  said it had sent a cheque to Miss K in August 2018 for the remaining 
compensation. But then it clarified that it hadnt sent a cheque, but had sent a letter  about 
the additional compensation due for the mis-sale. Miss K had never received this letter  as it 
had been sent to an old address.
Capital One said it had used this additional compensation to set against the debt on the 
credit card, in the same way it had done with the original unfair commission  compensation. 
Miss K was unhappy  with this. Our adjudicator looked at what Capital One had done  and 
said how it had used  the compensation was fair as there was still a debt on the credit card 
account. Even after all the compensation was set off against  the debt, a small amount 
remained unpaid.
Miss K was still unhappy and asked for an ombudsman to consider her complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Capital  One has agreed to uphold Miss Ks complaint  that the PPI was mis-sold I am not 
considering further  the issues about how the policy came to be sold. In this decision I am 
Ref: DRN04497972looking at the total compensation Capital One has worked out is due to be paid to Miss K 
and how it has made  the payment.
Miss K got into financial difficulties in 2008 and the PPI was cancelled,  the last charge for the 
PPI showing as added to the card account on 19 June 2008. In July 2008 the account was 
suspended. 
In September  2008 Miss K entered into an IVA. The balance owing on the credit card at this 
point was £7,423.26. The IVA resulted in a proportion  of the debt being paid to Capital One. 
Once the IVA had closed there  was still an amount  of £5,685.82 owing on the card account.  
Capital One could not chase Miss K for payment of this as a result of the IVA but the amount 
was unpaid and remained dormant on the account.
When Miss K complained  about  the mis-sale  of the PPI, Capital One said the PPI wasnt  
mis-sold but offered compensation for some unfair commission  charged as part of the PPI 
premiums. Capital One said in its offer letter of 2 February 2018  that it would pay the unfair  
commission compensation to the credit card debt that remained on the account. The 
payment of the commission  compensation was made in March  2018. 
Miss K brought her complaint about the mis-sale to this service and we recommended the 
complaint should  be upheld.  So Capital  One agreed  to pay compensation for the full costs of 
the PPI, not just the commission part of the PPI, with some compensatory interest.  
Capital One then sent a letter to Miss K dated 1 August 2018. This letter  was sent to 
Miss Ks old address as it seems by mistake she had entered this on the online  system  of 
Capital One when chasing the compensation for the full mis-sale. 
This August letter set out that the excess commission and compensatory interest  of 
£1,916.99 had already  been  paid. And it went on to say that an additional amount was due 
to Miss K to refund all the PPI costs and compensatory interest  on the total of the costs  she 
had been out of pocket.  It explained taking into account what  had already been paid for the 
unfair commission, a further  £2,964.26 was still due to Miss K to refund  the total 
compensation for the mis-sale. It went on to say: The full amount of £2,964.26 will be sent 
via cheque. This will be issued separately  and should arrive within  10 days.
Miss K never received  this letter so wasnt aware  of the amount or what Capital One had 
said about the payment. No cheque was sent.  Capital One have since explained  this 
additional compensation of £2,964.26  was actually used against  the debt on the credit card 
account, in exactly  the same way the original  amount for the unfair commission 
compensation had been  used. So no payment was made, or due, directly  to Miss K and the 
part of the letter sent in August 2018  saying a cheque would be paid was an error.
Miss K never received  this letter until a copy was provided after she came back to this 
service in January  2019, having  heard nothing from Capital One about  the additional 
compensation for the mis-sale.
I think what Capital One actually did in setting the total compensation against the debt on the 
credit card was fair. 
I know Miss K is unhappy with this as she feels at least  some  of the compensation should 
have been paid to her. From what she has said it seems she felt that the amount  of the 
compensation was significant and if the PPI premiums had never been paid she would only 
Ref: DRN04497973have a debt of what was left owing after the set-off, that is £804.57. So she thought this 
amount should  be deducted from the PPI compensation and she should be paid the rest.
In fact the amount Miss K still owed when her IVA ended was £5,685.82. Part of this 
outstanding debt included the costs of the PPI. When  working  out compensation for mis-sold 
PPI, businesses include the PPI costs in the balance and treat it as the last thing paid off. 
What this means is that the consumer isnt deemed  out of pocket but gets card rate interest  
on the total cost of the PPI until it is cleared. This is rather than simple interest which works 
out as less interest for the consumer.
By setting  the compensation due for the mis-sold PPI against the debt on the account, this in 
effect stripped  out the PPI costs from the balance. This meant that in total the debt still owing 
after the IVA ended  of £5,685.82 was reduced by the total compensation for the PPI. This 
compensation was applied  in two amounts of £1,916.99 and £2,964.26, leaving an amount 
of debt on the account, still unpaid, of £804.57.
If Capital One used this £804.57 figure  and took it off the total compensation due for the PPI, 
as Miss K has suggested,  it would mean that Miss K was getting  paid the PPI costs, less the 
amount owed for her own spending on the credit card. But she had never actually  paid the 
PPI costs that were  added to the card balance as they were still owed as part of the debt on 
the account. And Miss K shouldnt be paid back something she has never actually paid out.
So I think what Capital One has done with the compensation is fair. It has set all the PPI 
costs against  the account balance which removes the PPI and the amount remaining of 
£804.57 is for what Miss K spent on the card without any PPI being included.
I note Miss Ks points  that in its letter of August 2018 Capital One said it was paying the 
compensation due by cheque and made no reference to setting it off as it had done in its 
February 2018 letter for the earlier compensation. Capital One agrees it made  a mistake in 
saying this in August  2018.
Although Capital One did make an error  in saying it would pay a cheque,  I dont think Miss K 
suffered any unnecessary upset as a result  because she was unaware  of what  Capital  One 
had said. She never received this letter when  it was sent and wasnt provided with a copy of 
it until after it had been explained to her that the second amount of compensation was also 
being used as set off for her debt.
I know Miss K wasnt fully made aware of the exact  amount of compensation that was being 
set against her account debt until some months  after it was done and also the letter of 
August 2018 was not accurate about how the payment of compensation was to be made.  
But overall this was in part due to Miss Ks mistake when she filled in the online form relating 
to her complaint about the compensation.  And I dont think she has been caused any 
additional upset  by expecting to receive  the compensation  direct, as stated in the letter, as 
she never received  that letter.
So I think what Capital One has worked  out as the compensation  due to Miss K is correct  
and how it has used  it to set against the debt owing on the credit card account is fair.
Ref: DRN04497974my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above  Im satisfied  that the compensation paid by Capital One 
(Europe) plc to settle the complaint of Miss K about the mis-sold PPI, and how it has used 
that compensation, is fair. So Im not going to tell it to do anything further.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 June 2019.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0449797