K820x#14complaint
Mr W is unhappy with the settlement  offered  by esure Insurance Limited following  a claim he 
made on his buildings insurance  policy with it. 
background
Mr W made a claim on his buildings insurance policy when a pipe burst  in his loft. esure 
agreed to cover the claim  and appointed a loss adjuster.  They said his home was 
uninhabitable and offered  to find alternative accommodation  for Mr W while  repairs  were 
carried out. But Mr W said hed live with relatives  instead, so esure offered him £300  
disturbance allowance to cover  any increased  costs. 
esure offered to arrange for the required work to be completed, but Mr W obtained his own 
quotes for the works  and requested a cash settlement. The insurer  offered Mr W £9,538, but 
his quotes were around of £40,000.  esure asked another contractor for a quote who gave  a 
figure of around  £15,700 plus VAT and increased its settlement figure to cover that. 
Mr W was unhappy with the cash settlement complained to esure. He also complained  about  
the time it took to resolve the claim and the amount he was paid for disturbance. He said that 
rents locally for a home  like his were  in the region of £1,000  per month.  
In its final response,  esure said Mr W had initially been offered  £300 per month disturbance  
allowance for living  away from home,  and it raised this to £500 per month. It agreed to 
increase the cash  settlement offer to £16,000 and acknowledged there had been some 
delays in the progress of his claim.  It offered £200 in light of the delays. 
Mr W remained unhappy with esures offer and referred his complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into it. He said esure had offered to carry out the work  required, and its 
contractors had said they could do the job for less than £16,000. Mr W wasnt  renting a 
property to live in, he was living  with relatives.  So our investigator felt the offer of £500  per 
month for the disturbance  of living away from home  was satisfactory. And he looked at the 
delays in the progress of Mr Ws claim, noting a three-week delay. He felt the £200 offered 
was reasonable.  Our investigator said esure had dealt fairly with the claim and complaint. 
esure accepted our investigators assessment, but Mr W didnt. As there was no agreement,  
the complaint  has been passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im in agreement with 
our investigator that I think esures  offer is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr Ws policy with esure  says:
if Your  Buildings suffer loss or damagewe  can choose to:
pay the cost of work carried  out to rebuild, replace or repair Your Buildings; or
arrange for Your Buildings to be rebuilt, replaced or repaired
Ref: DRN00439982Where it is possible to rebuild, replace or repair Your Buildings but You do not agree 
with these settlement  options, We will pay You cash based on the rebuild, 
replacement or repair  cost to Us.
esure accepted Mr Ws claim so the dispute here centres mainly  on the amount of money 
required to repair Mr Ws home. esure has said its contractors could carry out the repairs  for 
in the region of £16,000. But Mr W wants a larger settlement because hes obtained  quotes  
for the work  in excess of £40,000. 
The policy allows  esure to settle  claims based  on the amount of the repair cost to it. This will 
often be lower than the cost to consumers because it has its own network of contractors. 
esure has offered  to carry out the repairs for Mr W  avoiding  the need for a cash  settlement. 
As this is in line with the terms of the policy, I think its reasonable for esure to offer to do the 
work or pay Mr W what it would cost it to do the work  that is £16,000 plus VAT. 
The policy also says esure will pay the reasonable cost of alternative accommodation  
where necessary.  esure offered to arrange alternative accommodation for Mr W, but he 
elected instead to stay with relatives.  So esure offered him £500 per month in recognition  of 
the disturbance.  If Mr W had moved into a rental property  for the period he was out of his 
home, esure  has said it would cover  the cost of that in line with the policy  terms. As he 
hasnt, I think the offer esure has made of £500 per month is reasonable. 
Mr W has complained about delays during the claims process. esure has acknowledged  
there were some delays   approximately three  weeks  and it has paid Mr W £200 in 
recognition of that. I think thats reasonable in the circumstances.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint about esure Insurance Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 January 2020.
Richard Hale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0043998