K820x#14complaint
Mr C has complained about bdhSterling Limited.  He is unhappy about the way it handled the 
transfer of his deferred occupational pension scheme (OPS) to an alternative pension.  He 
says that he received a lower transfer value because of its failings.
background
In 2012 Mr C was in the process of moving  to Australia, and he asked bdhSterling to advise 
him on his pensions. This included advising him on the transfer  of benefits he held in a 
defined benefit  OPS. 
A transfer  quotation  was obtained in July 2013 which  gave a transfer  value for the OPS  of 
just under £421,000. This was guaranteed for three  months.
A transfer  analysis was completed and a suitability report issued which recommended the 
transfer value  be used to set up a qualifying recognised overseas pension scheme 
(QROPS).
bdhSterling agreed to complete the transfer of the OPS. Then in September  2013 it 
contacted the scheme trustees by telephone  for further information. The trustees responded 
with the requested information but also provided  another transfer value statement. This 
second valuation  was just over £4,000 lower  and was also valid for three months.
When the difference in the transfer  values was first noticed the first valuation  had expired. It 
seems that there were attempts to persuade the trustees to extend the guarantee period for 
the initial, higher  value  but it refused. So the transfer was processed  using the second,  lower 
transfer value.
bdhSterling then raised a complaint against the OPS  trustees with the Pension Ombudsman 
Service on behalf of Mr C. The complaint was, in effect, that the trustees should not have  
issued a new transfer value whilst the existing  value was still valid.
The Pensions Ombudsman made  a decision in January 2017. It didnt uphold the complaint. 
In its considerations,  it noted that the trustees  note of the telephone call with bdhSterling in 
September 2013 recorded that they would like up to date TV and transfer out forms. And 
that bdhSterlings note of the same call included will send us transfer quotation. The 
Pensions Ombudsman concluded  that a new transfer value had been  requested  by 
bdhSterling during this call and the OPS trustees had acted in accordance with that request.
Mr C complained to bdhSterling  after the Pensions Ombudsman decision was known.
bdhSterling didnt  uphold the complaint. In its final response it accepted that it should  have 
made some enquiry  when it received the second, lower, transfer value. It also apologised  for 
not informing Mr C sooner  that its internal record of the telephone call with the trustees said 
will send us transfer quotation. It also pointed to an exchange of emails  in April and May 
2016 when an agreement had been reached  regarding its charges. It said this agreement 
included a compromise in relation to the inconvenience caused  in September 2013  by 
various matters which included the shortfall  in the transfer value. 
Mr C referred  the complaint to this service.
Ref: DRN09927222An adjudicator considered  the complaint about bdhSterling and recommended it should be 
upheld. His view was that the transfer value of around £421,000 was confirmed as 
guaranteed until October 2013 and bdhSterling  was aware of that when it agreed to handle  
the transfer. And as the transfer analysis and advice  report had all been  completed in May 
2013, there was enough time to process  the transfer and obtain the higher guaranteed value.
The adjudicator recommended bdhSterling  compensate Mr C based on him receiving the 
initial, higher transfer value  into his new QROPS, rolled up by the performance  of the 
QROPS from the date of the original transfer  to the date of calculation. 
The adjudicator also said that some of the fees involved in implementing the advice had 
been waived.  bdhSterling said this amounted to around £2,000. The adjudicator felt that as 
Mr C had apparently accepted  the offer in the email exchange from 2016, the waived fees 
should be deducted from the loss calculation at the point that they would  have become 
chargeable  therefore reducing the loss.
bdhSterling accepted that view.
Mr C didnt agree that the redress should be reduced by the fees that were  waived. He made  a 
number of points,  these included that the agreement represented a goodwill  gesture, not an 
offer of compensation. Mr C also said that the fees that were  apparently  waived hadnt  been 
discussed previously  and if they werent  chargeable it followed that they couldnt be waived.
The adjudicator wasnt persuaded  to alter his view. He said that any action of bdhSterling 
that resulted in financial benefit to Mr C in relation to the transfer of his OPS needed to be 
deducted from the loss calculation. And not to do so would potentially put Mr C in a better 
financial position than he would otherwise have been in. 
The adjudicator also noted that Mr C had accepted  the offer to waive the fees in an email,  
which the adjudicator was satisfied demonstrated Mr Cs awareness of the fees being waived.
Mr C responded saying he didnt agree and asked for a decision from an ombudsman. So 
the case was referred to me. 
I considered all the evidence and arguments and made a provisional decision.  I reached 
some different conclusions to the adjudicator and provisionally decided that the complaint 
should be upheld.  I said;
Ive tried to focus  on the issues which I think are most relevant to the outcome. Ive 
considered all that has been  said by both parties  but Ive not referred  to each and every  
point thats been made.  
Essentially, I think that I need to determine two issues. The first is whether  bdhSterling is 
responsible for the shortfall in the transfer value?  And second, if it is, what  redress should  be 
paid? When considering this second issue, I need to decide whether  there  was any 
agreement reached  in May 2016  which means  that bdhSterling shouldnt  be responsible for 
the full amount of the shortfall.
Ref: DRN09927223Ill consider these issues in turn;
The shortfall
The difference in the transfer values was £4,053.83.  I agree with the adjudicator on this 
issue. bdhSterling accepted in its final response that some enquiry should have been  made  
when the new,  lower transfer value was received. It is most likely that had an enquiry been 
made, this would have  identified  that the first value was still open for acceptance.
I think its also probable, despite its denials, that the second transfer value was received 
because it was requested during the September 2013 phone call  as the contemporaneous 
notes suggest.  
bdhSterling has also accepted the adjudicators  view that the transfer could have been 
completed within the guarantee period for the first, higher transfer value. 
So I agree with the adjudicator that the first transfer  value could have been secured and its 
fair and reasonable that bdhSterling compensate Mr C for his loss. Ill now consider what  the 
extent of that loss is.
The impact  of the agreement in May 2016
Ive considered the email exchange which took place in April and May 2016. Its clear an 
agreement was reached but Im not satisfied  that it was an agreement that should preclude 
Mr C from claiming  the full amount of the shortfall.  Ill explain why.
At the time of that email exchange  the transfer to the QROPS wasnt  complete and there  
was some question as to whether Mr C would go ahead. Mr C was clearly concerned about 
the additional fees he may have to pay in respect of the self-managed super  fund. This 
aspect of the QROPS  hadnt been anticipated  at the outset and, as I understand it, only 
arose because of unexpected changes in HMRC  rules.
bdhSterling had originally agreed its charges based on a percentage of the transfer amount. 
So the amount  it could  legitimately charge depended  on the transfer,  and it could probably 
only charge its full fee if the transfer was completed.
I think that an agreement  was reached which,  fundamentally, provided for bdhSterling  
charging the amount it had originally agreed to i.e. with no additional  charges  in respect of 
the self-managed super fund. In return, Mr C would  proceed and complete the transfer  and 
so meaning bdhSterling would be entitled to its full fee.
I dont think the agreement went much further than that. It may have included some  
compromise in respect of the inconvenience caused  by the events  of September 2013.  But 
Im not satisfied that any agreement or compromise was reached  about the shortfall  itself,  or 
whether Mr C should have any future claim for that amount.
Putting this another way, if, in May 2016, Mr C had been asked whether he understood the 
agreement he was reaching then would compromise his ability to seek  the shortfall  from 
bdhSterling if it was deemed to be responsible  for it, Ive no doubt his answer  would have 
been negative. I dont  think  there was any express  or implicit agreement reached that 
prevents, or should prevent, Mr C now claiming  the full shortfall.
Ref: DRN09927224And, even  if there was some implicit agreement, I think there are grounds to suggest that it 
wouldnt be fair or reasonable to enforce it. This is because I dont think  Mr C was in a fully 
informed position  about the facts surrounding  the second transfer value at that time.
The Pensions Ombudsman made  its decision  in January 2017.  I think that would be the first 
time Mr C knew that the pension trustees would not be held responsible for the shortfall. It is 
also the first occasion when Mr C had reason  to understand that bdhSterling had, in all 
probability, (and despite its denials) requested a new transfer  quotation in September  2013.
Also, Mr C hadnt been informed of the telephone  note bdhSterling (or the trustees) held until 
then. He had pursued  the complaint to the Pensions  Ombudsman, with the assistance of 
bdhSterling, no doubt in the belief it had some prospect of success. bdhSterling must have 
encouraged him in that belief, either expressly  or implicitly, but it had not disclosed the full 
facts to him.
So Im not satisfied that any agreement reached in May 2016  should now limit or reduce  the 
amount of the shortfall that Mr C should  be compensated for.
I then set out how bdhSterling  should  put matters  right.
Mr C didnt respond to the provisional decision.  bdhSterling did respond and explained why it 
didnt agree. It said, in summary;
Mr C knew what he was agreeing to when he accepted the offer of compensation in May 
2016. The inconvenience caused was in relation to the difference  in his transfer  values. 
Mr C confirmed he was happy to accept the gesture to cover any inconvenience 
including matters  of dissatisfaction around  the QROPS transfer.
It couldnt understand  how this agreement would not apply  to the shortfall.  It didnt agree 
that Mr Cs answer would have been  negative if hed been  asked whether this included 
the shortfall and would compromise his ability to reclaim  the shortfall later.
Its fee was based on a percentage  of the transfer  amount  and was realised when the 
OPS was transferred to an interim  product in the UK. A reduced  fee had been 
negotiated. The charge  for the SMSF was additional and hadnt been foreseen  at the 
outset as it only arose due to changes in HMRC rules.
It completed additional  work for Mr C including in his complaint to the Pension 
Ombudsman and it would not have  done  so if it had understood the shortfall wasnt 
covered by the settlement.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what bdhSterling  has said in response to my provisional decision but its not 
caused me to change  my conclusions. Im not persuaded that the agreement  reached in May 
2016 extended to include the shortfall itself if bdhSterling was responsible for it. I dont think 
there was any express or implicit agreement reached that should now prevent Mr C claiming 
the full shortfall.  I think that the reference to dissatisfaction about the shortfall can be 
distinguished from the financial  shortfall  itself.
Ref: DRN09927225And as I said, even if there was some implicit agreement,  Im not satisfied that it would be 
fair or reasonable  to enforce it. This is because I dont think  Mr C was in a fully informed 
position about the facts surrounding  the second  transfer value at that time.
It was only in January  2017 when the Pensions  Ombudsman made  its decision,  that Mr C 
knew that the pension trustees would not be held responsible for the shortfall.  That was also 
the first time when Mr C had reason to understand that bdhSterling had probably requested 
a new transfer  quotation  in September  2013.
So my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
The aim of this redress is to put Mr C as close as possible to the position hed now be in but 
for bdhSterlings errors.
Had bdhSterling acted  appropriately Mr C would have received  the original transfer value (of
£420,966.25) by 3 October 2013. This was higher  (by £4,053.83) than he actually received. 
It should be assumed  that the higher transfer value would have been transferred to the same  
receiving scheme as the actual transfer  value  but on 3 October 2013.  And the sum would 
have been invested in the same way as the actual  transfer value. Any payments out from the 
pension should  be taken into account.
bdhSterling must calculate the notional value of Mr Cs pension.  
If the notional  value of the pension is greater than the actual value of Mr Cs pension, the 
difference is the loss. 
This amount should be paid directly to Mr C as he is now over 65. As the sum would otherwise 
have been used to provide an income  in Australia, a deduction can be made equal to the 
income tax payable in line with the prevailing income  tax rate applicable to Mr C now.  An 
allowance should  also be made for the availability of any tax free cash  that may have arisen.
The calculations should be provided to Mr C in a clear, straightforward format.  
In addition, bdhSterling should pay Mr C £300 for the trouble and upset caused. This reflects  
not only the upset caused  by the lower transfer  value, but the inconvenience associated with 
the complaint  to the Pensions Ombudsman  and the upset relating to the late discovery  of the 
full facts surrounding the second transfer  value.
 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  about bdhSterling Limited.  It must calculate and pay redress  as 
set out above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2020.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0992722