K820x#14complaint
Mr G has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) upgraded his account to a 
fee-paying Additions  account without his consent.  Hes also unhappy with how Barclays  
handled his request for information  it holds about him.
background
Mr G opened a fee-free  account in June  1985.  It was then upgraded to a fee-paying 
Additions account in November  1999. The account remained as an Additions account until 
Barclays withdrew the Additions account  from its range and transferred all account holders 
onto a fee-free  account with a Tech pack added in January 2017.
Our adjudicator assessed the complaint and didnt  think that the Additions account had been 
mis-sold. Mr G disagreed and asked  for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website.  
And Ive used this approach to help me decide  Mr Gs complaint.
Mr G says that he doesnt remember agreeing to the upgrade  of his account to an Additions 
account in November 1999. He says it just happened without his consent.  Whereas  Barclays  
says that it didnt automatically upgraded Mr Gs account. Barclays has only been able to 
provide limited information  about the sale, but given how long ago it took place, I think  this is 
understandable. 
In response to the adjudicators assessments, Mr G said that the adjudicator hadnt taken 
their version of events  into account and had only based their assessment on a lack of 
evidence from Barclays. But I think it will be helpful  to explain that where  evidence  is 
incomplete and matters are in dispute,  as they are here, I make my decision based on what I 
think is most likely  to have happened   keeping  in mind everything Ive seen and been  told 
by both parties.
Mr G says that he was out of the country at the time the account was upgraded, so says that 
he cant have agreed to it in branch. However,  looking  at the statements that Barclays  has 
provided, I can see UK based  transactions around  the time that the account was upgraded. 
Therefore, I dont think it was likely that Mr G was out of the country  when the account was 
upgraded. 
In response to the adjudicators assessment, Mr G said that he mightve  been  in the country, 
but was travelling around the country  for work. However, whilst that mightve  been  the case, 
I dont think that rules out the possibility that Mr G found time to attend a Barclayss  branch 
to discuss his account at some point in November 1999. For example, I can see 
supermarket transactions in late November 1999  that appear  to be located  near where he 
lived and the Barclays branch that his account was based.
Ref: DRN07178092In 1999 the Additions account cost £6 per month.  But the key benefit  of the account was that 
by having it, Barclays  would automatically  provide an overdraft facility with the account  
(although its not clear  what that amount was as it was so long ago). And by having the 
account, the first £100 of the overdraft was interest free and Mr G would avoid paying a £5 
overdraft usage  fee that was applied to fee-free  accounts. Given the way that Mr G used his 
overdraft not paying  the £5 fee and not paying interest  on the first £100 of the overdraft 
means that having  this account  would  have potentially  saved  him money.
Looking at account statements that Barclays has provided, I can see that Mr Gs account  
was regularly overdrawn up to around  £500  before  his account was upgraded to the 
Additions account. And after his account  was upgraded, it was regularly overdrawn by more  
than £1,000. So I think the overdraft  wouldve been  important to Mr G. 
Therefore having  weighed  everything up, I think its more  likely than not that Mr G agreed to 
upgrade his account because he was attracted to what it offered,  rather  than it being 
upgraded by Barclays without  obtaining  Mr Gs consent. I say this particularly as the upgrade 
took place over 19 years ago and I think its more likely that Mr G agreed to it, but now,  
understandably, doesnt recall doing  so.
Based on the evidence,  I dont think Barclays recommended the account to Mr G. This 
means it didnt have to check  if it was right for him. But it did still have to provide Mr G with 
the important  information  about the account and the associated benefits.
Because of the limited evidence that is available, I dont know what information  Mr G was 
given about the account. I appreciate that the cost of the account has increased  over the 
years and various benefits have been  added, changed or removed. And Mr G has said that 
he didnt need  many of the insurance  benefits  the account provided as he already had them.  
But many of the benefits hes referred  to were  not a feature of the account  at the time. And 
as I think its likely that he initially agreed to the Additions account  specifically for the 
overdraft benefits,  I dont think Mr G wouldve been  put off from agreeing  to the Additions 
account had he been given more  information  about  the other benefits that initially  came with 
it, such as: purchase protection, cardholder protection and extended warranty.
Mr G has said that Barclays used a default  date for when the account was sold. However, 
the statements  show the first account fee was charged in December 1999, so I think  its likely 
that the account was sold at some point  in November 1999,  as Barclays  says it was. And 
although Mr G has said that Barclays incentivised staff to automatically upgrade anyone who 
used an overdraft to an Additions account,  Id need  to see that that is what  was most  likely to 
have happened  in this case to uphold  the complaint. But, on balance,  I dont think that it did. 
Therefore, taking everything into account, I dont think  the Additions account  was mis-sold to 
Mr G. As such I dont  think  itd be appropriate  to require  Barclays to refund  Mr G the account 
fees hes paid for the account.  
Finally, Mr G has said he was unhappy  with how Barclays dealt with his request to see what  
information it held about him. Mr G has asked that our service review Barclayss  procedures 
as he doesnt  think they are fit for purpose. However, as our service is not the financial 
services regulator, Im unable to require a financial business to change  or improve  its 
procedures and processes. Nevertheless,  I understand  that Mr G has since  received the 
information that hed requested so it seems  that Barclays has now dealt with his request.
 
Ref: DRN07178093my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29April 2019.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0717809