K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that Santander UK Plc has refused to apply the interest to his account  that 
he thinks he is entitled to.
background
Mr J went to one of Santanders branches. After talking to a member of staff he opened a new 
current account. Quite a few months later he realised he wasnt  getting any interest on the account.  
This surprised him as this was the main reason he opened it. He questioned Santander about this. 
Mr J was shocked to find he was missing out on the interest because in order to qualify for it, the 
account should have been  set up with at least two monthly direct debits. Instead, one of the two 
monthly payments  on his account was a standing order not a direct debit. So it didnt qualify. He 
said he had not been told this when  he opened the account. Rather, he had been told he just had 
to have two monthly  payments set up on the account - which  is what  he had done. 
Further, Mr J told us he clearly remembered the conversation he had with an impressive 
and sales orientated  member of staff at the branch. He described this member of staff. He 
told us he had done exactly what that staff member had told him to do, so the fault lay with 
Santander. And its mistake had caused his loss. 
In addition, Mr J also complained about the customer service hed received from Santander. 
It had offered him £50 for this. It appears that money has been paid to Mr J directly. Mr J 
suggests that in offering this payment Santander  was admitting it was in the wrong.  Mr J also 
told us Santander  had a regulatory duty of care to him which it had not met, when it didnt 
contact him to notify him that he wasnt earning  interest on his money
Mr J has asked for an award for distress and inconvenience to recognise  what he has been  
put through by Santander.
Santanders stance  was Mr J had not done  what he ought to have done in order to qualify  for the 
interest payments  on his account. Further it did not agree it was likely that its member of staff 
gave him incorrect information as he said. On this basis it declined to pay Mr J the lost interest  he 
asked it for. But it did agree to make a goodwill  gesture  of £50 for his poor experience.
Dissatisfied, Mr J came to our service.
Our investigator looked into Mr Js complaint. She didnt recommend  upholding it. In 
summary, she wasnt persuaded that in the circumstances it was fair and reasonable to 
make Santander take any further action. She said this because on balance,  she didnt think 
that Mr J had been given incorrect information when he opened  the account. Neither did she 
think Santander had failed to meet its regulatory  obligations simply because it didnt contact 
him to let him know  that his money  was not earning interest.  She also didnt agree that in 
making the £50 gesture of goodwill, Santander  was acknowledging it was at fault.
Santander accepted our investigators recommendation, Mr J did not. In short, he repeated 
his earlier  stance.
Mr J asked that an ombudsman review his complaint.
Ref: DRN02516422my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive finished  my review  of Mr Js complaint. I am not 
going to uphold it. Please let me explain why.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail  than the parties 
and Ive done so using  my own words. Im not going  to respond to every  single  point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature  of our service  as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres  something Ive not mentioned,  it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every  individual  argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance  of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
In a nutshell, Mr J is saying the relevant  term and condition  of the account was 
misrepresented to him by Santander.  This was because he says the member of staff who he 
talked to, gave  him incorrect information. Mr J says he relied  on that information and as a 
result made a loss. Moreover, he says as soon as he found  out what he needed  to do, he set 
up the required second direct debit. Mr J suggests  this shows he was in a position to set up 
two direct debits from the get-go. And that he would  have set up the correct number of direct  
debits on the account but for the mis-information he was given.
Evidentially, it can be very difficult to demonstrate that a verbal misrepresentation took place 
after the event.  With this in mind,  I have looked  at all of the circumstances, to see what  I 
think most likely  happened.  I think it is likely that Mr J did speak to the member of staff. I also 
think he did open the account after this. But as to what was said in that conversation,  Im not 
satisfied that Mr J was told specifically what he says he was. In other  words,  on balance,  I 
find Santanders account of what happened  more persuasive. Having said this, I want to 
make it very clear  that just because I am more persuaded by its version of events, does not 
mean I think Mr J is deliberately giving us an inaccurate account  of what  he remembers 
happening. Im sure thats his genuine  belief.
Santander indicated,  as you might expect, that their branch  staff members are trained on the 
key features of its products. I think it is unlikely that in the process of telling Mr J about one 
of this banks  flagship  products, the staff member would have given Mr J inaccurate 
information about it. Particularly where the directions  were not complex:  that to earn 
interest, two direct  debits  needed to be set up on the account. I cant  explain why Mr J didnt 
set up the account  in the manner he should  have to get the interest he wanted, but I dont  
have to. All I am saying is that I dont think he lost out on the interest because  of a verbal 
misrepresentation by Santander. 
Mr J also thinks  that Santander didnt meet its regulatory obligations because it didnt contact 
him specifically to tell him what had happened. In particular, he talks about treating customers  
fairly and the regulations set out by the Financial Conduct Authority, Santanders  regulator.  
Ref: DRN02516423However, I think his expectation  of what Santander was obliged  to do for him is unfounded.  It 
followed his instructions in setting up the account.  And it provided him with regular, clear, 
factually correct statements which showed what was happening with his account. I think  this 
is enough.
I realise that Mr J had put a great deal of money  into the account. He suggests because of 
this there  was an extra onus on Santander  to tell him his money wasnt  earning interest. But 
I dont agree. This suggests Santander would have to monitor his account regularly and 
make decisions  on how much  money  was enough  to warrant  special contact, and perhaps 
treat him differently  to other customers.  Which I dont think is fair or reasonable.
I can see Mr J thinks  Santander should have gone  further than it did to help him. But for the 
reasons I have set out I dont agree. 
Furthermore, Mr J took many months to realise what had happened.  So even if I thought 
Santander was responsible as he says for his loss, which  I dont, I would reasonably have 
expected him to have noticed  sooner and taken  steps to mitigate it.
I am acutely  aware that what I am saying will disappoint Mr J. He put his hard-earned money  
into an account that did not pay him the interest  he was expecting. And now I am telling him 
Santander is not responsible for his loss. I am sorry for this. 
I can see he feels very strongly about his complaint. And I regret  disappointing him - that is 
not my intention.  However, my decision  brings  to an end what  we, in trying  to resolve his 
dispute with Santander informally, can do. 
For all the reasons Ive explained, Im sorry we cant uphold Mr Js complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0251642