K821x#15Complaint
Mr H complains that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money acted irresponsibly 
by lending him money in March 2018.
Background
The background to this complaint and my provisional findings  are set out in my provisional 
decision dated 26 February 2020  a copy of which is attached and forms part of my final 
decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I thought 118 118 Money was irresponsible when  
it approved Mr Hs loan. 
I asked everyone to send  me any further comments and information before  I reached a final 
decision.
Both Mr H and 118 118 Money  accepted  my provisional findings.
My findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have  accepted my provisional  decision  and I havent  received any new 
evidence, Ive reached the same conclusions I reached in my provisional decision for the 
same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons  explained above and in my provisional decision, I uphold  Mr Hs complaint.
To put things right, Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money should:
a)remove all interest,  fees and charges from the outstanding balance on the loan, and 
treat any repayments made by Mr H as though they had been repayments of the 
principal.  
Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money  has told us that Mr H has paid more 
than the capital amount of the loan. So it should  refund  these overpayments  with 8% 
simple interest* calculated  on the overpayments,  from the date the overpayments 
would have arisen, to the date the complaint  is settled. 
b)remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr Hs credit file in relation to the loan 
once the loan is settled
*HM Revenue & Customs requires  Madison  CF UK Limited trading  as 118 118 Money  to deduct  tax 
from this interest.  It should  give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if Mr H asks 
for one.
Ref: DRN00001392Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2020.
Margaux Stride-Noble
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN00001393Copy of provisional  decision
Complaint
Mr H complains that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money  acted  irresponsibly by lending  
him money in March 2018.
Background
In March 2018, Mr H applied for a loan.  118 118 Money lent him £3,000 to be repaid over 12 months 
at £354 a month.  The total amount repayable over the full term of the loan was £4,248. 
Mr H thinks  118 118 Money shouldnt have lent him the money.
Our adjudicator looked  at the complaint, and thought Mr Hs complaint  about the loan he took out in 
March 2018 should be upheld.  She didnt  think 118 118 Money  had carried  out sufficient checks 
before deciding  to lend Mr H the money. And she thought that had 118 118 Money done more, it 
would have realised the loan repayments werent  sustainable.  So, she recommended  that 118 118 
Money refund Mr H any charges and interest he paid on the capital sum he borrowed.  She also 
recommended 118 118 Money remove any negative information about  the loan from Mr Hs credit file.
118 118 Money  didnt agree  with our adjudicators assessment of Mr Hs complaint. So, the complaint  
has passed  to me to decide.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Im currently  minded to uphold  Mr Hs complaint.  Ill explain why.
When bringing his complaint to our service, Mr H explained that he was unable  to afford  the loan 
repayments alongside his other credit commitments,  which included a large overdraft, credit cards  
and a number of short-term  loans. He also explained  to us that he had a gambling addiction.
As 118 118 Money was entering a regulated credit agreement, it needed to assess Mr Hs 
creditworthiness. This included the potential for the commitments  under the agreement  to adversely 
impact Mr Hs financial  situation, and the ability  for Mr H to make repayments as they fell due over the 
term of the loan.
In particular, the regulators rules that applied  to 118 118 Money  at the time said it needed  to make 
reasonable and proportionate  checks  when assessing Mr Hs ability to meet the monthly  repayments 
in a sustainable manner  without Mr H incurring  financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse 
consequences. This included Mr H being able to make the payments  on time while  meeting  his other 
reasonable commitments and without  having  to borrow to meet the monthly  loan repayments.
The checks 118 118 Money did had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan. And 
what is proportionate will depend on a number of factors  including things like the consumers  financial 
history, their financial situation at the time of the loan application, along with other factors such  as the 
amount borrowed, type of loan and the cost of the credit being sought.
Ref: DRN00001394In light of this, I think that reasonable and proportionate checks should generally be more  thorough in 
situations where:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income); 
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income); 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit  is likely to be 
greater and the customer is required  to make payments for an extended period).
Ive carefully considered what reasonable  and proportionate checks  should  have looked like
when 118 118 Money was in the process of approving  the loan for Mr H. And Ive thought  carefully 
about what checks 118 118 Money says it did and whether those  were proportionate in the 
circumstances.
Having considered  the available  information, Im not satisfied the checks carried  out by 118 118 
Money were reasonable and proportionate when assessing Mr Hs ability to repay  the loan in a 
sustainable manner. Ill explain why.
118 118 Money  believes  the affordability  checks it carried out when Mr H applied  for the loan were 
sufficient. In support of what its said, 118 118 Money has provided us with some information about 
the checks  it carried out when Mr H applied for the loan. This included internal  system  notes, which  
sets out the information Mr H declared  during the loan application process. Its also sent us a copy  of 
Mr Hs credit report which it used when  deciding to loan Mr H the money.
Based on the information provided,  I can see Mr H declared a monthly income of £1,350 and monthly 
expenses of £309. This suggests Mr H had around £1,041 as disposable income  each month.  The 
loan repayments would have  accounted for over a third of Mr Hs perceived disposable income, 
before he was able to meet  his normal outgoings and existing credit commitments.
Mr Hs credit report, however, shows Mr H had and was relying on a large overdraft  facility which  hed 
exceeded in June and October 2017. It also shows hed taken out some short-term loans in the 
months prior to this loan application. The report also shows  that Mr H owed around £1,703 to his 
creditors and his balance to credit limit ratio was 99%. This suggests  that Mr H was relying on credit 
to meet his monthly expenses, despite his declared monthly expenses  of £309 a month.
 
So, Ive gone on to consider  what other information was available to help establish a clear picture of 
Mr Hs financial situation  around the time of the loan.
Mr H has provided us with copies of his bank statements for the period  of January to March 2018. As 
the loan application took place  on 6 March  2018, Ive had a look at his statements for the months of 
January, February and the first week of March. These statements show Mr H had a total of 8 separate 
transactions relating  to short-terms loans, 4 of which were credits  to his account. I can also see that 
Mr H had a credit card, which he was making  small  regular payments towards. 
In addition to this, the bank  statements show significant  amounts of gambling transactions. During the 
period 1 January  to 6 March 2016, Mr H had spent close to £2,200 on online gambling websites.
The statements also show he was heavily  reliant on his large overdraft facility. At the point at which 
Mr H applied for this loan,  his account  was overdrawn by around £1,900, despite being paid his salary 
one week earlier. His bank statements also show that he was incurring overdraft fees of around £90 a 
month.
Ref: DRN00001395Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Mr Hs bank statements show that he was relying  on 
additional lending and credit facilities to help meet his financial  obligations. I think  118 118 Money 
ought to have  known that their assessment of Mr Hs financial situation wasnt a true reflection  of his 
actual financial situation  and spending  habits, and that the loan repayments werent  sustainable in the 
circumstances. 
So Ive gone on to consider what would  have  happened  had 118 118 Money carried out further 
checks. In the circumstances  of this complaint, I think that had 118 118 Money  carried out further 
affordability checks using the available  information, I think its unlikely that it would have thought  the 
lending to Mr H was sustainable.
Taking everything Ive said into account, I think  the information Ive seen gives a strong impression 
that Mr H was struggling to fund his spending  habits and day-to-day expenses  despite his monthly 
salary. 
Based on what Ive seen of Mr Hs actual financial situation, I think its more likely than not that he 
would have had to borrow again during the lifetime of this loan in order to meet  his monthly  
repayments. 
For these  reasons, I dont think Mr H was going  to be able to repay  this loan in a sustainable manner. 
I think  that if 118 118 Money had made proportionate checks it would have realised  this. And I think  
Mr H has lost out because of what 118 118 Money did wrong.
Putting things right
Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money shouldnt have given Mr H the loan. 
I understand that there may still be an outstanding balance on Mr Hs loan account. If that is correct 
then this is what I propose 118 118 Money should do to put things right:  
c)remove all interest, fees and charges from the outstanding balance on the loan, and treat any 
repayments made by Mr H as though they had been repayments of the principal.  
If this results in Mr H having made overpayments then Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 
118 Money  should refund these overpayments with 8% simple  interest* calculated on the 
overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is 
settled. 
d)remove any adverse  information recorded on Mr Hs credit file in relation to the loan once the 
loan is settled
*HM Revenue & Customs  requires Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money to deduct tax from this 
interest. It should  give Mr H a certificate  showing how much  tax it has deducted,  if Mr H asks for one.
Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money should provide me with an up-to-date  statement of 
account in response to this provisional  decision.  
My provisional decision
I currently intend to uphold Mr Hs complaint. And I currently intend to require  Madison CF UK Limited 
trading as 118 118 Money to put things right as outlined  above.
Margaux Stride-Noble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0000139