K822xcomplaint
Ms Ps complaint is about the service provided  to her under a central  heating  insurance 
policy provided by certain  underwriters at Society of Lloyds.
background 
I issued two provisional decisions on this matter, in December 2018 and January 2019.  I 
provisionally determined  that the complaint should  be upheld and that the underwriters 
should repair Ms Ps boiler. Following some  further  information, I changed  the decision I 
intended to make and issued  a second provisional decision. 
I have copied  part of the second provisional  decision, which  sets out the background of the 
complaint and the submissions of both parties  and my findings below: 
Ms P tried to arrange the annual service of her boiler, which  is provided as part of her cover. 
Two appointments were arranged, and Ms P arranged time off work, but the engineer failed 
to turn up to either. 
A third appointment was arranged  but the engineer  arrived an hour early, as a result Ms P 
was not home. Ms P was told by the underwriters  to arrange a fourth  appointment. Ms P 
says she then received  a call from the engineer that had turned up early to vent  his anger  
about the job for him had been cancelled. Ms P says he was extremely  rude to her. 
When the appointment finally happened,  the service was carried out and the engineer  
advised Ms P that some repairs were  needed were needed to her boiler:  replacement  of the 
air switch,  PCB and a sensor.  
While Ms P was waiting to hear from the underwriters that they would  cover  the repairs  to 
the boiler, Ms P reported a leak from a radiator. The same engineer  came  out to repair  it. He 
told Ms P that as he had been  to service the boiler,  this call would be deemed  a recall and 
that he would not be paid for it. He also told Ms P that he was still waiting for the 
underwriters to confirm he could order the replacement parts  needed. 
Ms P says she didnt  hear anything from him or the underwriters, so she contacted them  
again. Following  this, a different engineer came out and confirmed that the parts  previously 
identified did need to be replaced.  He assured  Ms P that the parts would be ordered. 
However, the job was then passed  onto a third engineer who wanted to come and look at the 
boiler himself to see what parts were needed. Ms P was unhappy with this, as two engineers  
had already both diagnosed that parts needed to be replaced and she just wanted the 
repairs carried out. 
The underwriters apparently assured Ms P that the next visit would be to replace the parts  
as diagnosed by the previous  engineers.  However, a fourth engineer contacted  Ms P the day 
before that repair visit to tell her he would be coming the next morning  to assess the boiler. 
When Ms P was finally  able to talk to the underwriters about this, she was told the third 
engineer was unwell and so another engineer would have to attend  but he would not replace  
parts that he had not himself identified  as needing  replacement. 
Ref: DRN04488822The fourth engineer  attended and said that the parts the previous engineers  had said were 
needed did not need to be replaced.  The fourth engineer said that different  parts  costing 
around £90 were needed and he would order those and return  to repair  the boiler. 
Ms P says she heard  nothing further and so tried to call the engineer direct but his number 
was unobtainable. When she spoke to the underwriters, on 20 December 2017 they told Ms 
P the boiler  was beyond economical  repair and so they would not do the repairs after all. 
Ms P says she asked  for evidence that the boiler  was beyond economic repair,  given she 
was told the parts would  cost £90 but the underwriters told her that this information was not 
available.
I understand the boiler has been working only intermittently and needs to be rest regularly  
since November 2017.
The underwriters say the fourth engineer  recommended that the boiler be replaced because  
he thought the parts  would not be enough  to repair  the boiler, due to its condition. However, 
they acknowledged that there had been  errors  and delays  on its part and offered £700 
towards the cost of a new boiler (being what it would have cost it to do the repairs) and £300  
compensation for the inconvenience caused  by their handling of the claim. I understand it 
has paid this sum to Ms P already.
Ms P is extremely unhappy  with the handling of her claim and has made a number of 
submissions, which Ive summarised  below: 
Two independent  engineers came to the same  diagnosis  about what  was wrong with 
her boiler, which the underwriters now say isnt correct. 
If the underwriters dont trust those engineers opinion  on that, how can it be sure they 
serviced the boiler correctly and that the fault is not a result of anything  they did? 
One of the engineers told her that as the boiler was probably older than 10 years,  the 
underwriters would  not be prepared to repair it. If this is the case, why have the 
underwriters been taking payment for the insurance all this time? 
Why did it pass on her personal number and address to engineers without first 
notifying her?
Why was the fourth engineers phone number  unobtainable following his visit to my 
house?
Why did the fourth engineer say the boiler  was beyond economical repair yet the 
previous two had agreed (independently) on what needed repairing?
She has had to keep  chasing the underwriters  who failed to keep her informed and 
failed to return phone calls when  they said they would. 
The underwriters have  paid different  engineers to attend but who are not prepared to 
do the repairs.
She was asked not to contact the engineers  directly or discuss anything  with them, 
which would indicate to her that the underwriters  procedures are not transparent 
enough.
She asked for recordings of all the relevant telephone conversations,  but these have  
not been provided. 
If the boiler is not repaired promptly, could this be causing more damage?
Following the last appointment, Ms P says she received a letter telling her the annual 
service on the boiler was due and that the engineer had been  trying to contact her to 
arrange an appointment. This was clearly  incorrect. 
Ref: DRN04488823Ms P wants her boiler fixed but also assurance  that the underwriters will only give that job to 
engineers that are qualified and willing to complete the work; that the engineers that had her 
phone number, no longer have it; if she continues  with this policy that the underwriters will 
seek her permission before passing her contact details to any engineer; and that she will not 
be discriminated against in relation  to any future  claims due to this complaint.  
Ms P is also unhappy that the premium  for her cover has gone  up significantly. However, on 
renewal the underwriters also changed and this is not therefore a matter  for the underwriters 
named in this complaint.
One of our adjudicators looked  into the case.  She initially didnt  think  it should be upheld but 
she later changed  her mind and stated that the underwriters should  have repaired the boiler. 
If it failed  in the future the underwriters would  have to consider  any future claim in line with 
the terms of the policy in the normal way.  
The underwriters do not accept the adjudicators assessment of the complaint. They have 
made a number of further points, which Ive summarised below:
A gas safe qualified  engineer said the boiler  was likely to fail even if the parts were 
fitted and so it was not unreasonable for the underwriters to rely on his advice to 
deem the boiler beyond economic repair.
This was not speculation
The boiler was over 10 years old which further  supports the likelihood that other  parts 
would fail
Theres no evidence the boiler is able to be fixed 
The underwriters asked for a team  leader engineer to comment. He apparently said 
that the boiler casing had been damaged  by water  and due to the parts that were 
needed, and the age of the boiler, Pressure switch, pump and expansion  vessel, the 
engineer also stated there  was no flue collar on the flue which allowed rain to run 
down the flue and onto the top of the boiler causing the chassis  on the top to rust 
which would have  compromised the structural integrity of the boiler. Due to the parts  
required, age of the boiler, labour involved and the potential that the boiler  chassis  
could have been compromised, I would say this boiler  was definitely BER.  
As the adjudicator was unable to resolve  the complaint, it has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy provides cover for damage to a boiler  up to £2,000 for each claim. It says that if 
the boiler cant be repaired we have the option  to replace the boiler with one of equivalent 
specification or as close as possible  but only if the insured boiler is less than seven years 
old. If it is between seven  and ten years  old, the policy provides for a contribution of £400 
towards a new boiler. 
The policy doesnt  state what will happen if the boiler is repairable but that it would not be 
economically viable to repair and the policy doesnt  define beyond economical repair.  
Ref: DRN04488824I am not satisfied that it has been  established Ms Ps boiler is unrepairable and that therefore  
a replacement required. The underwriters have asked why the fourth engineers word on this 
has not been accepted  by the adjudicator  but as Ms P has pointed  out, two other equally 
qualified engineers apparently determined that the boiler was repairable. 
I note a more senior engineer has also commented but there is no specific breakdown  of 
what is needed and reasoning as to why it is not worth repairing. 
I also note that one of the underwriters internal notes says: 
20/12/17 - Plumbing and Heating  advised pressure gauge,  expansion vessel  and PRV 
faulty - these parts will not repair boiler as other  parts  will fail due to condition of the boiler 
job sheet 1415828 confirms findings as follows: signs  of multiple leaks over time, scale  on 
HEX pipework, no collar  on flue allowing ingress of water and top is rusty  - gauge  on front 
damaged. Engineer confirms that potentially this could cost  [us] a lot of money  due to 
poor installation.  Recommended replacement. confirm boiler  BER.
So it may not be economically viable for the underwriters to repair the boiler,  but that is not 
the test. The contract  of insurance it entered into with Ms P doesnt provide  the underwriters 
with the right to refuse to repair on this basis, only if it cant  be repaired.  It might be that the 
repair wouldnt last very long but this also hasnt been proven. In order to be able to refuse to 
repair on this basis there would have to be convincing evidence that the repair  would last for 
such a short time, or not work at all, that it would not be reasonable to carry it out. No such 
evidence has been provided. And I also anticipate that the condition  of the boiler will only 
have deteriorated  since this was first reported in later 2017, so it will be difficult to obtain  
reliable evidence about that now.  
In addition, just because the boiler is over 10 years  old does not mean it is bound to fail or 
that it is not covered. There is no such exclusion of cover in the policy.  
It therefore seems to me that the boiler  is repairable  but the underwriters made a financial 
decision it was not viable  to repair it. But as there is no definition of ber in the policy, I would 
need to be satisfied that it would cost more to repair  than to replace the boiler. Theres  no 
evidence to support  this. The costs  estimate was £350 plus labour, and the underwriters 
have made  a payment of £700  in lieu of the repairs. Ive no evidence to dispute that figure. 
Underwriters said this is about the cost of a new boiler and so is reasonable 
In the context of a policy which provides cover  for repairs up to £2,000,  I dont consider the 
underwriters have established it was beyond economic  repair. In the absence of any 
definition, it seems to me that the reasonable assumption for a consumer to make is that if it 
would cost more  than £2,000 to repair it... or more than it would cost to replace and fit a new 
boiler, whichever is the lesser that [the boiler] would  be beyond  economic repair. It may be 
that the underwriters  will have to come  and complete more repairs  in the future  and this 
might cost them a lot of money  but that is the bargain they entered  into with Ms P in return  
for her premium.  
On the evidence currently available to me there is not enough evidence  to safely conclude 
that the underwriters  were  entitled to refuse to repair the boiler.  I therefore  agree with the 
adjudicator that they should  have  carried  out the repairs  that were  identified initially at the 
end of 2017.
Ref: DRN04488825In my first provisional decision  I determined that the underwriters should  carry out the 
repairs up to the policy limit. I also determined that the underwriters would have needed  to 
pass on Ms Ps contact details to the engineers but it should  have explained the process to 
her so she would  know  what to expect. 
I also provisionally determined that an additional payment of compensation (over and above 
the £300 already paid) should be paid. This matter went on for some  considerable time. Ms 
Ps boiler  started failing over a year ago and she has had the continued worry of it failing in 
the cold weather  last year and this year. She also had several appointments with engineers 
which were unproductive.  Overall I considered  that the total sum of £450 is appropriate (to 
include the £300 already  paid). 
In response to this, Ms P told us that she had had the boiler replaced and so it was no longer 
appropriate to direct that  underwriters carry out more repairs.  What follows  is an extract 
from my second provisional  decision.  
Ms P said the cheapest quote she found for replacement of the boiler  was £2,460  and she 
is therefore £1,460 out of pocket. 
The adjudicator asked for further details and Ms P then confirmed shed  had a new boiler 
installed in early September 2018.  The copy of the invoice  provided shows this cost £2,163, 
including VAT. Ms P says she couldnt  wait any longer: the problems with the boiler started 
in November 2017 and while waiting for the outcome of this complaint, it continued  to 
deteriorate and eventually  stopped  working. During the warmer  weather  Ms P says she was 
able to suffer cold showers and no heating but she could not continue to do so once the 
weather turned colder.
Given that she had little trust in the local engineers sent by the underwriters, and she had 
only a £700 contribution from them,  Ms P decided  that she should borrow  the money to 
replace the boiler, rather than have it repaired. 
Ms P also says that the constant uncertainty about  whether  her boiler  would work  each  day, 
and therefore  whether  she would have heating or hot water caused her a huge amount of 
stress and inconvenience, including not being able to invite her family to stay with her over 
Christmas 2017. 
Ms P has also said that the underwriters renewed the policy  in 2018 and deducted the first 
months premium from the £1,000 it paid her for the contribution to the new boiler  and 
compensation. She cancelled the policy thereafter  
I dont think it was unreasonable  for Ms P to have  decided to replace  the boiler and not 
repair it. However, that now means that it cant be repaired and so the outcome that I 
provisionally determined,  is no longer  practical. 
As stated in my first provisional  decision,  there  is no other  evidence  about the cost of the 
repairs that were initially  deemed to be required.  The underwriters said they would have cost 
£700 and it appears this sum was paid to Ms P in early 2018.  As the boiler has been 
replaced, and theres no evidence  that her own engineer explored repairing it, there is now 
no evidence to support  that the repairs might  have cost any more  than £700. Therefore, it 
Ref: DRN04488826seems to me that I can only reasonably conclude that the payment of £700 in lieu of repairs 
already made is sufficient.  
On the evidence currently available to me therefore,  I dont consider that the underwriters 
need to pay any more towards  the cost of the new boiler. 
I remain of the opinion, however, that the total of £450 is appropriate for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the handling  of the matter. 
Finally, Ms P says that the first premium due for the next policy  period was deducted from 
the payment the underwriters already made to her in early  2018. I have no further evidence 
about this but it would seem to me reasonable that the premium taken be reimbursed, given 
that the boiler was effectively no longer covered.
responses to my second provisional  decision
I invited both parties to respond to my second  provisional decision with any further  
information or arguments they want considered. 
The underwriters have  not responded. 
Ms P has responded and says she is very disappointed with the outcome although she 
understand my reasoning. She wants the following comments recorded: 
She is still bewildered  that the underwriters  did not do the repairs if they thought it 
would only cost £700, as my insurance  cover was for £2,000 each and every repair.  
It would  have saved  a lot of time, money,  upset and inconvenience to all parties 
concerned. This is all the more  important as her insurance cover was coming  to an 
end so, if they thought there  would  have been  further repairs, they could have 
addressed that at renewal.
The initial recommendation by the adjudicator  was made in May 2018  and the delay 
in forming this final decision has compromised that decision.
She complained  about the underwriters  taking the premium at the time and it was 
refunded. 
The £450 compensation does  not in any way provide compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience  caused during the past 15 months.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further information, I see no reason to change my 
provisional findings. I remain of the opinion that the £700 already paid to Ms P in lieu of 
repairs is sufficient. 
I note Ms Ps comments  about the compensation but I also remain of the opinion  that this is 
appropriate having taken account of all the circumstances and awards made by this service  
in similar  cases. 
I also note what Ms P says about  the time taken to reach this decision. I have asked the 
adjudicator to respond to this as a complaint  about our service.
Ref: DRN04488827 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  against Society of Lloyds and require it to pay Ms P £450 
compensation (less the £300 already  paid) for the distress and inconvenience caused  to her 
by the handling of this claim. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 April 2019.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0448882