K821x#15complaint
Mr D has complained that Cigna Insurance Services (Europe) Limited didnt tell him when he 
reached the age of 65 that his benefits under his personal accident insurance policy had 
halved.
background
Mr D took out the policy in 1990. The policy would provide various benefits in the event that 
Mr D or his wife suffered  death or disablement as a result of an accident. The policy was 
designed so that the premium and level of benefit increased by 5% each year.
In 2017, Mr D discovered that his level of benefit  if he were  to make a claim was much lower  
than he had expected. He questioned this with Cigna who explained  that this was because 
the benefit levels under the policy had halved in 2011 when Mr D had reached the age of 65.
Mr D complained to Cigna that it hadnt  highlighted this at the time. He said that if hed 
known, he wouldnt have  continued with the policy.  He asked for a refund of his premiums  
from the time of his 65th birthday.
Cigna didnt uphold  his complaint. It said the policy terms had always  stated that benefit  
would halve once  the insured person reached the age of 65 and it had been up to Mr D to 
read these.  
Mr D was unhappy at Cignas response. He referred  his complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld  in part. She thought 
Cigna should  have brought the reduction  in benefit clause to Mr Ds attention at the time it 
became relevant. This would have allowed him to make an informed  decision  as to whether 
to continue with the policy. She noted  that Cigna hadnt done  this and considered  that the 
letter it sent at the policys renewal actually  implied  his benefit would be higher  than the 
amounts listed in the policy. However, she noted  that Mr Ds wife was still covered for full 
benefit under the policy until she reached the age of 65 which wasnt  until 2016. While noting  
that Mr D said he would  have cancelled the policy in 2011  if he had known of the reduction in 
cover, she thought the fair outcome was that Mr D should receive  a partial  refund  of 
premiums reflecting his portion of the cover from the time of his 65th birthday, and a full 
refund of premiums from the time of his wifes 65th birthday, plus interest. 
Mr D accepted the investigators findings  but Cigna did not. It provided  examples of previous 
complaints dealt with by this service which it considered were similar but in which  the 
investigator or adjudicator had found that Cigna had done nothing wrong. It therefore asked 
that the complaint be referred for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I uphold  this complaint in 
part. I shall explain why.
The policy outlines  the various levels of benefit payable in the event of the insured  person 
suffering death  or a particular type of permanent disability due to an accidental injury.  These  
are up to £70,000 in respect of the gold level of cover which was what Mr D had taken out. 
Ref: DRN02278262The policy explains  that the benefits and premium will automatically increase by 5% of their 
initial amounts  at each  renewal date. The policy says that if an insured person is aged  65 or 
over at the time of sustaining their injury then benefit for permanent  total disablement  from 
all gainful employment  will not be payable and that all other benefits will be halved.
The clause stating  that benefits  will be removed or reduced at the age of 65 is not unusual in 
personal accident policies. This is because the risk of someone making a claim under such a 
policy significantly increases as they become older. I dont  therefore  find the term to be 
unfair.
However, at neither of the policy  renewals  immediately  before or following Mr Ds 65th 
birthday did Cigna specifically draw this clause to his attention.  On the contrary, when it 
wrote to him in advance  of the 2012 renewal, which was just after Mr D had turned  65, its 
letter said Your benefits for the Gold level are 110% higher than the amounts shown on the 
policy documents. This was entirely misleading  because it failed to take into account that if 
Mr D now suffered an accidental injury, his benefit would be halved, meaning it would be just 
5% higher  than the amount shown in his policy document. 
Cigna points out that the clause stating benefit would be halved  at the age of 65 had been  in 
the policy when  Mr D first took it out. I accept this but given this had been over twenty  years  
earlier I think Cigna should reasonably  have  drawn  attention to it when it knew it had 
become relevant. Cigna  failed to do this and instead  specifically implied that the benefit  for 
Mr D was far higher.  I am therefore  satisfied that Cigna was at fault. 
Cigna has drawn  attention  to other  complaints which have been  referred  to this service. 
However, as the investigator has explained,  we judge each case on its own merits. The 
outcomes of the previous  complaints dont  change my opinion  that Cigna is at fault in this 
case.
Mr D says that if hed realised his benefit level had been cut in half he would  have cancelled  
the policy at that time. However, his wife was also covered under the policy  and she 
remained entitled to full benefit  until she turned 65 in 2016.
Mr D has since  cancelled the policy so Im satisfied he didnt want the cover once both he 
and his wifes benefit level had been  halved.  In terms of what  refund he should  be given, 
there are different ways of looking at it. Mr D has said he should  be given a full refund from 
the time his cover  was halved.  However, one could argue that he and his wife have still been 
protected, albeit at a lower level than he thought, and that he would have been willing to pay 
a proportionate amount for that cover. On that basis, I could require  Cigna to refund him 
50% of the premium  which  pertained  to his personal cover  from the time he turned 65 until 
the time his wife turned 65, and 50% of the overall premium since then. However,  I think the 
fairest solution is the in-between redress proposed  by the investigator  which  assumed that, if 
hed known the true situation,  Mr D would have cancelled his own cover once he turned 65 
but would  have continued to insure  his wife until she also turned 65.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.
I require Cigna Insurance Services (Europe)  Limited  to refund Mr D a proportion of his 
premiums reflecting the cost of his personal  cover from the time of his 65th birthday and his 
full premiums from the time of his wifes 65th birthday. Cigna  should  add interest  to this 
Ref: DRN02278263refund at the annual simple rate of 8%, calculated from the date each premium  was paid to 
the date of settlement.*
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
* If Cigna considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income  tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr D how much its taken off. It should also give Mr D a certificate showing  this if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN0227826