K821x#15complaint
Mrs T complains that a car she has been financing through an agreement  with BMW 
Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS), has been of unsatisfactory  quality.
background
Mrs T took receipt  of a new car in September 2017.  She financed the deal through a hire 
purchase agreement  with BMWFS. 
She has had some  problems with the vehicle which Ive summarised in this table:
date issue
January 2018 The car needed roadside recovery.  The dealership 
suggested a possible  Controller Area Network (CAN) fault. 
Multiple communication faults found.
March 2018 Further investigation of the fault at the dealership. Mrs T 
reported the speedometer wasnt working properly and she 
was still getting  error  messages.
December 2018 BMW recover  the car. A CAN fault is confirmed and the 
speedometer is still faulty.
December 2018 Mrs T reports a further, similar, issue with the car stalling.
Mrs T complained to BMWFS but they wouldnt allow her to reject the car as they said the 
issues she complained  of in December 2018  were unrelated  to those shed highlighted 
earlier in the year.
So Mrs T referred her complaint to this service  and our adjudicator provided her view. She 
explained that when something  was wrong  with a car from the start,  as she thought was the 
case here, the business were entitled to one opportunity to fix the issue.  But if that repair  
failed they should allow the consumer to reject the car. She was persuaded that the 
concerns Mrs T raised in December were the same as the ones shed raised early  on. She 
noted that they all seemed to be related to the CAN system and she therefore suggested 
BMWFS should allow Mrs T to reject the car and to terminate  her contract with them. She 
thought it was clear  Mrs T had also been  inconvenienced by these issues  so she suggested 
BMWFS pay her £150 in compensation and that they return her deposit  with interest.
BMWFS didnt agree with the adjudicator.  They said that relevant legislation didnt allow  
Mrs T to reject the car when shed already accepted a repair.  So they asked for a final 
decision by an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN07674252my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint BMWFS so please let me 
explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs T acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. The hire purchase agreement is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then BMWFS, who are also the supplier  of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Mrs T. The car here 
was brand new so I would not expect it to have any faults.
I take account of relevant law when deciding what is fair and reasonable. On this basis  if I 
thought the car was faulty when supplied and this fault made the car not of satisfactory  
quality, Id think it fair and reasonable to ask BMWFS to put this right.  
I think its pretty clear the faults Mrs T was complaining about  in January 2018 were  the 
same ones she was complaining about in December of that year. She has consistently 
complained of the car cutting out at low speed  and of electrical  warning messages displaying  
and of the speedometer not working. As she reported the faults so soon after taking receipt 
of the car I think its reasonable to suggest  they were most  probably present or developing 
when the car was supplied to her.
In January 2018 the recovery service noted  that the car was cutting  out and referred it for 
further investigation. They noted  several communications  error  messages and suggested  a 
CAN fault.  As the CAN appears  to co-ordinate signals from the cars electronic control units I 
think it sounds reasonable that the car would be receiving multiple  error  messages if the 
CAN was faulty.
In March 2018 the dealership identified multiple  error messages and also noted that the 
speedometer wasnt working.
In December they confirmed a CAN fault and again  referred to the speedometer not working.
Ref: DRN07674253So Im persuaded  that BMWFSs attempt to repair the car in January and in March  2018  
most likely failed. The relevant legislation allows them  one opportunity to repair the vehicle 
but if that doesnt work wed expect the business  to allow the consumer to reject  the car and 
terminate the finance  agreement. I think that would be fair in this case  as I dont think  this car 
has been of satisfactory  quality.
BMWFS should therefore accept the car back and terminate the agreement. Its usual  in 
these circumstances  for this service  to ask the business to refund the deposit and I see no 
reason to deviate from that here. Mrs T may need that deposit to fund another vehicle. I think  
its clear Mrs T has been inconvenienced by these matters. Shes had to return her car to the 
dealership on at least four occasions and I can see she refers  to several phone calls in late 
2017 when she also needed to consult  with them about the problems with her car. In the 
circumstances I think BMWFS should  pay her some compensation  for this inconvenience 
and Id agree with the adjudicator that £150 seems reasonable.
BMWFS say that Mrs T accepted repairs in December.  I dont  think she was given the 
choice to reject the car and I note from BMWFSs  final response  letter  that Mrs T had been 
asking to hand the car back. They said you asked in a previous email  at which point  you 
can hand the car back. So, whilst repairs were accepted,  I dont think Mrs T would have 
been likely  to accept  them again  if she had been adequately informed.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell BMW Financial 
Services(GB) Limited to:
terminate the finance  agreement and collect the car at no cost to Mrs T;
refund  Mrs Ts deposit and add 8% simple  interest per annum from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement;
pay Mrs T £150 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience shes  
experienced;
remove any adverse information  they may have  reported to Mrs Ts credit  file in 
relation to this issue.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0767425