K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that a car he was financing through an agreement  with FirstRand Bank  
Limited, trading  as MotoNovo  Finance  (MotoNovo), was not of satisfactory quality and that 
whilst the business  has accepted this they havent  provided adequate redress.
background
Mr B took receipt of a used vehicle in May 2018.  He financed the deal through a hire 
purchase agreement  with MotoNovo. At the point of supply the car had already covered 
62,642 miles and was almost seven years old. Mr B agreed to pay a cash  deposit of £200  
and was to pay 59 monthly instalments of £147.21  and a final payment of £306.21. 
Mr B experienced problems with the car five weeks later and when the car was returned  to 
him it broke down again after Mr B says hed only driven 33 additional miles. So eventually 
MotoNovo agreed  to allow him to reject  the vehicle  and to terminate his finance  agreement.
They agreed to return Mr Bs deposit  and refund his finance instalments but they retained 
four monthly instalments  as they said hed completed 3,858 miles in the car since hed had it 
and they thought this was a reasonable charge for that amount of mileage. 
But Mr B didnt think MotoNovo had done enough. He said there  were  additional  costs  
associated with the cars breakdown that he wanted MotoNovo to consider.
MotoNovo didnt think they needed to take any further action so Mr B referred his complaint  
to this service and our adjudicator provided his opinion. He was persuaded the fault with 
Mr Bs car was there or was developing at the point of supply. He noted his agreement had 
no mileage limit and he didnt think it would be fair to consider fair usage  based  on the 
mileage that had been completed. He thought it more  reasonable for Mr B to pay for the time 
he had the car, when  it wasnt  being repaired,  and he thought  that was a five week  period. 
So he suggested MotoNovo retain five weeks payment which  he calculated as £169.86.
He didnt think MotoNovo  should refund any insurance or tax that Mr B had been paying on 
the vehicle whilst it was garaged. He said that because he noted  theyd  provided  a courtesy 
car and had kept Mr B mobile. He also didnt think it necessary for MotoNovo to refund any 
fuel cost Mr B had incurred but he did think  MotoNovo should refund the bill hed had to pay 
to have his car recovered to the garage  when it initially broke down.  He also thought it was 
clear Mr B had been inconvenienced by the matter and he suggested MotoNovo pay him 
£250 to compensate him for this.
MotoNovo accepted the adjudicators suggested redress and so did Mr B but he thought the 
business should pay for his travel to view and collect the car; his unused  fuel; commuting 
that his wife had to do when the car wasnt available and the tax and insurance hed paid for 
on the vehicle.  So in the absence of Mr Bs acceptance of the settlement the complaint was 
referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN01774262I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Mr B so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr B acquired his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  Its clear it wasnt. The head gasket has failed as a result of a coolant 
leak and I think its most  likely the coolant leak was developing at the point the car was 
supplied to Mr B, as Ive seen that a leaking coolant  pipe was noted in the MOT that was 
completed shortly before  Mr B took receipt of the car. MotoNovo have, in my opinion,  rightly 
accepted responsibility and have  agreed with the adjudicators suggested  settlement.
I think the adjudicators  suggestions are sufficient here and I dont think it would be 
reasonable to ask MotoNovo to pay anything else. MotoNovo have agreed to refund all 
payments accept those  for the five weeks Mr B had use of the car. They could argue that 
Mr B hasnt had to pay for the courtesy car and I think that use would more than offset any 
additional costs  Mr B has asked me to look at; such as those for unused fuel; commuting; or 
collection. The adjudicator has also suggested that a payment of £250 is made in respect of 
the distress and inconvenience  thats been  caused  and I think  its fair to suggest  that this 
would cover some of the additional costs that Mr B says should still be refunded.
Overall, I think the settlement suggested  by the adjudicator provides sufficient redress  for the 
issues Mr B has experienced and Im therefore not asking MotoNovo to take any additional 
action.
Ref: DRN01774263my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell FirstRand Bank Limited  to:
repay the £169.14 breakdown recovery bill
refund  all finance instalments except for £169.86  (five weeks)
collect the vehicle  at no cost to Mr B
cancel the agreement
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Bs credit  file in relation to 
this issue
pay Mr B £250 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced
return Mr Bs deposit
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 October  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0177426