K820x#14complaint
Mrs A has complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) rejected a vandalism claim she 
made under her car insurance policy. 
background
Mrs A said she brought her car to a garage for an MOT and service using the car 
maintenance benefit attached to her car insurance policy. This benefit is provided by a third 
party group, so not her insurer. After the service, Mrs A said the heater was no longer 
working. She said the garage had damaged it  so she contacted  UKI to make a vandalism 
claim under her car insurance policy. 
Mrs A thought she was entitled to a free service  and MOT. But our investigator established 
with Mrs A that this wasnt the case  and that it isnt supported in any of the documents  
Mrs A received from UKI. 
UKI said there wasnt any evidence to support  Mrs As vandalism claim. 
Mrs A asked us to look at her complaint. She wanted UKI to reimburse her for what  she paid 
for the service and MOT. And she wanted  it to pay for her heater to be repaired. 
Our investigator said that without any proof  the garage had damaged  Mrs As heater, she 
couldnt say that UKI had done  anything wrong. UKI said that if Mrs A was able to provide 
evidence to support  her complaint, it would reconsider. The investigator thought this was 
reasonable. 
In June 2019 Mrs A provided an invoice for repairs carried out to her car. This included the 
cost to repair the heater. 
UKI said the evidence Mrs A provided wasnt enough for it to reconsider her vandalism 
claim. Our investigator said that the invoice didnt show that the garage  had damaged the 
heater. It just confirmed  that the heater was damaged. So she didnt change her view. 
Mrs A didnt agree and wants an ombudsman to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why.
The remaining  issue  for me to decide is whether UKI should  have dealt  with Mrs As 
vandalism claim. Mrs A believes that the garage  damaged her heater. She said that we 
should take her word  as evidence. Mrs A said the heater was working before. I understand 
how strongly Mrs A feels about this issue. We look at the evidence  from both parties  and 
naturally we give weight to the more persuasive  evidence. If there isnt any evidence, I need 
to decide what  I think - on balance - more likely than not happened.
I dont think the invoice Mrs A has provided  as evidence the garage damaged her heater is 
enough to support her complaint. It shows what work was required on her car in order for it 
Ref: DRN01458972to pass its MOT. But it doesnt give any insight or assessment as to how the damage was 
caused. 
UKIs definition of vandalism is damage caused  by a malicious or deliberate act  and not 
caused by another vehicle.
From the information Ive seen, I cant safely conclude that the garage damaged Mrs As 
heater. I realise Mrs A will be disappointed. But this means that I dont  think  UKI is 
responsible for the heater repair costs  as the evidence available  doesnt support Mrs As 
claim for vandalism.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 September 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0145897