K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that he suffered exchange  rate loss when he transferred money overseas  
through National Westminster Bank Plc.
background
Mr M sent money from his NatWest account to an account in Gibraltar.  The money was 
converted to euros, and then converting  back to sterling. Mr M suffered a loss due to 
exchange rate fluctuations when the money  was converted. He later discovered the transfer 
couldve been made in sterling, without the conversion to euros. 
Our investigator didnt  think NatWest  had done  anything wrong.  He concluded that it 
wouldve been clear  from the banks website  that the money  would be converted  to euros  on 
transfer. The investigator also found  that information  about  making  direct  transfers  to 
Gibraltar was included  on NatWests website.
Mr M didnt  agree with the investigators conclusions  so the complaint has been passed to 
me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is possible to make transfers to Gibraltar through NatWests website without a conversion  
to euros.  So I can understand why Mr M was unhappy when he found  out he couldve 
transferred the money without incurring the exchange rate loss.
I accept that the specific details  about making  a sterling transfer to Gibraltar arent 
immediately obvious  from NatWests website. A customer would have to ask a question 
through the website, or make a particular search  to find the page that says Gibraltar  
payments arent classed  as international payments. 
But Gibraltar  is listed as a destination for international payments on NatWests website  
presumably because some transfers  to the island are required to be made  in euros. So I can 
see why there might  be some confusion, and that there could be an assumption that 
transfers can only be made in euros. 
I have to keep  in mind, however, the information that wouldve been available to Mr M once 
he started to make  the transfer.  I dont  think he disputes  that it was clear from NatWests 
website that the transfer would be made in euros,  and what the exchange rate was.
If he was unhappy  with this, I think it wouldve been reasonable for him to contact NatWest 
to check whether there were other means  of making  the transfer. As it was, he continued 
with the transaction, knowing what he would have to pay. NatWest carried  out the 
transaction, in line with Mr Ms instructions.
I appreciate the point  Mr M is making,  but Im not persuaded  that his complaint should be 
upheld. From what Ive seen, Im satisfied  that NatWests website made  it clear  that the 
transfer would involve a conversion to euros. Mr M didnt  realise  he couldve made the 
Ref: DRN00692132transfer in sterling,  but I still think it wouldve been  reasonable  for him to check the position  
with NatWest if he was unhappy  about  the transaction he was making.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0069213