K821x#15complaint
Mr H says PDL Finance Limited, trading as Mr Lender, irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about four loans Mr Lender provided to Mr H between September 2016 
and January 2018. Mr Hs borrowing history  is as follows:
Loan Date  Taken Date  Repaid Instalments Amount Repayment
1 20/09/2016 16/12/2016 3 £300.00 £174.40
2 06/01/2017 05/05/2017 3 £500.00 £306.66
3 05/05/2017 17/11/2017 6 £400.00 £156.26
4 05/01/2018 01/07/2018 6 £500.00 £181.33
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Hs complaint about loans 3 and 4 and thought  that these loans 
shouldnt have been given. Mr Lender  disagreed and the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr H 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Lender  should  fairly and reasonably  have done  
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN00491652I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mr H could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint.  Our adjudicator  felt that loans 1 and 2 
shouldnt be upheld and Mr H seems  to have agreed  with this opinion.  Mr Lender  has agreed 
to uphold Mr Hs complaint about loan 4. So, as a result, loans 1, 2 and 4 are no longer in 
dispute so I wont  be considering these  loans in my decision.  But I have thought about all of 
Mr Hs loans when considering the overall  pattern of lending. 
Mr Lender carried out income and expenditure checks before lending  Mr H any of these 
loans. And I think for loans 1 and 2, this was reasonable. However, Mr H applied for loan 3 
on the same  day he paid off loan 2 and he had also deferred one payment for loan 2. It was 
at this point that Mr H also declared  a decrease  in his monthly income  and an increase in his 
monthly expenditure. So, I think, based on these factors, Mr Lender should have carried  out 
a more thorough  check of Mr Hs financial circumstances before agreeing  to lend him loan 3. 
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate  check for loan 3 would most likely  have shown  
that Mr H had an additional three  loans outstanding  with other  short-term  providers. I think  
this wouldve  made Mr Lender aware  that it was likely Mr H was having financial difficulties 
which meant repaying this loan,  and any subsequent loans, wouldnt have been sustainable. 
And I dont  think a responsible lender ought  to have  lent money to an applicant in this 
position. 
So, Im upholding  the complaint about  loan 3 and Mr Lender should  put things right. 
Mr Lender has also agreed to uphold loan 4 so Ive included this in the redress  section 
below.
putting things right  what Mr Lender  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr H paid on loans 3 and 4;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loans 3 and 4 from Mr Hs credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender  
must give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
Ref: DRN00491653For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Hs complaint. PDL Finance  Limited  
should pay Mr H compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Lender to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 April 2020.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0049165