K820x#14complaint
Mr P has complained about a trading account he holds with Halifax Share Dealing Limited 
(Halifax).  He says the platform was misrepresented and is unsuitable as it doesnt allow 
the same  trading options as most providers in the marketplace.
background
Mr P was attempting to trade a particular fund on his account when he found  out that it was 
not possible, and there  were limitations  with the trades  he could place using Halifaxs  
platform.  To  put things right Mr P would like Halifax to clarify the limited scope of its platform 
to all customers (both existing and new), or alternatively allow additional trading capability 
using the platform.
As Mr P couldnt reach agreement with Halifax,  he referred  the complaint to our Service  for 
review.  One of our investigators looked  into the complaint and recommended  that it 
shouldnt be upheld.
In summary,  the investigator said when Mr P opened  the account, the terms and conditions  
explained that not all assets or equities  could be traded, and so Mr P hadnt been  misled.  
She also explained that our Service could not tell a business what funds it must allow  its 
customers to trade on it platform.
Mr P disagreed with the investigators findings.  He acknowledged that we could not tell a 
business what funds  it must allow customers to trade, but strongly  contested that Halifax had 
been upfront about the limitations of its platform at the outset.
As no agreement could be reached, Ive now been asked to review  everything afresh and 
make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so, Ive reach  much  the 
same conclusion as the investigator,  and for broadly the same  reasons.
I understand Mr Ps initial complaint also included some issues  relating to the customer  
service he received from Halifax, but they have been addressed and he received 
compensation.  So as Mr P has said they dont now form part of this complaint I havent 
considered them.
The role of our Service is to look at complaints about the acts of a business in the specific 
circumstances of that complaint.  Where we uphold  a complaint, we can tell the business 
what it should do to put things right for that customer, but we cannot  make it change its 
processes more generally towards  all customers.   That is a something which the financial 
regulator, the FCA, is responsible for.  So I think it is right that from the outset  I manage  Mr 
Ps expectations in that I would not be able to determine that Halifax  contact all customers  
and change it processes.
So in reaching my decision, my focus has been  to decide whether Halifax had acted in a 
manner which misled  Mr P, and if so, whether he suffered  a financial loss as a result.
Ref: DRN01142342I appreciate Mr Ps concern that the trading platform does  not provide access to a number of 
funds that can be traded with many other providers.  I understand why he would make the 
assumption that the platform would operate on a similar basis  to other providers, but I cant 
say Halifax has done anything wrong.
When opening the account,  the terms and conditions stated:
In some circumstances, we may be unable to offer to trade a specific  equity or asset .
Mr P considers this to mean  that certain trades would be unavailable in certain narrow 
circumstances.  But I disagree.   Im satisfied that this informed him that not all trades would 
be possible.  Ultimately  which funds would be available and at what time would be a matter 
for Halifaxs commercial discretion.
I realise that Mr P will likely be disappointed and disagree with my conclusion,  but I have 
reached it impartially having considered everything.  Also, whilst I know  Mr P experienced a 
loss of expectation, he hasnt suffered an actual financial  loss that I would  usually 
compensate for had the complaint been upheld.
So overall, I cant say Mr P has been  treated  unfairly  and so it would not be right for me to 
ask Halifax to do anything  more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint against  Halifax  Share Dealing 
Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
Ross Hammond
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0114234