K821x#15complaint
Mr D has complained that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited  unreasonably 
refused to pay his claim under his pet policy when his dog died following being hit by a van.
background
Mr D had his policy with Red Sands since 2014. In December 2018,  his dog was involved in 
an accident straight outside  Mr Ds house.  Mr D said this was a private road owned  by him 
and his family. Sadly, his dog had to be put to sleep  due to her injuries.  
Mr D then claimed on his policy for the vet costs. Red Sands refused to pay his claim 
because the Road Traffic Act deems its an offence  to permit a dog to be on a designated  
road without  a lead,  And that the policy terms and conditions required Mr D to keep his dog 
under his control on a designated road.
Mr D maintained this is a private  road and therefore  not a designated road for the purposes 
of the Road Traffic legislation. But Red Sands disagreed and continued to refuse to pay his 
claim. So Mr D brought his complaint  to us.
The investigator was of the view that Mr Ds complaint should be upheld and Red Sands  
should consider  his claim on the basis Red Sands hadnt proved the road was a designated 
road. Red Sands disagreed so Mr Ds complaint has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint. Ill now explain  why.
Red Sands  declined to deal with Mr Ds claim by its letter of 26 February 2019. It said 
because Mr Ds dog was on a road it was covered by the Road Traffic Act 1988 where  its 
an offence to permit a dog to be on a designated road without a lead. It said that was 
covered by section  10 of its policy where  it requires any insured dog to be on a lead in 
accordance with the Road Traffic legislation. And since Mr Ds dog wasnt  on a lead at the 
time of the accident, it wouldnt deal with his claim given the accident happened on a road.
Mr D said this road was a private  road and therefore  not a designated road as required 
under the Road Traffic legislation. He provided  the land registry  details confirming his 
ownership or rather his familys  ownership  of the road. Whereas Red Sands appeared to be 
relying on what some sort of street list website said, which appeared to say it was owned by 
the parish council.  
Im not persuaded by the website Red Sands relied on. I consider the Land  Registry in the 
UK coherently details  categorically who owns what land in the UK and thats the more 
coherent evidence  of actual land ownership  available.  It follows  that I consider this road is 
therefore still in the private hands  of Mr D and his family. 
The law surrounding the maintenance and adoption of private roads in the UK is highly 
complex and is largely contained in Part XI of the Highway Act 1980. A road,  which is 
privately owned, is not maintained at public expense. This means the local authority is under  
no obligation  to pay for its maintenance as that responsibility lies with the owner. Mr D has 
Ref: DRN01130682said the local council  or even  parish  council doesnt  maintain this road and it has no street  
lighting. Therefore  this would mean  its not a designated road  within the meaning of the 
Road Traffic legislation  since effectively  the other property owners in this close merely have 
a right of way over it or possibly even  an easement. 
The term in Red Sands policy is as follows: 
Section 10 General conditions
10.1.1 As pet Section  27 of the Road  Traffic Act 1988: "A person who causes or 
permits a dog to be on a designated road without the dog being held on a lead is 
guilty of an offence.  It also states, in this section, "designated road"  means a length  
of road specified  by an order  in that behalf of the local authority in whose area the 
length of road is situated - For further details see The Road Traffic Act 1988, With 
this in mind,  a dog on a designated road must  be on a collar and lead under control.
10.1.2 When walking  your pet in an area other than a designated road, you must 
ensure that your pet remains  under your control  and reasonable steps must be taken 
to prevent your pet escaping onto a designated  road. When nearing a road you must  
ensure your pet is on a lead.
10.1.3 You must ensure  that any dog lead,  collar and/ or harness is in good condition  
and fits your pet to prevent escape.  You must also ensure that any lead is used in 
such a way as to prevent the same  slipping out of your grasp  should  your pet 
suddenly pull away from you.
10.1.4 You must ensure  your pet cannot  escape or stray from your property and any 
area in which  a dog is kept must  be secure and appropriately fenced or otherwise 
secured and all reasonable steps must be taken to prevent escape. When loading 
your pet into or out of your vehicle, you must  ensure that the area is either secure  or 
your pet is on a lead.
This term is reliant on the fact of designated roads  and its clear to me where Mr Ds dog 
had her accident wasnt a designated road. The dog was unfortunately injured right outside 
her garden on land privately  owned by Mr D and his family. Therefore, I consider  this was a 
simple accident and that its fair and reasonable that Red Sands now look to considering 
Mr Ds claim in accordance with the remaining  terms and conditions of the policy. 
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to do the following:
Reconsider Mr Ds claim subject  to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.  
If paid, add interest of 8% simple per year from the date Mr D submitted his claim to 
the date Red Sands then pays it. If income  tax is to be deducted  from the interest, 
appropriate documentation should  be provided to Mr D for HMRC purposes.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 June  2020.
Ref: DRN01130683Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0113068