K821x#15complaint
Mr S and Miss M complain that ERGO Reiseversicherung AG (ERV) hasnt paid their full 
claim under their travel insurance policy. 
background
I set out the background  to this complaint in my provisional decision, which forms part of this 
final decision. I said I was likely to uphold this complaint. This is what I said:
Mr S and Miss M have gold multi-trip travel  insurance, and the insurer  is ERV. In 2018  Mr 
S and Miss Ms domestic flight to a hub airport in the UK was delayed. This meant that in 
turn they missed  their connecting  flight  to their holiday destination. They  had to stay at the 
hub airport for one night  and pay to amend their international flight.  
Mr S and Miss M had paid in advance for three  nights at a hotel in their destination country  
(for the dates 2 to 5 November 2018). They paid £756.69 on a non-refundable  basis.  The 
hotel treated them as a no show because  theyd missed the international flight.  So they lost 
all the money theyd paid in advance. When they finally arrived at that hotel they had to 
rebook and pay again for the accommodation  for the dates 3 to 5 November 2018,  at a cost 
of £427.73 (sterling  equivalent). 
Mr S and Miss M made a claim to ERV for their additional costs.  ERV paid part of their claim 
under section 5 of the policy called Travel delay and missed departure. This covered their 
reasonable and necessary extra travel  and accommodation expenses  to get to their 
original trip destination. So ERV paid for their hotel at the hub airport and the costs  to amend 
their international flights. Theres no dispute  about  that element of the claim.
But Mr S and Miss M had also claimed £756.69 for the no show charge made by the hotel 
for the dates 2 to 5 November 2018. ERV turned down this claim under Section 11 Travel  
Disruption by quoting  the special conditions,  and saying  based on those conditions  it 
couldnt consider  the claim for unused accommodation expenses. ERV later said that Mr S 
and Miss M cant benefit twice as this would put them in a better position than they were in at 
the time of the loss. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint, and she referred to Section 11A of the policy 
Cancelling and cutting short your trip. But Mr S didnt agree with her conclusions and 
pointed out that shed  quoted a different policy term from the one quoted by ERV. He said 
that based on his reading  of the special conditions quoted by ERV it should have paid the 
claim. He referred  his concerns  about the policy  wording to ERVs  regulator The Financial 
Conduct Authority  (FCA).  The complaint came to me for review.
developments 
Following my initial review I noted that although  wed asked ERV for a copy of the full policy  
wording wed not received  it. Our lead adjudicator asked ERV to send us the policy wording. 
She also asked ERV to explain in more  detail its reasons for turning down the claim as this 
wasnt fully clear from its previous communications.  Despite  reminders  ERV hasnt 
responded to our lead adjudicator.
Mr S has kindly provided us with a copy of the full policy wording. 
Ref: DRN06256502my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im likely to uphold it.
The starting point  is the policy terms and conditions.  Under  the gold policy Mr S and Miss M 
had cover under section  11 Travel  disruption cover. This provided extended cover for A 
Cancellation and cutting short the trip, B Substitute accommodation cover and; 
C Enforced  stay.
In turning down  the claim for the original hotel  costs ERV quoted the special conditions 
under Section 11, which say:
1.You may only claim under either part A or B of this section for the same event but 
not both
2.You may only claim the delay  benefit  provided  by either Section 5: Travel  delay  and 
missed departure or part C. Enforced  stay of this section, for the same event but not 
both. 
3.If the same costs and charges are also covered under any other section of this policy 
you can only claim for these  under one section for the same  event.
But Mr S and Miss M fairly say that they met the above special conditions:
1.The claim for £756.69 non-refundable hotel costs was under only Section 11: A 
Cancellation and cutting short the trip - so they hadnt claimed under part A and B of 
this section for the same event. 
2.Theyd made a claim under Section 5: Travel  delay  and missed  departure and under 
Section 11: A, so theyd not made a claim under both Travel delay and section 11: C 
Enforced stay.
3.Their claim  under  5: Travel Delay and missed departure was for additional costs to 
get to their destination; and Section 11A covered them  if you were not able to travel 
and use your booked  accommodation,  which  applies here because they werent able 
to travel or use their pre-booked and pre-paid accommodation. So they argue that 
they hadnt made a claim for the same costs  and charges  under any other section of 
the policy.
Mr S and Miss M gave  ERV a clear and fully supported claim for their losses.  So its for ERV 
to show the special conditions that its quoted  apply  here and I dont think its done so. 
Based on Mr S and Miss Ms arguments I think their claim for the 100% cancellation charge 
of £756.69 succeeds. Their journey was disrupted  and they werent able to use their booked 
accommodation. The accommodation costs were unrecoverable. ERV hasnt explained 
clearly why their claim doesnt  succeed  under Section 11, even though weve  asked it to 
explain its reasoning  for rejecting this part of the claim. 
ERV says Mr S and Miss M cant claim twice for the same loss and I agree. But I cant  see 
theyve done that. Theyve claimed  for an additional hotel at the hub airport  in the UK (which  
ERV paid).  Theyve  claimed for their lost accommodation costs  at the overseas hotel which  
were non-refundable when they arrived late. They correctly havent claimed for the additional 
amount they paid for the remaining nights at the overseas hotel, as they always would have 
paid to stay there. Their  claim  was made because they had to pay twice for the overseas 
hotel  and theyve claimed only for the irrecoverable unused  accommodation  costs  and 
not the additional cost.  
Ref: DRN06256503I will consider  any further  evidence that both parties provide in response  to this decision but 
I currently intend to order ERV to pay Mr S and Miss Ms claim for £756.69 less any 
applicable policy excesses. 
In reviewing this complaint I think ERVs response to the claim and complaint has caused  
Mr S and Miss M inconvenience and distress. Mr S was referred his concerns to the FCA,  
because he couldnt  understand ERVs reasons for rejecting his claim. He reasonably  asked 
ERV to explain its claim decision as he pointed out the special  conditions  didnt seem to 
exclude his claim. It didnt  explain  and ERV didnt respond to the request from our lead 
adjudicator to explain its reasoning. I think compensation is warranted for the impact  on Mr S 
and Miss M for its handling of what is, essentially,  a straightforward claim. I assess £150 to 
be fair and reasonable.
responses to my provisional  decision
ERV said that section 11 of the policy for Travel  Disruption didnt cover the claim. It said 
section 11 provides cover for the specified reasons given (and it attached  the relevant 
section). It said that Mr S and Miss Ms domestic flight was cancelled due to a technical 
problem, and therefore wouldnt be covered under  section 11. This is why ERV considered 
the claim under the Missed Departure section of the policy.  The costs  already paid were all 
that could be considered  under that section.
Mr S and Miss M responded,  in summary, to say that the Missed Departure  section covered 
only their costs to get to their destination as Id said in my provisional decision.  The section 
quoted by ERV under  Section 11 didnt allow it to reject their claim for the lost hotel costs. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about ERVs  comments but I still uphold this complaint for the reasons Ive 
already set out in my provisional decision and here.  
Section 11A specifically  says that cover  is provided  
a. if you were not able to travel and use your booked accommodation; or 
 b. If the trip was cut short before completion as a result of a list of reasons, including strike  
leading to the cancellation of the international transport from the UK, the airport being  closed 
or air space being closed (my highlighting in the policy quotation).
Mr S and Miss M werent able to travel  and use their booked  accommodation. They  couldnt 
recover those costs  under section  5 for Missed  Departure. So I remain  of the view that the 
fair outcome, based on the policy wording, is for their claim succeeds under section 11A a. 
This means  ERV must pay the claim for the no show hotel costs  as set out below. 
I can see that ERV intended the list of reasons for cutting short a trip under section 11A b. 
also to apply to claims  under section 11A a. for not being able to travel.  But the policy 
doesnt say what  ERV intended  it to say. Any ambiguity is construed  in favour of the person 
who didnt draft the policy, so in other words in Mr S and Miss Ms favour.  
Its unfortunate that ERV has only now explained  its reason  for rejecting the claim.  I think  
ERVs handling  of the claim has caused Mr S and Miss M unnecessary distress and 
Ref: DRN06256504inconvenience and I remain  of the view that £150 compensation for this is fair and 
reasonable.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I uphold this complaint. I require ERGO Reiseversicherung 
AG to:
pay Mr S and Miss Ms claim for £756.69, less any applicable excesses. ERV must 
add interest* to the claim payment at the simple rate of 8% per year from the date of 
claim to the date of settlement; and 
pay Mr S and Miss M compensation of £150  for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S and Miss M 
to accept or reject my decision before 3 October  2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
*If ERV considers  that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs  to take off income tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Mr S and Miss M how much its taken off. It should  also give Mr S 
and Miss M a certificate  showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN0625650