K821x#15complaint
Miss W complains that Santander UK Plc mis-sold  a Payment Protection Insurance (PPI) 
policy with her mortgage.
background
Briefly:
Miss W took out a mortgage in 2001. At the same time she also took out PPI designed to 
protect her mortgage payments in the event she couldnt work because  of accident, sickness 
or unemployment. The sale was carried out over the phone.
The policy cost around £24 a month and it provided  a monthly benefit of about  £400.
Miss W cancelled the PPI in 2004,  so it was live for about two and a half years.
The adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  He said there wasnt  enough evidence  to say 
that Miss W wasnt  given a choice about PPI. And there was nothing  about her 
circumstances at the time to suggest the policy was unsuitable or inappropriate for her.
Miss W disagrees  with the adjudicators findings,  so the complaint comes to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
handling PPI complaints  on our website and Ive taken into account whats  relevant here in 
deciding this complaint.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Santander, more likely  than not made it clear Miss W didnt have to take out the 
PPI and that she chose to take it out  although  I can understand why she cant  
remember this.
While Santander doesnt have a call recording of the telephone conversation Miss W had 
with it  and it no longer  holds a call script  to help show what was supposed to be said 
about PPI and how it should  be introduced - this isnt surprising given how long ago 
things happened. I note Miss W hasnt been able to recall details of the sale either.
So given the amount  of time that has passed  and in light of the limited  evidence 
available, Ive not seen enough to say that Miss W wasnt given a choice about taking 
our PPI with her mortgage  I think she likely chose to take it out because she was 
interested in protecting  her mortgage payments.
Santander recommended  the PPI to Miss W so it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
her  and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think  that it was. 
For example she wasnt affected  by any of the key exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover, such as for existing medical conditions or unusual employment  circumstances,  
and she appears  to have had a need  for the cover.
Ref: DRN05022772Miss W says she was entitled to at least three  months full sick pay and could have relied 
on family if things went wrong. But the policy wouldve paid out in addition to any sick 
pay and for longer if necessary.  And I dont think a reliance on family can reasonably be 
considered as guaranteed  means such that it makes  the policy unsuitable. I think  Miss W 
wouldve found the policy useful as it wouldve helped her out at what would likely be a 
difficult time helping  to protect her home.  
Its possible the information Santander gave  Miss W about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But as I said above,  I think she chose to take it out - so it looks  like she 
wanted this type of cover.  And it seems like it would have  been  useful for her if 
something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover. 
Overall this means that I think Miss W wouldve likely taken out PPI in any event, so she 
hasnt suffered loss or damage  as a result of having  the policy.
For the sake of completeness, I can see that theres  been some confusion  on the part of 
Santander about whether Miss W was due back some of what  she paid for PPI in relation to 
the commission Santander earned   its given conflicting information at different  times.
But I can also see that Miss W has accepted  a goodwill offer of £50 in recognition of the 
trouble caused,  which seems a fair way to settle things.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  Ive decided that Miss W hasnt lost out as a result  of 
taking out PPI, so I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 July 2019.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0502277