K820x#13complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2000. Mr O says Northern  Bank  Limited  mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Os case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Northern Bank had to make Mr O aware  that the PPI was optional and gain his consent  
before adding the policy to his card. I cant be certain what was said at the time Mr O took 
out his card and PPI but Northern bank  has provided us with a copy  of the available  
paperwork. Mr Os credit card application  for had a separate  section for PPI that has been 
ticked to take the policy. The application form has also been  signed by Mr O in agreement  
with the selections that were made on the form. With this in mind I think  Northern Bank made  
it clear that Mr O didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out.
From the information available  I dont think Norther Bank recommend the PPI to Mr O so it 
didnt have to check if it was right for him. But it did have to make sure Mr O got the 
information he needed to decide if it was right for him. 
Its possible the information Northern Bank gave Mr O about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But Mr O chose to take out the PPI knowing the other means he had of 
making his repayments,  which included generous sick pay and some  savings. But the PPI 
would have paid out in addition to Mr Os sick pay, and for longer than he would have 
received full pay. It would  also have protected Mr Os savings  so they could  be used towards 
other essential expenses.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Os circumstances  at the time it doesnt  look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for him if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think  
better information about the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover.  
Which means Northern Bank doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr O.
But Northern Bank has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr O because: 
Northern Bank got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr O about that. Because  Northern Bank didnt tell 
Mr O, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Northern Bank  has paid back the amount  of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium. Northern Bank has now revised this offer 
because the way it previously worked this out wasnt quite right.  I think  that is fair in this 
case.
Ref: DRN06810162Ive thought about everything Mr O has said. But these  points  dont change  my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Northern Bank  Limited does not have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr O.
But Northern Bank Limited does  have to pay back to Mr O any commission and profit  share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 December  2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0681016