K821x#15complaint
Miss O complains  about the handling  of a legal expenses  claim under  a motor insurance  
policy underwritten by Great Lakes Insurance SE.
Miss O is represented in this complaint but for ease  of reading Ill simply refer to Miss O. 
That will mean some  of what I ascribe to Miss O will have been representations made by the 
representative on her behalf.
Equally, Great Lakes had agents  handling  the claim on its behalf, but Ill mainly refer to 
Great Lakes.
background
Theres a detailed background  to this complaint but in summary, Miss O was driving  her car 
when she was involved in an accident with another car. The accident occurred on a 
residential road in snowy and icy conditions, and Miss O was on the wrong side of the road 
as she was in the process of passing  parked  cars.
Miss O feels  she wasnt at fault and that the other driver was 100% to blame because  they 
were travelling too quickly for the conditions, and she was already established  on the other  
side of the road when  passing parked cars.
We have a separate complaint about an insurance intermediary in relation to the advice 
given when Miss O made the initial notification of the accident. That doesnt form part of this 
decision as it will be addressed in the other complaint about the intermediary.
For this complaint, Miss O makes several  points  and has taken  considerable time and effort  
to put forward evidence to Great Lakes to demonstrate she wasnt at fault for the accident. 
Its of no disrespect to that effort that I wont rehearse everything she has said here. Were 
an alternative dispute resolution service with a remit to determine relevant complaints quickly 
and with minimal formality  so Ill summarise the main points  of her complaint as follows;
-Multiple advisers gave  negligent information  about civil courts  not allowing the 
submission of statements  from witnesses  under  18 years old.
-Poor review  of CCTV evidence.
-Delays in sending  CCTV  to a hire company.
-Significant delays  in dealing with a complaint  about an accident management 
company (SG).
-Poor customer service.
Our investigator ultimately  concluded that Great Lakes should pay £200 compensation, and 
either give Miss O an answer  to her legal expenses claim if a legal  opinion  on prospects of 
success has been obtained or obtain  such a legal opinion on prospects of success.  The 
main reasons he gave  were;
-Great Lakes service  was poor,  examples include but not limited  to;
oin trying to be helpful had caused confusion including the advice  to take a 
complaint about SG (a CMC) to us rather than the correct  ombudsman 
scheme,
opromising call backs and updates but failing  to deliver,
Ref: DRN03622322ogiving  incorrect information  about court witnesses and then failing to notify her 
when the correct information  was received.
-Miss O had notified a claim  including  some uninsured losses  (e.g. personal 
registration plate  and hire vehicle costs).
-Great Lakes should have done more  to log the claim and proceed with a legal 
opinion from panel solicitors.
Great Lakes disagreed with the investigator, a summary of its reasons are as follows;
-Miss O never raised an issue  of being confused.
-It had logged a claim  for Miss O being handled  by the in-house claims team.
-The claim didnt reach the legal proceedings stage,  so the legal expenses policy 
hasnt been used to cover legal costs and a solicitor  isnt necessary.
-Motor claims  process is to liaise with the third-party insurer to settle  the claim.
-Technically  the work done is pre-litigation and if the third-party insurer  pays out 
theres no need for the legal expenses  policy.
-A legal opinion hasnt been  sought as the claim didnt reach a stage that necessitated  
this  
oMiss O collided  with a vehicle while she was overtaking parked cars and she 
was on the wrong side of the road in the other drivers path,
oThe CCTV didnt capture the collision and a claims team leader had enough  
experience to understand the chances of success with a 100% non-fault  
outcome.
Miss O disagreed with the investigator too outlining several issues and bits of evidence that 
she says the investigator didnt address.  A summary of her reasons is as follows;
-She was confused by what Great Lakes told her.
-Great Lakes railroaded her to use her motor insurer  when other options should have 
been explained more fully and were clearly open  to her.
-Had Great Lakes advice been followed she would  have  lost all her no claims bonus 
discount, the excess fee and have no replacement vehicle.
The matter  has been referred to an ombudsman  as the parties  couldnt  agree.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Like the investigator I will focus on the main issues of the complaint and how,  if at all, theyve 
impacted the fairness of Great Lakes outcome and Miss O. This means I will not be 
specifically addressing every single point  Miss O has raised. No disrespect is intended, and 
it doesnt follow that the points havent  been  considered, simply that I dont need to 
particularise every  point  in reaching an outcome I consider to be fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances. 
There are some limits on what we can consider and as alluded  to by the investigator,  we 
cant look at complaint handling  because  its not a regulated  activity  that we have power  to 
consider under our rules. Part of Miss Os complaint concerns significant delay in dealing 
with our complaint  against [SG].  Given  this is about  complaint  handling Ill not be looking at 
the issue here.
Ref: DRN03622323The duties on an insurer when handling  a claim include handling it promptly and fairly, not 
unreasonably rejecting  it and providing  reasonable guidance to make  a claim and 
appropriate information on its progress. And once terms are agreed  an insurer should settle 
the claim promptly. 
When Miss O first called to give notification of her car accident she spoke with an 
intermediary. That firm wasnt acting  for or on behalf of Great Lakes at the notification stage 
and in fact what  happened then is part of the other complaint Miss O has with us. 
However, shortly after notification and SG refusing to take on Miss Os claim under a credit 
hire / repair basis the intermediary spoke with Miss O again. And during this call explained  
Miss O had legal  cover  under her motor  insurance policy  and they could request full costs  
from the third party. Its worthy of note though  at this point  Miss O had confirmed there were 
no witnesses or CCTV evidence and so they thought it likely the claim  would have to resolve  
on a 50/50 basis.  In my view the intermediary was representing Great  Lakes at this stage 
although on the information  available  at that time I dont think they did anything wrong. 
Miss O had nothing more to submit  on liability other  than her recollection that the other driver 
accepted fault and her view that the driver  was going too quickly.  And for speed the most 
efficient way to have her car dealt with was through her motor  insurer as was explained to 
her.
While its not unusual  for several different  firms to be involved in a claim or claims about one 
accident, it can be confusing and so even more  important that a firm is clear about the roles 
and functions  of each. In brief, involved early  on were  an intermediary taking details of the 
accident, reference to an accident  management  company, the motor  insurer  and the legal 
expenses insurer Great Lakes. I think Great Lakes agent could  have been  clearer, but Im 
not satisfied this had an impact  on how the claim was dealt with. The key issues are that 
Miss O didnt  accept she was in anyway  liable, that she should have had a hire car and she 
didnt want to go through her motor insurer because of the policy excess and the potential  
loss of no claims. I do think Great Lakes outlined the options and the relevant pitfalls  of 
each, but it would have been  reasonable to give a fuller explanation as to each company 
involved and their specific role.
The decision  to offer a credit hire vehicle was not Great Lakes to make. Other  parties 
considered whether they were willing to take on the risk of not getting paid for providing the 
car based on the circumstances  of the accident as explained by Miss O and the available 
information. Their  decisions  are not within the remit of this decision. But Im satisfied Great 
Lakes wasnt at fault.
I now turn to the general handling of the claim. There is now no dispute that a claim under 
the legal  expenses part of the motor insurance  policy was set up. And I reflect on Great 
Lakes duty to handle the claim promptly and fairly, as detailed at the start of my findings. 
Early on it was known  that Miss O had uninsured losses  and was likely to incur  more if 
liability was split. Indeed, even if Miss O used her motor insurance underwriter (Z) there  
would be losses in the form of the policy excess,  but as I understand matters  liability was 
settled on a 50/50 basis. 
Its also clear  from Great  Lakes that it has not obtained a legal opinion  from a lawyer on the 
prospects of success of Miss O recouping her uninsured losses.  And this is what the 
investigator thought  Great  lakes should obtain.  The policy is clear that for Great  Lakes to 
accept a claim it must deem that there are reasonable prospects of success. This is defined  
Ref: DRN03622324as A greater than 50% chance that you will be successful  in your pursuitof legal 
proceedings and make  a successful recovery. 
Within the policy there  is a specific exclusion  from cover as follows;
If we or the appointed representative  do not believe there are reasonable grounds in 
pursuing your claim,  the insurer  will not pay for any costs arising from a subsequent  or 
additional claim to determine reasonable  prospects;
As far as I can understand from Great Lakes position it doesnt believe there are the 
required prospects  of success based  on the assessment of a senior claim handler with 
relevant claims experience. And according  to the policy that appears to be something thats 
permissible. But Im not satisfied thats  fair in the circumstances of Miss Os case and will 
explain why.
Requiring prospects  of success is common in legal expenses policies. It means insurers 
dont have to meet costs for claims that are unlikely to be successful and I dont think  this is 
unfair. Court action can be expensive. A privately paying  customer  wouldnt want to pay the 
costs of a court case if advised its unlikely to succeed and it wouldnt be reasonable to 
expect an insurer to. But generally, we would expect  an insurer to get legal advice before 
deciding whether a claim has reasonable prospects. And the insurer is entitled  to rely on that 
advice, unless its obviously wrong.
Great Lakes has not obtained a legal  opinion on the prospects  of success. Im not 
persuaded thats fair in this case.  The issue about  whether Miss O has prospects of 
recovering her losses succeeds or fails based on the standard  of her driving and that of the 
third-party. While  the CCTV evidence doesnt  show the actual  collision, it appears  to show  
Miss Os car and the other  car immediately before the collision. It also shows  the road 
conditions, the road layout and two potential witnesses who have, as I understand it, 
provided written statements. Great Lakes was wrong to say non-adult  witnesses evidence  is 
deemed not reliable  for a court. There are various  pieces of evidence that go to the issue  of 
liability and Im satisfied  the appropriate  assessment of that evidence should  be done by a 
qualified lawyer. Industry practice is that this assessment is done  by panel solicitors  who 
should have access  to all the available evidence, including  that as presented by Miss O, and 
the legal  opinion should be sent to Miss O. For the avoidance of doubt, this is a legal opinion 
on the prospects  of successfully recovering Miss Os uninsured losses.  It is not about  issuing  
proceedings as that would only follow if Miss Os claim has reasonable prospects of 
success.
Finally, I turn to the issue of service.  Miss Os claim has not been handled promptly  or fairly 
 there  hasnt been an assessment of the prospects of success  by a qualified lawyer in 
circumstances where  Ive determined there should  have been.  Instead, a senior claims 
handler decided  that the evidence wouldnt be presented to panel solicitors  to consider same 
against the allegations being made.  Panel solicitors  may have reached a similar conclusion 
to the handler,  they may have reached  an opposite conclusion or indeed somewhere in 
between. But in the circumstances Miss O should  have had that decision made by lawyers. 
This has ensured a significant delay in having the claim fairly dealt with and Miss O has 
been caused upset and inconvenience as a result. 
Ref: DRN03622325I am satisfied that monetary compensation is appropriate to reflect  this. In thinking carefully 
about the impact  on Miss O it is apparent her representative has borne the brunt  of the 
frustration as hes been leading the complaint,  challenge and communication. He is not an 
eligible complainant in his own right as hes not a customer of Great Lakes under the policy 
 that is Miss O only. The accident happened  in February 2018 and Miss O has not been 
given a fair outcome on the prospects of her claim. It may be that nothing  changes outcome 
wise, but I accept that such a delay has been  an ongoing source  frustration and 
inconvenience. But given  Miss Os limited involvement Im satisfied £200 is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require Great Lakes Insurance SE to do the following;
Instruct panel solicitors to give a legal opinion  on the prospects of success  of Miss O 
recovering her uninsured losses from the third party, such  opinion to be shared with 
Miss O. All available evidence is to be shared  with the solicitors including the witness 
statements and CCTV. 
Pay Miss O £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by the 
significant delay  in handling  her claim promptly and fairly.
oGreat Lakes must  pay the compensation within 28 days  of the date on which  
we tell it Miss O accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must 
also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to 
the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0362232