K820x#14complaint
Ms D complains that Tesco Personal Finance  PLC refuses to write off 90 per cent of her 
debt.
background
Ms D has a number of credit, debit and store cards  with Tesco. It is not in dispute that she is 
in financial difficulties and cannot pay off her debt at the moment.  She says that she will 
never be able to. This is because her partner, who I will call Mr J, is permanently  disabled 
and she is looking after him and his young  daughter.  Consequently she is unemployed. She 
is currently on a repayment  plan of £20 per month. So she asked Tesco  to write off 90% of 
her debt, and allow  her to pay off the remaining 10% over a few years.  (She calculates that 
to pay back the whole amount under the repayment plan would take over 20 years.)
Tesco refused  to do so. Tesco accepts that Mr J will not recover, and that Ms D is currently  
looking after him and his child. However,  Tesco does not accept that she will always be 
unemployed. It is not willing  to write  off the debt while  there is a chance  that she might return 
to work in the future.  It told her that if this changes (for example, because she becomes his 
full time carer), then it will reconsider her case.  In the meantime, it offered  to consider a new 
repayment plan if she provided up to date details of her income and expenditure.
Ms D was not satisfied  with that response, and she brought  this complaint to our Service, 
represented by Mr J. Mr J says that Tesco based  its decision on a remark he had made in 
jest to the effect that he might win the lottery one day. He says no weight should have been 
attached to this remark. He also said that they had been advised by a debt relief  charity not 
to make any more payments to Tesco, but in spite of that advice they had continued to make 
payments and were  still willing to pay 10% of the debt.
Our adjudicator did not uphold this complaint. He said Tesco  had made a legitimate 
decision. There was no clear evidence that Ms D would not be able to return to work one 
day, and Ms D had borrowed  the money from Tesco, so it was fair that she should pay it 
back.
Mr J asked for an ombudsmans  decision. He said that he and Ms D would never  be able to 
afford to repay the debt,  and they should  not have to live indefinitely  with the anxiety this is 
causing them.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
I was very sorry to read about Mr Js circumstances. I accept that his health  is not going  to 
improve, and that Ms D is currently looking after him and his child.  I accept that she cant  
afford to pay more than £20 a month, and that at this rate of repayment it would take an 
excessive amount of time to repay what she owes.
However, I dont think Tescos position  is unreasonable. It has reached its decision on the 
basis that Ms D might  be in a position to return to work in the future, and could then afford to 
pay more each month, and clear  the debt within a reasonable time. It has also said that it will 
review the position  again  if it becomes clear that she will never return  to work, such as if she 
Ref: DRN02099562becomes Mr Js full time carer. So Tesco has not yet ruled anything out, it just does  not want 
to prematurely take an irrevocable step.
I have seen no evidence  to suggest  that Tesco reached its decision for any other  reason. In 
particular, it does not appear  to have taken into account Mr Js light-hearted remark that he 
might win the lottery one day. If Tesco had done so, then I would not have hesitated  to 
uphold this complaint.  But I think that Tescos decision would still have been the same if he 
had not said it.
If Ms Ds circumstances change, then Tesco  has agreed  to review her position. If it fails to 
do so, or if Ms D is not satisfied with the decision Tesco makes  at the time, then she will still 
be free to bring  a new complaint to us about that (after she has complained to Tesco first).  
This final decision is only about the decision Tesco made in 2018.
If Ms D is struggling to repay £20 a month, then I would encourage her to tell Tesco  about  
her income and outgoings so that it can agree a new repayment  plan with her.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D (or Mr J on 
her behalf)  to accept  or reject my decision before 27 April 2019.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0209956