K822xcomplaint
Mrs N has complained that Indigo Michael  Limited lent to her irresponsibly.
background and findings
I issued my provisional decision on 11 September 2020 and that is attached and forms part 
of this final decision. 
Indigo Michael responded and had nothing to add. I have received nothing  from Ms N. 
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As Ive not got anything to lead me to 
alter my findings then I repeat them here and my conclusion is the same. 
The offer made by Indigo Michael in its final response letter (FRL) in July 2019  is a 
satisfactory one. I understand from Indigo Michaels  responses it is available still. The figures  
will need  to be updated due to the passage of time.
Ultimately, its a matter for Ms N but my final decision is that I endorse the Indigo Michael 
offer set out in its FRL in July 2019.
my final decision
My final decision is that the July 2019  Indigo Michael offer is satisfactory and if Ms N accepts 
this decision then Indigo Michael  Limited must adhere to it after updating the figures.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 October  2020.
Rachael Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN05217412My provisional decision dated 11 September 2020
background
Ms N was approved for a £300 credit limit on the Indigo  Michael facility  in August 2017. The limit was 
increased over the following  few months and in December 2017 it was £450. 
Ms N received a settlement offer in or around February 2019 which  was: We recently emailed you to 
offer a settlement on your outstanding balance  of £541.04. We are prepared  write off the remaining 
balance and close your account if a payment  of £405.78  is received by the 11/02/2019. Please note 
that accepting this settlement will show  on your credit file as partially settled.
Ms N sent us a complaint form soon afterwards in which she has said - They have  not given  me a 
satisfactory response and have only offered  to write  off about 20% of the loan with the expectation  
that I pay over £400  back in full.
After Ms Ns complaint  to us we informed  Indigo Michael in May 2019 and it replied to us saying  
When you originally emailed us [Ms N] had not raised  a complaint with us. We raised a complaint 
internally on 17th May 2019  and upheld her complaint.
Indigo Michael attached its final response letter (FRL) dated July 2019.  In that FRL it made  an offer 
which is set out here: 
However, on review, we can see that there was a change in your circumstances due to a 
decrease in your disposable  income and feel that permitted borrowing with your current credit 
limit of £450 at the time from 27th March 2018  may not have been in your best interests.         

Therefore we propose that we provide  you with a redress of all the interest that you have paid 
since 27th March 2018  (£561.83), plus statutory  8% interest (£51.10).  In line with HMRC 
guideline we will deduct  20% (£10.22) from your statutory  interest and pay this to HMRC,  
meaning that you will not have to declare  this redress in your tax returns. 
We will also remove any interest that has accrued  on your outstanding  balance (£134.92)  and 
then deduct your principal outstanding balance  (£406.12) from all the interest you have paid. 
This will allow us to close your account,  discharging  your liability with SafetyNet  Credit, and 
leaving an amount of £196.59 payable  directly  to you. Any adverse markers  in relation to this 
SafetyNet Credit Account  will also be removed  from your credit file.
One of our adjudicators  looked  at the complaint,  approached  it as an irresponsible lending  complaint 
and thought  that the original approval in August 2017 was satisfactory. She did not have enough 
information from Ms N to be able to assess her financial situation in a detailed  way but using what she 
had this was her view.  Our adjudicator also considered that the four credit limit increases up to 
December 2017 were  satisfactory. 
Our adjudicator went  on to say that from 6 February 2018 the way the account  was being run ought  to 
have led Indigo Michael to realise that Ms N had become  dependent on the facility.  And that it ought 
to put things  right for Ms N from 6 February 2018. 
Since then Indigo Michael has said that its offer in the FRL was in line with this services  approach 
and does not agree with the adjudicators assessment that the date from which it ought to put things 
right is 6 February 2018. Indigo Michael  went on to explain that the important factor  is not the 
number of individual uses (in this case withdrawals) but the outstanding  balance,  which was never  
greater than £594. 
Since this complaint commenced in February 2019,  we have heard very little from Ms N and nothing 
from her since  our adjudicators view was sent to her and the FRL offer from Indigo Michael  was put 
to her again earlier this year. Indigo Michael asked for a decision and it was passed to me. 
Ref: DRN05217413my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to come to a provisional decision on whats 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Ms N has not responded  to the adjudicators view so I can only proceed on what  I have. The 
difference between our adjudicators view of the date from which  Indigo Michael should put things 
right, and the Indigo Michael offer in its FRL is a matter of weeks.  And I think that there has been a 
fundamental misunderstanding  of the wording of the Indigo Michael offers. And so, I plan to deal with 
this shortly and explain  here.
The only indication  I have as to what it is that Ms N objected  to about the Indigo Michael  first offer,  
was on her complaint form and her points are set out here: They have not given  me a satisfactory 
response and have only offered  to write  off about  20% of the loan with the expectation that I pay over 
£400 back in full.
But its clear  that this was written by Ms N in February 2019  and related to the first settlement offer  
which may have related  to an early settlement balance  request. I am unclear on what  prompted that 
February 2019 offer but its largely irrelevant  as I will explain. 
By the time that the FRL in July 2019 was written in response to a complaint precipitated by Ms N 
sending us her complaint  form in February 2019, the offer included  in it was quite different.  The 
July 2019 offer was more  beneficial to Ms N and I invite her to read the Background  section of this 
decision as I have set that offer out in full. The figures may need to be recalculated due to the 
passage of time, but the overall import is there. 
Having reviewed  all the information I have from both parties,  then the assessment by the adjudicator 
that the initial  approval of the facility and the four credit limit increases  up to December 2017 were 
satisfactory and did not amount to irresponsible lending,  it appears to be correct and that resolves the 
bulk of the complaint. 
The outstanding issue is that of the offer made in the FRL,  which, I understand from Indigo Michaels 
responses, appears to be available  still. And I would  consider that a satisfactory  offer for the reasons  
Indigo Michael has given. 
Ultimately, its a matter  for Ms N but my provisional decision  is that I endorse the Indigo Michael offer 
set out in its FRL in July 2019, but the figures will need to be updated due to the passage  of time.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that the Indigo Michael offer is satisfactory. I will review the complaint in two 
weeks.
Ref: DRN0521741