K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that National  Westminster  Bank Plc (the bank) unreasonably 
denied them access to their money in their account with the bank, when they wished to 
make a transfer of funds  via telephone banking.
Mr and Mrs H also say the bank  (a) failed to follow up on a complaint they made  and (b) 
should change  its procedures so that they, and other customers in a similar position, are 
informed immediately if a proposed transfer  via telephone banking isnt in fact  ie contrary 
to what the bank has given them to understand - going to be implemented.
background
In my provisional decision I found:
The bank  hadnt asked an impossibly difficult security question.
It sounded to me, from listening to the relevant phone conversation, that Mrs H had 
already failed another security question.
The banks adviser who asked the security  questions hadnt been  deliberately  
obstructive.
The bank  should pay Mr and Mrs H an additional  £70 compensation for not dealing  
with their complaint  as it had indicated it would.
It wasnt relevant to the complaint  but nor would  it be usual practice for me on behalf 
of the ombudsman service to recommend  changes in procedure  to the bank.  
The parties responded as follows:
The bank  asked  me to consider that the bank had already paid a total of £100 (£30 
and £70) compensation.
Mr and Mrs H disagreed strongly  with my findings on certain points, but they said 
they didnt want  to continue to argue and would accept with thanks the additional 
compensation I proposed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I continue to think  my provisional findings 
were right and I confirm them as final.
My clear  understanding  is that the £70 compensation to which the bank  has referred was 
paid in respect of the preceding complaint,  not this one. 
my final decision
I require National Westminster Bank Plc to pay Mr and Mrs H a further  £70, in full and final 
settlement of their complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 March  2020.
Ref: DRN09540352Roger Yeomans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0954035