K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G say Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them a payment  protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs G bought  the policy in September 2004 sometime after taking out a mortgage. 
They then applied for a further advance in November 2005 and were sold PPI in order  to 
cover this further borrowing. They applied for the PPI policies in branch. 
Ive considered the policy documents  relevant  to both sales and for the intents and purposes 
of this decision, there is no material difference between  them.  If any differences arise, I will 
refer to them as needed, otherwise I will refer to them as the policy.
The policy provided  cover  for Mr G for accident, sickness,  and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. In relation to the further advance taken out in September  2004, it 
offered to repay  £132.74 a month towards  Mr and Mrs Gs mortgage balance in the event  of 
a successful claim. At the time, it cost £7.50 a month. In relation to the further  advance  taken 
out in 2005, it offered to repay £259.99  a month  towards Mr and Mrs Gs mortgage balance  
in the event of a successful claim.  At the time,  it cost £15.50 a month. 
At the time of the sales, Mr G was a tyre fitter.  He has told us he was entitled to at least  six 
months sick pay from his employer (but less than 12 months) and would have received 
redundancy pay (at least three months  but less than six months  pay). He has also told us 
that he would have had less than three  months  pay in savings and had death in service 
benefit equal to two times his salary.  Mr G has said he had medical conditions at the time of 
the sale. 
Lloyds has sent us screenshots that show Mr and Mrs G took out a further advance in 
December 2005  resulting  in the entire mortgage  becoming regulated.
Mr and Mrs Gs representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Gs representative says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs G 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and     
Mrs Gs representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Lloyds should have 
told Mr and Mrs G about the poor value;  
Ref: DRN05959772The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs G and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs G received was misleading. These  policies were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs G disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Gs. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Gs complaint.
This first sale took place  in September 2004 before  the sale of general insurance products 
like this became regulated  by the FSA in January 2005. So the FSAs  and the FCAs 
overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOB and ICOBS)  are 
not applicable to the complaint  in relation to this sale;  nor is the FCAs  Perimeter  Guidance 
(PERG). 
Mr and Mrs G arranged a further  advance on their mortgage after mortgage lending became 
regulated in October 2004  this led to the whole  mortgage becoming  an FCA regulated 
mortgage. That means the unfair  relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer 
Credit Act, the Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin about s.140A of that Act and the rules and 
guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission in light of the Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  in September 2004 which  I am satisfied 
are applicable to my consideration  of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
Ref: DRN05959773complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Lloyds, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Lloyds  at the time. So Im satisfied I should take these codes into account 
when deciding, what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and   
Mrs Gs case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
This second sale took place in November 2005 after the sale of general  insurance products 
like this became regulated  by the Financial  Services Authority (FSA)  in January 2005. So the 
FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules 
(ICOB) are applicable to this part of the complaint only.
There is much in common between the present statutory regulatory regime  and the non-
statutory provisions that preceded it (and,  indeed,  the position at law). 
Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
a result it is appropriate for me to take them (GISC and ABI) into account along  with the 
relevant ICOB rules and the other  relevant considerations.
The second  sale took place after the sale of mortgage products became  regulated  by the 
FSA. So the mortgage conduct of business  rules (MCOB) are applicable to this part of the 
complaint. As already  mentioned, prior to regulation subscribing lenders and mortgage  
intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage code. While predominantly about mortgage 
related matters, it also included some  insurance-related commitments.  
Ref: DRN05959774Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The first sale took place before  insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. The second sale took place  after 
insurance mediation became a regulated activity in January  2005,  so Lloyds was required to 
take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 when considering  Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Mr and Mrs G with reasonable care and skill 
 in particular,  whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for them  given their 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs G sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs G, I must then go on to consider whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs G 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs G 
and Lloyds, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  
below. 
did Mr and Mrs G know they had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Lloyds have provided us with copies  of the PPI application forms completed by Mr and     
Mrs G at the time of the sales. There is nothing on these forms to indicate PPI was 
compulsory and Mr and Mrs G completed these forms separately to the actual mortgage 
application forms. I note what Mr and Mrs G say about being pressured and rushed, but I 
havent seen sufficient evidence to be able to conclude that its more likely that Lloyds 
pressured Mr and Mrs G into taking PPI.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs G knew the policy  was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
Ref: DRN05959775did Lloyds provide  advice?
Both Lloyds  and Mr and Mrs G agree that advice was provided during the sales.
This means  Lloyds had to advise Mr and Mrs G with reasonable care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given their needs and circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meetings, the documentary evidence suggests  
that Lloyds took some  steps to establish whether the policy  was a suitable recommendation 
for Mr and Mrs G. The adviser had information  about some of Mr and Mrs Gs financial 
circumstances as part of the mortgage applications. But although  forms were  completed to 
try and establish whether Mr and Mrs G had a need  for the policy   by asking questions 
about their wider circumstances such as any health  issues and existing means   I dont think  
it did enough to ensure  the PPI was suitable.  The questions were  not detailed  enough and 
did not provide  a full picture of Mr and Mrs Gs true circumstances at the time of the sales.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs G given their circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded Lloyds advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs G, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr G met the eligibility criteria  for the policy.
-Mr and Mrs G had a need  for the policy  Mr G was the main  wage  earner and it 
seems likely Mr and Mrs Gs finances would be put under strain if he was not working 
 even allowing  for the sickness  and redundancy benefits he was entitled to and   
Mrs Gs income  as well as their savings. The policy  would  have helped  Mr and Mrs G 
manage the consequences  were  Mr G unable to work.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr and Mrs G.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs G. 
There was nothing  about Mr Gs employment  or occupation which would have made  
it difficult for him to claim. Regarding pre-existing medical conditions, Mr G has told 
us about, it appears these  occurred a long time (1986 and 1991) before PPI was 
taken out. One of the conditions (1991) was highly unlikely to reoccur  and there  is no 
evidence that the other condition caused  Mr G ongoing problems. In any event, the 
policy would have  paid out if Mr G was symptom free and had not received treatment 
or consulted a doctor for the pre-existing medical  conditions  in the 24 months prior to 
making a claim. There were  also no additional restrictions on cover for mental health 
or back problems.
-While  there were  limits to the cover provided  by the policy  (including:  the any similar 
gainful occupation condition, the requirement  that Mr G be disabled  or unemployed 
for 60 days before he could make a claim - and the fact the policy  would only pay 
benefits for a maximum of 12 months  for each claim), the policy still provided 
valuable cover given:
Ref: DRN05959776Mr Gs circumstances, including his employers  sickness  and redundancy 
provisions (which  he might expect to provide an income during the policys 
60-day qualification period) and the limits  to those provisions, which  mean the 
policy could play an important role after those provisions were exhausted; and
The fact the policy protected  the mortgage  repayments relating to their home  
and the potential consequences  should  Mr and Mrs G be unable  to make the 
repayments on loans  secured against their house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Mr and Mrs G sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what Lloyds 
was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs G were given a broad description  of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr G was unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment)  and of the 
approximate costs. I have  reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely  Mr and Mrs G 
would have taken  out the policy  without any sense of what the policy  was for and of how 
much the premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Lloyds  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs G agreed to take out the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs G Im not persuaded 
Lloyds did enough  to present information about the policy  it was recommending in a way that 
was fair and reasonable to them Im not persuaded Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs G all of the 
information they needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Gs representative has raised  a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and  
Mrs Gs. Ive considered these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Gs representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
Ref: DRN05959777-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs G about the limitations  and exclusions,  it should  have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Gs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs G have suggested. And taking into account  the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Lloyds ought to have  done  either.  
what effect did Lloydss shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs G? To what extent did Mr 
and Mrs G suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mr and    
Mrs G. So I have gone on to consider  whether  it would be fair and reasonable to conclude  
Mr and Mrs G suffered  loss and damage  as a result. To answer this, I must decide  whether 
or not Mr and Mrs G would have still taken  out the policy,  had Lloyds done  things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Lloyds took the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs G, I have found that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs G have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if Lloyds had explained things  
properly, Mr and Mrs G would have acted  differently,  or whether they would have taken  out 
the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs G say they wouldnt  have  taken it out and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs G had some  interest  in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when Lloyds advised them that there was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  they 
were unable to work because of accident,  sickness and unemployment, they concluded they 
wanted that product. But they made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning 
what they thought they were getting is not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Gs circumstances 
at the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs G knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear Lloyds told them  the exact premium at the point 
Ref: DRN05959778Mr and Mrs G applied for the policy. Having said that, it seems likely  Mr and Mrs G would 
have been told the cost before the policy started and they paid for the policy for a number of 
years, so if the costs were  significantly at odds  with their expectations at the point of sale, its 
possible they might have raised  that with Lloyds  at the time, or reconsidered their decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs G would have found the cost unacceptable if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Lloyds  made  clear  exactly what Mr and Mrs G would get back  
in return in the event they made  a successful claim.  But I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs Gs 
expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to 
meet their mortgage  payment) was significantly different to what the policy actually did  if 
anything, it is more likely than not that the policy  actually paid more in the event of a claim 
than they would have expected as there was an additional cash  payment.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs G thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions and/or symptoms that Mr G 
knew about or ought to have known about  before the start date of the policy; or for 
which he had seen,  arranged to have seen a doctor or received treatment for during 
the 12 months before the start date;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr G 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  (if in employment  
just before the disability) Mr G be totally unable to do his own job or a similar job 
which his ability, education or training reasonably qualified  him to do; (if unemployed 
just before the disability), the requirement that he be unable to do any work;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr and Mrs G pause  for thought  and may well have caused them  to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs G from taking out the 
policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Gs circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  They were eligible for its benefits 
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to 
them should  the insured  risks have become a reality. Although Mr G says he had medical 
conditions when the PPI was taken  out and the policy wouldnt have  provided  cover had he 
needed time off work because of the conditions, I dont think  better information  about this 
exclusion would have  put them off agreeing to it. I say this because  the medical conditions 
Mr G has told us about occurred in 1986 and 1991, this was several  years  before PPI was 
taken out. And there is nothing to suggest that Mr G suffered  ongoing problems because  of 
these conditions such that it would have put him off taking PPI out because of these 
conditions all those years later. In any event, as already mentioned,  Mr G may still have 
been able to make a claim for those  conditions if he had been symptom  free, not seen a 
doctor or received treatment for them 24 months prior to making a claim.  It appears this is 
the position Mr G was in at the time of taking PPI. 
Ref: DRN05959779And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest  he wouldve been caught by any of the other 
significant exclusions.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs G would 
have expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some evidence  
to support that claim.
If Mr and Mrs G had known Mr G could only claim for disability if he was not only unable  to 
do his job or any similar  job which in the insurers view he might  reasonably  be qualified for, 
but also unable  to do any job (if he was unemployed immediately before the disability), it 
might have played into their thinking  about what they would do. And I accept it may have 
given them pause for thought  although  given Mr and Mrs Gs circumstances, on balance,  I 
still think they would have been  interested in taking out the cover.
Lloyds may not have  told Mr and Mrs G that any claim they made would be limited  to a 12-
month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped for  
but 12 months was a longer period than Mr G would have received full sick pay for and the 
redundancy pay Mr G has told us about was also significantly less than 12 months income.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs G would still have thought a policy 
that paid up to 12 monthly mortgage payments would have been of benefit  to them and 
would help them manage the consequences  should Mr and Mrs G be unable to work in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it 
could help reduce their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure their home was 
not placed at risk and might potentially help preserve  some of Mr Gs sick pay or redundancy 
money for other use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs G would still have taken out the policy. The policy  was suitable for them 
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  they thought they were getting  and provided  benefits 
that would  help them manage  the consequences  if Mr G was made redundant, or unable  to 
work through  accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely  than not   
Mr and Mrs G would have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations  on 
cover.
Mr and Mrs Gs representatives say the rules  about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
Ref: DRN059597710presumed Mr and Mrs G would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Gs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr and 
Mrs G found themselves in as a result of the sale was the same position  they would have 
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs G believe  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs G in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Lloyds should pay Mr and Mrs G compensation, as that would  
put them in a better position than they would have been in if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs G think Lloyds misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how 
it described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Lloydss statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Lloyds failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs G, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 2004  and 2005 when providing information  about an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Gs representative says a court  might  take 
if it were to find Lloyds negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs G and about  
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find that Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs G in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 December  2020.
Ref: DRN059597711Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0595977