K821x#15complaint
Ms A complains  that National Westminster Bank Plc didnt stop an account switch
completing despite being asked to do so.
background
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 18 February 2019  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I thought this complaint should be upheld.  I 
invited both parties to send any additional evidence or comments they wished to make. 
Both Ms A and NatWest have confirmed  they accept my provisional decision.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party gave  any new information  or comments for me to consider and both confirmed 
they accepted my provisional decision.  As a result,  Im going to proceed in line with my 
provisional decision and uphold Ms As complaint. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and direct  National Westminster Bank Plc to pay 
Ms A a total of £100 less any compensation already paid.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 May 2019
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Copy provisional  decision dated 18 February 2019
Complaint
Ms A complains  that National Westminster Bank Plc didnt stop an account switch
completing despite being asked to do so.
Background
In October  2018 Ms A completed an online account  switch application from her existing bank
to NatWest. She hoped  to take advantage of a £125 account switching incentive but realised
that because shed previously switched a different account to another  part of NatWests
Ref: DRN09555172group of businesses  she wasnt eligible.
During the switching  process Ms A contacted NatWest and asked how to stop it going
through. She was incorrectly told to visit a branch and when she did that there was nothing
the staff member she saw could  do to stop the switch going through.
Ms As account switch  completed and her current account with NatWest  was opened. Ms A
complained and NatWest  paid her £23.90 because it had incorrectly  told her she could stop
the account switch completing by visiting a branch.
Ms A referred her complaint to this service  and an adjudicator looked at it. They  thought
NatWest had dealt  with Ms As complaint fairly  so didnt ask it to pay more  or take any
further action  to resolve the complaint. As Ms A remains unhappy she asked for her case  to
be appealed  so its been passed to me to make a decision.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont agree with the
adjudicators view of Ms As complaint.
Theres no debate  about whether Ms A was eligible to receive the switching incentive when
she applied  to NatWest  online. Thats because shed previously received the incentive  when
switching a different  account. But Ms A was the party that realised  she wasnt  eligible and
contacted NatWest to ask what she needed  to do to stop the switch  going ahead.
NatWests explained  that Ms A didnt need to visit her branch because it couldnt stop the
account switch  completing. So Ms A unnecessarily wasted time when she actually had no
need to visit her branch.
But more  worrying is that Ms A wasnt told she should contact her existing bank when she
advised NatWest  she no longer wanted to proceed. NatWests final response explains that
the only way for the account switch  to stop is for the customer  to contact their existing bank
during the switching period. But because of the unnecessary  delays Ms A experienced she
wasnt able to do that and as a result her account  was moved to NatWest. I dont know
whether Ms A had enough  time to stop the account switch completing  but by failing to give
her the right advice it meant she wasnt in a position to even ask.
Ms As said that her account remains with NatWest. Her options  at this stage are to continue
with her NatWest banking relationship or seek alternative arrangements  by completing
another account switch or application. NatWest cant switch Ms As account  to another
banking provider so its up to her to arrange  that.
I agree  that as Ms A wasnt  eligible for the switch incentive of £125 it wouldnt be fair to tell
NatWest to pay her that now. But I do think theres been a reasonable level of trouble and
upset caused  here and because Ms A was given incorrect information she didnt have  a
chance to check  with her existing bank whether it was possible to stop the account switch
completing. I can also see that Ms A was unnecessarily told to visit her branch which  was
inconvenient. Taking  everything Ive seen together, I intend to tell NatWest to increase  the
award to a total of £100 to fairly  reflect the impact of its errors  on Ms A.
Ref: DRN09555173my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I uphold  this complaint and direct National Westminster
Bank Plc to pay Ms A a total of £100  less any compensation already paid.
Ms A and NatWest have  until 18 March 2019 to send me anything  further  theyd like me to
consider before I make a final decision.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0955517