K822xcomplaint
Miss S complained that Provident Personal Credit  Limited lent to her irresponsibly. These 
were three home-credit  loans.
background 
A summary  of Miss Ss borrowing based on the information provided to us by Provident can 
be found below;
Loan Date Capital sum Term Repaid
1 18 August 2016 £200 23 weeks 7 December 2016
2 30 September 2016 £200 26 weeks outstanding
3 2 December 2016 £500 52 weeks outstanding
One of our adjudicators looked  at the complaint and though that Provident should put things 
right for Miss S in relation to Loan  3. Provident agreed and has put forward its figures and 
actions to comply with the adjudicators  view.
Miss S has said I do not accept this offer as it has been said they shouldn't of lent me the 
money so I will not be paying  it back. 
The complaint remains unresolved and has been  passed to me to decide. 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what I consider  to be 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. We have set out our general 
approach to complaints about  high cost lending - including  all the relevant rules,  guidance  
and good industry  practice - on our website. 
As Provident has accepted the adjudicators view then the merits of the complaint have been 
resolved. All that is left is to determine the redress  due to Miss S. 
Loan 3 is the loan which our adjudicator recommended is upheld  and that means that 
Provident needs to put things right for Miss S in line with our usual approach.  That means  
that any unpaid  fees and charges should  be removed from Loan 3, any repayments Miss S 
has made to Loan  3 need to be allocated as if she has paid down the principal sum (£500). 
Her credit file needs to be amended for Loan 3.
Provident has said to us that Miss S has repaid £144 of that £500 loan leaving (without the 
interest on it) £356 left to repay.
Miss S response leads  me to think that she wants the principal sum written off and that she 
is of the view that she does not have to repay anything. Having considered  the case then 
I am not going  to decide that is the fair and reasonable outcome here. Miss S has had the 
benefit of the £500 principal sum in December 2016. And in line with our approach  to these 
types of cases this sum needs to be repaid. 
Provident has told us that there is an outstanding  balance on Loan 2 of £100. That will be a 
matter for Provident and Miss S to agree as to how it is to be repaid. 
Ref: DRN06530892So, I endorse what  Provident has agreed  to do to put things right for Miss S. Provident has 
accepted the adjudicators view and Miss S and Provident will need to come to a mutually  
acceptable repayment arrangement for the £456  the total outstanding on loans 2 and 3. 
I remind Provident of the need to treat Miss S in a positive and sympathetic way when 
approaching the matter  of the debt.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I endorse  Providents  offer to settle this complaint and Miss S will 
need to repay the outstanding sums.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before  6 June  2020.
Rachael Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0653089