K821x#15complaint
Mrs S, represented by a claims  management company (CMC), complains  that she was mis-
sold some  investments by Clydesdale  Bank  Plc, primarily because they carried too much 
risk and werent consistent  with her circumstances at the time.
background
The adjudicator noted that because the investments  an ISA and a unit trust  were sold 20 
years ago there was limited documentary evidence available, so she had to base her view of 
the complaint  quite  heavily on Mrs S recollections.    
Mrs S had retired in June 1999,  a few months prior to the advice and had been suffering 
poor health for two years. There was nothing to indicate she had any investment experience. 
She recalled  that at the time she had just over £20,000 saved, with £5,000  put aside for fees 
associated with her residence.
The recommended  investments  totalled  £10,000,  so 50% of her total capital. If the residence  
fees had been paid,  this would have left Mrs S with only £5,000 on deposit to cover 
emergencies.
The adjudicator was concerned that Mrs S, being retired, wouldve  had no way of replacing 
any lost capital. While she wouldve been in receipt of state pension, it appeared she had no 
other pension provision.
The limited  documentation available indicated that as part of Clydesdales  advice  process 
consumers were categorised at one of three attitude to risk levels   1 being the lowest  and 
3 the highest.  Clydesdales guidance  provided information on how any investment should be 
split, based on the particular attitude to risk. The adjudicator  noted  that for someone 
investing between  £5,000  and £30,000, as Mrs S was doing, the maximum  recommended 
for investment in the fund recommended to Mrs S  the Stockmarket Growth  Fund - was 
80% of the total sum invested, even at the highest attitude to risk. 
But Mrs S was recommended  to invest all her £10,000 in the Stockmarket  Growth  Fund. The 
adjudicator didnt think that given her circumstances Mrs S attitude to risk rating was likely to 
have been consistent with this. She concluded  that Mrs S actually shouldnt have been  
advised to take any risk at all. So the adjudicator  recommended that Mrs S should  be 
compensated by way of a comparison of her investments return with a no-risk benchmark.
Clydesdale didnt respond to the adjudicators  view.  So in the absence  of any agreement of 
whats been proposed, the matters been referred  to me to review
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As theres  been  no response to the adjudicators view, theres little I can usefully  add to 
whats already been  said by the adjudicator. It seems clear  to me that the complaint should 
be upheld and I agree  that it seems most likely  that Mrs S wasnt in a position to take any 
risk with her limited  savings.  
Ref: DRN01142192She had very modest funds available, a significant  proportion of which was already 
earmarked for living expenses. With no previous investment experience and suffering ill 
health as she entered  retirement,  it seems  to me highly unlikely that she would have wanted 
to take any risk with her money, let alone  that associated  with the likely high equity content 
of the Stockmarket  Growth  fund.  
fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, I consider my aim should be to put Mrs S as 
close to the position shed  probably now be in if she had not been given unsuitable advice.  
I take the view that Mrs S would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely  
what she would have  done differently. But I am satisfied that what  I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given  Mrs S circumstances and objectives when she invested. 
what should  Clydesdale do?
To compensate Mrs S fairly,  Clydesdale  must:
Compare the performance of Mrs S investments with that of the benchmark  shown  
below and pay the difference between the fair value  and the actual value of the 
investments. If the actual  value  is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
A separate  calculation should  be carried out for each investment.
Clydesdale  should also pay interest as set out below.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end  
date)additional 
interest
ISA 
surrenderedaverage rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsdate of 
investmentdate 
surrendered8% simple per 
year on any loss 
from the end 
date to the date 
of settlement
Unit Trust 
surrenderedaverage rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsdate of 
investmentdate 
surrendered8% simple per 
year on any loss 
from the end 
date to the date 
of settlement
for each investment:
actual value
This means  the actual amount paid or payable from the investment at the end date.
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
Ref: DRN01142193using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  Clydesdale  
should use the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months maturity 
as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown  as at the end of 
the previous month. Those rates  should be applied to the investment on an annually  
compounded basis.  
why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method  of compensation because: 
Mrs S wanted to achieve  a reasonable return without risking  any of her capital. 
The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  given Mrs S 
circumstances and objectives. It does not mean  that Mrs S would have invested only 
in a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer could have 
obtained with little risk to their capital.
The additional interest is for being  deprived  of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Clydesdale 
Bank Plc to pay compensation  to Mrs S as set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2019.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0114219