K820x#14complaint
Mr M and Ms M complain  that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold them a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
Mr M and Ms M bought a regular premium  MPPI  policy in March  1991 at the same time as 
taking out a mortgage. The policy was taken out in Mr Ms name only.  The mortgage and 
policy ended in July 1997.
Mr M and Ms M say Lloyds mis-sold  the MPPI  policy to them. Mr M says the policy was not 
presented as optional and Lloyds  suggested they might not get the mortgage if the insurance 
was not in place. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr M and Ms Ms complaint. As Mr M and Ms M dont agree 
with the adjudicators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr M and Ms Ms case.
Ive looked at all of the information provided by both parties and decided not to uphold         
Mr M and Ms Ms complaint because of the following reasons:
Lloyds has been unable to provide much of the sales  documentation  that was used at 
the time of sale. There is little information available and so I cant be sure how the 
policy was presented by Lloyds to Mr M and Ms M and Ive not been able to see most 
of the original sales documentation (such  as an application form or agreement).  So 
its been difficult for me to consider whether Mr M and Ms M were given a choice or 
not as to whether they should  have the MPPI  policy (or whether they were told it 
would more likely mean their mortgage  would be approved if they agreed  to it).
But Im not aware of any known issues with the way Lloyds sold these policies 
around this time. And due to the many years  that have passed since the sale,  I have 
not been able to obtain  a detailed recollection  either. This though is understandable 
as over 27 years have  passed  since the meeting took place. So with this in mind,  I 
cannot fairly conclude on this occasion that Mr M and Ms M werent  given a choice. I 
just havent seen  enough to make that conclusion. 
Moving on, I think its more likely Lloyds recommended the MPPI to Mr M and Ms M 
and so it had to ensure during the sale that the policy was suitable  for Mr Ms needs 
(as the sole policy holder). 
After reviewing the very limited information, it doesnt look as if the MPPI policy  was 
unsuitable for Mr M based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. Mr M 
says he could have  relied on 3 months sickness benefit and up to 6 months worth of 
salary in savings but the policy would also have paid in addition  to these provisions. 
Ref: DRN04555062So the benefit would have  been  of use to Mr M and Ms M during a difficult time as 
they could have used any sick pay and savings  to pay for other expenses. I think,  on 
balance, Mr M had a need for this cover  for any extended period of unemployment or 
sickness. I also couldnt find any other reason such as a significant  or limiting term 
that would  make the policy  unsuitable for him either.
Lloyds has provided some information about  the costs  relating to the MPPI policy  that 
Mr M and Ms M took out but even though it has provided information  detailing the 
cover and how much it cost, I cannot  be sure that these costs were  disclosed to                
Mr M and Ms M in a clear and fair way at the time of sale.  That said, even if they 
were disclosed  clearly  I dont  think Mr M and Ms M would have done anything  
different and decided against having the policy for the reasons that I have already 
given for the policy being suitable.
Its possible Lloyds didnt point  out the main things the policy didnt cover.  But its 
unlikely Mr M and Ms M wouldve been affected  by any of these.
In conclusion I do not uphold Mr M and Ms Ms complaint.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr M and Ms Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M and Ms M 
to accept or reject my decision before 3 May 2019 .
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0455506