K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains HSBC UK Bank  Plc (First Direct) is holding him liable for a number of 
transactions carried out on the morning of 27 July 2018. Mr P says his card was stolen, and 
the transactions were made by someone unknown  to him.
background
The transactions in dispute  are as follows:
Mr P was on a night out with colleagues, starting  during the evening  of 26 July 2018, and 
says he left the venue around midnight. Hes unsure  exactly  what happened following this, 
as hed drunk a lot of alcohol although he was picked up by an Uber taxi with an 
approximate pickup time of 2.00am. This dropped him off sometime after 4.00am.
Mr P says the drivers behaviour made  him feel unsafe, and he raised  a complaint with Uber  
about it the next day. Mr P also realised  the next day that three bank cards had gone 
missing from his wallet, including  a debit card and a credit card,  each issued by different 
banks, other  than First Direct.  Mr P says his mobile  phone was also taken but his wallet  
remained with him. He cant recall when  these items  went missing.
Mr P phoned  First Direct at 10.56am  to report the card missing, when he confirmed the 
transactions carried out with his First Direct  card were unauthorised. Mr P hadnt used his 
First Direct  card that evening  at all  so no one completely unknown to him should have 
been able to see him enter the relevant personal identification number (PIN)  for the card. 
It also had a customised  PIN, a number chosen  by Mr P years previously and not related to 
private information. And he says the PIN wasnt written down anywhere or on his phone.  He 
has no explanation  for how the PIN could  be known by anyone  else who could reasonably  
have carried out the disputed transactions.  He did though speculate  whether criminal gangs 
might be able to figure out a PIN in some way.
There were also transactions, disputed  as made  by Mr P, carried out on the other cards that 
went missing.  But both of those card issuers  refunded the value  of those disputed 
transactions. Please therefore note that, unless otherwise  explicitly stated, where  I further 
refer to disputed  transactions,  Im only referring  to those made with the First Direct card. 
Apart from that evidence,  Mr P has provided  information related to a crime  reference  report  
made to the police and an acknowledgement of the complaint made to Uber about the driver.
Also, it should be noted there  were  no incorrect PIN attempts before the first transaction, nor 
any balance enquiry. There was, however, a balance enquiry made at 5.59am. 
First Direct  held Mr P liable on the basis that it couldnt be perceived that anyone other than 
Mr P would have been able to carry out the transactions, given the lack of knowledge about 
the PIN by anyone  other than Mr P.
Our investigator was satisfied, from the banks records, that it was Mr Ps genuine  card that 
was used to make the disputed transactions, with entry  of the correct PIN. She concluded 
the PIN wasnt guessable and was satisfied the PIN couldnt be gleaned from the card.
Ref: DRN07530192The PIN certainly couldnt have been seen being entered,  it being  last entered on 
22 June 2018.  And Mr P strongly states  that the PIN wasnt  stored  anywhere,  either  in the 
wallet or on his phone.  
The investigator also noted, when reporting  the lost cards,  that Mr P had told First Direct that 
hed amended the PIN across  all his cards  to have the same PIN. But he was later adamant 
that this was incorrect, and that the PIN was different for each card. So, the PIN for the First 
Direct card couldnt have  been learned from one of his other  cards   although it was 
suggested that the PIN for any of those wasnt recorded either. 
The investigator thought it odd that someone who had chanced upon the card, with access 
to the funds in the account  that the card related to  however that happened - would make 
the cash withdrawal  but then wait more than four hours before making  the next transactions 
at Tesco. 
Based on everything, the investigator didnt consider there was any plausible explanation as 
to how a third party  had obtained Mr Ps PIN, and therefore made the disputed  transactions.  
She therefore didnt  recommend First Direct  refund  the transactions  to Mr P. 
The complaint was reviewed by another investigator. She made similar  findings,  that the 
disputed transactions  were made  by use of the genuine card issued to Mr P and that the 
correct PIN had been entered each time. She also acknowledged that the evidence  presents 
no explanation  of how a third party, unknown  to Mr P, could have identified  the PIN, having  
obtained the card. She concluded that this applied to the Uber  driver, even though  they 
might have had the opportunity to take the card. 
That investigator did go on, though, to conclude that it was most likely that it wasnt Mr P 
who physically made the disputed  transactions.  But assuming  that whoever did make them, 
didnt do so with Mr Ps knowledge or agreement  which would amount to Mr P authorising 
them  she then had to take into her account  her finding that there  was no explanation as to 
how an unknown person knew the PIN.
She concluded that the only way a person  unknown  to Mr P, say the Uber driver,  could have  
obtained the PIN, was if Mr P either had the PIN written down somewhere or he told the 
driver what the PIN was. 
But, although these  circumstances would mean that Mr P hadnt  authorised the transactions,  
and on that basis  alone, wouldnt be liable for them, Mr P was required to take all reasonable 
steps to keep their personalised  security  credentials, such  as a PIN, safe. And if he had 
failed to do so with intent or gross negligence, hed be liable for resultant unauthorised 
transactions.
Mr P cant  say how anyone else could know the PIN linked to his card. But if the four 
numbers had been recorded  in such a way that someone was able to identify  it as the PIN 
for the card  unmistakably, as there  were  no incorrect PIN attempts  and they were  able to 
take the card from Mr P and go on to make  the transactions;  or if Mr P had simply told 
someone the PIN, then the investigator said that he had acted with gross negligence in 
keeping the PIN safe and he would be liable for the disputed transactions,  regardless of 
what role, if any, he had in them being carried out. 
Mr P has asked  that an ombudsman review  his complaint. Hes asked that we obtain more 
information from the police.
Ref: DRN07530193my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill address first the matter of the evidence provided  to us by the police.  The information that 
the police  provided has, on balance, shown that it wasnt  Mr P who physically made the 
transactions. But  and I apologise for the rather repetitive nature of my conclusions, in 
comparison to those  of the investigators   that cant be end of the matter here.
To set things out in full, in light of the polices evidence, clearly  it wouldnt be fair and 
reasonable for First Direct to hold Mr P liable for the disputed transactions,  and keep  the 
account debited, on the basis  that he made them himself. But the fact that he didnt 
physically make them wouldnt be relevant if hed handed the card and PIN to someone else 
and told them to make  the transactions. That would amount  to Mr P still consenting  to the 
transactions and authorising them.
Mr Ps evidence,  however, is that this isnt what happened. And, like the investigator, I agree 
the wider evidence suggests something else is the most likely  situation to have occurred. I 
dont need to repeat what Mr P has said about his night out, what he can recall, what can be 
evidenced and what cant be remembered.  Ive set it out previously. 
Ill acknowledge though that the banks records evidence that it was Mr Ps genuine card that 
was used to make the disputed transactions, and that the correct PIN was entered  correctly  
first time in order to make them. I dont consider it was possible for someone to have found 
only Mr Ps card, on his night out, and identified  the PIN from the card alone.
Im therefore  left to conclude that if it wasnt Mr P that made the transactions;  and that a 
person unknown to Mr R acquired  the card and made the transactions  without  his knowledge 
or agreement, the PIN must have been maintained with the card in some  form - but certainly 
in a sufficiently  easy, identifiable form as being the PIN for the First Direct card that the 
cards user was able to enter the PIN without error. Either that, or Mr P simply told the PIN to 
the person who made the transactions, without him realising what  he was going to do with it. 
But theres no evidence  Mr P advised  the PIN to anyone. It seems to me far more  likely that 
the PIN was recorded somewhere by Mr P, whether written down and maintained in his 
wallet, or on his phone,  but in a manner as Ive just described.  
In short,  if Mr P had advised the PIN to someone  else, and known they had the card  even 
if he didnt think transactions were  to be made  - the transactions would have  in effect  
been authorised  by him and he would  be responsible for them. But, as I say, that doesnt 
seem the most likely scenario here. So, I wont comment  further  on that position. So, I go 
back to the card being taken by someone  and them identifying  the PIN from a record 
maintained by Mr P  here it cant be said that Mr P authorised the transactions. 
But the relevant  terms and conditions associated with Mr Ps account  say:
what happens if you tell us about  anunauthorised payment?  Well refund it as soon as 
we can but no later than the end of the working day after you tell us.
It then goes on to say though:
Ref: DRN07530194we wont refund anunauthorised  payment if youve  been extremely  careless.
It says elsewhere:
...where we say extremely carelesswe mean whats legally known as acted with gross 
negligence.
Even where  a refund is initially  provided,  the terms and conditions  say:
we can take back a refund for anunauthorised payment if we can showit was made 
because you didnt  keep  your payment device safe either intentionally or by being extremely  
careless e.g. you chose  to share  your card and/or security details with someone else.
They go on to say:
what  happens if we can show youve been  extremely careless? Youre responsible for all 
payments from your account  until youve told us your payment device or security  details 
have been lost, stolen or misused .
The cumulative effect  of these terms and conditions are that if Mr P had acted with gross 
negligence in the security of the card and PIN, i.e. in not keeping  them  safe, and that led to 
unauthorised transactions taking place, Mr P would be responsible  for them.
There also exists regulations in respect of this. I wont  set out all the relevant sections of the 
Payment Service Regulations 2017  (PSRs) here. But in summary they say that First Direct 
can hold Mr P liable for the disputed transactions where hes been grossly  negligent in failing 
to comply with his obligations  relating  to his card and PIN. Those obligations are that he 
must take all reasonable steps to keep safe personalised security credentials  again, his 
card and PIN. They also say Mr P should use his card in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the account. 
So, as Im concluding that its most  likely that Mr P did keep his card and PIN together, with 
the PIN readily  identifiable as relating to the First Direct card,  I need  to decide whether Mr P 
was acting with gross negligence. 
Gross negligence  is a high bar, its more than mere negligence  or carelessness, it suggests a 
lack of care that goes  significantly  beyond ordinary negligence or carelessness. And it 
should be assessed on a case by case basis. Ive considered carefully whats the situation 
here. And Ive considered the recital  to the payment services  directive  at section 72. 
This gives a steer to how the PSRs are intended  to be interpreted.  It says:  
...however, while the concept  of negligence implies a breach of a duty of care,  gross 
negligence should mean more than mere negligence, involving conduct exhibiting a 
significant degree of carelessness; for example, keeping the credentials  used to authorise a 
payment transaction beside the payment instrument in a format  that is open  and easily 
detectable by third parties.
In light of this, Im afraid  that I can only conclude that Mr P is likely to have acted in a way 
that I consider to be grossly negligent. And it was only as a result of that, that someone 
could have made the disputed transactions without Mr Ps agreement.
Ref: DRN07530195So, First Direct is entitled to hold Mr P liable for the transactions here. I think its most likely 
that Mr P didnt make the disputed transactions, but he retained the card and related PIN 
together in a manner that someone obtaining the card could easily  identify the relevant PIN. I 
consider Mr P most  likely to have been  grossly negligent in securing the card and PIN.
And given  what the relevant regulations and the account terms and conditions  say about 
that, First Direct isnt obligated  to refund to Mr P the value of the disputed transactions. 
I appreciate this outcome will disappoint  Mr P, but in all the circumstances Im persuaded 
this is the fair and reasonable outcome.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 July 2020.
Ray Neighbour
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0753019