K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold them a mortgage
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in 1996,  which  was amended in 2000.
Background
Mr and Mrs C took a mortgage with Lloyds in 1996  and took a PPI policy  alongside the 
borrowings. They took a further advance in 2000  and the policy was amended to take into 
account the additional lending. 
In the event of a successful claim if Mr or Mrs C werent able to work, the policy  would have 
paid out for up to 12 months. The policy benefit was split  for the 1996  sale is was 60% for 
Mr C and 40% for Mrs C. In 2000,  the policy was amended and the split was changed to 
50% each.  
One of our adjudicators looked  at this complaint and thought that it shouldnt  be upheld.
Mr and Mrs C disagreed  with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to
me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  I know  this will be a disappointment to 
Mr and Mrs C so Ill explain how Ive reached  that decision. 
First, Ive looked at whether Lloyds made  it clear  enough to Mr and Mrs C that the policy
was optional. The sale took place at a meeting.  Looking at the 1996 mortgage application 
form Mr and Mrs C signed, I can see it had a section about the PPI. This had a tick box to 
confirm whether they wanted to take out the MortgageSure policy  or not. This section was 
ticked and further  boxes were ticked to check  that Mr and Mrs C were eligible for the policy.
Theres no way of knowing exactly what happened at the meeting. But the paperwork
showed the PPI prominently, and I think that having read it, its most likely that Mr and Mrs C
would have understood that they had a choice about  taking out the policy. So overall, I think
its most  likely that Lloyds made it sufficiently clear that it was up to Mr and Mrs C whether or 
not to take out the PPI. 
And I note that the benefit of the policy was split 60% in favour  of Mr C which seems to
make sense as he earned more  than Mrs C at the time.  So it looks  like Mr and Mrs C
made a choice about how the policy could benefit them the most.
Unfortunately there is limited paperwork available from the time of the 2000 sale. But the 
policy benefits were  increased  to reflect  the additional borrowings and the benefit  was 
amended so they were split equally.  This suggests there was a meaningful  discussion about 
the policy, and its benefits so again, Mr and Mrs C made a decision about  how the PPI could 
have been of most use to them. 
Ref: DRN00830322Next, Ive considered  whether the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs C. I can see they were  
eligible for the policy so would  have  been entitled to claim  under the policy if theyd needed 
to.
Ive also checked  the main  exclusions  and restrictions  of the policy   a pre-existing medical 
condition as an example - and it doesnt  look like Mr or Mrs C would have been  caught  by 
any of them.
Mr and Mrs C told us that they wouldnt receive any employee benefits if either of them 
couldnt work because of illness. Policies  like this are there to reduce the pressure of
meeting payments in financially difficult times.  If Mr or Mrs C were too ill to work or were 
made unemployed, the policy would have  paid their mortgage repayment. 
The mortgage was a significant and long-term  commitment for Mr and Mrs C, secured 
against their home. The consequences of them not being able make the repayments could 
have been serious   even  so far as losing their home. So the PPI would have  given 
Mr and Mrs C peace of mind and security. It also would have allowed them  to use any 
statutory benefits  (or redundancy pay in the case of Mr C) and savings they have  told us 
they had, for other necessary household expenses.
So having  considered all these factors, I think that the recommendation was suitable  for
them and the PPI would have provided  them with a useful benefit which was affordable
for them.
Finally, Lloyds had to give Mr and Mrs C information  that was clear, fair and not misleading
so they could make the decision for themselves about whether or not to take the PPI.
The cost of the policy was on the mortgage  documents Ive seen but I dont have all of the 
documents so Ive considered the possibility that Lloyds didnt give Mr and Mrs C clear 
enough information about the cost, benefits,  main exclusions and restrictions of the policy. 
But for the reasons Ive already explained above, I dont think  that they would have been 
affected by the main  exclusions  and restrictions.
Mr and Mrs C chose to take out the policy so I think its most likely that they decided they
had a need for the cover. So on balance, I dont think being provided with better  information
would have put Mr and Mrs C off taking out the PPI.
This means  Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs C.
But Lloyds will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs C because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs C about that. Because Lloyds  didnt tell 
them, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Lloyds has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ref: DRN00830323what the business needs  to do
Lloyds has to pay back to Mr and Mrs C any commission  and profit share  it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Lloyds should also pay back to Mr and Mrs C any extra 
interest they paid because of that.
Lloyds should  pay back to Mr and Mrs C the extra they paid each month because  the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Lloyds should also 
pay Mr and Mrs C 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs C can claim back  the tax if they dont pay 
tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  Plc doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost 
of the PPI to Mr and Mrs C.
But Lloyds Bank Plc does  have to pay back to Mr and Mrs C any commission and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 April 2019.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0083032