K820x#14complaint
Ms M complains that TSB Bank plc made a mistake with her credit file when she closed her 
account with the bank  in 2017. She says theres  a mark on her file that shouldnt be there 
and its preventing her from being offered a mortgage by another financial business.
background
Ms M says she switched her account from TSB to another bank in 2017 and at this time, 
when her account was closed,  the balance on the TSB account  was zero. She says the bank 
later applied a mark  to her credit  file that shows she has an unpaid  outstanding balance on 
her closed account and this is causing her problems  with her mortgage application.
TSB investigated Ms Ms complaint and said it would partially uphold it  it agreed  with some 
aspects of her complaint  but there were other aspects with which it did not agree. It said 
Ms M switched her account in January 2017 but a short  time later fees and charges were 
applied from December 2016. And this left Ms Ms account overdrawn.
TSB says:
it wrote  to Ms M several times at the address it held on file to let her know about the 
outstanding balance and to seek repayment  of it. But it says no payment was made 
and in October 2017 the account was closed by its debt recovery  team and the 
outstanding balance of £53.20 was written off.
when Ms M contacted  her local branch, she was told the account was closed and the 
outstanding balance on it was zero. It says this was correct because  the balance had 
now been written off. And it says branch staff wouldnt have been able to access  
these types of account records  to provide her with further details.
when Ms M first complained she asked it to remove the default that had been 
registered on her credit file and in October 2018 it said it would.  TSB says it failed to 
contact the credit  reference agency  to have  the default removed.
TSB acknowledged the poor service Ms M had been given. The bank confirmed it had 
instructed the credit  reference agency  to remove any default associated  with Ms Ms 
account. And in recognition of the upset and frustration it had caused her, it paid Ms M £375 
in compensation.
Ms M rejected TSBs offer. She told us that shed not received the letters that the bank said it 
had sent. And although theres no default  on her file, theres  still a record showing she had 
an outstanding  unpaid balance of £53 between January 2017  and October 2017. She says 
she doesnt want the £375  compensation; she just wants  the bank to remove the unpaid £53 
from her file as its hindering her mortgage  application.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said he didnt think it should be upheld. He 
explained that he didnt think TSB had made a mistake when it reported genuine arrears to 
the credit  reference  agencies. And although the outstanding balance  accrued from fees and 
charges applied after the account had been switched, he was satisfied that they had been 
applied in accordance with the banks terms and conditions. He said he could see that the 
bank had caused Ms M upset and frustration and additional expense, but he thought that 
TSBs compensation  payment  of £375 was a fair way to settle  this complaint.
Ref: DRN00058722Ms M disagrees  so the complaint comes to me. She says the bank offered to waive the 
charges when she telephoned it in 2017,  but then debited them back  to her account after 
shed arranged to switch her account  to another bank.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Ive reached the 
same conclusion as our investigator  and for broadly  the same reasons. I realise Ms M will be 
disappointed so Ill explain  my reasoning.
Ive looked very carefully at Ms Ms account statements and at the information about fees 
and charges that TSB sent us. But Ive seen no evidence that the charges that were added  
to Ms Ms account in January 2017 were applied  other than in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account. So Im satisfied that the balance of the account was correct.
Ms M says the bank agreed to write  off the fees and charges as a gesture of goodwill, but 
theres simply no evidence of the telephone  call that Ms M says she had with TSB at that 
time. Moreover, the bank says that if such a goodwill gesture had been  agreed,  her account 
wouldve been annotated clearly so that a similar  type of goodwill gesture wouldnt be 
offered again  within the following 12 months. And theres no such record on her account 
notes. So, based  on the evidence Ive seen, Im not able to conclude  that TSB made  such  an 
offer.
TSB says it wrote to Ms M several  times in early 2017, after her account had been switched, 
to tell her about  the outstanding balance on the account and to seek  repayment of it from 
her. Ms M says she didnt receive  any of the banks  letters  and Ive thought about this. I 
can see the records provided show the letters were  sent to the right address; her current  
address. And I havent been  told about any reason why Ms M might not have received any of 
them (like problems with her post). So Im satisfied its more likely that they were delivered  
correctly.
I can see that TSB wrote off the outstanding balance in October 2017, so the outstanding 
balance of just over £53 for the period of January  2017 to October 2017 is an accurate 
reflection of the state of Ms Ms account. And because this sum of money was owed by 
Ms M, TSB is obliged  to report accurate information  to the credit reference agencies,  and 
this is what it did  the debt represent  a picture  of the state of the account each time it 
updated the credit reference agencies. The information that a bank provides to the credit 
agencies remains on file for six years.
Finally, turning to the matter of the poor service TSB gave Ms M when it wrongly  advised  her 
that the account had been  defaulted  and then that it had removed the default  I think  the 
£375 it sent her in respect of the frustration and distress is caused is a fair way to settle this 
account. And I wont be asking it to pay anymore to Ms M.
Ref: DRN00058723my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against TSB Bank  plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 January 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0005872