K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that Ageas Insurance Limited  declined a claim he made on his home 
insurance policy. Mr S is represented  in this claim by his wife, Mrs S.
background
Mr S and Mrs S noticed some tiles near the bathroom toilet had moved.  And the toilet 
seemed to have  sunk slightly.  They called a plumber who said it was quite serious and Mr S 
should contact  his insurance company. Ageas told Mr S the problem had been caused by 
faulty workmanship. And the claim had been  prejudiced because the plumber had removed 
part of the bathroom before they could look at it. But Mrs S had photos showing the mould  
wasnt apparent until the wall panels had been removed. So they asked Ageas to accept 
their claim.
Ageas said Mr S had reported a claim for water damage in the bathroom. It sent an 
investigator who confirmed the bathroom  had been removed before inspection, even though 
itd been booked the day after the claim had been  reported. So he couldnt look at how the 
shower area had actually  looked while it was in place.
Ageas said the photos showed stains and mould on the walls. And the base below the tile 
flooring was decayed and rotten. Its inspector said the damage had been caused  by poor 
workmanship. The wet wall boards hadnt  been  properly  sealed. Ageas said Mr S shouldve  
noticed the problem but had allowed it to worsen  for a number of months before reporting it. 
The policy didnt cover Mr S for poor workmanship so Ageas had declined  the claim. 
Mr S wasnt  satisfied with Ageas response. So he contacted our service and our investigator 
looked into the matter. He was satisfied the mould wouldve been hidden  by the fittings. So 
Mr S and Mrs S wouldnt have been  aware  of it until the plumber had removed the fixtures. 
And Ageas investigator had said the mould was concealed behind the wall boarding and 
had been unseen.
Our investigator noted the bathroom  had been fitted  about eight years ago. So if itd been 
fitted poorly he thought the problem  wouldve  come  to light much  sooner. He accepted seals 
can deteriorate over time but the damage appeared limited to areas that were  hidden. So he 
didnt think Mr S was aware  of any problem before he called the plumber. 
Our investigator couldnt agree the damage  was due to poor workmanship. So he said 
Ageas should  settle the claim as a cash settlement, including  work thatd already been done. 
And it should add 8% simple interest from the date of the loss until the date of settlement. 
Our investigator felt Ageas should also pay Mr S £150 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by unfairly  declining the claim.
Ageas didnt agree. So its asked for an ombudsmans final decision. It said the chipboard  
flooring under the tiles had begun to sag. And that wouldve been noticeable before the 
mould problem. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN01132592Mr S submitted a claim to Ageas about damage to the ground floor bathroom. But Ageas has 
declined the claim  as it feels the damage was caused by poor workmanship when the 
bathroom was fitted.  So Ive looked  carefully  at everything Mr S and Ageas have said to see 
if Ageas  has done  anything  wrong. And if so what it needs to do to put things right.
When Ageass inspector  visited the property he discovered Mr Ss plumber had already 
removed some of the bathroom fittings.  But the inspector felt the damp  was at least six 
months old. He said the mould was concealed  behind the wall boarding and could  only be 
seen when the boards were removed. The chipboard flooring under the tiles had decayed  
and sagged. 
Ageas felt the damage wouldve been  less severe if the problem  had been  acted  upon  more 
quickly. The inspector felt the initial  damage had been caused by poor workmanship  in 
relation to the seals. And as the shower tray had begun to sink, more  water wouldve been 
able to escape and cause  further damage.
Ive looked at Mr Ss home insurance policy.  It insures him for any liability,  loss or damage 
subject to certain exclusions. In section 3 of the policy  conditions  it states Mr S and his 
family must take all reasonable precautions  to avoid loss or damage and safeguard  the 
property while keeping  it in a good state  of repair. The policy asks Mr S not to throw away 
any damaged item before  the inspector has the chance to inspect it. 
Mr S called a plumber to investigate  why the tiled flooring  was becoming uneven. Its not 
unusual for ceramic tiles to move or crack if laid on flexible under-flooring such  as chipboard. 
But the issue had become  serious  enough  to warrant investigation. The plumber had to 
remove the shower fitting and some wall panels  to see what the problem was. So I dont 
think it was unreasonable for part of the bathroom  to have been removed before Ageass 
investigator was able to visit  the cause and extent of the damage was only apparent  once 
thatd been done. That was why Mr S had contacted his insurer.  And the damaged fittings 
were still available  for the investigator to study.
Ageas declined the claim because its investigator said the damage had been caused  by 
poor workmanship. He said the wet wall boards were insufficiently  sealed and it wouldve 
been evident at least six months before the claim was reported.  
The inspector said he couldnt review the quality of the bathroom fitting as the shower area 
and some wall boards had been  removed while investigating the damage.  But I understand 
the bathroom was fitted  about  eight years ago. And I think  poor workmanship wouldve 
become apparent much sooner. If the wet wall boards  hadnt  been sealed properly the water 
wouldve been able to leak into the surrounding area when Mr S and Mrs S first started using 
the shower area. And its likely the resulting  damage to the under-flooring wouldve alerted 
them much sooner.
I can see from the photos that the mould and rot is quite extensive. But the damage to the 
flooring underneath wouldnt have been  obvious when the tiled floor remained in place. 
Mrs S has provided independent assessments  that suggest the damage was caused by the 
floor flexing when  walked upon.  And this caused  the connections to waste  disposal and the 
seals on the shower tray to loosen  and cause the unnoticed leak.  So I dont think  Mr S 
wouldve been aware of the damage  until after the plumber began to investigate.  
Based on everything  Ive seen I dont think Ageas acted fairly  in declining  Mr Ss claim 
because of faulty workmanship. I think any problems due to poor fitting wouldve been 
Ref: DRN01132593apparent at a much  earlier  stage. And until the floor began to sag noticeably there was 
nothing to suggest Mr S needed to carry out any maintenance work or investigation.
So I agree with our investigator that Ageas should  settle Mr Ss claim as a cash settlement. 
The settlement  should  include the work  carried out to replace  the damaged flooring and wall 
areas, based on Mr S providing receipts for work already done. Ageas should also add 8% 
simple interest from the date of the loss until the date of settlement of the claim.
Mr S has been caused trouble and upset  by Ageas unfairly declining  the claim. Some  of the 
damage has now been repaired. But I understand the bathroom refit still hasnt been  
completed and Mr S and Mrs S have been inconvenienced  for a considerable period of time 
while they are waiting for the matter to be resolved. So I think  Ageas should also pay Mr S 
£150 compensation for his trouble and upset.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Ageas Insurance  Limited  to:
settle Mr Ss claim as a cash  settlement, including work already  completed based on 
the provision of receipts.
add 8% simple interest  from the date of the loss to the date of settlement.
pay Mr S £150 compensation for his trouble and upset.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 January 2020.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0113259