K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Esure Insurance Limited (Esure) have not handled  his buildings 
insurance claim fairly. 
background
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in July 2019, which  forms part of this final 
decision and sets out the background to Mr Ks dispute. I said I was minded to uphold  it in 
part and, in summary, made the following findings:
The 35% deduction applied by Esure to Mr Ks electrical appliances was fair as I 
thought it was made clear that the appliances  would need to be PAT tested  to assess 
the extent of the damage and potential  for repair.
I intended asking  Esure to instruct an independent glass repair  company to assess 
the conservatory damage and carry out any further repairs that may be necessary in 
line with their findings and remaining policy terms and conditions.
Esure have confirmed  that the displacement allowance has been  paid in full and is 
now concluded, so if Mr K disputes  this he must  specify why and provide evidence to 
substantiate his objections. 
I intended asking  Esure to pay a total of £400 compensation (including the £200 
already paid)  due to the eight  week delay in commencing the drying process. 
Esure responded disagreeing with the increase in compensation, as they submit that much  
of the delay was unavoidable, and that most of it was attributable to Mr K.
Mr K accepted the proposal of an independent glass repair company assessing the 
conservatory damage and carrying out any works.  He also accepted the partial  
reimbursement for his kitchen appliances,  although he still felt it was unfair as he says Esure  
did not send anybody over a six month  period to test the appliances before they were 
disposed of.
In terms of the delays,  Mr K disputes  Esures version of events and denies that he was 
responsible for this. In addition to this, Mr K raised other points in relation to the service  he 
has received from Esure, as well as the following points:
They failed to assess the suitability of a long-term stay at his disabled  mothers 
house, and should  have  offered  him alternative accommodation instead.
The summary provided by Esure in relation  to the total amount paid to date is 
approximately correct,  but the individual  sums  listed do not match  the cheque values 
paid into his account, and they also chose to withhold his displacement allowance  
from August 2018 without explanation  until he complained about this in an email sent 
in February 2019.
Esure ignored the conservatory damage caused by the emergency  services and 
rejected three cracked window frame conservatory reports, and it took 11 months for 
them to send their own representative  to look at the conservatory.
Esure approved a quote  from a builder that Mr K had sourced, who turned out not to 
be a professional builder, which they ought to have picked  up on.
Ref: DRN09000842my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
As Mr K has accepted  the partial  reimbursement of his kitchen appliances, as well as the 
reassessment/repair of his conservatory  and given that Esure have not disputed this  I 
will not be commenting any further  on these matters. But I will address the points that have 
been raised in response to my provisional decision.  
Mr K says that Esure failed to assess whether  it was suitable for him to stay long term at his 
mothers house instead of offering him alternative accommodation. However,  I can see in the 
loss adjusters report that Mr K had agreed  to stay with his mother, which  was why it was 
recommended that he be paid displacement allowance for the duration he was living there. 
Given that Mr K had chosen to stay at his mothers house, I wouldnt expect Esure to 
periodically reassess whether this continued to be suitable, particularly as he was receiving 
displacement allowance, which I note was also subsequently  increased  in June 2018 to 
£100 a week due to Mr Ks concerns  over the additional mileage he was paying for. So I 
dont think Esure have  acted unreasonably by not considering whether alternative 
accommodation should subsequently be arranged, as this was the arrangement that was 
seemingly agreed from the outset.
But Mr K says that Esure ignored his requests to review his living  situation,  as he says he 
sent an email in June  2018 stating that things were strained at his mothers  house,  which  he 
says was ignored. I accept that Esure ought  to have acknowledged Mr Ks email if they didnt 
in fact respond, as ignoring his correspondence  is falling below the level of standard  he 
could reasonably expect. But even if they didnt respond, I dont consider any further 
compensation would be warranted,  as I have already recommended that Esure pay a total of 
£400 in recognition of the trouble and upset  caused  throughout  Mr Ks claim, which I 
consider to be fair in the circumstances. 
In terms of Mr Ks displacement allowance, he has said the amount quoted by Esure  in their 
summary of payments  is approximately correct. I appreciate that the sums  listed  may not 
have matched the cheques he has paid in, but given that there  doesnt  appear to be any 
dispute over whether the right amount  has been  paid, I dont feel it necessary to explore this 
point any further.  However, Mr K has said that Esure unreasonably withheld his 
displacement allowance from August 2018  without explanation, and only paid him the next 
instalment in February 2019 following his complaint. 
I appreciate this was a long time to wait for the payment.  However, Im not persuaded Esure 
are entirely responsible  for this, as theyve explained  that during this time,  work was being 
completed by Mr Ks builder, so they were reliant  on him regularly updating the loss adjuster 
as to the progress  of the work so they could  release further payments  as time went on. 
Esure say that the loss adjusters were  waiting to speak to Mr K before  a further payment 
could be issued so, given the situation,  I dont think I can reasonably hold Esure  entirely 
responsible for the delay in Mr K receiving payment of his displacement allowance. 
Mr K also complains that Esure ignored  the conservatory damage caused by the emergency  
services, and that they rejected three cracked window frame conservatory  reports.  He says it 
took 11 months for them  to send a representative to even look at the conservatory. But from 
the outset, I note that Mr K was requesting that Esure consider rebuilding his entire 
conservatory as a result of subsidence  that he says was caused  by the escape of water. 
Ref: DRN09000843This was investigated by Esure, who sent a chartered surveyor  to report  on the matter in 
April 2018, so I dont  agree  it took them 11 months to send  somebody  to consider the 
conservatory damage. The surveyor said that a full replacement was not necessary as it did 
not appear that any subsidence had been caused  by the insured event.  But he did report 
that the damage to the window frame and beading could  probably be repaired  
However, Mr K disputed these findings and started  liaising with various  companies  who said 
that the damage to the conservatory could not be repaired. But as I set out in my provisional 
decision, Mr K had not submitted any substantive reports in the same vein to support his 
position. And due to the fact that Esure had obtained the opinion of a chartered surveyor,  I 
considered this to be more persuasive  in the circumstances. So it appears the main reason 
for the delay  in considering the break-in damage  was due to the dispute over whether the 
entire conservatory ought to be replaced  or whether it could  even be repaired. However, I 
acknowledge that Esure could have potentially sent somebody round sooner  to provide a 
second opinion,  but again,  I dont think this would warrant further compensation in the 
circumstances as I consider the amount of compensation  awarded  in total to be 
commensurate to the trouble and upset  this has caused.
Mr K has also recently raised  the fact that he is unhappy Esure  approved  a quote from an 
unprofessional builder that he has sourced,  as he says they ought to have picked up on this. 
But I cannot see that this was raised  with Esure as part of Mr Ks initial complaint, or that 
they have had a chance to investigate or respond  to this, so its not something I will be 
commenting on within this decision. 
I also note Mr K has reiterated his point  that Esure did not send anybody over a six month  
period to PAT test his appliances before they were disposed of. But as I set out in my 
provisional decision, I can see that Esure gave  him the option for this to be arranged  in their 
emails sent on 25 and 26 June 2018.  But I cant see that Mr K accepted  this offer and asked 
them to arrange  this, as I can see he was concerned about  losing the warranty  on his 
appliances. So I dont  think  Esure have acted unreasonably in failing  to send somebody to 
test his appliances in these circumstances.  
delays
Both parties  dispute  that they are responsible for the majority of the delays caused in 
commencing the drying process. Esure say that Mr K submitted his claim on 4 March 2018,  
buy say that they were  unable to consider starting the drying process  until at least 
27 March 2018  as claim validation enquiries were needed, and because  the drying 
equipment could not be installed without  electrical  work being carried out first, which  wasnt  
confirmed until the end of March. Esure say that Mr K then confused matters when he began  
to strip the property  and commence the drying  process himself, as their contractors had to 
then revaluate what remaining drying  was required after he had lifted the floor. 
Esure say that Mr K also later asked  if he could change contractors, which  led to further 
delays as they had to instruct a new drying  company who had to carry out their own 
inspection. So Esure submit that out of the eight weeks it took to install  the drying 
equipment, there was only around  two weeks of avoidable delays they would be responsible  
for, and they consider that the £200  compensation paid already  is fair. 
However, Mr K disputes Esures  version of events.  He says that the issue  with the electrics 
was sorted  on 14 March 2018  after their emergency electrician attended his property, so this 
ought not to have delayed  the drying process. He also says that he only started to carry out 
Ref: DRN09000844the strip out/drying works himself as nothing  was happening and he was anxious to get back  
into his property, and because he was being given different dates as to when any work was 
likely to begin.
Given the circumstances and the fact that Mr K did not want  to overburden his mother, I 
appreciate why Mr K started carrying out some of the works himself.  And I dont think this 
ought to have delayed Esure from commencing the drying process themselves as they have 
claimed, as Mr K was ultimately reducing the amount of work  that had to be done.
Mr K also strongly denies that he asked to change  contractors. He says that the first 
contractor visited his property on 15 March 2018  and said they would install dehumidifiers  
the next day, but that they never returned  to his property. Mr K says he never  complained 
about the contractors themselves, but rather about  the lack of work being completed  or any 
tangible start date being provided, as he says he was constantly told between 
16 March 2018  to 7 May 2018  that the contractors  would  be starting the drying  process 
imminently.
There isnt a great deal of evidence to demonstrate what exactly happened over this period, 
but on balance,  I havent seen enough  to persuade me that Esure were not responsible for 
the two month delay  in commencing the drying  process, or that this delay  is primarily 
attributable to the acts of Mr K. Indeed,  this is also in direct contrast to what Esure initially  
told us when they said On speaking with [the loss adjuster]  they acknowledge this delay due 
to issues with their supplier of equipment. This meant the equipment was only provided after 
two months.
I can also see that the loss adjuster reported  on 9 March 2018 that All rooms are 100% wet 
and urgent drying of the whole property is required. Please instruct  suppliers ASAP. But 
while it appears that suppliers were  instructed,  it does  not appear  that there was any 
urgency to commence  the drying process  as suggested by the loss adjuster. So I still 
consider that further compensation is warranted, and I will be directing Esure  to pay an 
additional £200 for the reasons set out in my provisional decision, as well as those given 
above, in recognition of the trouble and upset  caused. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mr Ks complaint in part and direct Esure Insurance 
Limited to:
Instruct an independent  glass  repair  company to assess  the conservatory  damage 
and carry out any further repairs that may be necessary in line with their findings and 
the remaining  policy terms  and conditions (on the proviso  that Mr K returns  the 
cheque for £312 already paid by Esure).
Pay an additional  £200 in compensation in recognition  of the trouble and upset  
caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 September  2019.
Ref: DRN09000845Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN09000846COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr K complains that Esure Insurance Limited  (Esure) have not handled  his buildings insurance  claim 
fairly. 
background
Mr K holds a home insurance  policy  with Esure. He made a claim on 3 March  2018 following  an 
escape of water in his home as a result of a burst water pipe. This caused damage to Mr Ks property 
and appliances, and his conservatory was also damaged when the fire brigade broke in to attend  to 
the burst  pipe. 
Following the submission of Mr Ks claim, there have been various  elements of the service and 
proposed settlement that he has been unhappy with. This has evolved over time, and the details and 
history of the dispute are well known to both parties. So, for the sake  of brevity, I dont intend  on 
repeating them in this decision. However,  the points that remain in dispute are:
Mr K does not agree  with Esure applying a 35% deduction to the value  of his electrical 
appliances, as he says they took over two months to install drying  equipment, by which point 
they wouldve all been beyond economical  repair;
The extent to which  the conservatory ought to be repaired or rebuilt;  and
Whether the displacement allowance due to Mr K under the policy  has been paid in its 
entirety.
Our investigator considered it was fair for Esure to apply a 35% deduction  to Mr Ks electrical 
appliances in the circumstances, except for the hob and extractor fan, as these had already been 
reported by the surveyor as likely being beyond economical repair. The investigator  also didnt think 
there was enough evidence to suggest that Mr Ks conservatory ought to be replaced in its entirety as 
a result of the escape of water or fire brigade break in. Mr K didnt agree, so the complaint has been 
passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Ive decided to uphold  it in part.
electrical appliances
Mr Ks policy entitles him to the repair  or equivalent  replacement  of his contents as a result of the 
damage caused by the escape of water. The policy also says that if it is not possible to repair and an 
equivalent replacement  is not available,  we will pay you cash based on the full replacement cost. Mr 
K says that his appliances were bought new not long before the escape of water, and he argues that 
they would all be beyond  economical repair given that they sat in a damp  environment for over two 
months before Esure  started  the drying  process. 
However, Esure say they told Mr K that they would  not pay the full replacement cost of the appliances 
without first being able to PAT test them to determine whether they were  in fact beyond economical  
repair. As they have now since been disposed of, there is no longer an opportunity to have them  
tested, so Esure applied a 35% deduction as a result. But Mr K argues that he was given 
authorisation to dispose of the appliances by Esures loss adjuster  in an email of 20 September 2018, 
which did not mention that he ought to have them PAT tested  before disposing of them. 
Ive considered the correspondence that was sent between Mr K, Esure  and the loss adjuster, and I 
think the situation  with regards to the PAT testing  was made clear to Mr K before he disposed of the 
appliances. For example,  Esure outlined in their final response on 25 June 2018 that the 35% 
Ref: DRN09000847deduction was being applied because they were unable to carry  out a PAT test to see if these  
appliances were beyond economical  repair or not and I can see that they gave him the option  for this 
to be arranged when  they said if you would like [the loss adjuster] to go ahead with this test then 
please contact [them] who will put this in hand.  Esure further made  this position clear in subsequent 
emails of 26 June 2018 where they reminded Mr K that if [the loss adjusters] are unable to carry  out 
this test they have no way of knowing  how significantly if at all the appliances are damaged, and as 
such I cant agree  that the 35% deduction from their settlement would be unfair without this test. 
So although the loss adjuster authorised Mr K to dispose of the appliances, I dont think  this means  it 
would be unfair for them to now apply  the 35% deduction  which  I believe is a fair compromise in the 
circumstances  given that the offer to have the appliances  tested had been made  on various 
occasions. I appreciate  that Mr K was concerned  about potentially losing his warranty  on the kitchen  
appliances if they were tested. But Esure were entitled to inspect and test the appliances  before 
deciding how best to settle the claim.  And I dont consider that a potential  loss of warranty should  
mean that the insurer ought  to waive their right to inspect and repair  the goods if such  a repair was 
possible. Esure  have also confirmed that the 35% deduction only applies in respect of the washing 
machine, dishwasher and fridge  and so would  not apply,  for example, to the hob or extractor fan. And 
given that there is now no possibility of testing the relevant appliances, I think Esures proposal is fair.
conservatory
Mr K submits  that his entire conservatory ought to be rebuilt under  the policy  as a result of the 
structural damage caused by the escape of water and forced entry by the fire brigade. He says that 
the escape of water has compromised the foundations  such that they will not support the weight of the 
conservatory, and that the conservatory frame  was also damaged by the fire brigade, meaning  that 
the supporting  structure for the roof will need replacing.   
Esure instructed a chartered surveyor to report on the damage. The surveyor did not attribute any 
structural damage to the escape of water, but said that the damage to the conservatory window  
frames and beading could  likely  be repaired. But the surveyor did not consider that the entire 
conservatory ought to be replaced. Mr K disagreed,  and said he has spoken to various  companies 
who have told him that the conservatory could not be repaired as there  is structural  damage to the 
frame. But while I appreciate  this may be the case, Mr K has not submitted any substantive reports  to 
support this position. And given that Esure have provided a report  from a chartered surveyor, I 
consider this to be more persuasive  in the circumstances. So I do not consider Esure to have acted 
unreasonably when they refused to rebuild the entire conservatory in light of the surveyors findings, 
and in the absence of any contrary report from another surveyor.
However, there is still the matter of the damage caused by the forced entry  by the fire brigade, which  I 
can see is covered by the policy. Esure sent a repair company to Mr Ks property on 26 March 2019,  
who reported  that there were indications of structural damage to the conservatory  panel, but they 
reported that it was repairable.  Esure say they further instructed a glass company to check  the 
damage to confirm the costs of replacing the entire panel. But Esure say they eventually sent Mr K a 
cheque for £312, as he did not want the glass company to attend his property,  so they were  unable to 
validate any further costs. Mr K denies this, and says that he is happy for the glass company  to attend 
his property  to assess the damage further and complete any necessary repairs.
Given that there is still a dispute surrounding the extent to which the conservatory panel  can be 
repaired, I intend asking  Esure in my final decision to instruct  an independent glass repair  company to 
assess the damage as originally proposed, and to carry out any further repairs that may be necessary  
in line with their findings  and the remaining policy terms and conditions. Any further work undertaken 
should result  in an effective  and lasting  repair, meaning that it must  fully put right the damage caused 
by the forced  entry. I note that Mr K has already been sent a cheque for £312, however, which he 
says he has not cashed. So any further repair work would  be on the condition that he returns this 
cheque to Esure.  
Ref: DRN09000848displacement allowance
Mr K says he is unsure if he has received  the entirety of the displacement  allowance he is due under  
the policy.  Esure  have confirmed  that the displacement allowance has been paid up until 17 January 
2019 and is now concluded.  If Mr K disputes this and feels  that further payments are due, he must 
specify why and provide  evidence to substantiate  his objections. I have also asked that Esure  provide 
a summary of all payments  made  to date so that Mr K has an accurate overview of what has been 
paid. 
compensation
After Mr K submitted his claim to Esure and reported  the escape  of water, he says he was told by the 
loss adjuster than the drying process would begin within a few days. However, it eventually took over 
eight weeks for Esure to supply the drying  equipment,  so no remedial works were able to start before 
this time,  which Mr K says caused him significant trouble and upset. 
Esure acknowledged that eight weeks was an excessive  amount of time to wait for the drying process 
to commence, and offered £200 compensation. However,  having  considered the impact this delay has 
had on Mr K, I think a further award  is warranted  as I do not consider £200 to be a proportionate 
reflection of the trouble  and upset suffered. The delay ultimately meant that Mr K was displaced for a 
further eight weeks than was necessary. And given  that nothing was happening, he says he had to 
strip a lot of the house  himself to save as much furniture as he could, as well as purchasing two 
domestic dehumidifiers and radiators to prevent  the damage from getting  any worse. 
As a result, I intend asking Esure  to pay a further amount of £200 compensation  in (so £400 in total 
including the £200 already paid)  as I consider such an amount to be commensurate to the trouble and 
upset caused as a result  of the delay  and consistent with previous awards  made by this service.   
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, I intend to uphold Mr Ks complaint  in part and direct Esure to:
Instruct an independent glass repair  company  to assess the conservatory damage and carry 
out any further repairs  that may be necessary  in line with their findings and the remaining  
policy terms and conditions;
Pay a further £200 compensation in recognition of the trouble and upset caused.
Ref: DRN0900084