K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1992. Mr C says Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold  him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Lloyds had to make Mr C aware the PPI was optional and gain his consent before adding  it 
to his card. I cant be certain what was said at the time Mr C applied  for his card and PPI, 
and there  isnt much information available from the time. But from the information that is 
available Im unable  to say the Lloyds didnt make  Mr C aware the PPI was optional, or that 
Mr C didnt choose to have it.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr C so it had to check  that the PPI was right for him. Mr C 
has told us he was entitled to sick pay when he took the PPI and also had some savings. But 
the PPI would have paid out in addition to Mr Cs sick pay, and for longer than he received 
full pay. It would also have protected Mr Cs savings so that could be used towards  any other 
expenses he may have had.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Cs circumstances  at the time,  he wasnt affected by any of 
the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  and he seems to have had a need  for the cover. 
So I think the policy was right for him.  
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr C about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But I think he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for him if something went wrong.  It also looks like it 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off 
taking out the cover.  
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr C because:  
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr C about that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Mr C, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr C has said, but these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
Ref: DRN03919722The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr C any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 September 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0391972