K821x#15complaint
Miss C complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited didnt tell her that a claim on 
her motor insurance policy had been  settled and didnt correctly  record this. She wants 
compensation for the trouble and upset  this caused  her. 
background
Miss C was involved in an incident  when she lost control of her car and crashed into a 
parked car. Advantage held Miss C at fault, but it didnt  tell Miss C about this decision  at the 
time. Miss C thought the council  responsible for the road should  be held liable. Miss C said 
her new insurer had quoted her a very high premium as the claim was showing  as open on 
the Claims and Underwriting Exchange  (CUE)  database. Advantage paid Miss C £100 
compensation for not telling her the claim had been settled against her.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld  in part. He thought 
Advantage didnt  need  to pursue the council  for its losses. He thought Miss C could do this, if 
she so wished. He thought Advantages £100 compensation for not telling Miss C how the 
claim had been  settled was fair. But he thought Advantage hadnt updated CUE with the 
claim costs  when it had been  settled.  He thought this led to Miss Cs new insurer quoting  her 
high premiums. He thought Advantage could have avoided causing  this trouble and upset. 
And he thought  it should pay Miss C £100  further  compensation  for this. 
Advantage agreed to do this. But Miss C thought Advantage should  pay her £450  further  
compensation. This was the cost of the increase  in her premium for her new policy.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss C thought the council should  have  some responsibility for the accident as shed been  
told it had made changes to the road camber and this had led to other accidents. 
The investigator has already explained that it isnt our role to decide  who was responsible for 
causing the accident. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints  of this 
nature is simply to investigate how the insurer made  the decision to settle the claim. Did it 
act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy? And has it 
treated Miss C the same  as someone  else in her position. 
I think Advantage is entitled  under  the terms and conditions of its policy with Miss C to take 
over, defend, or settle a claim as it sees fit. Miss C has to follow its advice in connection with 
the settlement  of her claim, whether she agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common 
term in motor insurance policies, and I dont find it unusual. Insurers are entitled  to take a 
commercial decision about  whether it is reasonable to contest a third party claim or better to 
compromise.
I can see that Advantage considered the accident  circumstances as described by Miss C. It 
held Miss C liable and settled the other  drivers claim. It didnt think it could  pursue  the 
agency responsible for the road surface. I think Advantage was entitled to decide this by the 
policy terms and conditions. So I cant say that this was unfair  or unreasonable. 
Ref: DRN01798652But Advantage didnt tell Miss C about this decision.  Miss C only found out about this at 
renewal. So she hadnt time to prepare for the impact of the effect  this would have  on her 
premium at renewal.  Advantage agreed that this was a mistake and it paid Miss C £100 
compensation for the trouble and upset  this caused  her. I think  thats fair and reasonable as 
its in keeping with what Id award in similar circumstances. 
Advantage settled  the other  drivers claim and so it should have recorded its outlay on CUE.  
But, five months later,  another  insurer said the claim was still open and it quoted Miss C an 
extremely high premium  for a new policy. Advantage has now investigated this. I think either 
Advantage hadnt updated CUE correctly or the new insurer  had looked  at out of date 
records. Advantage hasnt  been  able to show that it did update  CUE and so it has agreed 
that it made  a mistake.
When a business  makes a mistake, as Advantage  accepts  it has done here, we expect it to 
restore the consumers  position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact 
the error  had on the consumer. 
I can see that Advantage has now corrected the entry on CUE.  Miss Cs premium  at renewal 
would always have  increased due to the fault claim. So I dont require Advantage to pay her 
the difference between her old and new policies. But I think  Advantage has caused  Miss C 
avoidable trouble and upset. Its agreed to pay her £100 compensation for this. I think  thats 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances and reflects  the impact  of the shock  of receiving  
high quotes at renewal. So I dont require Advantage to increase this offer.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require Advantage  Insurance  Company Limited to pay Miss C a further £100 compensation 
(£200 in total) for the distress and inconvenience  caused by its level of service. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 May 2021.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0179865