K821x#15complaint
Mr G says Uncle Buck Finance LLP lent to him irresponsibly. Mr G says that he had large 
amounts of other  debt when he took these loans. He thinks  Uncle  Buck shouldve seen this 
and not lent to him. 
background
This complaint is about three payday  loans Uncle Buck  provided  to Mr G between April 2015 
and September  2015.
loan 
numberdate 
startedamount instalments date ended
1 10/04/2015 £300.00 1 26/06/2015
2 27/06/2015 £585.00 3 29/09/2015
3 30/09/2015 £800.00 3 28/05/2016
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Uncle Buck disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion.  It 
provided a detailed response which  said that, in brief: 
whilst  Mr G did have  other short term loans, because of his circumstances, the loan 
repayments were affordable. Uncle Buck  spoke  to hm at times and confirmed this 
he didnt have a history of credit  repayment problems; and
Mr G applied for loan after making  the complaint to Uncle  Buck
So as no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr G 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early  stages  of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might  be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ref: DRN06887032the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being  affordable  on a strict pounds and pence  calculation might be 
an indication  a consumer  could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case.  The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having  to borrow  
to meet  the repayments. And it follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought  fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments  sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments  without  borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Gs complaint.  Ive decided to uphold Mr Gs 
complaint in full and I have explained  why below.
As our adjudicator explained, the checks Uncle Buck did showed that Mr G was having 
problems managing his money.  This is because  when he started  to borrow  from Uncle Buck  
it knew he already owed a significant  amount to other short  term lenders. In my view this 
makes it likely that Mr G had been having longer  term financial problems and that his 
indebtedness had become unsustainable.  Uncle Buck knew  this and therefore  shouldnt 
have provided  any of the these loans to Mr G.  
And whilst Mr G may not have fallen  into arrears on his Uncle  Buck loans  it does not 
necessarily follow that the repayments were not proving problematic.  And going  forward he 
did have problems repaying his Uncle Buck lending, and his other  loans. 
And Mr G was in financial difficulties when he made his complaint  and so he still had an 
ongoing need for money. So this is a reasonable explanation as to why he applied, and why 
he kept on applying  for loans,  even after making  a complaint. But this doesnt detract from 
my findings  above.
Overall, I think Uncle Buck shouldve seen  Mr G wouldnt have been able repay loans 1 to 3 
in a sustainable way. So I think that Uncle Buck  shouldnt have given these loans to him and 
I think he lost out as a result of this. So Im upholding Mr Gs complaint about loans 1 to 3.
putting things right  what Uncle Buck needs  to do
refund  all the interest and charges Mr G paid on loans  1 to 3;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement*;
remove any negative information  about loans 1 to 3 from Mr Gs credit file;
Ref: DRN06887033If Mr G still owes Uncle  Buck  any of the principal  balance he borrowed on any of his loans 
Uncle Buck  should  remove all the interest  and charges  applied  to the outstanding balance.  
Uncle Buck  should  then re-work the account as if all payments made  by Mr G went  to 
towards the principal.  But importantly, Uncle  Buck needs to make  sure that Mr G doesnt  
repay more  than the principal amount borrowed. 
If after doing this Mr G hasnt repaid  the principal he borrowed Uncle  Buck can deduct this 
from the remainder of the compensation.  If, Mr G has already paid enough to repay the 
principal then any overpayment should be refunded to him with 8% simple*  interest from the 
date of payment  to the date of settlement
And if Uncle Buck no longer owns this debt,  and it wants  to make a deduction  due to the 
amount owed, then it should buy it back.  If it doesnt  then it isnt entitled to make  any 
deductions for it from the amount it needs to pay Mr G.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle  Buck 
must give Mr G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Uncle Buck  Finance LLP should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 January 2020. 
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0688703