K822xComplaint
Mr D is unhappy with the service hes received from Metro Bank Plc (Metro) after it agreed 
to send him a new debit  card.
Background 
In early November 2018, Mr D noticed suspicious  transactions  on his current account so he 
called Metro to cancel his card. He told Metro  hed be going abroad  and wouldnt be back in 
the UK until the end of the year, and that as he had no other  accounts  he wouldnt have 
access to money.
Metro agreed to cancel  the card and send  a new one to Mr Ds registered  address - where  
his mother could accept  it for him. They also said it could  take up to five working days for the 
card to be received.  Metro  said the card number and security number would change  - but 
Mr Ds personal  identification number (PIN) would stay the same. 
A couple of days later,  Mr D called Metro to ask for his new cards security number as he 
wanted to complete a loan application. Metro  explained they couldnt give him the security  
number because it didnt  show  on their system, but they confirmed his new card and PIN 
should be received in a few days.
After a week, Mr D called Metro to confirm his mother had received the new card, and he 
was waiting for a new PIN to arrive in the post - but in the meantime  he needed his card 
details so he could  pay a phone bill online.  Metro agreed to activate his card over the phone, 
so he could make the online payment. They also said the PIN should  arrive within  few days  
now hed received his new card.
Four days later, Mr D called Metro to raise a complaint  as the new PIN hadnt  been received. 
Metro said a new PIN wasnt needed  and as the card was already activated, and it should 
work with the existing  PIN. 
Two days later Mr D contacted Metro  again to explain  that the new PIN had been  received, 
but, his mother hadnt  been unable to use the card at the ATM  as the PIN wasnt  working. 
He said his sister was due to visit him with the card and PIN - but he was worried  hed have 
no access to his money if he couldnt use the card. So Metro logged a complaint. They  
agreed to pay Mr D £15 for the inconvenience caused and to send a new card and PIN to his 
registered address  by recorded delivery  - which they said hed receive the next day. 
The following  day, Mr D didnt receive  his card and PIN as expected  so he called Metro. 
They explained the delivery could  be received  anytime up to 8pm - but when the card and 
PIN still werent delivered Mr D called  back.  Metro said the card and PIN had to be 
requested before they could be sent to him - so he should expect it within  the next couple of 
days.
The next day, Mr D told Metro the new card and PIN was received - but his mother had tried 
to activate it at three different ATMs  with no success. Mr D asked Metro  to activate the card 
over the phone. But, Metro refused to because the card and PIN wasnt in his possession. 
So, Mr D reluctantly agreed to wait until the next day, when he was due to receive them.
Ref: DRN01186312Metro looked into Mr Ds complaint and agreed they hadnt given him correct information.  
So, they upheld  his complaint and paid £90 in total for the trouble and upset caused as a 
result. 
Mr D didnt feel £90 was enough compensation for the trouble and upset hed suffered. So, 
he asked this service to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. She felt the £90 compensation  
was fair and reasonable. She said although  Mr D had contacted Metro on numerous  
occasions and it couldve given him a better  service,  Mr D hadnt  adhered  to the terms and 
conditions of the account when hed given his mother his card details. 
Mr D didnt agree. He felt the offer wasnt enough to cover his mobile phone bill costs  and 
the amount of time he spent  on the phone. 
As an agreement couldnt  be reached, the case has been passed  to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 7 August 2019. I said the following:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im thinking of coming  to 
a different outcome to our investigator. Ill explain why.
Mr D has said the service  he received  from Metro  caused him and his mother  significant 
distress. He says he had no money and had to chase Metro numerous  times to get a new 
card and PIN. He also says his mother is a pensioner and was inconvenienced  because  she 
had to make  frequent trips to try and activate his card for him. However, whilst I recognise 
the inconvenience caused to Mr Ds mother, I can only look at the trouble and upset caused 
to him as the account holder. 
When Mr D opened his current account, he signed a declaration to say hed carefully read 
the terms and conditions, and agreed to them. The terms  and conditions  say the account 
holder mustnt  reveal  their security details and shouldnt allow anyone else to use the card, 
PIN or other  security details - even if they share  a joint account.  It also says Metro  can issue  
a card and PIN to someone  who is authorised to give payment instructions  without the 
account holders  signature or authority. But this is only if the account holder has signed a 
third party mandate  form or a power  of attorney. 
I understand Mr D trusted his mother to accept his new card and PIN whilst he was out of 
the country.  But, Im not persuaded Metro was aware hed be allowing her to use his new 
PIN and activate the card on his behalf. Given Mr Ds mother  hadnt been registered  as his 
power of attorney and he hadnt completed a third party mandate form, Im satisfied  his 
mother wasnt authorised  to activate his card for him. Ive also looked at Metros  processes 
when a new card is sent to a customer because of fraud, and Im satisfied Metro  didnt treat 
Mr D unfairly by not activating  the card until he had possession of it.
Ive listened to the calls between Metro  and Mr D, and I think  Mr D made it clear to Metro at 
the start that this mother would be receiving his card. So, Metro  had the opportunity to make  
it clear that he would be given a new PIN and would  have  to be in possession of both the 
card and PIN to activate  it much sooner. I think if Metro had made  this clear to Mr D initially,  
he wouldnt  have needed to call them  as often as he did. Mr D hasnt  been  able to provide 
Ref: DRN01186313any information to show how much the calls cost him, so I wont be asking Metro  to refund 
them. But, Ive considered how much of an inconvenience these calls were to Mr D. 
Based on the calls Ive listened to, I think Metro had numerous opportunities to make the 
timescales clearer. I also think  they couldve checked the new PIN was requested much 
sooner than they did. I also think Metro caused Mr D to worry as they didnt make it clear  the 
new card and PIN needed to be requested before it could be sent to him by recorded  
delivery. Mr D made the impact of this clear  to Metro and at one point told them he wouldnt  
be able to eat if he had no access to his money,  but I dont think Metro  took his 
circumstances into consideration. 
Metro has accepted they didnt provide the level of service Mr D could expect. Theyve  also 
apologised and recognised the distress caused to Mr D by their actions, so theyve agreed to 
increase the compensation offered to Mr D to £150  for the trouble and upset caused. I think  
this is a fair and reasonable amount of compensation to reflect  the distress and 
inconvenience their service caused  him given the circumstances he was in.  
I invited Mr D and Metro  to give me any more  evidence and information they wanted me to 
consider before issuing my final decision.  However,  neither  party responded to my 
provisional decision to say they accepted it.
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, and as neither party responded to say they disagreed  with my provisional 
decision, I see no reason  to reach  a different conclusion. 
So this final decision confirms the findings and proposed  settlement as set out in my 
provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
Metro Bank  Plc should pay Mr D £150 for the trouble and upset caused. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 October  2019.
Jenny Lomax
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0118631