K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Adrian Flux Insurance Services Group took a renewal premium for a 
motor insurance policy  from his account without  his knowledge or consent.  
background
In September  2018 Adrian Flux write  to Mr M advising that his policy would renew  
automatically and he should contact them if anything  has changed. Payment for the renewal 
was taken on 4 October  2018 as the policy was due to renew five days  later.
On 5 October 2018 Mr M returned  from holiday and advised Adrian  Flux that he didnt wish 
to renew. Adrian Flux advised the renewal premium had been  taken  but agreed to issue a 
full refund within three to five working days.
Mr M is unhappy  and says he didnt want the policy as he had insured  the vehicle elsewhere. 
And he says taking the payment left him in financial  difficulty  and unable to pay his bills.
Our adjudicator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. She said:
Adrian Flux didnt act acted unreasonably  by auto-renewing the policy. Without any 
contact from Mr M it wasnt aware  he didnt want to renew. Its not Adrian Fluxs fault 
Mr M was away when  the renewal invite was issued.  And Mr M shouldve been 
aware the policy was coming up for renewal  and that it would be renewed 
automatically.
In the call when  Mr M says he doesnt  want to renew the policy Adrian  Flux said a full 
refund would be made and it confirmed the amount was as stated  on the renewal. Mr 
M accepted this and didnt raise any concerns. 
Mr M says taking  the premium caused him financial difficulties. But he hasnt 
provided proof of this. Whilst  what happened  mayve caused Mr M some  distress she 
cant say Adrian  Flux has treated him unfairly.  Adrian Flux acted  as soon as Mr M 
contacted it and issued a full refund the next day. She cant  ask Adrian Flux to pay 
any compensation to Mr M.
Mr M doesnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman review.  He says in summary that he 
did raise concerns on the phone about this money being taken five days  before the renewal 
date. Adrian Flux had his other contact details  and couldve  been used them  to contact him. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators conclusions  for the same reasons.
Adrian Fluxs  terms and conditions were  supplied to Mr M and say it reserves the right, for 
the policyholders protection, to automatically  renew the policy  up to five days  prior to the 
renewal date and to take payment by the same  payment method as was used in the current  
year. And if it exercises this right it will write to the policyholder prior to the renewal  date 
Ref: DRN08158492informing them of how much the renewal premium  will be and giving the policyholder time to 
opt out of the automatic  renewal process.
The automatic renewal of a policy  is carried  out to protect the policyholder  by ensuring they 
arent left uninsured. And it appears  in this case that Adrian  Flux complied with its terms and 
conditions when it decided to automatically  renew Mr Ms policy.  It wrote to him, as it said it 
would, saying it would renew the policy and it set out the renewal price.  It also said it would  
take the payment by the same means  he had previously paid which  seems  to be by credit 
card. I also dont think Adrian Flux was obliged to contact  Mr M by any other means  as Mr M 
suggests.
Its unfortunate if Mr M was away  when  this letter arrived  but that isnt Adrian Fluxs  fault.  
Immediately upon  his return Mr M contacted Adrian Flux and said he didnt want to renew. 
And Adrian  Flux agreed to a full refund of the premium which  was made  the next day. That 
was fair and reasonable.
Taking everything into account  I dont think Adrian Flux has treated Mr M unfairly. It has 
acted in line with its terms and conditions and when  Mr M said he didnt want to renew it 
agreed immediately  to a full refund  of the premium it had taken and made this the next day. 
As a result I dont think Adrian Flux has done anything  wrong  and I cant  fairly or reasonably 
require it to compensate  Mr M, including  for his suggested financial difficulties, as he would 
like.
Overall, although I recognise  Mr Ms strength of feeling, I dont see any compelling  reason to 
change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 January 2020.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0815849