K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK plc blocked  and then closed his business  and 
personal accounts without good  reason. The bank  later accepted that it had acted in error, 
but Mr B doesnt think the compensation it offered was sufficient.   
background
In October  2018 Mr B received a payment of £5,000 to his business  account with Barclays. 
The sending bank  reported that the payment had been made fraudulently.  In fact, the 
payment was a loan from a friend  of Mr B, but the friends partner hadnt agreed to it and 
reported it as fraudulent.  
Having received a fraud report, Barclays blocked  Mr Bs accounts  and, in December 2018, 
closed them. It also placed fraud  markers against  Mr Bs name. 
When it investigated further, however, Barclays found out the circumstances in which  the 
payment had been made and been reported  as fraudulent. It agreed  that it had made an 
error and that it shouldnt  have closed Mr Bs accounts or placed  fraud  markers against  his 
name. It re-opened his accounts in March 2019. It also offered Mr B £700  in recognition of 
the distress its actions had caused and the inconvenience to which Mr B had been put. 
Mr B didnt think the banks offer went far enough, and so he referred  the matter to this 
service, where one of our investigators considered it. She thought however that the banks 
offer was reasonable in the circumstances and didnt recommend that Barclays  increase it. 
Mr B thought  however that it was far too low  he suggested a figure  of £10,000 to £20,000  
and asked that an ombudsman review the case.           
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Im broadly in 
agreement with the investigators conclusions.  
I can see why Barclays took the steps it did while it investigated a payment that had been 
reported as fraudulent. Fraud  is a serious issue and one way in which  banks can help to 
tackle fraudulent payments is by restricting accounts  when allegedly  fraudulent  payments 
are received  into them. Barclays had no way of knowing until it had looked into the matter 
that the payment made to Mr Bs business  account wasnt in fact fraudulent. It could only rely 
on what the sending  bank had said  and that bank in turn relied on what  its customer  had 
told it.  
I note too that the account terms allowed Barclays to close Mr Bs account if it reasonably  
believed the account was being used for illegal  purposes. Receiving money paid without 
authority might well have been  illegal, depending on the circumstances. Barclays had been  
told that Mr B had received money  paid fraudulently. Whilst that wasnt the case  and Mr B 
acted entirely innocently  I can see why Barclays reasonably believed it should  take steps 
to prevent Mr B from using the money  hed received. 
I can understand too why Mr B feels hes been  treated unfairly  here. However, the cause  of 
that treatment was the report made  by his friends  partner that the payment hed received 
was fraudulent. For the reasons Ive explained, Barclays response  to that report was 
reasonable. And I think it re-opened Mr Bs accounts reasonably promptly  once it identified 
Ref: DRN05603462what had happened. It also arranged for the removal of the fraud markers against  Mr Bs 
name. 
Mr B has said that too that he suffered financially as a result  of not having a functioning 
business account for several months. Whilst I can see that might have been the case, Mr B 
hasnt provided  any evidence to support that, and so I dont believe I can fairly require the 
bank to compensate  him for such losses.
In all the circumstances, I agree with the investigator  that Barclays  offer of £700 is a fair one 
and I wont be asking  the bank to increase it.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Barclays Bank UK plc to take any further steps to 
resolve Mr Bs complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, Im required 
to ask Mr B to accept  or reject my decision before 11 June 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0560346