K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Financial Insurance  Company  Limited (FICL) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. The complaint is brought  on his behalf by a third party.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy attached to a store card that Mr B took out in 
November 2000.  It was sold in store. 
Its been agreed in this case that FICL, as the insurer, should  accept  responsibility  for 
the complaint.  To keep things simple, Ill refer to FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr B disagreed 
with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me. Mr B said,  in 
summary, that he wasnt given a choice  he was told where to sign, not what he was 
signing for.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint and Ill explain why.
FICL had to make Mr B aware that the PPI was optional and get his consent before adding  
PPI. Mr B says he wasnt given a choice  and was just told to sign. As this happened  many 
years ago, I cant be sure exactly what happened, so I reach my decision on the balance  of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and the wider circumstances.
The credit card application form included a separate  section headed Protecting your 
Account  which included  the instruction, only sign this box if you require Account Cover. 
Mr B signed  the box to indicate that he wanted  it. I cant say what was discussed, if 
anything, at the time of the application, but I think the paperwork made it clear that PPI 
was optional and I think it wouldve  been  reasonable to expect Mr B to check  over the 
document he was signing. The section about  PPI was relatively brief,  so I think Mr B 
wouldve still been able to do this even though the card and PPI were  taken out in a store. 
So, overall, I think FICL made Mr B aware that the PPI was optional  and he chose to take 
it.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr B so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for him. 
But it did have  to make  sure Mr B got the information  he needed to decide if it was right for 
him.
Ref: DRN02360262Its possible the information FICL  gave Mr B about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. Based  on what Ive seen of Mr Bs circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover.  As he couldve benefitted 
from everything the policy offered, I dont think having better  information  about these things 
wouldve affected his decision  take out PPI. It also looks  like the PPI was affordable  and he 
couldve cancelled it at any time.  
Ive taken into account that Mr B wouldve received statutory  sick pay if he couldnt work 
due to sickness or an accident  and that his union may have helped him. But the PPI 
would have covered him until he returned  to work,  so couldve been  a useful benefit in 
addition to his existing arrangements. It also covered him if he became unemployed.
Overall, I dont  think Mr B has lost out because of anything that FICL might have done 
wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 November  2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0236026