K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a number of mortgage  payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policies 
taken out between 2002 and 2010.  Mr and Mrs H say Skipton Building Society mis-sold 
them the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Hs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policies covering Mr H were mis-sold, but the policy  
covering Mrs H wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
Mr and Mrs H initially took out PPI with a re-mortgage  in 2002. This policy covered Mr H 
only. Mr and Mrs H then took out additional borrowing on their mortgage in 2005,  but it 
appears the PPI policy wasnt  amended at this time,  so I havent assessed  this as a separate 
sale.
Mr and Mrs H were then sold further  PPI in 2006  when  taking out additional borrowing, and 
this policy  also covered Mr H only.
Mr and Mrs H then took out two separate PPI policies,  one covering  each  of them,  with more 
additional borrowing  on 2010.
the polices covering Mr H  sold in 2002, 2006 and 2010
Ive decided the PPI policies  covering Mr H were mis-sold because I dont think Skipton gave 
Mr and Mrs H clear enough  information  about the limitations and exclusions of the policies.
The policies excluded claims resulting from any medical condition  which  Mr H had and knew 
about when the policies  started and which re-occurred or he had some  symptoms of in the 
first twelve  months of the cover. And I havent  seen clear evidence that Mr and Mrs H were 
made sufficiently aware of these terms during the sales.
Skipton has said that Mr and Mrs H wouldve been  provided with policy  booklets  
summarising the terms of the policies at the sales. And that letters from the sales show that 
the impact of pre-existing medical conditions was discussed with Mr and Mrs H. But, while 
the exclusions are set out in the relevant policy booklets, I dont think  they were  prominent 
enough to make Mr and Mrs H sufficiently aware of them. And I dont think  the evidence 
Skipton has provided  is enough to say the importance and relevance of any pre-existing 
medical conditions  was explained  in detail to Mr and Mrs H. So I dont think the exclusions 
were made clear to Mr and Mrs H.
I think this wouldve mattered to Mr and Mrs H because theyve told us that Mr H had a 
medical condition  when the policies  were sold. Theyve told us that Mr H was discharged  
from his previous employment  as a result of the condition a few years before the sale in 
2002 and that hes been taking medication for the condition ever since then. So it appears  
that Mr H had the condition and was experiencing symptoms of it around  all of the sales.
Ref: DRN03078152Skipton has raised  that Mr Hs medical  condition wasnt mentioned during the sales  or when 
Mr and Mrs H first brought their complaint  to this service. But I explained above that I wasnt  
satisfied Skipton had asked clear or detailed  enough  questions  about medical conditions 
during the sales.  So I think  its understandable Mr and Mrs H didnt mention Mr Hs condition. 
And, based on the details Mr and Mr H have given us, Im satisfied Mr H had this condition 
as the sales and I dont think its necessary to require any further  proof from him.
Skipton has also questioned  whether Mr H ever took time off work due to this condition  or 
whether this condition  would  ever have caused  him to be off work for long enough to make a 
claim on the policies.  But what actually happened  during  the life of the policies doesnt affect 
whether they were  mis-sold. The approach of the Financial Ombudsman  Service is to put 
consumers back in the position they would have been if no error had been made. So I must 
look at what I think Mr and Mrs H would have done if theyd been given clear enough 
information about the exclusions  in the policies, at the time of the sales.
Based on what Mr and Mrs H have told us about  Mr Hs condition, I dont think  theyd have  
taken the policies if it had been  made  clear  to them that any time off work  as a result  of the 
condition wouldnt have  been covered by the policies. So I think theyve lost out as a result  of 
Skipton not making the exclusions  clear  to them.
the policy covering  Mrs H  sold in 2010
Skipton has sent us a copy of a customer needs questionnaire from this sale. This included  
a section on PPI which  showed that Skipton recommended it to Mr and Mrs H, and 
Mr and Mrs H signed in this section to show that they accepted this recommendation. The 
questionnaire also showed the separate cost of the PPI.
Based on this, I think Skipton made it clear to Mr and Mrs H that they had a choice about this 
PPI policy. And that Mr and Mrs H chose to take it, knowing  they didnt have to.
As Skipton recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs H, it had to check that it was right for them.  
And, based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think  that it was. For 
example, Mrs H doesnt appear to have been  affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on 
the PPI cover. And the policy couldve paid out for longer than Mr and Mrs H have  told us 
Mrs H wouldve been entitled to full sick pay.
Its possible the information Skipton gave Mr and Mrs H about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But a mortgage is a serious financial commitment,  and Mr and Mrs Hs 
property couldve been at risk if theyd failed  to make their repayments. So I think they 
couldve found the protection the policy  offered appealing. And, for the same reasons I think 
it was right for them,  it seems  like it would have  been useful for them if something went 
wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think  better information about the 
PPI would have  put Mr and Mrs H off taking it out.
Which means Skipton  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI policy  covering 
Mrs H. But Skipton will pay back some of the cost of this policy  to Mr and Mrs H because:
Skipton got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs H about that. Because Skipton didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs H, that was unfair.
Ref: DRN03078153To put that right, Skipton has basically  offered  to pay back the amount of commission  
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
what the business needs  to do
For the policies  covering  Mr H, Skipton should  put Mr and Mrs H in the position theyd be in 
now if they hadnt taken out the PPI. The policies  should be cancelled,  if they havent been 
cancelled already, and Skipton should:
Pay Mr and Mrs H the amount they paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% a year from then on*.
If Mr and Mrs H made a successful claim under the PPI policies, Skipton can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.
For the policy covering  Mrs H, Skipton has to pay back to Mr and Mrs H any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  Skipton should also pay back 
to Mr and Mrs H any extra interest  they paid because of that.
Skipton should  pay back  to Mr and Mrs H the extra they paid each month  because  the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Skipton should 
also pay Mr and Mrs H 8%* simple interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs H can claim back  the tax if they dont pay 
tax.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I partially  uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
Skipton Building  Society should  put things right by doing what  Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 May 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0307815