K822xcomplaint
Miss V complains  that Experian Limited  has been  reporting incorrect information on her 
credit report.
background 
In late 2018 Miss V discovered that Experian  was reporting a default  on an account with a 
finance company,  C, and a County Court Judgement  (CCJ) on her credit file. She noted  that 
the name recorded began with a different letter and the date of birth was wrong by one year. 
She also noticed that this information was present  on the reports from two other credit 
reference agencies.  She complained to all three agencies.  
Two of the agencies  agreed to remove the incorrect details. Experian did not. Miss V said 
she would  provide identification  to prove  she was not the person with the default and she 
could provide it with a registry trust document  that would show she didnt have any CCJs 
against her. 
In its final response Experian  said it believed the entry had typing errors  due to the 
similarities in the name and date of birth. It noted that the address matched  that of Miss V. It 
acknowledged the possibility that the entry belonged to a third party but it had no record of 
that and advised Miss V to contact C and the courts.  Miss V brought her complaint to this 
service. She said she was being  linked to a debt that wasnt  hers and wanted the incorrect 
details removed. She also wanted  and compensation for the stress it has caused. 
Our investigator made  enquires  with C which confirmed the entries were as a result of fraud. 
She felt that Experian should  have  done  more to help Miss V to establish  that the entries 
were incorrect by contacting C itself.  So she recommended Experian pay Miss V £50 for the 
distress and inconvenience this has caused.  
Miss V wasnt satisfied and asked  for a final decision from an ombudsman. She felt that £50 
was not enough to compensate her for the stress  and inconvenience. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I realise this will come as a 
disappointment to Miss V but having  done so Im satisfied that £50 fair and reasonable. 
It is no longer in dispute that the errors  being reported on Miss Vs Experian credit  file were 
incorrect. And I also understand  that the default  has automatically been removed as the 
account defaulted over six years  ago. If the default  is still recorded on her credit file I agree 
with Experian  that this will be removed if C retracts or has the CCJ set aside by the issuing 
court. So it is left to me to decide whether Experian acted in a fair and reasonable manner. 
A credit reference agency holds information about  a person in relation to their financial 
affairs. They  store the information  and make it available for the purposes of a credit check. 
But they do not decide what  to record. Lenders  and other financial providers tell the credit 
reference agencies  what to record and are responsible for providing accurate information.  
Our investigator established with C that the data was as a result of a fraudulent action. C 
provided those records  to Experian  who reported the default and CCJ. So Im satisfied 
Experian is not responsible for reporting the incorrect information.  
Ref: DRN05409932However I do agree with the investigator  that when Miss V brought  the error  to the attention  
of Experian it should  have  investigated  the matter  further with C before coming to the 
conclusion it was a typing error. 
Miss V has said she has had £995 added to her mortgage as a result  of being rejected from 
an initial mortgage lender because of the incorrect information that Experian  held on her. Im 
sorry to hear this and I can understand Miss Vs frustration. But as I cant  hold Experian 
responsible for reporting the information I dont consider it fair and reasonable for it to be 
responsible for any increase in her mortgage
Miss V has also said she has reviewed similar  cases on the ombudsman database where 
the amount awarded for such  a complaint has been £500. She said she had received £250 
back from another credit reference agency without  having to involve the ombudsman 
service. My role is to look at the individual circumstances of each complaint as the details of 
complaints can differ.  I believe Experian  should  have  contacted  C when Miss V first informed 
it about the error, which would have resolved the issue sooner and I believe £50 is a fair and 
reasonable amount of compensation for this error. 
Miss V has also asked what procedures Experian is going to put in place to ensure this 
doesnt happen again. Its not my role to look at the procedures  and working practices of the 
business nor is it to punish the business and Im satisfied Experian has acknowledged to this 
service it should have contacted C. 
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss V to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 October  2019.
Maxine Sutton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0540993