K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains that Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Birmingham Midshires)  are continuing 
to report his borrowing  to credit reference  agencies  more than six years after his bankruptcy.
background
Mr R was made bankrupt in 2011. He had mortgage  borrowing with Bank  of Scotland.  A 
certificate of discharge was issued in 2012. In 2017 he complained to Bank of Scotland  that 
it was still reporting  his defaulted borrowing to credit reference agencies. Bank of Scotland 
told him in November 2017  that now it had seen evidence of the discharge it had arranged 
for all the entries  to be removed. Mr R referred his complaint to us when he found  that this 
was not correct and it was still being reported.  Bank of Scotland  offered him £300 for the 
inconvenience and upset caused.  It said that it had ensured that we will no longer report this 
on the credit  file.
Our investigator endorsed this offer as reasonable and Mr R accepted  it. Bank of Scotland 
paid him £300  in February 2018.  But his complaint has been reopened because  hed found 
that the borrowing is still being reported to agencies as part of an automated  process. Bank 
of Scotland also makes  a manual monthly request for it to be removed. Mr R says that his 
credit score drops around the eleventh  of twelfth day of the month. And that it is not always 
corrected at each  agency. He told us that a different  financial business had been able to 
supress reporting of other similar borrowing altogether.  He wanted Bank of Scotland to do 
the same.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I asked the investigator  to contact Bank  of Scotland about exploring options for resolving  this 
issue on a permanent basis.  This took some time and I know  that this was frustrating for    
Mr R as the temporary reporting  continued  to happen. Bank  of Scotland  was in the end able 
to identify a solution and Mr R has not told us about any problems since then.
He had indicated  he might take legal  action as a result of what  happened. And wed then 
seen a letter  from solicitors about  this on his behalf. Our investigator explained to Mr R that 
we are an informal dispute resolution service  an alternative to any legal  proceedings and 
we wouldnt be able to continue to look into his complaint.
Mr R said that he had not decided whether to take legal  action.  And he wanted a final 
decision. So I asked  Bank of Scotland  whether  it would be prepared to pay Mr R a further 
£300 to reflect the additional  trouble  and upset he had been caused. It agreed  and I 
understand that this is a settlement that is also acceptable  to Mr R.
I am issuing  a decision so that the position  on this complaint is formalised  and concluded.
Ref: DRN09341362my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and I require Bank of Scotland (trading as 
Birmingham Midshires) to 
1)Stop reporting the adverse credit  information  relating  to this borrowing involved here.
2)Pay Mr R a further £300 in compensation making a total of £600. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 November 2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0934136