K821x#15complaint
Mrs T says Casheuronet UK LLC (trading as Quick  Quid) irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about seven payday  loans that Quick Quid provided to Mrs T from May 
2008 onwards.  Mrs Ts last loan was provided  in August 2010.
Our adjudicator upheld  Mrs Ts complaint and thought that she shouldnt  have been provided 
with loans four, six and seven. Quick Quid disagreed. So the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Quick Quid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs T 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Quick Quid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided.
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate  check for loans four, six and seven would most 
likely have shown that the repayment  required would  have taken  a significant portion of what  
was a low monthly income.  These loans were  provided after Mrs T had already shown 
difficulty repaying previous one  shed incurred late fees. In these circumstances, there was 
a significant risk that Mrs T wouldnt have been able to repay loans four, six and seven 
without undue difficulty or borrowing further.
Ref: DRN05006982Mrs T had to pay interest and charges on loans that Quick Quid shouldnt have provided her 
with. So I think that she lost out because  Quick Quid provided loans four, six and seven.  This 
means that Im upholding Mrs Ts complaint about these loans and Quick Quid  should put 
things right.
putting things right  what Quick Quid  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mrs T paid on loans  four and six;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove all interest and charges applied to loan seven from the outset. Any payments  
Mrs T has made towards  loan seven so far should be deducted from the new starting 
balance.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Quick Quid to take off tax from this interest. Quick Quid 
must give Mrs T a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Its likely  that an outstanding balance will remain  on loan six even after all the interest and 
charges are removed. Quick Quid can deduct this outstanding  balance  from the 
compensation it now needs to pay Mrs T should  it wish to do so.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mrs Ts complaint. Casheuronet UK 
LLC (trading as Quick  Quid) should pay Mrs T compensation  as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 July 2019.  
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0500698