K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs G have  complained about  their home insurer AXA Insurance UK Plc. They  say it 
handled their claim badly, significant  poor work was done and they were  out of their home for 
far longer than they ever should  have needed  to be.
background
A water leak was found at Mr and Mrs Gs home on 26 December 2016. They moved  out of 
their home and into alternative  accommodation  on 28 December. AXA accepted  the claim 
but repairs didnt  go to plan. An estimated six month repair period extended  significantly,  
various issues were identified with the repairs and Mr and Mrs G didnt move  back home until 
September 2018.
Over the course of several complaints made  by Mr and Mrs G to AXA,  it accepted that it had 
failed them and that their lives had been  significantly impacted as a result. Its last complaint 
response was issued on 24 May 2018 (after Mr and Mrs G had first complained  to us). To 
that point, across all its responses it had paid a total of £1,900.
AXA also agreed to pay certain  costs  and for some  items damaged by its contractors. 
Debates about some costs and damage  remain outstanding.
Our investigator issued his view in March  2018.  Neither party was entirely happy with what  
was said so the complaint was put into the queue to be passed to an ombudsman.  As 
alluded to above,  the claim continued  to move on with AXAs  letter in May and the family 
moving home in September.
When the complaint  came  to me for decision AXA gave its consent  for me to consider  what  
had happened  up until the point the family  moved  home. I also asked AXA to consider the list 
of financial  losses Mr and Mrs G had presented to us. This took a little while  and resulted in 
AXA agreeing to make one further payment. Mr and Mrs G then clarified  what they felt was 
outstanding. I considered  all of that and issued a provisional decision in February 2019.
The parties considered  my findings and further  information was provided to me by each, 
which I shared with the other party and reviewed. Unfortunately  this process took a little 
longer than Id have  liked but Im now ready to issue my final decision. There are some small 
changes within it from my provisional findings  of which both parties are aware. My provisional 
findings are in italics,  with the parties responses  and my final replies  in normal  font inserted 
at appropriate  points.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. My background above  is short   there  are 
many issues  involved  in this complaint but my decision  has to be a workable document which 
means I cant detail everything  that has happened. But I am aware of everything  that has 
gone on and everything Mr and Mrs G have  been through.
my provisional findings
claim handling and delay
Ref: DRN06211422This claim  has gone on for far longer  than it should  have done.  Both parties seem to accept 
that whilst the initial damage was fairly significant, it should only have  taken six months for 
the home to be reinstated. At the time of the loss Mrs G was expecting  a child.  If the claim 
had gone to plan they would have  been back at home whilst  the baby was still well under a 
year old. Instead  and Im satisfied all due to AXAs  contractors poor work   the baby had 
its first Christmas and birthday in alternative accommodation. To say the impact  on their lives 
was significant  is, in this case I think, underestimating things.
AXAs contractors G caused damage  to things in the house like the fireplace. They also laid 
floor screed so poorly  it had to be lifted and re-laid. Only when it was lifted was it found that 
G had also damaged  the sub-floor when itd lifted the original screed. But G lied about what  it 
had done and how it had laid the floor,  causing  Mr and Mrs G to have to fight to get things 
resolved. And to resolve the initial poor work  of G not only did the screed have to be lifted,  so 
did the sub-floor.  This whole episode added months to the claim.
Even given  how badly the contractor had failed Mr and Mrs G, AXA wanted  it to have a 
chance to finish the work at the property.  Understandably in my view, Mr and Mrs G werent 
prepared to accept this. AXA said it couldnt  provide another contractor to finish all the work  
but did put one in place  to do the floor reinstallation. Mr and Mrs G said all along they felt 
unable to manage  such a project and that they wanted AXA to remain  in charge of the work. 
AXA wouldnt  agree to this. Mr and Mrs G reluctantly instructed a contractor. AXA then 
disputed the reinstatement costs  provided.
AXA said it had found another  contractor and had offered  to have it complete the work.  Ive 
noted AXAs  comments and dealt with them in more detail below. But here I remain satisfied 
that AXAs original  contractors poor work  left Mr and Mrs G feeling  that they had no choice  
but to take on the repairs themselves. When they agreed to do that they still clearly  had a lot 
of reservations,  concerns  and doubts and Im not convinced that AXA did enough to seek  to 
allay them  or to work with them to find a way for them to be happy for it to remain involved in 
rectifying the poor work  it had completed  (rather than trying to undertake this themselves).
The reinstatement works (after the flooring had been sorted) were estimated to take 10  12 
weeks. With only ten weeks  left on the rental  agreement for Mr and Mrs Gs alternative 
accommodation the costs were still being disputed and no start date had been  agreed 
(because of the disputed costs). AXA said it would  keep  reviewing  the situation and consider 
paying for further accommodation costs if necessary. This uncertainty caused  Mr and Mrs G 
a lot of worry. Given the period  for works  and the time remaining on the rental agreement it 
wouldve been reasonable,  I think,  for AXA to have responded more proactively at that point.
In August 2018 Mr and Mrs G received a court summons from one of AXAs previous 
contractors. AXA hadnt paid a bill it had submitted so it took action against Mr and Mrs G 
instead. It seems the contractors bill wasnt  paid due to a delay  or breakdown  in 
communications between  the loss adjuster and AXA.  I fully understand how upsetting  it was 
for Mr and Mrs G to receive this, even more so after everything else theyd been though.
Mr and Mrs G have  also had concerns  about  most of the work their contractor did. On this 
occasion, I think  its fair to hold AXA responsible for that work. It should  never  have left them  
in the positon of having to be in charge of work.  That in itself has been stressful for them.  
Theyve also then been  caught between the contractor and AXA in respect of disputes over 
payment of certain aspects. I also accept that its been upsetting for them to find problems 
with the work.
Ref: DRN06211423As mentioned above, AXA doesnt agree it left them in that position, that, in fact, it made  a 
reasonable offer to have  another of its contractors complete the work. I understand AXAs 
point in this respect.  And in many  cases where an offer to complete work  has been made by 
an insurer but declined  by the policyholder, Id accept that the payment of cash ends  the 
matter and the policyholder would be liable for the work their contractor completes. But each 
case is considered  on its own merits and I think that to conclude that here would create a 
wholly unfair outcome.
I say that even knowing that AXA did warn  Mr and Mrs G that it may not pay all of the costs 
submitted by their contractor and that theyd  be responsible for the work completed. 
However, that warning  wasnt particularly  prominent, set as it was within an email dealing  
with many other issues of concern. And it also wasnt given at the time the option of how to 
resolve the claim was put forwards. The warning came several months after that offer and a 
couple of months  after Mr and Mrs G had submitted their contractors quote to AXA (with  a 
reasonable expectation it would be paid).
I remain of the view, that, in the circumstances  of this complaint,  the poor work and failings of 
AXAs initial  contractor were so significant that I accept  that Mr and Mrs G reasonably lost all 
faith in AXAs ability to carry out effective  work.  And as Ive said,  I dont think AXA did 
enough to acknowledge,  avert or resolve their concerns in this respect. Im satisfied that AXA 
can fairly and reasonably  be said to be responsible for all the poor work  that has been 
completed at Mr and Mrs Gs home.
However, theyve also had concerns for a long time over the re-work that was done  to the 
floor screed and sub-floor  by AXA. AXA says its reassured  them  on this but I havent seen it 
provided with them  with the details  theyve asked for, such  as what work was done.  It seems 
a latex layer may have  been applied to the sub-floor before it was dry. It also isnt clear   not 
least because not all of the sub-floor was taken up, parts were left in place under the 
supporting walls  if a suitable damp proof membrane was properly applied. Mr and Mrs G 
report the floor is bumpy and out of level. The photos theyve provided  do seem to suggest 
this is the case.  If AXA has provided the answers  to them theyve asked for it should  show 
me. If it hasnt, and I cant understand why it wouldnt have, it should do that now.
Having looked  at everything, Im satisfied that an award at the top end of our severe 
compensation category is fairly and reasonably due. I intend to make  a total award of £5,000. 
As AXA has already  paid £1,900 it will now only have to pay an additional  £3,100. This is for 
distress and inconvenience only. It isnt made in respect of any financial losses reported by 
Mr and Mrs G. Ive dealt  with those separately  below,  along with setting out what  I intend to 
make AXA do in respect of outstanding  work.
AXA felt this was excessive and unfair. It said it didnt  think the upset caused here was akin 
to that detailed in our guidelines for awards of this level. 
I understand AXAs concern but I am satisfied that here, even having taken into account  
AXAs responses in reply to my provisional findings as dealt  with above, an award  of this 
level is fairly and reasonably due. The guidelines are just that; there are no hard and fast 
rules which prevent me from making an award for the upset caused in the circumstances 
here at this level. It is an unusually high award  but Im satisfied that it reasonably  reflects the 
distress and inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs G by AXAs  failings in this instance.  
outstanding work
Ref: DRN06211424It isnt clear to me what remains to be resolved at the property, not least  because  I know  
Mr G has been  doing work to try and complete a satisfactory reinstatement. But I do know 
that Mr and Mrs G were unhappy  with the finish of the work as they found it in 
September 2018. I dont think they should  have been left in the position  of managing  the 
work and I think on this occasion its only fair that AXA takes on further  liability for 
satisfactorily reinstating their home. In order to determine what needs doing though I think a 
surveyor will need to be appointed to assess the standard of the work completed  and to 
decide what needs doing to resolve any issues found. AXA should provide a list of three  
experts to Mr and Mrs G for them to choose one from. Both sides  will be bound by what the 
surveyor finds. AXA will need to arrange with Mr and Mrs G to carry out the remaining work 
at their home as found necessary by the surveyor.
AXA said,  in addition to the points it had already  made about having offered to complete  
repairs (which Ive answered above), the appointment of a surveyor would be a step 
backwards as a scope  of work  was produced by Mr and Mrs Gs contractor in 
December 2018  which isnt in dispute.  AXA says the problem is it doesnt  feel it should have 
to pay for that work given  the cash settlement it previously made. In its view appointing a 
surveyor wont resolve that.
Mr and Mrs G said they welcomed  this finding but asked  that I provide a timescale  for this to 
be done. They also wanted to emphasise  that its still not known how the floor was reinstated 
and the surveyor  will need to know this to properly  assess matters.  They  said the boxing  in 
around pipework might  be causing knocking  noises with the heating  system, as well as 
mentioning a few other areas  of concern.
Mr and Mrs G have confirmed that there  was no further scope completed in December 2018.  
AXA hasnt presented the scope its referred  to to me so Im unsure  to exactly  what 
document it is that AXA is referring.  Im also unaware of its content.  However,  Im not 
convinced that it would  be reasonable to rely on any scope from that contractor, at this stage, 
not when Mr and Mrs G are so dissatisfied  with the work that it completed.  Im satisfied that 
what is needed here is the involvement of an independent surveyor that hasnt been 
previously involved in this complaint and who would have no vested interest in the findings 
that are made. The surveyor, as part of the wider  work of assessing what is needed  now to 
put the property  back  into its pre-loss state,  will need to be given  access to and, if necessary 
make enquiries to establish what work  was done  to the floor and/or carry out any tests  
necessary to establish what now needs doing  to the floor. That way both sides can rely on 
those findings  as presenting a reasonable picture of what is needed, along with any other 
work identified as necessary, to put the home back to its pre-loss state, a clear reinstatement 
programme can be arranged and completed, and the parties can, finally, move  on. 
utility bills (including water)
I understand Mr and Mrs G are awaiting some final bills before asking AXA to review what 
costs it will reimburse  to them. I wont comment on this aspect further.
AXA confirmed it will consider any evidence  Mr and Mrs G provide in this respect.
plumbers invoice
AXAs second flooring contractor was meant  to connect pipework but didnt. Mr and Mrs G 
paid for this to be done but AXA said it wouldnt reimburse the cost (£1,194).  AXA said most  
of the work  set out in this invoice was covered by the cash settlement it made previously as 
Ref: DRN06211425the quote related to that payment referred  to second fix plumbing. But it also seems  that 
AXA wasnt entirely sure that duplication had occurred.  From  Mr and Mrs Gs point  of view 
the main contractor was saying this was work it couldnt do and hadnt quoted for and to 
move the reinstatement  on Mr and Mrs G had to get the work done. If AXA hadnt left them in 
the position of managing  this complicated  claim then there wouldnt be any issue over 
whether costs or work had been duplicated. I cant see any good reason why Mr and Mrs G 
should be left out of pocket as a result  of this. I think AXA should  reimburse  this sum and, as 
the invoice was dated 24 April 2018, AXA will have to add interest* to the reinstatement  
figure from this date and until settlement is made.
AXA said its cash settlement was based  on Mr and Mrs Gs contractors estimate that 
included an allowance for plumbing, so it wasnt open to Mr and Mrs G to now ask for further 
payment. Notwithstanding  that AXA said it had offered £534 towards this cost as a goodwill 
gesture.
I think there was limited detail in the contractors scope that AXA based its settlement on. 
I note it doesnt  specifically refer to carrying out second fix plumbing. And there is nothing 
specific I can see that is detailed in that scope  that is duplicated within the plumbers invoice. 
Theres certainly nothing  that would make  me think Mr and Mrs G should  reasonably  have 
thought this work had already been  allowed for within the settlement theyd received. I note 
they did ask AXA but AXAs responses  werent  in my view, specific enough to show 
duplication had occurred. And Im still mindful that Mr and Mrs G had to act to get this work 
done in order  to progress other work.  On balance Im satisfied that AXA should pay this sum 
in full. If its already  paid the £534  previously offered it can deduct this amount from the 
invoice sum of £1,194 and pay the remainder.  AXA has been  aware  of this cost from the 
point of the invoice so Im satisfied it should also pay interest on the invoice amount. If the 
£534 has been paid itll have to add interest to the whole amount from the invoice  date of 
24 April 2018 until the payment of £534 was made. And then on the remaining sum from that 
date until settlement is made.
asbestos
Mr and Mrs Gs cost for this was £3,830.40.  AXA says it thinks this is an inflated  cost and it 
had always told Mr and Mrs G it had doubts about the price. Whilst that may be, the work had 
to progress. And if AXA had wanted to be in control of what the work would cost it should  
have worked harder to find a suitable contractor  of its own to complete the work.  AXA has 
paid £1,500 towards this sum.  It now needs to pay the remaining £2,330.40,  plus interest* 
from the date they paid for the work. It simply isnt fair that theyre  left with the shortfall.
AXA said its position on this remained  as before  that the costs, if they solely  related to 
insured work were overstated but it was possible they included removal of asbestos  not 
related to the claim. Therefore, it felt its offer to pay £1,500 was fair and reasonable. AXA  
also said though  that the point it had made regarding Mr and Mrs G having accepted a cash  
settlement and it reasonably not having  to pay anything more, applied  to this allegation of 
loss as well.
Ive acknowledged  above that AXA did offer its own contractor to complete the work. But Ive 
also explained why in this case, it isnt fair for AXA to relinquish all liability for everything that 
followed. I remain of that view as it relates to this section too. Whilst I know  AXA reported  
receiving comments from the contractor that led it to believe the costs  included work it wasnt  
liable for, I accept Mr and Mrs G had to move  on with the repairs  and had to pay the costs  
Ref: DRN06211426demanded by their contractor. In the circumstances I dont  think  its fair for them to be left out 
of pocket. 
Im also persuaded  that there is no duplication of costs between what  Mr and Mrs G are 
asking for now and what was scoped  for originally.  The sum of £3,830.40 Mr and Mrs G say 
is for the cost of removing asbestos and reinstating the affected area. Mr and Mrs G have 
confirmed that the only area where  asbestos  was removed was the hallway, including  its 
cupboards. Theyve  also explained that the cost of reinstating this area wasnt  included in the 
original scope for works because the asbestos  hadnt been found at that time.  AXA seems to 
accept that the hallway  needed reinstating  due to the leak and that meant the asbestos 
therein needed  dealing  with. I see the scope was created before the asbestos was found. 
And I also note there is nothing in the scope  that makes me think  reinstating the hallway, as 
would be required following asbestos removal work, had already been  planned and therefore  
allowed for within the costs. 
Whilst AXA has paid what it thinks is a reasonable sum for this work (£1,500),  that isnt what  
Mr and Mrs G have asked for as fair settlement of costs theyve been  charged. But I havent 
seen proof  of the charge  for reinstatement  work.  Therefore, all I can make  AXA pay at this 
time is the £892  that remains outstanding from the invoiced  removal cost of £2,392  following 
AXAs payment  of £1,500. If Mr and Mrs G show that they paid money  in addition to this 
(£2,932) for the related  reinstatement work, AXA will have to reimburse  those payments up 
to a total value  for removal and reinstatement  of £3,830.40. Im going to require  AXA to add 
interest on to the figure of £892 from the 2 May 2018 until settlement is made,  and on the 
sum of £1,500  from 2 May 2018 until this sum was paid in October  2018.  AXA was sent the 
removal invoice in May 2018  but refused to pay any of it until the October, so the application 
of interest makes up for Mr and Mrs G being  without those funds. But as the costs for 
reinstatement work  havent been  evidenced yet, I wont require AXA to add any further 
interest to any reimbursement made  in this respect and Mr and Mrs G will have  to submit 
proof of payment  for this work to it for it to release  the funds.    
plastering and decorating
Similar to the asbestos  AXA felt the costs for this in the estimate  were  too much and/or 
werent fully validated by the contractor. Whilst AXA did revise its initial settlement upwards 
there was still ultimately a shortfall between what it was prepared  to pay, £35,000, and what  
Mr and Mrs G had to pay, £36,430.82 (including  VAT).  This work/cost  seems to be the sole 
remaining reason  for the difference.  In line with my reasoning above regarding  the asbestos, 
AXA must  now pay the remainder, £1,430.82,  plus interest* from the date Mr and Mrs G paid 
for the work until settlement is made.
AXA said its assessment  of costs was reasonably  carried out by its expert. Whilst I dont 
doubt what AXA says in this respect, I was aware of the assessment when I made my 
provisional decision. AXAs highlighting of it in response doesnt change  my mind.  I remain of 
the view that the shortfall should  be paid.
delayed payment
Mr and Mrs G submitted an invoice to AXA on 17 July 2018 for £409.48. AXA did pay this but 
not until October 2018. There  seems to be no good  reason for this delay. I think  it should now 
pay interest on the sum from 17 July 2018 until it was paid in October 2018.
AXA said it accepted  my findings in this respect. Ill make  an award accordingly.
Ref: DRN06211427internal doors
Mr and Mrs G told us that AXA had agreed  to these being replaced (and this seems to be 
agreed by AXAs loss adjuster); all that was necessary  was for them to show their costs in 
this respect. Theyve shown me an invoice for materials totalling £1,343.08  (including VAT) 
and fitting totalling £1,328 (no VAT applied). Im minded to say AXA should  reimburse  these 
costs with interest*  from the date of the invoices which are 6 August 2018  and 
December 2018  respectively. As the invoice for fitting is only partially dated Ill say AXA has 
to apply  interest* from 31 December 2018  unless Mr and Mrs G can show  me they paid the 
invoice before this time.
AXA said it accepts it should reimburse the invoice but feels  the application  of interest  is 
unfair because the invoices  were  only provided to it in February  this year.  
Ive reviewed the details  about this aspect and note that in September 2018 AXA did ask to 
see quotes for replacing the doors. At that time Mr and Mrs G said they only had the one for 
the doors themselves and were waiting for the installation quote before sending  both 
together. Mr and Mrs G have then told us that they didnt  send  on the quotes until 
February 2019 because there was just so much going on with the claim.  I appreciate  its 
been difficult for Mr and Mrs G to keep on top of everything but I cant  fairly  fault AXA for their 
remaining out of pocket in respect of certain costs when they hadnt submitted  their proof of 
those costs for AXAs consideration. Not when  AXA had specifically asked  to see that 
(meaning this wasnt a case of something  it was refusing to pay). Overall Im not convinced 
that Mr and Mrs G having  been  left out of pocket  in this respect was due to a failure of AXAs, 
so Im only going to require it to pay interest on the total of both of these sums (£2,671.08) 
from 10 February 2019 when it received proof of them.   
carpets
Mr and Mrs G have  said two bedroom carpets  have had to be replaced. They were in storage 
while work was done  and the carpet fitter said theyd been stored too long to successfully 
re-lay them.  However,  they havent  been able to provide proof of their outlay in this respect. 
Whilst Im satisfied  by what Mr and Mrs G have said and I think that in theory AXA should  
reimburse any associated  loss, I cant reasonably require AXA to make a payment where 
Mr and Mrs G have  no proof of their outlay.
Mr and Mrs G said they accepted my comments in this respect. As did AXA. Therefore, my 
provisional findings stand as my final findings.
 
kitchen/bathroom
Mr and Mrs G have  said that lots of things were missing when it came time for these  rooms  
to be re-fitted and theyve  had to pay for a lot of stuff. AXA says it thinks  its likely  things  are 
missing as they were  never purchased because they were  to be installed as part of a private  
arrangement Mr and Mrs G had with the contractor and were  never  paid for (and so not 
ordered).
I havent seen any evidence from AXA to support this position and I think  its unlikely. When a 
contractor orders a kitchen it orders it altogether   regardless of whether some  parts  are 
being paid for by different persons. And a contractor wouldnt normally expect  payment  
Ref: DRN06211428upfront (not least  because they wouldnt pay their suppliers up front). For example the list of 
missing items for the kitchen includes a sink waste pipe. I think  these items  shouldve been 
provided by the original  contractor and Mr and Mrs G shouldnt have to bear the cost for 
doing this themselves.
Mr and Mrs G say the kitchen items total £1,072.93. This includes £731.97 for replacement  
worktops which werent missing from the order but rather the intention was to re-use  the old 
ones. However, the worktops, after their removal, were stored in the empty property for some 
months and when it came time for them to be fitted  they were found  to be warped. I havent 
seen any response  from AXA on this issue. Ive no reason to doubt  what Mr and Mrs G have 
said and I dont  think theyd likely put themselves to further expense unless that was 
necessary. Im minded to think  AXA should pay for these replacements.
Ive seen the invoices for the replacement worktops (£731.97 including VAT). Ive also seen 
the receipt for the replacement bathroom item at £66.00 including VAT dated  21 May 2018.
I havent seen the receipts for the replacement missing kitchen items (totalling £285.65, 
which is £342.78 inc VAT).  To require AXA to pay for missing kitchen items Ill need to see 
the receipts for replacement purchases. Im minded though to make  AXA pay Mr and Mrs G 
£797.97 being the cost for replacement worktops plus the bathroom  item. AXA will have to 
add interest to the sums that make up this total, from 31 August  2018  in respect of the 
worktop, and 21 May 2018 regarding the bathroom item, and both until settlement  is made.
AXA said its position remained  as previously stated (that the items had likely been required 
as part of a private  arrangement and hadnt been  paid for). But also that as Mr and Mrs G 
had accepted the cash settlement it wasnt fair to expect it to keep paying for other issues 
subsequently noticed. It again  objected to paying  interest.
The cash  settlement argument has been raised several times by AXA during the course  of its 
response to my provisional  findings. Im really quite surprised, particularly in the 
circumstances of this case,  that its felt it appropriate to take such  a hard and fast line. Its 
contractor caused  lots of serious problems at this property and its unfair for AXA to attempt 
to wash its hands  of this by saying you took the cash.  To me that is an unreasonable 
approach. Nothing  AXA has said has made me change my view on this.
Mr and Mrs G said they thought theyd sent the receipts for other missing kitchen items 
totalling £342.78 including VAT before but sent them  again. Having seen this proof of their 
outlay, Im satisfied that AXA should reimburse this total, plus interest on the three invoiced 
sums that make up this total (£199.28, £123.18 and £20.40)  from the dates they were paid 
(14 May 2018, 21 May 2018  and 24 May 2018  respectively). And as per my provisional 
findings, AXA will have to reimburse the worktop cost and the cost for the missing  bathroom 
item as well, plus interest from the date of the purchase receipts (detailed above).
Im requiring  interest to be paid on these  items  from these dates because it is clear that AXA 
would never  have agreed to cover their cost even if it had seen the evidence  of them earlier.  
Therefore, Mr and Mrs G being without these  funds is because  of AXA unreasonably  refusing 
to pay for them, not because of any failure  by them to provide the proof.
electrics and lights
Damage was caused to these through  lots of dust and damp during the period of works and 
whilst the property was empty.  AXA agreed to consider invoices for repair. Ive seen that. It 
totals £1,009.29 and includes confirmation of the damage found. Im satisfied this related to 
Ref: DRN06211429AXAs works and/or the incident and so this sum should be paid plus interest* from the date 
the work  was paid for (the invoice is undated). If the work hasnt yet been  done or paid for 
then I wont require  AXA to pay interest on the reinstatement sum.
AXA said it accepts it should reimburse the invoice but feels  the application  of interest  is 
unfair because the invoices  were  only provided to it in February  this year.  Mr and Mrs G 
confirmed that the work had been  done and paid for. But no date for either of these things 
was shown. 
I can see from the file that the point regarding electrical work was first raised in July 2018  
and in an exchange of emails in September 2018  AXA said it would consider the matter  once 
proof was provided  and Mr and Mrs G said they were still awaiting the report  and costs for 
repair. So the earliest Im going require AXA to pay interest from is 10 February 2019 which 
was the date the report, which also detailed repairs, was provided. 
But AXA will only have  to make a payment for interest if Mr and Mrs G show  it within  the 
deadline set for acceptance of this decision, what date they paid the electrician. If that 
payment pre-dates  10 February 2019, then AXA will have to add interest from 
10 February 2019 until settlement is made  and make a payment in that respect.  But if the 
payment post-dates 10 February  2019 then AXA will have to add interest only from the date 
it was paid until settlement is made and make a payment in that respect. 
skip hire
Mr and Mrs G paid £200 for a skip. Im satisfied AXA should reimburse this cost to them,  plus 
interest*. The receipt is dated 3 August 2018 so the interest* will have to be added  from this 
date until settlement is made.
AXA said it accepts it should reimburse the invoice but feels  the application  of interest  is 
unfair because the invoices  were  only provided to it in February  this year.
I see that AXA did ask for sight  of the skip invoice  in September last year.  So, as with the 
internal doors, Im not going to require AXA to add interest to the invoice amount from the 
invoice date. Rather Ill require it to pay this from 10 February 2019 when the invoice was 
forwarded to it.
blocked drains
Mr and Mrs G found their toilet was blocked.  They had this investigated. The sewage pipes 
were found  to be blocked with floor screed. The investigation and some  clearance  work cost 
Mr and Mrs G £222. Mr and Mrs G said further  investigation and necessary removal work is 
estimated to cost £270. Im satisfied  from what Ive seen that the blockage relates to AXAs 
work. AXA, in my view then needs to reimburse Mr and Mrs Gs initial outlay of £222, plus 
interest* from the date of invoice; 30 October 2018. I havent  seen an estimate for the 
remaining investigations and work.  If Mr and Mrs G want  to submit this Ill consider it.
Mr and Mrs G provided an estimate  totalling £225 for the further removal  work, it states the 
estimate is valid for three  months. It didnt  detail any further investigations. Im satisfied AXA 
should pay this sum.
AXA said it accepts it should reimburse Mr and Mrs G for the work done in October  2018  but 
feels the application of interest is unfair  because  the invoice was only provided to it in 
Ref: DRN062114210February this year.  Regarding the estimate  for work still to be done, it said it would reimburse  
this cost, as shown in the estimate, once  the work is done and a payment invoice is provided 
to it.
This item was first raised with this service towards the end of January 2019. Im satisfied that 
AXA should  reasonably pay interest* on the October 2018 invoice sum of £222  from 
10 February 2019 only, until settlement is made.  
I know Mr and Mrs G would like AXA to have to pay the contractor direct for this and any 
further work.  But making that arrangement wouldnt prevent the contractor from being  able to 
take action against them if payments were delayed because they are the ones in contract. So 
my awards are going  to remain that AXA should  reimburse Mr and Mrs Gs costs  incurred.
Regarding the estimate for work  to be done,  I note AXAs agreement to pay for this. I see 
though that the estimate was only valid for three months. Im not sure if the work  has yet 
been done  its possible Mr and Mrs G couldnt  do this without funds. Ill require AXA to 
make payment for the work detailed within the estimate, once that work  is done and a bill for 
it has been provided (to AXA). If that work  is done  within a month  of the date AXA makes 
payment to Mr and Mrs G following their acceptance  of my decision, if they do, it will have to 
pay the costs as billed at that time for the work  detailed in the previous estimate. If 
Mr and Mrs G dont get the work done within that timeframe,  but do have it done later and 
submit the invoice to AXA, it will only have to pay them  the originally estimated amount of 
£225. I think that fairly balances AXAs reasonable liability for putting  things  right against any 
prejudice it might face if Mr and Mrs G were to unreasonably delay getting the work done.
heating system
Mr and Mrs G have  said this needs overhauling according to their plumber, and the reason 
for this is likely the long period the property stood empty. Id like to see expert  evidence  in 
this respect before I make any finding  about this. If this cant be provided in response to my 
provisional decision I wont comment on it in my final decision and Mr and Mrs G will have  to 
put any evidence  they do obtain to AXA as a separate  matter.
Mr and Mrs G provided a report from their engineer and proof of costs so far, totalling 
£72.00. AXA was sent this on 29 March 2019.  Im going to require AXA to pay this, plus 
interest from the date AXA saw the evidence. 
The engineer said the system kept losing  pressure but hed found no cause  for this above 
ground and recommended investigations  into the underfloor pipework. This pipework was 
laid by AXAs contractors  so I felt it should  look into this further.  Having seen the report, 
which Id copied  to it, AXA attended the property. Mr G reportedly told AXAs  contractor that 
the problem had recently been found, and it wasnt on the pipework AXAs contractor had 
worked on. The contractor was still willing to test the pipes it had worked on but was unable  
to do so as works to other  parts of the system were on-going. 
Im unsure  why Mr and Mrs G didnt update AXAs contractor when arrangements  were made 
for them to visit. But I accept that a misunderstanding about the purpose of the visit may 
have occurred. As AXA is willing to test its pipework, if once Mr and Mrs Gs plumber 
completes his other work,  such a test is felt to be necessary (I know its felt that it likely will be 
but with work outstanding concluding  that it will be necessary  is a bit premature), 
Mr and Mrs G will have  to let AXA know and it can arrange that. 
Ref: DRN062114211I know Mr and Mrs G said initially (and still believe) that part of the reason for the problems 
they have with the heating  is the length of time the property was empty. But the report they 
provided didnt  make any findings in that respect. That means  Ive seen nothing persuasive 
that makes me think AXA is likely responsible for any problems Mr and Mrs G have with their 
heating system (because no leak has been  found on the pipework AXA worked  on and 
theres no expert evidence confirming  that problems likely stem from the house having been  
empty). So I cant reasonably require AXA to make  any payment regarding the work that has 
been done to date to remedy  the system. If evidence in this respect  becomes available and 
is sent to AXA, Id expect it to consider  it.
But there is a possibility that some problem might exist with the pipes AXAs contractor fixed  
and Im satisfied its offer to investigate this, once other work is completed, is fair and 
reasonable. Ill make an award in this respect. 
wardrobe
Mr and Mrs G asked  AXA to cover the cost of a replacement wardrobe. This was moved from 
their home to the alternative accommodation property  and then to the other properties they 
had to move  to during  the course of the claim. It became damaged  as a result and needed to 
be replaced. Mr and Mrs G first asked AXA about  this in April 2018.  When they chased a 
response on it in September 2018 they were told there was no record  of them  asking about 
this before. The wardrobe likely wasnt designed  to be moved so many  times. It wouldnt 
need to have  been if AXA had handled  the claim better. If Mr and Mrs G can show me proof 
of the cost of the replacement wardrobe then Ill likely require AXA to reimburse it, plus 
interest* from the date it was paid for until settlement is made.
AXA said it would agree to reimburse this cost, but not interest, if proof of replacement was 
provided. Mr and Mrs G said they accepted my findings and are unfortunately  unable  to show 
their outlay. Therefore,  I wont require  AXA to make any payment  in this respect.
increased mileage and wear and tear on vehicle
Mr and Mrs G were  living somewhere other than their home  for much longer than they should 
have been. They had to borrow  Mrs Gs parents car as a result because  Mrs G often walked 
or used  public transport  but couldnt from the alternative accommodation properties. Mr G 
had to travel  further as well. AXA has now accepted that Mr and Mrs G have had a financial 
loss in this respect  that was only caused  due to its delays and poor claim handling.
AXA has offered  to pay for the additional mileage claimed for by Mr and Mrs G. Its said that 
to this figure it will apply the HMRC  rate of 45p a mile and pay them £2,031.46 to reimburse  
their loss. But its said it wont make an additional payment for wear and tear as this is taken 
into account by the HMRC rate of 45p per mile.
I know  Mr and Mrs G want  to compensate their family for the use of their car. But that being 
the case I think  theyll need to do so out of the additional mileage payment AXA has agreed 
to make. I say this because I accept that the rate it has used is specifically  set by HMRC to 
take into account not just additional  fuel costs but also wear and tear that occurs to personal 
vehicles used for work  purposes. Im satisfied that its reasonable for AXA to use this rate 
here and I havent seen  anything that makes  me think it should reasonably go beyond  that by 
making a further  and separate payment for wear and tear.
Ref: DRN062114212AXA said it was content with my decision in this respect. Mr and Mrs G made no comment.  
Therefore, my provisional  findings  stand as my final findings.
gardening costs
I initially thought that Mr and Mrs G were  asking for costs theyd paid out to have their garden 
maintained whilst they lived elsewhere.  I can now see that they did this maintenance 
themselves, along  with keeping up the gardens  at the properties they lived in. I cant  
therefore ask AXA to pay them for this at a gardeners rate but I think  they should be 
compensated for the time they put in.
The repairs  should  have  been done by the end of June 2017. Im not going to compensate 
Mr and Mrs G for work they did during  this period  as they would always, if the claim had run 
smoothly, have needed  to maintain two gardens during this time. I think they likely  did work 
they wouldnt otherwise have  had to, in maintaining  two gardens, from July 2017 until 
October 2017. And then again from March  2018  until they returned home in September.  
Thats 11 months  in total where efforts had to be made to keep two gardens maintained 
instead of one. I think that might fairly equate to around 20 days  worth of work in each 
garden  but Ill hear arguments  if either side think its likely less or more. Thats 40 days  in 
total but 20 that would have been  avoided if the claim  had run to time. Im prepared to say 
that £500  is a fair compensation sum for all that extra effort  and time.
Mr and Mrs G made no comment. AXA said if there  had been actual expenditure by 
Mr and Mrs G it would have reimbursed it. However,  it felt that a compensation award like 
this was unreasonable especially on top of (what  it viewed as) an excessive award  made in 
respect of compensation for general  distress and inconvenience. 
I am at liberty  to make an award in this respect and Ive responded to AXAs  views  on my 
general compensation award above. I remain satisfied  that the inconvenience and effort 
related to carrying out extra gardening  work  is a separate and distinct  experience  which fairly 
and reasonably requires its own compensation. Im still satisfied that £500  in this respect if 
fair and reasonable.
impact on work
I know  Mr and Mrs G have been through a lot but Im not minded  to make AXA pay anything 
in this respect. Mr and Mrs G have  said Mr G (who is self-employed) has had to turn down 
work and has lost jobs because of everything  that happened, the time he spent  on the claim 
and in doing some works himself. I havent seen any evidence  of this but even if there is any 
Im minded  to think that there was always a choice to be made  albeit  that none of the 
options were particularly good ones,  and Mr and Mrs G chose the option that meant  they lost 
income. I dont think its fair to make  AXA liable  for compensating  the losses  that resulted 
from that.
AXA said it accepted  my findings in this respect. Mr and Mrs G said that at times they really 
had no choice but for Mr G to do work  and attend meetings meaning he had to take time off 
work and this ultimately affected his employability. They prepared a timeline to show  how 
much time was taken  dealing with the claim and work AXAs contractors should have done 
but didnt.
Ref: DRN062114213Ive considered again Mr and Mrs Gs points in this respect, and whilst I fully understand how 
strongly they feel, I remain  of the view that it wouldnt be fair, in this respect, to make  AXA 
reimburse any losses.
my final decision
I uphold  this complaint. I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to make a number of payments as 
well as appoint a surveyor.
surveyor:
AXA Insurance UK Plc will need to provide  a list of three  surveyors to Mr and Mrs G for them 
to pick one for it to appoint. The surveyor will need  to assess  the standard  of work carried  out 
at their home as a result of the insured incident.  The surveyor will need  to report  on the 
standard of works and whether any re-works are required to restore the property to a state 
like that it was in before the incident.  Both sides will be bound by the surveyors findings and 
AXA will need  to arrange  to carry out any works the surveyor finds  necessary. AXA will not 
be able to use any contractors, including loss adjusting companies, previously involved in 
Mr and Mrs Gs claim.
payments:
AXA Insurance UK Plc will need to pay Mr and Mrs G;
£5,000 compensation for distress  and inconvenience;
£1,194 as reimbursement of plumbers costs, plus interest* from 24 April 2018  until 
settlement is made. But if £534 has already bene paid against  this sum then only the 
remaining amount  will now have to be paid. Further, interest* will have to be added to the 
whole amount only until the £534  was paid, and then on the remaining amount until 
settlement in made following  this decision.  
£892 as reimbursement of costs for asbestos removal,  £1,500  of the invoiced sum of 
£2,932 having  already been paid.  Interest* on the whole  invoice amount of £2,932  will 
have to be added from 2 May 2018  until 30 October 2018 when £1,500  was paid, and 
then on the sum of £892 from that date onward until settlement is made. And if payment is 
shown for reinstatement work,  reimburse this, taking into account  the £2,392 sum, up to a 
total value for removal and reinstatement  work of £3,830.40.
£1,430.82 as reimbursement for plastering  costs, plus interest* from the date of the last 
payment made to their main contractor and until settlement  is made.
An amount equivalent to interest* on the sum of £409.48 applied  from 17 July 2018 until 
the date payment  was made  in October  2018.
£2,671.08 as reimbursement of costs for purchasing  and installing internal  doors, plus 
interest* on this amount  from 10 February  2019 until settlement is made.
£797.97 as reimbursement of costs  for replacing  kitchen  worktops  and a missing 
bathroom item,  plus interest* on the sums  that make up this amount (£731.97  and 
£66.00), from 31 August 2018 and 21 May 2018,  and both until settlement is made.
Ref: DRN062114214£342.78 as reimbursement of costs for replacing  missing kitchen items, plus interest* on 
the invoiced  amounts  that make up this sum (£199.28, £123.18  and £20.40) from the date 
they were paid (14 May 2018, 21 May 2018 and 24 May 2018  respectively)  and until 
settlement is made.
£1,009.29, as reimbursement of the cost of electrical work. Interest* on this sum will only 
have to be added in line with my comments in this section  above.
£200.00 as reimbursement of the cost for hiring  a skip, plus interest* from 
10 February  2019 until settlement is made.
£222 as reimbursement of the cost of clearing the drains,  plus interest* from
10 February 2019 until settlement is made.
An amount to cover the cost of further drainage work, if they get this work done and in line 
with my comments  above. Please note the timeframe linked to this award .
£72 as reimbursement  of the cost for the plumbers report, plus interest* from 
29 March 2019  until settlement  is made.
£2,031.46 as compensation for increased  car usage and mileage.
£500.00 as compensation for extra time and effort spent tending a second garden, when 
otherwise, but for unreasonable delays, only one garden  would have needed caring for.
I also require AXA Insurance UK Plc to consider  any evidence  Mr and Mrs G provide to it 
regarding their utility  usage.
I further require  AXA Insurance UK Plc, if once Mr and Mrs G have  completed  work on the 
heating system and still want it to, to check the pipework at the property that its contractor  
worked on in 2018 to make sure it isnt causing  the system  to lose pressure. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 July 2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple  per year and paid on the amounts specified  and from/to  the dates stated. If AXA Insurance UK 
Plc considers  that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income  tax from any interest  due to Mr and Mrs G, it 
should tell them how much its taken off. It should also give Mr and Mrs G a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN0621142