K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains that the balances in his current and savings accounts  at Santander UK Plc 
are incorrect  and that the balances are less than they should be.
background
Mr N says a cheque for £82,735.39 was paid into his current account on 28 February 2017. 
He says this should have  gone into his savings account but was paid into his current  
account. Hes also unhappy  as he feels the balances in the two accounts are incorrect and 
that money seems to have gone  missing  from his accounts.
Santander says the money  was paid into Mr Ns current account and then, on 18 March, 
following a call from Mr N £30,000 was transferred from there into Mr Ns savings account. 
At the same time Mr Ns current account was upgraded to a 123 account to get a better  rate 
of interest.  It doesnt agree theres been  any errors or that anything else needs to be done.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said shed seen the statements for Mr Ns 
accounts and listened to the call of the 18 March.  Having  done so she couldnt see anything  
to show Santander  had made  a mistake with the transfer or the accounts. Although the 
balances were low this reflected the various payments in and out and she couldnt  see any 
evidence that funds had gone missing or that there was any fraudulent activity on Mr Ns 
accounts.
Mr N disagreed and said,  in summary, that hed asked in branch for the transfer to be made  
to his current account so he disagreed with the banks record  of what had happened  as well 
as what was shown  in the statements. He didnt agree that his 23 account  had been  opened  
in November 2016 as Santander  had said or that his everyday current account had been 
upgraded to a 123 account in March 2018 as when hed opened his 123 account, hed asked 
for his previous  account to remain open. He asked for his complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I dont consider 
Santander has made a mistake as Ill now explain.
I know Mr N disagrees  with some of the information  put forward by Santander so I should 
explain that where theres no information on any particular point, or the information available 
is disputed. Ill make my decision on the balance of probabilities,  in other word whats more  
likely than not to have happened.
Ive reviewed the statements for Mr Ns current and savings accounts since  February 2017. 
Ive also listened  to Mr Ns call to Santander  on 18 March in which he asked for £30,000 to 
be moved to his savings  account. Having done  so Im satisfied that £82,735.39 was paid into 
Mr Ns everyday current account on 28 February and that £30,000 was then moved to his 
everyday savings account on 18 March.
Ref: DRN06351362In the same  call Ive heard Mr N agreed to upgrade  his everyday current account to a 123 
account to get the benefit of the higher rate of interest. I know  Mr N says this wasnt what he 
wanted but having listened to the call, that is what  was agreed so I cant agree Santanders 
made a mistake.  And because it was upgraded the accounts need to be looked at together  
when considering the payments in and out.
Ive seen Mr N disputes some of the information provided by Santander but having viewed 
the statements  I cant see anything  to show that the statements arent  correct.  On that basis 
Im satisfied that the original payment was made into the correct  account and that the later 
transfer was done in line with Mr Ns instructions.
Ive seen that Mr N feels  the balances on the accounts are less than they should be. Having 
reviewed the statements  its clear that between 14 August 2017 and 18 September  2018 
there were a significant number of payments out of Mr Ns savings account to various 
individuals. Its also clear  that thereve been  some  significant payments out of Mr Ns current  
account which have  reduced the balance despite  his monthly  pension.  If Mr N feels the 
payments arent correct  then hed need to pursue this with Santander. However at the 
present time he hasnt  challenged  these and Ive seen  nothing to show they havent been 
properly made so I cant say Santander  has made  a mistake.
I realise this isnt the decision Mr N was hoping for but for the reasons  set out above I dont 
consider Santander  has made a mistake and, on that basis, I wont be asking it to do 
anything more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ns complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2019.
Cerys Jones
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0635136