K821x#15complaint
Mrs S complained that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC mis-sold her a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy with a credit card she bought via a postal application  in 2002. 
background
Barclays didnt think it had mis-sold Mrs S the PPI policy. But it agreed to pay her back some 
money in relation to the commission it received from the sale. 
Our adjudicator said Mrs Ss mis-sale  complaint should also be upheld. But Barclays didnt 
agree with this and the complaint has been  passed  to me for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ss complaint about being  mis-sold the PPI. 
Mrs S said when she applied for her new credit card she wasnt aware shed  also agreed to 
having any PPI. Barclays sent us a copy of Mrs Ss original application  form and having  
looked at how this was set out, I think she probably ought to have been aware she had a 
choice because I can see she ticked a box to say she wanted  this type of cover. But these 
events were a long time ago and its possible Mrs S may have forgotten  about this. 
However, the application form Mrs S filled out was very short  and only required her to tick a 
box. It didnt ask Mrs S specifically about her health  or provide her with detailed enough 
information about why this might  be important. In short, I dont think the rules about  the 
policy exclusions were clearly enough explained to Mrs S when she was making her way 
through the application form and deciding what to do. 
The rules  about  whether  certain medical  conditions would be claimable under the policy said 
we will not pay you disability benefits for any claim that is the result of..any conditions  you 
knew about before the start date or for which you got advice, treatment or counselling for 
from any doctor in the 12 months immediately before the start date. 
I dont think the way the form was laid out would have enabled  Mrs S to easily  find out about  
these exclusions.  We now know Mrs S did actually suffer from a life-long medical condition. 
And I think any reasonable  person  would  view the condition she had as being one that is 
both medically significant  and likely to cause  other  medical problems.  Barclays said that 
shed apparently never taken any time off work  because of this condition   but Im afraid  that 
isnt the point. If Barclays had pointed out and explained the policy  exclusions  at the time, I 
dont think Mrs S would  have wanted  the policy. 
I think she would have  been very concerned  that a significant medical condition shed been  
living with wasnt ever going to be covered by the PPI or that any condition arising from it 
would be excluded. I think shed  have therefore  considered the PPI as poor value for money.
Ref: DRN07922382In the circumstances, I think this would have  caused Mrs S to act differently. She wouldnt 
have wanted the policy. Barclays had a duty to provide  clear  information so as to allow her to 
make an informed choice.  It didnt do this so Im upholding her complaint.
fair compensation
Barclays should put Mrs S in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled if it hasnt been cancelled already and:
A. Barclays should find out how much  Mrs S would owe on her credit card if the policy  
hadnt been added to it. It should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any 
interest charged on those premiums.  It should also remove any charges  that were  
caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  as well as any interest  added  to those charges.
Barclays should then refund the difference between  what  Mrs S owes  and what she 
would have owed. If Mrs S made a successful claim  under  the PPI policy,  Barclays  can 
take off what she got for the claim  from the amount it owes  her.
B. If when  Barclays works  out what Mrs S would  have  owed each  month without PPI  
Mrs S paid more  than enough  to clear her balance, Barclays  should also pay simple 
interest on the extra Mrs S paid.  And it should carry on paying interest until the point 
when Mrs S wouldve owed  Barclays something  on her credit  card.  The interest  rate 
should be 8% a year.
C. Barclays should tell Mrs S what its done to work out A and B and it can take off the 
commission element  it has already paid her.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  Barclays  to take off tax from this interest. Barclays must give Mrs S a 
certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold Mrs Ss mis-sale complaint against  Barclays Bank UK PLC and require it to pay the 
compensation set out above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 February  2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0792238