K820x#14complaint
Mrs C says she should never have been  allowed to open a Contracts  for Differences (CFD) 
trading account  with Plus500UK Ltd. 
background
In December 2017 Mrs C opened an account  with Plus500. As part of the account  opening  
process, she completed an application form with questions  designed  to establish whether 
CFD trading  was appropriate for her. 
Mrs C confirmed:
She had experience of trading shares,  bonds  and commodities. 
She had experience in trading over the counter  derivatives. 
She had relevant professional experience having previously worked in a relevant  
financial institution. 
She also correctly answered three questions designed to test her knowledge of these 
types of products. 
As a result of these answers, Plus500 concluded the account was appropriate for her. 
In her application Mrs C also confirmed her annual income was between  £30,000 and 
£75,000 and she had savings and investments of between £20,000  and £50,000. 
As part of the application  process,  Mrs C agreed to the terms and conditions  of the account 
and a risk disclosure notice. This confirmed, among other things, that trading CFDs was high 
risk, that there was a risk she could  lose all of the money she put in the account and that she 
should ensure  she fully understood the risks involved with CFDs. 
Before opening  the account,  a warning was displayed which  said:
Following our assessment, we do not consider that your intended use of our product is 
appropriate for our target Market criteria,  as defined in our User Agreement.  We believe that 
CFDs are incompatible with persons who seek  long term investment and/or require capital 
protection. If after further consideration,  you still wish to open a CFD account, you must be 
aware that CFDs should not be traded for some of the reasons  you initially  specified. 
Between December  2017 and August 2018, Mrs C traded in excess of 800 times  
predominantly opening positions in oil and natural gas. Although most of her trades  were  
profitable, a few trades suffered significant losses. 
In November 2018, Mrs C complained  to Plus500. She complained that:
She was allowed to open an account  even though she had absolutely  no experience 
or knowledge in trading. 
She failed  suitability, but Plus500  didnt intervene and the account was still opened. 
It wasnt made clear to her that this was high risk trading. 
She was given a bonus to incentivise her to open the account and this had 
persuaded her to do so. 
She lost significant  amounts of money  early on, but Plus500  did nothing to intervene 
or question the suitability of the account  for her. 
Ref: DRN00473762Plus500 advertised further bonus  incentives  so that the more money Mrs C traded, 
the higher the bonuses she would receive. 
She had lost over £57,000 over the course of 11 months and no concerns were 
flagged. 
Mrs C said that she was a wife and mother and at the time of opening the account she was 
working part time. She said that she wanted to try and top up her earnings, but as a result  of 
trading CFDs, she had now lost all her savings. She acknowledged  that she made her own 
decisions trading,  but complained that Plus500  had a duty of care to protect consumers and 
families against such  devastating loss. She said that she was completely inexperienced 
and totally unaware  of the high-risk  nature of trading. She said that Plus500 shouldve put in 
place appropriates  screening and she shouldnt  have  been allowed to open  the account.  She 
also complained  that when  she lost a significant  amount  of money  early  on, instead  of 
intervening or suspending the account, Plus500 offered her more bonuses in order  to 
incentivise her to trade. Mrs C asked to be put back in the position she wouldve been in 
before negligence and mis-selling occurred. 
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint,  but didnt consider it should be upheld. In 
short, the investigator concluded  that Plus500  had followed the rules in COBS 10.2 and 
assessed the appropriateness  of the account  for her. The investigator didnt think Plus500 
had done anything wrong, nor that it had an obligation  to monitor her account or stop her 
from trading. 
Mrs C didnt agree. In short, she said that she had provided a wealth of evidence to support 
her complaint that she had been mistreated.  She said that risk warnings were  not clear,  the 
questionnaire that she had to complete to open  the account wasnt clear, and her exposure  
was dangerously high for a consumer,  like her, who didnt understand. She said she was 
provided incentives to open the account and without those incentives, she wouldnt have  
gone ahead. She was also consistently encouraged to trade more regularly and with ever 
larger amounts of money due to the bonus structure.  Mrs C provided  a consultation paper in 
support of her complaint  from the Financial Conduct  Authority  (FCA)  about Restricting 
contract for difference  products sold to retail  clients and a discussion of other  retail  derivative 
products. This was published in December  2018. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I know  this will come  as a considerable 
disappointment to Mrs C  but I agree  with the investigators conclusions, and for essentially 
the same  reasons. 
I think its worth pointing  out to Mrs C that Plus500 didnt have an obligation to establish  
suitability. It wasnt providing  advice to her about  what to do with her money   it was offering 
a platform on which she could trade certain  products. What Plus500 needed to do, before 
allowing her to open an account and begin trading, is establish whether the account was 
appropriate. The investigator has already summarised the rule so I wont  replicate that here.  
But in essence, Plus500 needed to ensure that Mrs C had the necessary experience and 
knowledge in order to understand the risks involved in relation to the product or service  
offered or demanded. 
Ref: DRN00473763Ive seen the account opening form and the answers  Mrs C gave. On the basis of those 
answers, Plus500 determined that the account was appropriate for her. Having looked at the 
answers Mrs C gave,  Im satisfied it was reasonable for Plus500  to come to that conclusion.  
I appreciate Mrs C says she guessed the answers  but I dont think  theres any way 
Plus500 couldve known  that. And I also dont consider it would be fair and reasonable to 
blame Plus500 for relying on the answers Mrs C gave, when by her own admission,  she 
deliberately guessed the answers to those  questions. This is a decision Mrs C made   and I 
consider that means she ought  to accept the consequences of that decision, namely that she 
was allowed to open an account in a very high risk area of trading. 
Mrs C has also said that the warnings werent clear, but I dont agree with the comments  she 
has made about this. 
I think the warning provided  to her about  her intended use for the funds (long  term growth) 
clearly explains that this isnt what she should be using  the account  for. I dont consider its 
ambiguous at all. 
Im also satisfied that the Risk Disclosure  Notice which  was provided to her is clear about the 
risks of CFD trading. This also warned her about  using CFDs for long term growth. But it 
specifically warns Mrs C that it is important that you fully understand the risks involved 
before deciding to enter into a trading relationship with Plus500. It warned her that the 
nature of margin trading means that both profits and losses  can be magnified  and you could 
incur very large losses if your position  moves  against you.  The notice warns Mrs C that 
adverse market movements [can] result in the loss of the entire balance of your Trading 
Account. And it provides  several other  warnings,  such as around monitoring positions  and 
using Plus500s  risk management  tools.  None of these  warnings  are ambiguous.
So overall, Im satisfied that Plus500 warned Mrs C about CFD trading and was clear about  
the risks that this involved. 
Ive considered Mrs Cs other  comments around the areas  she considers Plus500 failed her, 
but Im afraid here too I dont consider it has done  anything wrong. I acknowledge  Mrs C 
placed three very large  trades between the end of December 2017 and January 2018 which,  
together, caused  her losses of over £66,000. But given what  Ive said above, I dont consider 
theres anything here that ought to have prompted  Plus500 to take any action on her 
account. These were  trading losses caused by Mrs Cs decision to open large trades  on 
Natural Gas and the market moving against her positions. 
And following these  trades, Mrs C went on to trade over 800 times between  January and 
August 2018,  frequently making profitable  trades.  
Im not persuaded this type of trading activity demonstrates that Mrs C had no idea what  
she was doing,  or was unaware or unable to understand the risks.  In any event, as Ive said 
above, it wasnt for Plus500 to monitor Mrs Cs account. It was for Mrs C to manage  the risk 
 and if she no longer  wanted to trade, she couldve closed her account  and withdrawn  her 
remaining funds at any time. 
Finally, I can see Mrs C has provided  the FCAs consultation paper. But this was from 
December 2018   long after she had opened her account with Plus500.  
Ref: DRN00473764I do have sympathy for Mrs Cs situation, and I can understand how distressing it was for her 
to lose such significant  sums while trading CFDs. However, for the reasons Ive explained, 
Im satisfied Plus500 correctly assessed  whether the account  was appropriate for her, and 
reasonably concluded that it was based on the answers she gave. Im satisfied the warnings  
it gave, both in its Risk Disclosure Notice, and its warning about her intended  use of the 
funds, were fair, clear  and not misleading.  And Im satisfied that theres  nothing  in Mrs Cs 
pattern of trading which ought  to have prompted Plus500 to take action on her account. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 September 2019
Alessandro Pulzone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0047376