K820x#14complaint
Mrs R complains that Home Retail Group  Card  Services  Limited  (trading as Argos Financial 
Services) has unfairly recorded negative  information  on her credit  file.
Mrs R wants Argos to remove the negative  information.
background
Mrs R complained to Argos in January 2019 after a late payment entry was recorded  on her 
credit file. Mrs R said that she hadnt  received her monthly  statement  so hadnt realised that 
a payment was due.
Argos says that it had no record of any statements being returned as undelivered. Argos 
also referenced a call that Mrs R had on 20 December  2018 where it told her that a further  
payment was due by 14 January 2019.
The investigator didnt  recommend that Mrs Rs complaint be upheld. The investigator was 
satisfied that Argos  sent Mrs R credit card statements and that even if Mrs R hadnt  received 
a statement  for a particular month  she was still obliged to make her repayments  on time. 
She explained that lenders have  a duty to record accurate information  about their customers 
credit history.
Mrs R is unhappy with the investigators recommendation. Mrs R she doesnt think that the 
negative entries are a true reflection of how she has been managing  her Argos credit card 
account for a number  of years. Mrs R says that when first made contact with this service,  the 
person she spoke with agreed with her.
Mrs R also says that she was suffering from anxiety that contributed  to her missing the 
payments.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
recommendation made by the investigator.
I cant be sure who Mrs R spoke with when she first contacted this service but Im satisfied 
that the investigator has taken account  of the various points that Mrs R has made.
I cant reasonably find that Argos made a mistake which then caused Mrs R to miss the 
minimum repayment that she was due to make in line with the terms of her account. This 
means that I dont consider it was unfair of Argos to report the missed payment to the credit  
reference agencies.
Although Mrs R says she has not previously  been  late with any of her payments and had a 
good credit  history,  I dont think this means  that I must  now require Argos to amend her 
credit file. 
Im very sorry to hear about  the personal  difficulties  that Mrs R has been facing but again, I 
dont consider this means that Argos should  remove the negative information  from her credit 
file. Im sorry that my decision is likely to disappoint Mrs R.
Ref: DRN04153382my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 April 2020.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0415338