K821x#15complaint
Mr As complaint against American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) (Amex) is that 
it wont refund him for a disputed transaction he didnt  make.  
background
Mr A held a credit card account with Amex.  On 22 July 2017 the sum of £3,240  was taken  
from it via a payment.  Mr A didnt realise this had happened until 2019,  when  he was doing  
his annual accounts for 2017/18. When he saw the payment, and had no recollection  of what 
it had been for, he asked  Amex for more  information about it. 
Amex said it didnt have  any further information, so it couldnt tell him to whom the money 
had been paid, and in respect of what. 
Mr A said he hadnt made the payment. Amex said that as it was over 13 months  since the 
transaction was made, it was too late for him to dispute it. In doing  so, it referred to an 
internal process  document.
Mr A explained why it had taken  him so long to notice, and dispute,  the payment. He said 
that in July 2017 hed been building a business, and his Amex  credit card was one that he 
was trying to pay back at the time.  Hence, he didnt  check his statements in detail until he 
did his taxes.  
As Amex wouldnt help Mr A, he brought  his complaint to our service.  
Our Investigator  looked  into matters, and obtained  further information from both parties. She 
concluded that Amex wasnt entitled  to hold Mr A liable  for the disputed payment as there 
was no proof  that hed authorised it. She also didnt agree that Mr A had been  too late to 
report it, as the 13-month rule hadnt  been  included in his account terms and conditions. As 
such, Mr A hadnt been given fair notice of this provision, and Amex couldnt rely on it. She 
asked Amex to refund  Mr A the full sum hed lost, and pay £150  compensation for his trouble 
and inconvenience  in having to bring his complaint.
Amex didnt agree with this. It felt that although this term wasnt  included in its account 
terms and conditions, it was contained  in other documents and official  guidance. So it asked 
for an ombudsmans  review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im in agreement with our Investigator that Amex hasnt treated Mr A fairly, 
and needs to put matters right. Im going to uphold this complaint accordingly  and ask it to 
pay Mr A back for the disputed transaction, along with the recommended £150 
compensation.
I appreciate that Amex  will be disappointed by this decision, and wont  agree. Id like to 
explain why I think its fair to both parties.
Ref: DRN08350042There are two main issues here to be determined. One is whether we can be satisfied that 
the disputed transaction was authorised by Mr A, and two is whether hes allowed to bring 
his claim over 13 months after the date in question.
On the matter of authorisation, our Investigator explained this clearly in her view. She 
correctly referred to the Payment Service Regulations 2009  (PSRs), which  in short  say that 
unauthorised transactions will be the responsibility of the bank. 
Amex hasnt been able to provide further  information on the disputed  transaction.  So Mr A 
doesnt know to whom it was paid,  and cant contact the merchant directly about it. From the 
limited evidence we do have, it looks like it may have been  a payment made over the phone 
or online. And as such Mr As actual  card,  or PIN, wouldnt  have been needed to make it. 
Mr A tells us he lives at home  with his wife and two children. He isnt able to say when his 
card details might have been  compromised.  But we do know  that its possible,  especially for 
online or telephone payments. 
So Im satisfied theres not enough  evidence to persuade me that Mr A made,  or knew 
about, this transaction. And he doesnt  have enough information to properly defend  the 
point. On that basis, and in terms of the PSRs,  Amex  needs to refund him.
In terms of how long it took Mr A to report the disputed transaction,  and this being  outside 
the 13 months that Amex claims: I dont disagree  that this is the correct  guidance,  as cited 
by the Financial Conduct Authority, and contained in Amexs  internal procedures document. 
But the key issue  here is whether it was made reasonably foreseeable to Mr A that he only 
had this timescale. And I dont think it was, because it wasnt  contained within the terms and 
conditions of his Amex account. 
In short,  it wouldnt be fair for Mr A to be disadvantaged due to Amex  not having provided 
him with the correct  and relevant information.
For these reasons, Im upholding  this complaint, and I agree also that some  compensation is 
due to Mr A for the time and effort spent pursuing  this matter thus far. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In order to resolve matters, Im asking 
American Express Services Europe Limited  (AESEL) to:-
1.Refund to Mr A the disputed transactions sum of £3,240;  and
2.Pay him £150 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 June 2020.
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0835004