K821x#15complaint
Mr C is unhappy that he couldnt access his money  when he wanted to from his new Tesco 
Personal Finance  Plc bank account.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision  a copy of which  is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.  
I issued a provisional decision saying why I thought the complaint should  be upheld in part. I 
invited Mr C and Tesco to give me any more evidence and information they wanted me to 
consider before issuing my final decision.  Tesco initially  accepted  the provisional decision,  
but then raised  further points. 
They said they didnt  feel additional compensation was fair as Mr C had received  
compensation for each complaint hed raised  and they didnt feel all Mr Cs complaints 
related to the same issue and shouldnt be considered  as one complaint.  
Mr C also disagreed with my decision, he said in summary:
The instant access account isnt instant access if its been blocked, and the message 
saying the account  was blocked  wasnt clear;
He feels Tesco couldve closed the new account when hed first contacted them to 
get his money  back which wouldve meant they didnt need  to do their checks and he 
wouldnt have lost out on £91 interest;
He feels Tesco shouldve done any required checks before he paid in the £1,000  
instead of after;
The transfer he was trying to make  was between Tesco accounts but the bond  was 
with another provider;   
He felt Tesco hadnt dealt with his complaints  properly as they hadnt  spoken to him 
to fully understand or investigate his concerns  before closing them;
The £90 compensation Tesco said theyve paid Mr C relates to four other  complaints 
and shouldnt be taken  into account  when looking at compensation for this complaint; 
He feels the £50 compensation Ive recommended  for trouble and upset  isnt enough 
to cover the £91 interest hes lost and the cost of the calls hes had to make to 
resolve his complaint  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as I did in my provisional  decision.
Mr C hasnt given me any information  thats materially  different to what  Id already seen. But 
Ive carefully considered  his points.
Ref: DRN07479292Mr C said he doesnt feel the account  he opened  should be called  instant access if funds 
cant be accessed as the account  is blocked. But I dont agree. The checks  that Tesco 
undertook dont change the type of account that Mr C applied  for. Tescos terms and 
conditions say that checks may need  to be undertaken before the account is activated,  and I 
feel its clear that any account  withdrawals  wont be available  until these checks have  taken 
place. Ive listened to the calls between  Tesco and Mr C, and our investigator  and Mr C in 
which he says he is aware  newly opened accounts can be blocked. So I think  Mr C ought 
reasonably to have  been  prepared that he wouldnt be able to access his money whilst this 
was taking place.  
Mr C feels that as hes been an existing customer of Tesco for a long time, they shouldnt  
need to complete identity checks for him. He also feels Tesco  havent  met their own terms 
and conditions on this point, and that despite their assurances to him, they remain  vague.  
However, Ive seen the final response  letter from Tesco which  when referring to their terms 
and conditions says this will hopefully drive a future change.  It doesnt say they will be 
updated or if/when  this will be. So I cant say Tesco have  acted  unreasonably  in their 
response to Mr Cs complaint. 
I recognise Mr Cs frustration that Tesco completed security  checks for him even though he 
was an existing customer. I also acknowledge that Mr C feels Tesco  couldve just closed the 
new account and returned his money to him. However, as I explained  in my provisional 
decision, Tescos terms and conditions say that they must undertake  certain checks to 
confirm your identity and I think this is clearly stated. Its also not the role of this service  to 
say what checks Tesco should or shouldnt carry out, or whether they can or cant close  
down accounts  mid-way  through their checking  process. This is Tescos  commercial 
decision on how they feel they should  comply  with their regulators  requirements and not one 
that this service can comment on. So I dont think Tesco have treated Mr C unfairly by 
completing the checks they felt were necessary. 
Mr C feels Tesco shouldve completed  any checks they needed before the account was 
opened - not after. He thinks this would have been consistent with other banks  and good  
industry practice. But I dont agree. Its not unusual for a bank  to open an account before 
theyve undertaken  their checks. Furthermore,  Mr C told us that hed opened another 
account with Tesco previously which had been  blocked, so I think  he ought  to have been 
reasonably aware  this could happen  - and that this was part of Tescos  terms and conditions 
which hed agreed  to. So I dont feel that Tesco have gone against  what  would be 
considered good industry  practice.    
Mr C is unhappy as he feels Tesco had the ability to unblock his account earlier  - and I dont 
disagree with this point.  Tesco could have  unblocked the account if theyd wanted to. 
However, the staff members that both Mr C and I spoke to werent able to do this and 
theyve told me that it isnt their process  to do so. Ive also not seen  any reason to say why 
they shouldve  unblocked Mr Cs account earlier than any of their other customers. Ive also 
seen that the account was blocked  as soon as Mr C opened it, so I dont think there was an 
unreasonable delay by Tesco to complete  their checks. Mr C also told us hed chosen to 
open the account with £1,000 rather than the £1 minimum required - as he wanted to benefit  
from the higher  interest. So I dont think its reasonable to hold Tesco  responsible for a 
decision Mr C made knowing there was at least a chance his account  could be blocked.
Mr C feels that Tesco  didnt deal with his complaints fairly or in-line with their terms and 
conditions as his complaints were closed without speaking to him or undertaking a thorough  
investigation. He also felt the compensation Id recommended  for the trouble and upset  
Ref: DRN07479293caused wasnt enough. Tesco also didnt agree as they felt theyd compensated Mr C fairly 
for each  issue hed experienced, and these  shouldnt  be grouped together. But I dont agree. 
Ive seen Mr C was given  £50 for the incorrect information relating to the blocked account, 
and although Tesco and Mr C dont agree on the compensation amounts paid  for each of 
the other parts of the complaint, Ive taken into account all of the evidence  provided by both 
parties.  
Mr C questioned why Ive thought about  the other  complaints which  werent directly  related 
to this one. Ive done so because he mentioned this on several occasions, so I thought about 
the overall impact  on him from the service Tesco gave him - causing several complaints in a 
short space of time. I think the compensation Tesco awarded for each individual complaint  
was fair. But I dont think Tesco had fairly thought about the service it had given Mr C 
overall, when considering  how many complaints and errors were  made  in total.  This is why I 
think paying an additional £50 compensation for the trouble and upset caused is fair and 
reasonable. 
In summary,  I dont agree that Tesco  should cover the £91 Mr C says hes lost in interest. 
Mr C chose to invest  the £1,000  initially and he couldve  waited until the account was 
unblocked to invest in the bond with the new provider  - so I dont feel Tesco are responsible 
for this. However, Mr C was given incorrect information on several occasions which meant 
he had to call Tesco numerous  times  for updates or to clarify what hed been told. I dont feel 
this was taken  into account in the first complaint that Tesco raised,  or the £50 Mr C received 
for these  errors. And for this reason I feel Tesco should pay Mr C the additional £50 I 
recommended in my provisional decision.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I instruct Tesco Bank Plc to:
pay Mr C £50 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 July 2019.
Jenny Lomax
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN07479294copy provisional decision
complaint
Mr C is unhappy that he couldnt access his money  when  he wanted to from his new Tesco Bank 
account.
background
Mr C is an existing  customer of Tesco  Personal Finance PLC. On 23 November  2018 he set up a new 
internet saver account  online. He did this by transferring £1,000 from one of his existing 
current/savings accounts with Tesco. The new account offered  a higher interest rate.
On 24 November,  Mr C saw that Tesco were  offering a new fixed rate bond  which offered an even 
higher interest rate, so he tried to do an online  transfer the £1,000 from the account  hed opened the 
day before.  Mr C said he then received an error  message so he called Tesco to ask what was 
happening. 
Tesco told Mr C they were  undertaking checks on the account hed opened  on 23 November, and it 
should be unblocked within 48 hours. But when it wasnt he called  again  for an update and was told it 
would take a further 48 hours. So Mr C opened the bond with other money  - without the £1,000 he 
wanted to transfer from the account hed opened  on 23 November.  
Mr C made several  complaints to Tesco.  He said their terms and conditions about how long an 
account would be blocked  were unclear and theyd given him incorrect information  about  the 
timescales for him to access his money. He said that hed been given incorrect information about his 
statements, and that hed lost out financially by around £91 as he couldnt  add the extra  £1,000 to the 
bond after it had been opened. He also said Tesco  hadnt dealt with all of his complaints relating to 
the account opening process. 
Tesco didnt agree. They said theyd upheld Mr Cs complaint in part and paid him £50 compensation 
for the incorrect information hed been given about the timescales to access his account,  and the 
unclear terms and conditions. However, they said their terms and conditions did say that both new 
and existing  customers  wouldnt be able to access their account whilst checks  were being carried out. 
They also felt that Mr Cs other complaints  had related  to the same issues so theyd told him that their 
original response remained  unchanged. Mr C didnt  agree so he asked this service to look into his 
complaint. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint  should be upheld. She thought that Tesco had followed  
their internal processes  correctly when opening  Mr Cs account on 23 November 2018, and that the 
wording of terms and conditions was a commercial matter that we werent able to change. She also 
thought that Tesco had done enough to resolve  Mr Cs complaint by awarding him £50 for the trouble 
and upset caused.
Mr C didnt agree and so the case has been passed to me to review.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Ive reached a different decision to our investigator.  
Ill explain why.
Mr C has said hes unhappy  his new account was blocked by Tescos while it carried out regulatory 
checks. He feels that because he is an existing customer they shouldnt have needed  to carry out 
these checks. However Tescos terms and conditions  say During  our Account opening process we 
must undertake certain checks to confirm  your identity. You will not be able to withdraw money  from 
Ref: DRN07479295your Account until our checks are complete . And I havent  seen there is any difference  in their 
process for new or existing  customers. 
Mr C also raised concerns that these  terms and conditions werent clear about how long these  checks 
would take. And that when  he questioned this with Tesco a member of staff he was given  incorrect 
information about when  he could access his money. Ive seen that Tesco  have apologised for the 
member of staffs  error and acknowledged their terms and conditions  couldve been clearer. Ive also 
seen theyve paid Mr C £50 for the inconvenience this caused.
I recognise that Mr C feels frustrated he couldnt access his money immediately  even though he had 
an existing relationship with Tesco. But although  I appreciate  his comments, Tesco  are entitled to set 
their own terms  and conditions. And Im conscious that Tesco  is required by its regulator  to carry  out 
certain checks before  opening  a new account. I understand  from Mr C that when  a similar thing 
happened on a previous  occasion, Tesco was able to release his money more  quickly. But Tesco 
have told me their process has changed and unless a customer is in financial difficulty  they are no 
longer able to access their money while  initial checks are being carried out. This is their commercial 
decision, and it isnt my role to interfere with Tescos  commercial decisions.  Taking  everything into 
account including  Mr Cs circumstances, I dont think Tesco treated Mr C unfairly by not giving  him 
access to his money whilst they were  undertaking these checks.   
Mr C has told us that since the original complaint he was given incorrect statement  information and he 
raised several other complaints about the account  opening  issue which  he wasnt contacted about. 
Tesco have acknowledged  that Mr C was given  the wrong information  about  his statements so they 
said theyve apologised and paid Mr C a further £15 compensation. They also told us that they 
responded to each of Mr Cs complaints in insolation and have now paid him a total of £90 in 
compensation - but I dont think this is fair. 
Ive looked at the issues  Mr C has experienced and Ive taken into account  how Tesco treated Mr C 
once they were aware of his first complaint. Ive seen that each of Mr Cs points relates  to the same 
initial cause and viewing  them separately wouldnt have  taken  into account the full effect on him and 
the frustration  this has caused. I recognise  that Tesco have acknowledged some errors and 
apologised to Mr C. But I feel given  the numerous errors he experienced, and the subsequent  cost of 
the calls he incurred which werent considered in the original response from Tesco  that they should  
pay Mr C a further £50 for the trouble and upset caused. 
I recognise that Mr C will be disappointed as he wanted the cost of the interest refunded and action 
taken against Tesco. However, Mr C did choose  to open the bond with the money he had when  he 
did. And unless the bond was closing he couldve opened this a few days  later  so it was his choice. 
Ive also seen  that Tesco  have already paid him £90 in compensation which  is close to the interest 
hes lost on the bond and as a service  we arent here to fine or punish  a business  for their mistakes.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I intend to instruct  Tesco  Bank Plc to:
pay Mr C £50 compensation for the trouble and upset caused
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required  to ask Mr C to accept  or reject my 
decision before 2 May 2019.
Jenny Lomax
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0747929