K820x#14Complaint
Mr P complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him an instant access savings account.
Background
In 2016, Mr P opened an instant access savings account in a branch of Barclays.  At the 
time, he asked whether  there would be any charge for closing  the account and receiving a 
cheque for the balance  and was told there wouldnt  be.
When Mr P came  to close the account  in 2019, the opening branch had closed down  so he 
had to visit another branch. And there he was told that he couldnt close the account  in a 
cheque, but would be charged £25 for a CHAPS transfer instead. 
Barclays agreed to waive  this fee and completed the transfer  for Mr P, sending  the payment  
to the account  hed specified. This left some remaining  pence  in the account and Barclays  
said it would  apply the residual interest  to this and then close the account  down. But the 
closure wasnt completed.
Mr P complained. He felt he was forced into accepting  the CHAPS  transfer,  and said 
Barclays had refused to fully close his account  down and give him the full balance in it. He 
felt hed been mis-sold  the account  because hed been told hed be able to do this without 
any charge.
One of our investigators  looked at the complaint and thought it should be upheld.  He said 
Barclays had waived  the CHAPS transfer fee and Mr P had been  able to transfer his money 
without paying  a fee. But he said Barclays had agreed to close down the account but hadnt 
done this. It had offered to pay Mr P £75 to recognise the inconvenience  this caused and the 
investigator thought  this was a fair outcome. The investigator sent Mr P Barclayss  closure 
form to complete.
Mr P didnt accept the investigators findings. He said he feels  he should  be compensated for 
the time hes taken  to deal with the withdrawal and then make  his complaint. He said hed 
completed a closure  form when he visited the branch and questioned whether this had been  
lost. He didnt  think the £75 offered was adequate  or fair for the stress and inconvenience he 
was caused and the mis-selling of the account. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr P has raised other, related concerns about Barclays  and this account. 
However, these are being responded to separately, and I dont intend to refer to them in my 
findings here.
I can appreciate that Mr P feels that he was inconvenienced  through having to travel further 
to a different  branch after the opening branch had closed down. And then he found the 
original information  hed been  told about how he could close  his account wasnt as he 
recalled.
Ref: DRN01110692Mr Ps told us that he wanted to close his account  by withdrawing the balance in a cheque. 
However, this couldnt be done and, as I understand it, Barclays explained the options  that 
were available to him. This included a bankers draft or the CHAPS transfer  both of which  
would incur a fee.
Ive considered Mr Ps account opening information where he agreed  to accept its terms and 
conditions, and I cant see that this sets out specifically that the account could be closed  in 
the form of a fee-free  cheque. And information about how to access  Barclayss  customer 
agreement and tariff of charges was provided  to Mr P in the welcome letter  he was sent. The 
information about closing the account  may have been something that Mr P recalls being told 
at the time he opened it, however, this isnt recorded  on the details Ive seen and it doesnt 
form part of the account terms and conditions.  So I dont  think the savings account was mis-
sold to Mr P on this basis.
And although I acknowledge that the method the majority of his balance was transferred may 
not have been in the way Mr P intended, this was actioned for him without charge as 
Barclays waived the fee. 
However, there was a remaining  balance of the pence in his account after the CHAPS  
transfer was completed. Mr P completed  a form to close down the account  which  would 
mean any residual interest could  be added to his closing balance.  Despite this being 
requested by the branch  at the time, the closure  wasnt completed.  Barclays  has apologised 
for this. And it has now said it will complete the closure and asks Mr P to confirm the account 
details where he wishes  the payment to be sent.
Barclays has also offered to pay Mr P £75 to recognise both the inconvenience  he was 
caused and the delay  in completing the closure. Taking everything into account,  I think  that 
this, along with Barclayss apology and waiver  of the CHAPS  fee, represents  fair 
compensation for Mr Ps complaint.
I appreciate that it will have taken Mr P time and effort in order to raise this complaint, but I 
think thats to be reasonably expected.  Mr P also needed to travel to a branch to complete 
the closure which I understand is further  away than the branch where he opened the 
account. But Mr P wouldve needed  to do this even if he had been able to complete  the 
account closure in the way he wanted. So I dont  think Barclays  should be required  to 
specifically compensate him additionally for this. 
My final decision
My decision  is that Barclays Bank  UK PLC should  pay Mr P £75, as it has already offered to 
do. 
If Mr P chooses to accept  this, he should  let Barclays know the account details of where it 
should send this payment and the closing balance of his account,  if he hasnt already done 
so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 January 2020.
Cathy Bovan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0111069