K820x#14complaint
Mrs W, who is represented by a third party, have complained that Bank of Scotland plc 
(BoS), trading as Halifax, mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance  (PPI)  policy in 
August 2003,  alongside  a secured loan.
background
The policy included cover for accident,  sickness and unemployment.  It also included life 
cover.
Mrs W says she didnt need  the policy and it wasnt properly explained to her. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the policy was mis-sold. Because  Mrs W disagreed,  her 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of payment protection insurance on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  in deciding Mrs Ws complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  Ill explain why.
Mrs W says she bought  the policy at a meeting.  BoS agrees and says it made a 
recommendation that Mrs W should buy the PPI. That means BoS had to ensure that 
the policy was suitable for her circumstances and giving her clear  information about it.
Ive looked at the paperwork from the sale that BoS has sent us. Ive seen that Mrs 
W needed to sign separately on the loan application  to confirm she wanted to take 
out PPI. If she didnt want it there was a different place for her to sign but equally  
prominent on the form. To complete  the loan paperwork Mrs W then had to sign a 
personal loan agreement which set out the cost of the PPI separately to the loan. 
All of this leads me to think that Mrs W knew or ought to have known that shed 
agreed to take out PPI and that it was her choice about whether or not to have it.
It seems  to me that Mrs W was eligible  for the cover. Shes  told us about  a medical 
condition that was first diagnosed in 2003. From what Ive seen about the policy  
that condition  is something she might  not have been able to make  a successful 
claim for. However,  Mrs W was receiving treatment  for it as required and it hadnt 
led to her taking time off work. So I think even if this exclusion had been clearer  at 
the time,  its likely she still would have gone  ahead with the cover. 
Mrs W has stated that at the time of the sale she was entitled  to up to 12 months of sick pay 
from her employer in the event that she was unable to work  through accident, sickness  or 
accident. This is an especially generous level of benefit, taking into account Mrs Ws 
occupation. However, the PPI would have paid out a benefit  the sum repayable each 
month under  the loan agreement - for up to 60 months for an accident or sickness claim and 
was payable in addition  to her employer benefits. The PPI would  also have  paid out in the 
event of unemployment  for up to 12 months. 
Ref: DRN00498302Mrs W also told us about having a good level of savings  she could rely on. As she chose to 
take a secured loan with the intention of refinancing  or consolidating debts, it seems that for 
whatever reason she didnt want to make use of her savings. And the death in service 
benefits she mentioned obviously  only pay out on death so cant be treated as a 
comparable benefit.  So I think its also reasonable to conclude that she also wouldnt have 
wanted to use her existing savings to repay  the loan in the event of her being unable to 
work. The PPI therefore seems to have been a worthwhile and useful benefit for Mrs W to 
have, particularly given  that the loan was secured against her home.
Ive seen that the initial cost of the policy was £8.15 for a monthly benefit of £78.53.  
This was shown on the personal loan agreement  that Mrs W signed to get the loan. So 
she ought to have been aware of the cost of the cover when she decided  to buy the 
policy. And she hasnt told us about any issues about finding the money to pay for it.
Its possible there may have been some shortcomings in the way this policy  was sold 
but, having looked at the sale carefully,  but for the reasons Ive given I think  Mrs W 
would still have decided  to buy the policy if shed  been  better  advised and informed.
Mrs Ws representative has raised  a number of what I consider to be general  complaint 
points, which  it says applies to all PPI complaints.  These  general  points include: a claim that 
we are not correctly  applying the regulators rules and guidance for handling PPI complaints; 
these policies represented poor value  because of the number of significant exclusions and 
limitations of cover  coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty of utmost  good faith 
meant BoS should  have disclosed the poor value and explained the significance  of the 
limitations and exclusions  and the impact  it had on the chances of making a claim.
But Mrs Ws representative has not said how these points  apply to the specific  facts  and 
circumstances of Mrs Ws individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs Ws particular  case. But 
these points dont  persuade me to alter my conclusions about  what  is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances  of the complaint - for the reasons Ive set out above  I dont uphold  this 
complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, Im not upholding Mrs Ws complaint against Bank 
of Scotland plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 September 2021.
Michael Goldberg
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0049830