K822xcomplaint
Mr C complains that Sanlam Life & Pensions UK Limited wrongly sold him two exclusively 
long-term savings plans in his late 20s given  his circumstances  and objectives  were always 
likely to change.  He also said he had no need for the life cover, the cost of which reduced 
the amount being invested.
background 
The background and circumstances of this complaint are set out within  my provisional 
decision of 31 July 2019. A copy of this is attached and forms part of this decision. Neither 
party objected to my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  For the reasons outlined in my provisional 
decision I am satisfied that this complaint  should  be upheld with the compensation proposed  
in that decision.
Sanlam should  therefore compare how much  Mr C received back on these plans when he 
surrendered them with what he might have got via a more suitable investment product. To 
do so it should  use the redress formula recommended by this service in relation  to sales 
from these dates: the Bank of England base rate plus 1%.
To compensate Mr C for the lack of use of this money after the surrender dates it should  
also add interest on the two loss figures from the dates of surrender to the date of settlement 
of this complaint.  To do this it should add 15% simple interest per annum to each  loss figure 
up to 1 April 2013  and 8% simple  interest from that date on.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and instruct  Sanlam  Life & Pensions UK Limited to pay compensation 
as outlined above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 September  2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN04014122provisional decision
complaint
Mr C complains that Sanlam Life & Pensions UK Limited  wrongly sold him an exclusively long-term  
savings plan when he was in his late 20s and his circumstances and objectives were always  likely to 
change over time. He also said he had no need  for the life cover, the cost of which reduced the 
amount being invested.
background
Mr C began  paying £20 a month into the plan in 1988, suspended payments four months late and 
then reinstated them, surrendering the plan in 1991. In 1989 he agreed to take out a second plan, 
paying an additional £20 a month, and also surrendered  this in 1991. He received back significantly 
less than hed paid in.
Mr Cs representative said he surrendered them  due to financial difficulties.
Sanlam rejected  Mr Cs complaint, saying:
Its records confirm that Mr C  in 1998 - was given  a brochure confirming  that this was a long-
term plan
The sale took place  before the new regulations governing advisor responsibilities
So at this time its responsibilities were  limited  to not making misleading  statements, advising 
with reasonable skill and care and to fully disclose information
Under common law this general duty was defined  as recommending products which were  a 
reasonable fit for a clients circumstances
This is why it does not have evidence of a Fact Find having been completed
For the second sale in 1989 new regulations applied and a Fact Find was completed
At the age of 30 it would not have been unreasonable for Mr C to have contemplated long-
term savings and there is no evidence to suggest  he had specific plans which  wouldve  
prevented him from doing so
There is no evidence about his savings  at the time so this issue cannot  be safely  assessed 20 
years on but, given  Mr Cs profession, it is likely he would have earned a decent salary and 
therefore had savings 
Given his profession  he would also have been able to understand the documentation  
provided
The fact that he was made redundant later in 1990 was not something that could have been 
predicted
Given Mr Cs age the cost of life cover would have been minimal  and ensured tax-free growth
Mr Cs representative did not agree, and said:
Mr C was in his 20s
He has confirmed that the advisor  recommended these plans as an alternative to deposit-
based savings
The policies  are extremely inflexible and only suitable  for long-term  savings
These recommendations  failed both the pre A-day and post A-day  requirements
The brochures were  deeply misleading  about the time commitment required and therefore  Mr 
C was not aware  of their exclusively long-term  nature
An adjudicator at this service did not feel there was sufficient evidence to uphold the complaint.
Ref: DRN04014123my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge that the regulatory requirements  were very different back  in 1988 and 1989 and 
therefore want  to make clear  that I have considered this complaint solely against a businesss 
responsibility at the time. Although the regulations had changed by 1989 in essence the advisor had 
two core responsibilities on both occasions: not to mislead and to ensure any recommendations were 
a reasonable fit for Mr C. I am satisfied that these sales failed both criteria.
Firstly, I have serious concerns about the brochure which, in my view, offers  a completely misleading 
impression about the time commitment needed to make these plans suitable.
Given the charging structure  they are only a reasonable  investment proposition if they are held for a 
very long-time; a minimum of 25 years according to the brochures small  print. Despite this, the 
brochures sales pitch, Why Save Money? sets out a wide array  of savings objectives for which  these  
plans are allegedly suitable:
to help you cope with those unexpected and unbudgeted expenses  which afflict us all from time to 
time. The cost of coping with a sudden family emergency. Repair bills for storm damage to your home 
or garden. Loss of Income due to accident or serious ill-health, to give you just a few possible 
examples. Looking  on the bright side you will also want to build  up your resources  for more 
pleasurable expenses.  That new car you have always promised yourself  an extension  to your home. 
A retirement  cottage  or perhaps the holiday of a lifetime.
In reality none of these  are exclusively long-term  objectives  (the retirement cottage aside) for which a 
customer would only need to encash  the plans at least 25 years in the future. Whether it be a family 
emergency, repair bills, loss of income  due to ill health or a new car, these are all things which  can 
crop up at any point in life. Indeed Mr C did find he needed to surrender his plans  due to loss of 
income very soon  after taking them out. They  were not suitable for that need.  In fact, given  the long-
term nature of the charging structure, he got back considerably less than hed paid in.
I am also satisfied that the recommendations failed the most basic reasonable  fit test. As a single  
man of 29 (and subsequently 30) I do not accept that Mr C was in a position  to make an assessment 
of the likely  practicality  or desirability of committing to savings plans which demanded  regular  monthly 
payments for a minimum of 25 years to prove worthwhile investment vehicles.
As his representative said, his circumstances  were almost inevitably going to evolve - whether it be 
job changes, redundancy, mortgage, family/child commitments  along with changing financial 
objectives (such as paying instead into a pension). So he was not in a position to be reasonably sure 
he would want to keep  paying into these exclusively  long-term savings plans for the minimum 
necessary period of 25 years. This is not to argue against  someone of Mr Cs age starting a savings 
plan, merely that it should  be a reasonable  fit for their fluid medium and long-term situation.
I know that Sanlam did not sell a shorter term plan with contributions of just £20 a month but this does  
not justify recommending something unsuitable. If it did not have a plan that was a reasonable fit for 
Mr Cs circumstances it should not have recommended  anything.
Given the misleading nature of the brochure, I am satisfied on the balance of probabilities that if Mr C 
had been fully aware of the nature of this product  he would not have  gone ahead with either 
recommendation.
I therefore  currently intend  to uphold  this complaint  and instruct Sanlam to pay fair and reasonable 
compensation. The evidence  suggests Mr C was looking to make  regular payments into a savings 
investment plan, as opposed to simply leaving this money on deposit.  I am therefore satisfied it 
should pay compensation  based  on investment loss i.e. compare how much he received back on 
Ref: DRN04014124these plans when he surrendered them with what  he might have got via a more suitable  investment 
product.
As I cannot safely say what product this might have been (beyond its need to be flexible time-wise) it 
should use the redress formula recommended  by this service in relation to sales from these dates: the 
Bank of England base rate plus 1%.
To compensate Mr C for the lack of use of this money after the surrender dates  it should  also add 
interest on the two loss figures from the dates of surrender  to the date of settlement of this complaint.  
To do this it should add 15% simple  interest per annum  to each loss figure up to 1 April 2013 and 8% 
simple interest  from that date on.
my provisional  decision
I currently intend to uphold this complaint and instruct Sanlam to pay compensation  as outlined  
above.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0401412