K820x#14complaint
Mr H1  representing  the trustees, Mr and Mrs H2  complains  that Aviva  Life & Pensions  
UK Limited  failed to pay out the full sum assured  on a whole of life policy taken out by his 
late mother, Mrs H3. 
background
Mrs H3 was advised  to take out the policy  in 1999.  It was intended to provide a flexible 
payout to cover funeral expenses. It had an initial sum assured of just over £11,000 for a 
monthly premium of £15. 
The policy was first reviewed in 2009. Aviva  wrote to Mrs H3 to explain that to maintain the 
sum assured the premiums would have to be increased to just over £28. Failing that, the 
sum assured would be reduced to around  £5,500. No response  was received so the sum 
assured was duly reduced. 
In 2014 the policy was reviewed again.  On this occasion it was determined that to maintain 
the sum assured the premiums would need  to increase by £3 to £18, or the sum assured 
would be reduced  further to just over £5,000. On this occasion, Mrs H3 and the trustees  
completed the relevant documents to accept  the increase in premium, so the sum assured 
remained at the £5,500  figure.
Further reviews in 2015, 2016 and 2017 showed that no changes  needed to be made.  This 
meant that when Mrs H3 passed away the claim amount was the £5,500 figure,  plus some 
interest. 
Mr H1 complained to Aviva. He said that his mother had been told that the death benefit  
would never  be less that the original sum and could be even higher, depending  upon 
investment returns.  
Aviva didnt uphold  the complaint. It felt thered been a need for the policy  and it was a 
suitable means by which  to meet  that need. It also highlighted  that it was made clear at the 
outset that there could  be a reduction  in the sum assured at the 10 year review. 
Mr H1 didnt accept this and referred  the matter to this service. Our adjudicator reached the 
same conclusion as Aviva. He too felt the policy had been  suitable and that information  
about the reviews  and their outcomes had been communicated. 
Mr H1 remained of the view that Aviva had acted incorrectly. He said that his mother and 
Mrs H2 had been  assured  that the sum assured would remain at the same  level or higher. 
He also noted  that the 2009 review  letter  had been sent to an old address. He felt that his 
mothers actions in 2014 in accepting the increased premium showed that she would have  
done the same had she been aware  of the 2009 review outcome. He also felt that 
alternatives had not been considered and a fund carrying  too much risk had been used for 
the investment.  
As no agreement could be reached, the matters been referred to me to review. 
Ref: DRN09637662my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, on what I consider is more likely than not to have happened in 
light of the evidence and wider circumstances.
I can understand Mr H1s concern on discovering that the policy  was only going to pay out 
around half of the original  sum assured. But having considered  the circumstances, I find Im 
unable to conclude  that Aviva has acted  incorrectly or unfairly. 
In respect of the suitability of the policy, Mrs H3 was seeking a policy  that would provide a 
payout at the time of her death to help with funeral expenses. Im satisfied a whole of life 
policy was a reasonable way to meet this need. A term policy would have had to end at a 
pre-defined point,  which could have left Mrs H3 without any cover.  The whole of life policy 
provided a degree  of flexibility  that meant it could run for as long as required, albeit with the 
possibility that the sum assured might need to be altered. 
While I note what Mr H1 has said about Mrs H2s recollections of the sale, the documents 
issued at the time were quite clear  in explaining that the sum assured was only guaranteed 
for 10 years, until the first review. While  the suitability letter may not have been explicit about 
the potential for a decrease in the sum assured,  the illustration did show  that even with a 
10% annual  rate of investment returns, it was likely  that after 10 years the sum assured 
would need to be reduced to just over £5,000, as was the case  at the first review.
I note also what Mr H1 has said about the possibility that his mother  didnt receive the 2009 
review letter,  as shed  moved addresses. And looking at the history of communication  
between parties it does look as if Aviva  did send the letter to the old address. Theres 
nothing to confirm  that it had been made aware  of the change of address. But in any event, 
even if I assume that Mrs H3 didnt  receive the letter, Im not sure it can be said with any 
certainty that she would  have opted to accept  the increase in premiums  to maintain the sum 
assured. 
This was not a small increase  like that of 2014. The 2009 increase would have involved the 
premiums almost doubling. Given that the setting up of the policy  appears  to have been 
premium driven, to an extent at least, it strikes me as unlikely that Mrs H3, or Mrs H2 if she 
was paying the premiums,  would have wanted to pay that much  more. I think  its more likely 
that they would have  accepted the reduction, in line with what the original  illustration had 
indicated. 
Regardless of what might  otherwise have happened  in 2009, by 2014 it appears that Mrs H3 
and Mr and Mrs H2 were  aware that the sum assured had dropped, as they had to agree to 
the premiums being slightly increased in order to maintain  that reduced sum assured. That 
they didnt raise the reduced sum assured as an issue with Aviva at that time suggests to me 
that they were  aware of the situation and not concerned with it, as the policy  was proceeding 
in the way theyd been lead to believe it would. 
In respect of the investment  fund used to support the policy,  Aviva has confirmed  that it was 
a with profits fund,  not a managed fund as shown on the illustration. So, as a generally 
Ref: DRN09637663accepted cautious  type of fund this would appear to be consistent with Mrs H3s likely  
attitude to risk. 
I note Mr H1s additional point about  mortgage endowment  warning letters,  and how the 
2009 review letter should have acted  in a similar  fashion. And that Aviva, upon discovering 
that his mothers  failure to respond to the 2009  review was potentially a result of an incorrect  
address, should  have  taken further steps  to ensure she was fully informed of her options. 
But I dont think the two situations  are the same. Mortgage endowment warning letters  are 
sent to warn of the possibility that a target amount  may not be reached.  The sum assured of 
a whole of life policy is not a target  amount in the same way. And it is quite normal for a 
business to adopt a default position in the event of not hearing back  from a customer about  a 
review outcome. I dont  think the onus was on Aviva  to take any further steps to contact 
Mrs H3. 
In summary,  Im satisfied  the policy was a suitable  recommendation  and generally  
administered correctly  by Aviva.  Im not persuaded  it acted incorrectly in sending the 2009 
review letter  to an incorrect  address. But, even in the event there  was an error,  on balance I 
dont think it follows that without it the premiums  wouldve been almost doubled in order to 
maintain the original, higher sum assured. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the trustees, 
Mr and Mrs H2, to accept  or reject my decision before 2 August 2019.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0963766