K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case that Financial  Insurance  Company Limited  (FICL), as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple,  Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mrs M says FICL mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy Mrs M took out on a store card account in April 1999. It 
was added to her account after a phone call.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint and Ill explain  why.
FICL have  said the sale took place during a phone call but havent been  able to provide a 
recording of the phone  call  this isnt surprising  considering the sale took place many  years 
ago. So I dont know for sure how PPI was presented to Mrs M or what was said.
Ive thought carefully about everything Mrs M has told us. But I also have to consider that 
because the sale took place so long ago, memories can fade over time. Ive also taken  into 
account what we know about how FICL sold these policies around this time and everything 
weve seen in the past. 
I think, on balance,  its likely FICL would have made it clear  that the PPI was optional and 
Mrs M would  have  been asked for her consent to the cover. Ive not seen enough to 
conclude otherwise.
I think its likely that PPI wouldve appeared on Mrs Ms store  card statements and I think 
Mrs M wouldve questioned why she was paying for PPI if it was something she hadnt 
agreed to take out. But it seems Mrs M continued to pay PPI for some years after the PPI 
was added to her account.
So, based on what Ive seen, I think FICL made it clear the policy  was optional and Mrs M 
chose to take it out.
Based on what I have seen, I dont  think a recommendation  was made by FICL. So FICL 
didnt have to check if the policy  was suitable  for her. But it still needed to make sure it gave 
Mrs M enough  information to make an informed choice whether the policy was right for her, 
taking into account  her personal circumstances.
Ref: DRN05967592Its possible the information FICL  gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should  have  
been. So I need to consider if Mrs M would have acted differently and not bought the policy,  
if better information had been provided.  And on balance I dont think better  information  
wouldve led her to act differently.
I say this because  I think  the PPI could have been useful to Mrs M in that her store card 
payments would be met in addition to any other provisions she held. Mrs M says she had 
sick pay (4 months full pay and 4 months half pay) and that she had savings too. But I think 
the policy would have provided  a useful benefit for her. I havent seen enough  information  
that would  suggest to me she would have  been put off from having it if she was given clearer  
information about it. I also couldnt  see any significant or limiting terms that would have 
affected Mrs Ms decision to take the policy out either.
Im not sure FICL gave clear information  on the costs of the PPI policy, but I dont think  this 
would have affected Mrs Ms decision to take out the policy for the reasons I have  already  
given. The policy seemed affordable and she could have cancelled it at any time. 
Ive taken into account all Mrs Ms comments,  but for the reasons mentioned above, these 
points dont change  my conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above,  I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0596759