K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy with how Aberdeen  Standard Capital Limited, trading as Standard Life 
Wealth Limited, have managed the money he invested within  their discretionary managed  
portfolio. He feels the investment choices  havent been in line with his risk profile  and that 
losses have been  incurred as a result. 
background
Mr S was introduced to Standard Life by his independent financial adviser  (IFA) and 
transferred his pensions  and ISA to their management between 2010 and 2012. Mr S 
appeared happy with his portfolio in its earlier years. But from 2015 onwards it didnt 
perform as well as hoped  particularly an element called the strategic investment allocation 
(SIA) fund. While Mr S says he recognised  volatility in the markets affected  the value of his 
investments, he also felt Standard Life had taken too much risk and ought to have changed  
their strategy given the sustained period of losses, rather than sticking with it and continuing 
to lose more money.
So in 2018, Mr S raised concerns with Standard  Life. These  were  treated as a formal  
complaint but Standard Life didnt agree theyd done anything  wrong.  They acknowledged 
performance hadnt been what  theyd  hoped,  but didnt agree  they ought to refund the fees 
paid, as Mr S had asked.  So he moved  his money  away from Standard Life. 
Mr S then asked our service  for help. His complaint was considered  by one of our 
adjudicators, but he didnt  agree  Standard Life had done anything  wrong.  He felt theyd 
invested in line with the agreement and that while there were some higher risk investments 
in the portfolio, they were  balanced by lower risk ones. He didnt think  the volatility  was 
inconsistent with what could reasonably  be expected from a medium risk portfolio either,  so 
didnt think it would  be fair to ask Standard  Life to refund the fees paid given they werent 
dependent on producing  gains. 
Mr S remained unhappy   he said Standard Lifes brief was to preserve his wealth,  not 
diminish it. He appreciated that there would be ups and downs, but there had been 
consistent losses for three years which wasnt acceptable, especially given his risk appetite 
which he defined as cautious. He thought the reassurances  given during those last years  led 
to real financial loss as well as worry. He still felt fees ought  to be refunded  as they hadnt  
been earned. So his case was passed to me for review. I reviewed the case and issued 
provisional findings. I said, in summary:
I can see Mr S feels very strongly about  how his portfolio  has been managed and the 
investment strategy  that was followed. Ive thought very carefully about what  hes 
said, but Im afraid I dont  think Standard  Life have  done anything  wrong here.  I know  
this will be disappointing for Mr S, so Ill explain why. 
In short,  Mr S had invested with Standard  Life for around eight years.  But during the 
last three,  his portfolio didnt do as well as it had done before, which led to him 
closing it in 2018. Mr S knows that our service  wouldnt consider performance  
downturn alone as reason to compensate him, but instead that we need to think  
about what was agreed with Standard  Life and what was ultimately  provided  in 
return. 
suitability
Ref: DRN09468822Mr S shared  a letter with us from his IFA  its dated  August 2010. It confirms advice 
to move Mr S pension from his current product provider to Standard Life. It said Mr S 
had completed a Standard Life risk profile and was classed as a medium risk 
investor. 
Standard Life have told us that Mr S IFA assessed  his attitude to risk, not them. Ive 
reviewed an example of what  terms would  have been agreed  between Standard Life 
and the IFA when a client  like Mr S was being introduced  but they left it open by 
mentioning both the possibility of themselves or the IFA assessing  suitability. 
Unfortunately, Standard  Life havent been  able to share any paperwork to confirm  
either way, but that is understandable as I appreciate  we are now considering  events 
from 11 years ago. Despite this, given what Ive seen  from the August 2010  letter  Im 
inclined to agree it was the IFA who advised  Mr S here  I say that because  the letter 
covered the reason for switching providers, it set out objectives and underneath a 
sub-heading of suitability of recommendation it said I firmly believe that the transfer 
to Standard Life Wealth is the best move for you It was therefore for the IFA to 
decide whether  the proposed medium risk portfolio and its make-up was something 
that would  be suitable for Mr S, given his personal and financial circumstances. 
Thinking more about that proposal,  Ive seen a PowerPoint presentation  that was 
shared with Mr S and his IFA in February  2009. This was a 22 page  document  that 
explained, in summary,  Standard Lifes approach, examples of what theyd invested 
in, what their strategy looked like in practice  and what a client could expect  in terms 
of their experience.  As the expert, it was for Mr S IFA to understand and assess all 
of the information provided, and make a decision as to whether or not they 
recommended the portfolio to Mr S as their client. 
Looking at what was explained, on slide four reference was made  to how Standard 
Life intended on increasing certainty through  volatility  management and a graph 
showed how they intended  on smoothing returns to reduce fluctuation demonstrated  
in what they called more traditional approaches. Slide five explained things further, 
and made  reference  to why Standard Life portfolios  were different to others   there  
were various different asset classes mentioned, along with paired trades,  
opportunistic investments,  uncorrelated  investments and options  for risk mitigation.
On slide six, reference  was made to the SIA fund and a summary of the top five 
positions within it; short equity markets globally, long Japanese  interest rates, long 
Euro interest rate swap, a future  relative to two FTSE indices and a future relative  to 
the German and Swiss  markets. 
So from all I have seen, Standard Life explained  what they were offering clearly and 
fairly. It was for Mr S IFA to decide whether the proposed investment strategy  was 
suitable  which they clearly did  and I think the information they had to do this was 
sufficiently clear. 
I also find that any concerns about  the ongoing suitability of the investment strategy 
were also for the IFA to address through ongoing  reviews. Regular reports were 
shared with Mr S and his IFA, so they were well informed of the decisions being 
made as well as ongoing  performance. 
Ref: DRN09468823Mr S began using a different IFA in 2014. They wrote to him in October that year 
regarding a change  to his pension wrapper, but also commented on the Standard 
Life portfolio. They  said:
At our meeting you confirmed that there had been  no change in your attitude 
to risk which we and Standard Life Wealth have previously agreed  with you is 
medium risk, although  you once again emphasised that you now consider 
capital preservation with reasonable  growth  far more important than outright 
investment return,  not least due to your possible pending retirement and the 
fact that your pension  and indeed your and [your wifes] investment portfolios 
will be needed to provide you with an additional  source of income for the 
remainder of your lifetimes. We would therefore confirm we consider the 
discretionary portfolios  run by Standard Life Wealth to be particularly suitable  
in your cases and would not recommend  any change at this stage. Certainly 
the recent upturn in investment market volatility and the significant  falls that 
have happened  in the last few days have shown that the way Standard Life 
Wealth run their investment  portfolios  compared  to a more  traditional 
approach of a medium-risk portfolio has been  significant in your favour.
So the IFA reconfirmed  the ongoing suitability of the portfolio. And this was despite  
Mr S mention of capital  preservation  something which he explains to us now 
highlights that he became  more of a cautious investor as the years went  on. 
From everything Ive seen  here, it was Mr S IFAs who were responsible with 
deciding whether or not Standard Lifes offering met his personal and financial needs.  
So whether  Mr S was a cautious or medium risk investor and whether the Standard 
Life portfolio met his objectives was ultimately  for his IFA to conclude.
Thereafter, the portfolio was a discretionary arrangement, so it was for Standard Life 
to make investment  decisions on behalf  of Mr S along the lines of the agreed  level of 
risk. Ill consider that next.
the discretionary agreement
Looking back to the start, Mr S relationship with Standard Life began  in 2010 when 
he was 64 years old. Ive seen a copy of the investment objectives and restrictions  
that were set at the time. These were  as follows:
Ref: DRN09468824Objective  capital  growth  
Purpose  to grow  the sum to create  a retirement income
Risk profile  medium 
You are prepared to accept an average amount  of risk during  the time 
horizon of your investments but have a strong desire  to reach  your goal. You 
are looking  for a balance  of risk and reward, with the aim that, in the longer 
term, higher returns may result than those from lower risk investments. You 
are willing to accept  that the value of your investments will fall and rise and 
you may get back less than you invest.
Restrictions and constraints  Please note: No transaction  which  results in a 
leverage portfolio  will be entered into (i.e. borrowing and short  selling)
Timeline  ongoing, more than five years
Benchmark  6 month Libor
Target  6 month Libor +3%
So Mr S was set to have  a medium risk approach to investing. Broadly speaking,  this 
would expose  him to fluctuation which aimed  to provide growth over the longer term. 
In 2013, Mr S risk profile was changed to medium low following what Standard  Life 
call their risk categorisation  recalibration  project.  This was defined as: 
You are prepared to accept a moderate amount of risk over your time 
horizon. You want to protect the value of your investments but you want them 
to grow as well. Under normal circumstances, you would not expect your 
investments to fall and rise sharply  in value. You accept that, in the longer 
term, a higher level of risk may result  in higher returns.
As a discretionary portfolio manager, it was for Standard Life to work within the 
confines of what  was agreed  with Mr S, but they still had ultimate discretion as to 
which investment selection was chosen.  
From everything Ive seen, the investments made  over the eight years were broadly  
in line with the agreement Standard Life had to work with. The arrangement entitled 
Standard Life to apply discretion in using a mixture of underlying  investments  with 
different risk profiles in order to achieve an overall  portfolio  that matched Mr S 
circumstances. 
In the earlier  years, at times there  was a fairly  even split in the underlying  
investments  around 25%-30% bonds, 30% in equities,  30%-35%  in the SIA fund as 
well as some  other things like structured products. In the later years, there  appeared 
to be less of a focus on bonds, with the percentages moving  to around 10%-15% and 
instead an increase  to 45% or so in equities. Looking  at various snapshots  
throughout the years, I think the investment decisions  were broadly in line with what 
was agreed and the strategy that was shared in the review  presentations. 
Standard Life recognise the inherent  features of the SIA fund carried  higher risk than 
some of the other  elements of the portfolio  but the intention  was for these products 
to complement  or offset risks found  within other  investment choices. While significant 
losses were seen within the SIA element of the portfolio, to judge that now with the 
benefit of hindsight wouldnt be right or fair. 
Ref: DRN09468825I can see that the volatility management within the SIA fund intended on protecting 
the rest of the portfolio from losses, but things  played out differently in the markets  
and ultimately the hedging went against Mr S rather than helping  him. The theory 
didnt play out as intended,  but this isnt something I can now hold Standard Life 
responsible for  the concept was in line with what Mr S was sold and what  his IFAs 
agreed to be suitable  for him from the outset as well as four years later. It was also 
something that Standard Life drew attention to when the relationship first began, and 
it also featured in the regular reviews. Any concerns about the fund suitability would 
have, or ought  reasonably to have,  been  considered by the IFA at the time. 
Any investment manager  will always have to balance a clients  goals alongside  their 
capacity and appetite for risk. From  what Ive seen here, the combination of things 
Standard Life exposed Mr S to over the years  did indeed produce results  in line with 
his expectations   until 2015  or so at least. But more importantly, the investment  
choices were also in line with the levels and sorts  of exposure Mr S IFA agreed was 
suitable for him, not only at the beginning but throughout the lifetime  of the portfolio 
given the regular update  and review packs. 
There were elements of higher risk within the portfolio, particularly  in the presence of 
the SIA fund when  the equity percentage increased  and the fixed  interest element 
reduced. And while there were  arguably periods where Mr S was exposed to more 
risk than he now says he would have liked, the portfolio composition was clearly  
disclosed so it was for the IFA as Mr S appointed expert to assess those  risks and 
decide whether  or not they were right for him to continue with. 
So from all that I have  seen, throughout the investment lifetime Standard Life worked 
to the agreed  mandate and were transparent in terms of the construction  of the 
portfolio, their ideas  around risk management, as well as the SIA fund itself. The 
impact of the fund on the wider portfolio in the last years was of course  disappointing,  
but this in itself isnt something Id ask Standard  Life to compensate  for.
charges
Mr S has asked  that at the very least, the charges  hed been paying in the later years 
are refunded. Thats because Standard Life have always  set out to preserve and 
grow his capital, not deplete  it. But I dont  agree. The fees wont have been 
dependent on producing  positive returns  theyre there to pay the investment  
managers for doing their jobs and for all of the ancillary things needed to support a 
portfolio of investments like dealing, custody and administration. 
While Mr S feels the managers havent  done their jobs as theyve lost his money, 
they have been devising and executing  a strategy   this is doing their job. The 
strategy implementation didnt work out in the way the theory  expected, but this 
doesnt mean they shouldnt get paid for doing their jobs, nor does it mean the other  
costs associated with holding and administering investments fall away. Because of 
this, I dont plan on asking Standard Life to refund any fees.
Standard Life agreed with my findings and didnt have  anything  to add. 
Ref: DRN09468826Mr S replied  and said, in summary:
While  the outcome was disappointing,  he was grateful for the attention  and thought 
Id given to his complaint
Nevertheless, he remains  of the view that the faults here sit with Standard  Life, not 
with his IFA, as despite recognition  that underlying  markets  fluctuate, Standard Life 
produced three years  of consecutive losses  and this was when others in the market 
were earning money, not losing it
He completely understood that investments go down  as well as up, but his losses  
were considerably worse  than any of the other investment companies and friends  in 
similar positions
Hed attended various meetings with Standard Life and the IFA at home,  at a local 
coffee shop and at the Standard Life office,  but was always  given positive 
reassurances and told the portfolio was pregnant with growth
The IFA he switched to was highly recommended by Standard  Life
He and his wife had worked  long hours and long weeks  for decades to build 
successful businesses  with the hope  of a comfortable retirement  and inheritance for 
their children   but as they approached the most critical years  from the retirement 
viewpoint, the losses Standard Life delivered reduced their pensions  by £200,000 to 
£250,000
Despite the review of the case, he does  feel this is another  example of the big 
company winning  and the individual  left with his losses
And he was willing  to meet to discuss the case with me as his personal  views were 
honestly felt and held.
He sent another email too as hed had sleepless nights and was awake with frustration  he 
said hed always had a low to medium risk appetite along with capital preservation  as his 
goal. He asked  why Standard Life are viewed as having looked after him with professional 
care, while his and his wifes investments fell 10% in a short  space of time. He didnt see 
how appalling  losses could  be excused  given the emphasis the Government puts on saving 
for retirement. Ultimately,  he felt Standard Life should  be held to account  for the losses  here.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive carefully considered  Mr S response  and whether it alters the view I shared in my 
provisional findings. But Im sorry to say it hasnt. In saying this, I dont doubt that Mr S 
views are strongly and honestly  felt  its just that this comes back  to who ought  to be 
responsible for his losses, and I dont think its Standard Life.  
I said before  that I did agree there were arguably periods of higher risk within  Mr S portfolio, 
particularly during the years where more  money was lost  this was when the equity 
percentage increased, the fixed interest element reduced and the SIA fund was still a third of 
the portfolio. But while  periods like this did perhaps expose  Mr S money to more  risk than he 
says hed have  liked, that was for his IFA to monitor and assess, not Standard  Life. 
Ref: DRN09468827I highlighted  something  his adviser had said in 2014  where it was recognised that you 
now consider capital preservation with reasonable growth far more  important  than outright 
investment return not least due to your possible pending retirement and the fact that your 
pension and indeed  your and [your wifes] investment portfolios will be needed to provide  
you with an additional  source of income for the remainder of your lifetimes  but despite  this 
the IFA confirmed the portfolio remained suitable.  In my view, Standard Life set out what  
their portfolio  composition was and it was quite  clear for the IFA to see how their clients  
money was invested  and to decide whether the portfolio remained suitable. 
While Mr S may have been  reassured  by a hopeful  IFA or hopeful representative of 
Standard Life, I can only now consider Standard Lifes actions  and I think they reported 
what they were doing and what  their strategy  was clearly enough for the IFA to assess  
ongoing suitability.  And even if Standard Life did highly recommend the IFA, it doesnt mean 
they are ultimately  responsible for their work or are otherwise vicariously  liable. 
I would like to try and reassure Mr S that in no way is my judgement  swayed by whichever 
party is the larger. Our service has no allegiance  to either businesses  or consumers  
instead we look to resolve the dispute fairly,  regardless  of the outcome. And there certainly 
are times where we ask big businesses to do something differently. 
Its just in this case, from what  I have  seen Standard Life invested  Mr S money broadly in 
line with the agreement they had with him and the concept that was explained at inception.  
Some of the years it worked  well, but in others it didnt. It was from 2015 onwards the 
volatility management or hedging  that the SIA fund intended to provide wasnt actually 
needed; the markets went up but Mr S money didnt as it was hampered by the SIA 
positions which had been designed to protect him. The theory  didnt play out as intended, 
but like I said before, the concept was in line with what  Mr S was sold and what  his IFAs 
agreed to be suitable  for him from the outset, as well as four years later. 
So although  I fully appreciate the disappointment that my decision brings,  I havent  been 
persuaded to depart  from my provisional  findings  and therefore do not uphold  the complaint 
against Standard Life. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr S complaint about Standard Life Wealth  
Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 April 2021.
Aimee Stanton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0946882