K821x#15complaint
Ms T and Mr D have complained about a personal  loan from Everyday Lending Limited
trading as Everyday  Loans. They say the loan was unaffordable and that Everyday Loans
lent to them  irresponsibly.
background
I issued a provisional decision about this matter in December 2020 which I summarise 
below.
Ms T and Mr D were given a loan of £3,000 by Everyday Loans in December  2013.  Ms T 
and Mr D were  also given  a secondary loan of around £378  at the same time. This
appears to have been Repayment Protection Insurance  (RPI)  offering  life cover - the cost of
which was added to Ms T and Mr Ds loan account.
The loan and RPI were  due to be repaid in 24 monthly instalments of just over £289.
The adjudicator didnt make any findings about  the RPI, but Ms T and Mr D had complained
to this Service about both their main loan and the RPI. And Everyday Loans  referred  to the
total amount borrowed, including RPI in its Final Response. So, in coming  to my provisional
decision, I looked at this complaint as a whole.
I explained the basis on which I would decide the complaint, in particular the checks  that 
Everyday Loans  needed to do such as the amount being lent, and the consumers joint 
income and expenditure. I said that Everyday  Loans needed to take reasonable steps to 
ensure that it didn't lend to Ms T and Mr D irresponsibly.  This means  that it had to carry out 
proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Ms T and Mr D could repay  their loan in a 
sustainable way.
Everyday Loans  carried out some checks  before lending to Ms T and Mr D. This
included asking for details of their income and expenditure and acquiring credit reports.
The adjudicator thought  that Everyday Loans  ought to have had some concerns about  what
it found in its checks. And that this should  have prompted the lender to look further into Ms T
and Mr Ds financial circumstances - for example, by requesting bank statements. Everyday
Loans says that its checks showed that previous payday loans had all been repaid  and the
consumers were planning to use some  of the loan to pay off an overdraft. Everyday Loans
doesnt think the evidence from its checks was concerning  enough for it to have requested
bank statements.
But I thought the evidence  that Everyday Loans had provided strongly suggested that it did 
review bank statements  from both Mr D and Ms T at the time.  The lenders internal notes 
dated December  2013 refer to:
Rent poof payment seen  on b/s and
Mr b/s best bal -181.94 worst bal -1580.46 act fee/interest and previous unpaid/paid
transactions charge on 2 months b/s  seen  wages/tax credits and c/b on b/s.
Everyday Loans  notes also indicated that bank statements from Ms T were  also reviewed.
Ref: DRN03675962I hadnt seen what bank statements Everyday Loans appear to have reviewed at the time. 
Nor had I seen the actual credit reports in full that Everyday Loans acquired at the time.  
But from what I had seen,  I think its likely that Everyday Loans did carry out reasonable and
proportionate checks when it assessed Ms Ts and Mr Ds application for a loan.
So, I considered  whether  Everyday Loans  made a fair lending decision at the time, in
response to what it found in its checks.  On balance,  I didnt think it did and I explained why I
intended to uphold this complaint.
Ms T and Mr D had provided information  about their circumstances at the time, including  
bank statements from Mr D and a credit  report for Ms T. Different checks show  different 
things but I thought its likely that the information gathered by Everyday Loans during its 
checks, including the bank statements it seems  to have reviewed,  would  have been  broadly 
similar to the information that Ms T and Mr D had been able to provide  to us.
The information I had seen shows that both Ms T and Mr D had been borrowing from
several short term and payday lenders, as well as repaying bank loans  and a higher
purchase agreement,  in the months  leading up to their application to Everyday Loans.
Everyday Loans  say that having looked at the payday loans usage on the bank  statements  it
seemed that all payday loans were settled at the point of sale - although from what Id seen
it seems that Ms T did have some short term and payday loans that were still open when she
and Mr D borrowed from Everyday Loans.
But in any event, given  the number of loans and the frequency of borrowing, I thought  
Everyday Loans  ought reasonably to have considered whether these consumers were reliant 
on short  term and payday lending to manage their ongoing financial commitments.
Everyday Loans  were also aware  that part of Ms T and Mr Ds income was benefit related,
and given their existing credit commitments, they would  most likely struggle to repay the loan
if either one of them found themselves without  work  during the loan term. Income  from both
consumers was required in order for Ms T and Mr D to meet  the repayments for their loan.
So, I thought the fact that both Ms T and Mr D were taking short term and payday loans 
should have been relevant to Everyday Loans decision to lend.
I thought Everyday Loans focussed its calculation of whether the loan was affordable  for Ms 
T and Mr D on a pounds and pence basis. But the lender was required to establish  whether 
the borrowers could  sustainably  meet their loan repayments  not just whether the loan 
payments were technically affordable on a strict  pounds and pence calculation.
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication  a consumer could
sustainably make their repayments.  But it doesn't automatically follow  this is the case. This
is because the relevant  regulations define sustainable as being  without  undue  difficulties and
in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while  meeting other
reasonable commitments; as well as without having  to borrow  to meet  the repayments. And
it follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Everyday Loans  was providing Ms T and Mr D with an expensive loan, repayable over an
extended period  and the rules and guidance  suggest that the risk of any credit not being
Ref: DRN03675963sustainable directly  relates to the amount of credit  granted and the total charge  for credit -
relative to the customers financial  situation.
Taking things in the round, I thought Everyday Loans ought reasonably  to have recognised
from the information it gathered that Ms T and Mr D were having some difficulty managing
their financial  situation. I thought it ought  reasonably to have realised that both Ms T and Mr 
D were regularly borrowing from short term and payday lenders to keep up with their 
ongoing financial commitments,  and that it was most likely they would need  to borrow  
elsewhere to repay their loan. I thought Everyday Loans ought  to have realised that it was 
unlikely that Ms T and Mr D would  have been able to sustainably repay their loan over the 
extended loan term. So, I thought Everyday  Loans ought reasonably to have concluded that 
it was not appropriate to provide them with this loan.
Ms T and Mr D say they were told by Everyday Loans they were  eligible for the loan only if
they took the RPI, as they were in the high risk group. I hadnt seen any information  from
Everyday Loans  about why Ms T and Mr D were  sold RPI. But as I concluded that
Everyday Loans  shouldnt have provided  the loan, it was reasonable for me to also conclude
that there  wouldnt have  been any loan for the RPI to cover, so the RPI premiums  plus
interest should be returned to Ms T and Mr D.
I hadnt seen anything which made  me think that Everyday Loans acted unfairly or
unreasonably towards  Ms T and Mr D in some  other  way. But I thought they had to pay 
interest and charges on a loan and on RPI that they shouldnt have been given in the first 
place. I said I was intending to uphold this complaint  and directing Everyday Loans to put 
things right for Ms T and Mr D.
I invited both parties to send me any further comments or evidence. Ms T and Mr D said they 
didnt have anything  further to add. 
Everyday Loans  provided more information including  the bank statements and credit reports  
it reviewed when it provided the loan to Ms T and Mr D. Everyday Loans says the bank 
statements provided by Ms T and Mr D show that all pay day loans had been paid off or 
settled. Everyday Loans also says that it considered Ms T and Mr Ds other creditors  when  it 
assessed the affordability of the loan and it thinks that using its loan to clear  the overdraft  on 
their account  would have put them in a better financial position. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for all the information  that has been provided about  this matter 
and for responding to my initial findings.
I have carefully considered the additional  information that Everyday Loans has provided,  
along with all the other information that has been provided by both parties on this matter. 
The additional information  provided by Everyday Loans has not changed  my view of this 
complaint.  I think that Everyday Loans  ought  reasonably to have realised  from the 
information it had gathered and from its own calculations  about Ms T and Mr Ds financial 
situation, that they were having  difficulties  managing  their financial situation and were  most 
Ref: DRN03675964likely overcommitted financially - and that they were likely to struggle to repay  their loan 
sustainably over the extended  loan term. Taking everything into account, I dont think  it was 
reasonable for Everyday Loans  to have come to the conclusion that its loan would put Ms T 
and Mr D in a better financial position.  Overall,  I think Everyday Loans ought reasonably to 
have concluded  that it was not appropriate  to provide Ms T and Mr D with this loan.
I have not seen any further information about  why Ms T and Mr D were sold RPI. Nor has 
Everyday Loans  commented on my conclusion that as I think that Everyday Loans  shouldnt 
have provided  the loan,  it is reasonable to also conclude that there  wouldnt have been  any 
loan for the RPI to cover,  so the RPI premiums plus interest should be returned to Ms T and 
Mr D.
Given I havent seen  any further evidence or comment that changes my mind about  this 
complaint, I confirm the conclusions that I reached  in my provisional decision and I uphold 
this complaint. Everyday  Loans should put things right for Ms T and Mr D.
Putting things  right
If Everyday Loans  sold any outstanding  debt payable  in respect of Ms T and Mr Ds loan, it
should buy it back from the third party, if its able to do so, and then take the following steps.
If Everyday Loans  isnt able to buy the debt back then it should  liaise  with the new debt
owner to achieve  the results outlined below.
Everyday Loans  should:
a)Remove all interest, fees and charges  applied  to the loan from the outset, and treat 
any repayments made by Ms T and Mr D as though they had been repayments of the 
principal on this loan.  If this results in Ms T and Mr D having made overpayments  
then Everyday Loans should  refund these overpayments with 8% simple  interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments  would have arisen, 
to the date the complaint is settled.
b)If there  is still an outstanding balance then Everyday  Loans should try to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with Ms T and Mr D bearing in mind its obligation to treat 
them positively and sympathetically in these discussions. 
c)Everyday Loans should also refund to Ms T and Mr D any RPI premiums  paid,  with 
8% simple interest. *
d)Everyday Loans should remove any adverse information about the loan from Ms T 
and Mr Ds credit file. If Everyday Loans  has sold the outstanding loan it should ask 
the debt purchaser to do the same. Everyday Loans does not have to remove the 
outstanding loan from Ms T and Mr Ds credit file until it has been repaid, but it 
should still remove any adverse  information  recorded about this loan.
*HMRC requires  Everyday Loans to take off tax from this interest and provide Ms T and Mr
D with a certificate showing how much tax its taken off, if they request one.
Ref: DRN03675965my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold this complaint  and direct Everyday Lending Limited  
trading as Everyday  Loans to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 April 2021.
Sharon Parr
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0367596