K821x#15complaint
Mrs D complains that Wirecard Card  Solutions Limited wrongly  debited  her pre-paid Pockit 
card account  with two transactions that she says she neither made nor authorised. 
background
Mrs D has a Pockit payment card, issued and administered by Wirecard.  In May and June 
2018 two payments of just over £200 each were made to a web hosting service  in the USA, 
using Mrs Ds card details.  Mrs D said she didnt recognise them  and hadnt made them  or 
authorised anyone else to do so. 
Wirecard suggested that Mrs D get in touch with the merchant to seek  a refund. She did that, 
but the merchant  referred her back to Wirecard.  Wirecard in turn contacted  the merchant but 
then told Mrs D that the merchants evidence indicated she had in fact authorised the 
payments. It later said that of the payments  had been refunded. Mrs D referred the matter to 
this service and one of our investigators  considered it. 
Our investigator wasnt persuaded however that Mrs D had authorised the transactions 
herself. Whilst the merchant had the correct card details,  the name it had been given wasnt 
Mrs Ds and the address  provided didnt match (although the postcode did); its notes showed 
too that there had been a telephone conversation with a man claiming  to be the cardholder. 
The investigator recommended  a refund, together with a further payment of £100 in 
recognition of the distress to which Mrs D had been  put and the inconvenience shed 
suffered. 
Wirecard didnt accept the investigators recommendation and asked that an ombudsman 
review the case.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
broadly the same conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar reasons. 
Mrs D initially  suggested that her card might  have been copied or cloned  to make the 
transactions. Its important however to note that they were made using the card details, not a 
physical card, either genuine or copied.  That of course isnt unusual  where a transaction is 
conducted remotely  for example, by telephone or online. But, in order  to establish whether 
the genuine cardholder is making  a transaction, the merchant will take details of the card 
(card number, expiry date, CVV number)  and the cardholder  (usually  including name  and 
address). Many of those details can be easily found out by someone looking  for them.    
As the investigator  noted, there were discrepancies in the information provided  to the 
merchant in this case. Specifically: 
The name provided didnt match the name  on the card  Mrs D. 
The address wasnt Mrs Ds address,  although Wirecard and the merchant said the 
postcode was the same as Mrs Ds. 
As far as the name is concerned, a card payment for services provided to one person might 
have been made by someone else. That is, a cardholder might  agree to pay another  
Ref: DRN09283382persons subscription,  for example. But I would still expect the provider of those services to 
take the name on the card when  processing the payment. The correspondence  from the 
merchant to Wirecard in this case refers to a mutual  customer and provides a name that isnt 
Mrs Ds. Im satisfied on balance  therefore  that the name provided didnt match  the name on 
the card. 
The postcode given did match Mrs Ds postcode, but the address (door  number and street 
name) didnt. Of course,  postcodes often cover a group  of addresses, but the address 
provided to the merchant  didnt share  a postcode  with Mrs Ds address. In fact, there  is no 
such address in the town where Mrs D lives. I note however that the merchants notes 
include SA in the address;  there  are several addresses in South Australia that would 
match. The merchant said that it had checked  the address, but it appears that it made an 
error in doing  so. 
In addition, it appears that the merchant spoke  in error to a man,  believing  him to be the 
cardholder, Mrs D. 
Wirecard was to some extent reliant on the merchants checks in processing the payment. 
But I think are sufficient  discrepancies between Mrs Ds actual details and those  provided  to 
the merchant  for to conclude that she neither made the disputed  transactions  herself nor 
authorised someone  else to do so on her behalf.  It follows that Wirecard should refund them, 
to the extent it hasnt  already done so.         
my final decision
My final decision is that Wirecard  Card  Solutions Limited should rework Mrs Ds Pockit  
account as if the disputed  payments had not been  made. In addition, it should pay her £100  
in recognition of the distress shes been put to and the inconvenience to which  shes been 
put. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0928338