K821x#15complaint
Mrs C complains that Lowell Portfolio I Ltd (Lowell)  didnt remove a County Court 
Judgement (CCJ) from her credit file after shed  made the necessary payment.
background
Mrs C had a debt with a bank which was sold to Lowell in June 2013.  They  subsequently 
commenced legal proceedings in a bid to obtain a CCJ.  The CCJ was granted in early  2015 
and a few days  later Mrs C arranged to make  a payment to settle the debt. Lowell confirmed 
that if the payment was made in a month the CCJ would be removed from Mrs Cs credit file. 
But Lowell agree that after they received the payment  they failed to remove  the CCJ from 
Mrs Cs credit file and Mrs C says that as a result shes experienced significant problems 
obtaining credit. She says:
she was unable to get a mortgage and lost out on a house she wanted to buy;
she therefore had to continue renting for six months and 
has only been able to get a credit card with a very high interest rate.
Mrs C also explained that Lowells failure to remove the CCJ caused her undue  distress and 
inconvenience. She said shed had to explain her previous financial problems to her new 
husband; shed  borrowed money from parents for a deposit and had to explain to them  why 
they would  not be buying the house theyd got the loans for and that shed missed out on 
getting her and her husbands first house  together. 
Lowell accepted that theyd made  a mistake.  They offered  Mrs C £350 compensation and 
they asked the courts  to remove the CCJ immediately.
But Mrs C wasnt  satisfied with the compensation theyd  offered and she therefore referred 
her complaint to this service where our investigator provided his opinion.  He didnt think  
there was evidence of financial loss on her credit card transactions as he noted Mrs C 
accepted she always paid her credit  card off in full and there  was therefore no interest 
chargeable. He also didnt  think it would  be reasonable to suggest Mrs C had lost out 
financially in her house purchase. He thought there would have been other checks  
necessary with both the borrowers and on the property before a mortgage  could  be 
approved and he didnt think negotiations had reached that point.
However, he did think it was clear that Mrs C had suffered significant  distress and 
inconvenience. He noted shed had to explain her previous financial affairs  to her husband 
and to her husbands and her own family  and that shed not been able to progress a 
purchase of her first family home. He understood that Mrs C had suffered a miscarriage  
during this time and he felt that delay in the aftermath of the CCJ would have added to the 
grief of what would  have already been  a very distressing time for her. So with this in mind he 
suggested that Lowell pay Mrs C £1,000 to compensate her for the distress  and 
inconvenience shed  experienced.
Lowell didnt  agree  with the investigators view and they asked for a final decision by an 
ombudsman.
Ref: DRN07527032my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view. I know that will disappoint Lowell so please let me 
explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Theres no dispute here that a mistake was made and I can see that Lowell were quick to 
make efforts to rectify the problem and to contact  the courts  to have the CCJ removed.
Im not persuaded that there is sufficient evidence  of financial loss that I could fairly ask 
Lowell to compensate  Mrs C for. I say that because Mrs C has told us she pays the card off 
in full each month and therefore interest wont have been attracted and the rate of interest is 
therefore unimportant. I dont  think theres evidence of loss in the house  purchase either.  
Negotiations were  at a reasonably early stage  and additional checks would need to be done 
on the property  before a mortgage could  be approved. So I dont think  it would be fair to 
suggest Mrs C incurred  losses  as a result of Lowells mistake.
However, I do agree that shes experienced significant distress and inconvenience. The 
presence of a CCJ on her record would  undoubtedly  have  been  distressing and would have  
hampered her efforts to get a mortgage. Mrs C had made a payment to ensure the CCJ was 
removed and I can understand  the embarrassment  of having to explain this to her husband 
and family.  I was very sorry to hear of her miscarriage and I can understand that the 
realisation of the mistake  Lowell had made would have only added  to Mrs Cs worries at the 
time.
In light of this I think Lowell should  make  an additional payment and, in the circumstances, 
Im persuaded £1,000 is reasonable.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Lowell Portfolio I Ltd to pay 
Mrs C £1,000 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience shes  experienced  as a 
result of their mistake.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0752703