K820x#14complaint
Mr S operates a small retailer, which Ill refer to as A. Mr S is unhappy  that WorldPay (UK) 
Limited has deducted funds from As account  after a chargeback was made against it.
background
WorldPay acts as As merchant acquirer.  As part of this arrangement  it provides a card 
terminal for transactions to be processed  by A.
On 15 September  2018 Mr S sold goods to a customer and a card payment for £688  was 
taken and processed via As card terminal.
On 23 September  2018 WorldPay received notification  from the bank of the card holder 
whose account  was debited with the £688  that they were disputing  the transaction  as they 
denied making  or authorising it. As a result the card holders bank was raising a chargeback 
requesting that the money be refunded.
On 27 September  2018 WorldPay wrote to A asking for additional information about the 
transaction. After  reviewing the information  provided, WorldPay  informed A on 6 October 
2018 that it would be debiting £688 from its account  as the evidence  wasnt sufficient to 
defend the chargeback. 
Mr S, on behalf of A, continued to dispute  this decision and complained  to WorldPay. 
WorldPay maintained  it hadnt  done  anything wrong and that the transaction  had been  
debited from As account in line with the agreement between the two. It said that the user 
agreement explained  that card payments do not offer guaranteed forms of payment, even if 
all of the usual  security procedures are followed,  and that retailers, such as A, are potentially 
liable if the genuine account  holder  disputes making the payment.  
WorldPay also said that the evidence available showed that this transaction had been 
keyed, with the card details manually entered into the terminal, rather  than processed as 
Chip and PIN, which would normally be the case when a cardholder is present. Although A 
had taken an imprint of the card, the cardholder  details didnt match those  of the card holder 
whose account  was debited  so the card used for the transaction  appeared to be 
counterfeit. And this was why WorldPay  had been unable to defend  the chargeback on As 
behalf. 
Unhappy with this response Mr S complained  to our service. He feels WorldPay  has not 
supported A or considered this case individually. Mr S said at no time had a representative  
of A keyed any information into the terminal, so if this was the case then the customer 
mustve managed to override the process.  When dealing  with customers  travelling from 
overseas, sometimes Chip and PIN is not enabled  so a signature  is required on the sales 
voucher, which  is why, when the terminal receipt requested  a signature,  they were not 
suspicious. Where that happens Mr S says A takes a card imprint, two forms of identification 
and a separate signature  all of which had been  done here.  So Mr S felt that there was 
nothing more that A couldve  done and it was unfair that it was being held liable for the 
transaction.
Ref: DRN08480772Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld as he felt WorldPay was entitled  
to hold A liable for the transaction.  Mr S disagreed. Mr S said that he felt this was not a 
straightforward case and that WorldPay had not acted fairly  and shouldve  done more  to 
assist A. As Mr S didnt agree with our adjudicators  findings the complaint has been  passed 
to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I can see that Mr S feels very strongly about this issue and has provided  a number of 
detailed explanations and responses  to our service.  Ive taken everything he has said into 
account. But I havent addressed every point he has made individually. And that is because  
they all relate to the central issue of his complaint  whether it is fair that WorldPay holds A 
liable for the chargeback. And this is what Ive focused on.
Chargeback is the process by which card payment disputes are resolved between card 
issuers and merchants. The rules around chargebacks are set by the card scheme, in this 
case Visa.  And WorldPay is required to abide by these rules  in respect of chargeback 
claims.
An imprint of the card used for the transaction that is being disputed  has been  provided. Ill 
come on to discuss the reason for the imprint having been taken shortly.  But the crucial 
piece of information the imprint provides relates to the cardholder  name  listed  on the card 
used for the transaction. The person whose account was charged, is not the person listed  on 
the card. The account holders bank instigated the chargeback and sent information to 
WorldPay, via the relevant card scheme,  that the card number  corresponds  to that of their 
account holder  but the name on the card used is not the same  as its account holder. 
Therefore it said that it appeared  that the card was not genuine and the account holder was 
likely a victim of fraud. So under the VISA rules,  the chargeback raised appears valid.  And I 
dont think anything provided at the time or subsequently by Mr S wouldve been sufficient 
for WorldPay to dispute the chargeback. So I think it is reasonable that the funds were 
debited to As account via chargeback.
Mr S has said that As original agreement was with a different company and that WorldPay 
took over this agreement. As a result he says A wasnt provided with the terms of the 
agreement with WorldPay or operating manual. I think  its likely that A was provided with the 
relevant information  when  WorldPay  became its merchant acquirer. In any event though A 
has continued to use WorldPays  services, so appears to accept the ongoing  arrangement. 
So I think its reasonable that WorldPay is entitled  to apply the terms and conditions.  And the 
terms and conditions of As agreement with WorldPay make it clear  that A will be liable for 
any successful chargebacks. And on balance I think its likely any agreement A had with its 
previous provider was likely to contain the same  provision.
Mr S says that, because  of how WorldPay has handled this dispute,  it isnt fair that this term 
be applied. Specifically he has referred  to it maintaining  that the transaction  was carried  out 
as keyed even  after he explained why he didnt agree and its failure  to investigate this 
further.
Ref: DRN08480773Weve been provided with a copy of the receipt for the transaction. And this does say that 
the transaction was completed as keyed where the card details are manually entered  into 
the terminal, and that a signature was required. Ive taken on board what  Mr S has said 
about it not being unusual  that a signature be required, as some cards  require this additional 
verification, particularly overseas customers and that A takes imprints of the cards  in those 
instances. So I can understand  why this may not have appeared out of the ordinary. 
I asked WorldPay for evidence of what receipts  would look like in the scenarios Mr S 
described  where  a PIN is entered and signature  still required.  And it has shown that 
receipts in those scenarios wouldnt include the description keyed. WorldPay has also 
provided details  of the transaction  from its processing system  recorded  remotely  when the 
transaction is processed on the terminal  which also shows  the transaction  as having been 
keyed. There is no way to know exactly what happened  when  the transaction  was carried 
out. But based on the evidence that is available, I dont think it was unreasonable for 
WorldPay to conclude that the transaction  was carried out as keyed and end its 
investigation at that point.
I have a great deal of sympathy for Mr S as it appears that A has also been  a victim in this 
instance. But this is due to actions of the person that carried out the purchase. I think 
WorldPay has handled the dispute fairly, so I think its reasonable that it hold A liable, in line 
with the terms of their agreement.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019.
Ben Stoker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0848077