K820x#14complaint
This complaint is referred here by Mr R, a son of Mrs R and the executor of her estate. Mr R 
complains that Bank of Scotland plc (Halifax)  incorrectly allowed withdrawals  not made 
by Mrs R - from Mrs Rs account  between August 2014 and November 2015.
To resolve  the dispute  Mr R would like Halifax to take responsibility for its incorrect  actions in 
not protecting Mrs Rs money with the bank. He hasnt asked that all transactions in dispute  
be refunded, only sufficient funds to cover Mrs Rs funeral costs; but he asks that Halifax  pay 
compensation to him.
Background
Mr R alleges his sister, Mrs S, who passed away in March 2018, and her daughter,  Ms O, 
were responsible for removing funds from Mrs Rs accounts over a number of years.  He 
says Mrs R had dementia  and went into a care home in November 2015. Before that, Mrs R 
lived alone although Mr R assumed Mrs S was taking care of Mrs R and her finances. 
Mr R says that Mrs R wouldnt  have been  able to make the cash withdrawals. And a 
neighbour of Mrs R told him that his sister and niece were withdrawing thousands of pounds  
from Mrs Rs accounts,  which he suggests would not have been the wish of Mrs R. 
When Mr R found out about this, although  he approached Halifax,  he was denied any kind of 
response to his enquiries. It said he didnt have proper authority. Mr R only then picked the 
matter up again  after Mrs R passed  away, as he was executor for her estate and he 
reviewed statements. The balances, on closure of the accounts, were  far lower than he 
expected them to be.  
Mr R says Halifax should have picked up the withdrawals were being carried out at cash 
machines and suspected that they werent being made by the elderly Mrs R. The suggestion 
is that if it had done so, Mrs S and Ms O would have been  prevented  from withdrawing  at 
least some  of the funds  that were withdrawn, and the account balances would have been 
higher on closure.  
Halifax concluded that theres no evidence  to suggest that Mrs R didnt authorise the 
disputed transactions  to take place, albeit  she may not have made them  herself.
Here are the dates  of some key milestones behind the complaint:
28 November 2013  current account balance  was £100;
November 2013  onwards   there  are significant transfers in, pension payments  in, direct 
debit payments, cash machine withdrawals and post office counter withdrawals on the 
current account  the cash  withdrawals are disputed and amount to thousands of pounds; 
10 February 2014  Mrs Rs savings account  had a balance £1239.06 and £42,408.87 was 
transferred into the account;
20 May 2014  undisputed transfer of £18,000  made to Mrs S account;
August 2014 to November 2015  disputed cash machine withdrawals totalling £21,125.35 
from savings account;
Ref: DRN0274699230 November 2015  Mrs R becomes  resident in care home;
22 January 2016   Third party access given to Ms O;
9 March 2016  banks  records show Mr R contacted it for information on the accounts  but 
this was denied.  He was sent away to get formal  authority, given Mrs Rs said incapacity;
30 May 2017  savings  account closed with balance  of £4751.03; 
30 May 2017  current account closed with a balance of £11,729.41;
30 May 2017  POA  granted to council;
8 March 2018  Mrs S passes away;
April 2018  Mrs R admitted to hospital;
31 May 2018  Mrs R passes away
Our investigator considered what she might conclude about how the disputed  transactions  
came to be made. Ignoring, for the moment, any suggestion that Mrs R may have been 
incapacitated from understanding  whatever authority  she had provided for others  to use her 
account, at various  times, the investigator  was mindful that Ms O was granted  third party 
access to the account on 22 January 2016. 
This would have had to have been  carried out in branch with Mrs R present and so, on the 
face of, at least in January 2016,  it seems that Mrs R was happy for Ms O to carry out 
transactions on the accounts. And, of course,  sadly, Mrs R isnt available  to say anything  
about her intentions at the time;  indeed  Mrs S also has sadly  passed away and cant 
comment herself on what agreement she had with Mrs R.    
The investigator also noted that there was a transaction for £18,000 on 20 May 2014,  where  
the funds were transferred from Mrs R to Mrs S. Mr R doesnt  dispute that this was a 
genuine payment  made by Mrs R and it was a loan to his sister. This is also indicative that 
there was a relationship between the two based on some form of financial understanding  
albeit, that doesnt evidence that all other  withdrawals said to have been made  by Mrs S or 
Ms O were  authorised by Mrs R. 
The disputed transactions all happened before Mrs R was admitted to her care home. In 
respect of the period from before Mrs R was admitted to the care home, there now exists   
apart from whatever  Mr R says about the period - no evidence  as to what financial or 
broader support  arrangements existed to assist her when she was living  alone. The 
investigator was very mindful that, apart  from whatever Mr Rs evidence was, only the 
evidence of Ms O could potentially now exist and the investigator  wasnt in a position to 
obtain nor properly test evidence  from that source.  
In short,  the investigator  was concerned  that, despite what  Mr R might say about the period 
of the disputed transactions, there is little evidence to suggest that Mrs R wasnt  aware of 
the disputed transactions, that she authorised them and that they werent simply part of 
whatever wider support arrangements Mrs R had in place to assist  her.   
Ref: DRN02746993Halifax also confirmed that Mrs R was receiving statements to her home address before she 
went into the care home, so she would have potentially been able to check  these and raise a 
concern if she saw anything on them that she didnt expect to see. On that point, however, I 
would add that Im not personally  persuaded as to the compelling nature of that evidence  as 
it seems to me that if Mrs R was receiving support at the time in managing her affairs, the 
statements could have  been diverted from her sight  although I accept that this would have 
had to happen with great  regularity and for a significant period.
The investigator also noted that Halifax didnt  know about Mrs Rs vulnerabilities or her 
changing circumstances, including her move to a care home. She said it was therefore 
difficult for them to effectively respond  to whatever Mrs Rs changing needs were. 
In summary,  the investigator didnt think there was enough evidence to show  Mrs R didnt 
authorise any of the disputed transactions herself.  And therefore she didnt consider she 
could recommend that Halifax refund  their value to her estate.
Mr R has asked that an ombudsman review the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R maintains that Halifax ought to have identified that there  was inappropriate use of the 
accounts Mrs R held and taken action to prevent the ongoing  cash  withdrawals which  he 
asserts she wouldnt have authorised. In support of his argument, hes submitted a letter 
from a Locum Consultant Psychiatrist for Older People which  says that Mrs R had a brain 
scan in June 2014 that showed she had dementia.
He has also reiterated  that he tried to raise concerns in March  2016 but was denied  being 
able to. He also says that someone at the bank has suggested to him that it ought to have 
picked up the pattern  of the disputed  transactions, over such a long period. He makes a 
point to support  that by saying that hes had a single  payment stopped  by the bank  before, 
which it wouldnt finalise, until he validated it.  
I have considerable  sympathy with Mr R and the position he found himself  in as executor of 
his mothers estate, identifying as he did that the value of the estate was far less than hed 
anticipated it would be. I wholly accept that Mr R is genuine in his belief that between  his 
sister and niece, they acted to make withdrawals  from Mrs Rs accounts that he considers 
she wouldnt  have authorised.
That evidence, in itself,  however, isnt sufficient for me to require the bank to reimburse  the 
estate with the value  or part value  of the disputed transactions.  In order for me to be able 
to do that, I need  to adequately satisfy  myself  about a number  of elements related to the 
circumstances in which the disputed transactions were made.  This complaint doesnt 
concern simply what Mr R says about how the disputed transactions  were made (although 
that is of course  important); but whether,  in all the circumstances and even if they werent 
properly authorised, does Halifax have to reimburse their value to the estate of Mrs R, on the 
basis that it could  have prevented the transactions taking place..   
Ref: DRN02746994First, I should  be clear  that Im considering  this complaint, effectively, not as it being  the 
complaint of Mr R. The eligible complainant  in this matter was Mrs R, about  matters that 
happened in her lifetime,  but given that she is now sadly passed  away, Mr R is authorised  in 
law, as executor  to her estate, to bring  the complaint  on her behalf.
Against that background, I have  to take into account  that Mrs R made no complaint about 
the transactions herself. And while I appreciate that Mr R would say that she didnt  have the 
ability to do so in her lifetime, but be that as it may,  Mr R is only now bringing this complaint, 
on Mrs Rs behalf but with no evidence from Mrs R herself that she didnt authorise the 
transactions; that the transactions were  ones she wouldnt have wanted to be made. 
I do have Mr Rs evidence to that effect though  and I want  to repeat that I wholly accept that 
this is presented as his genuine belief about  what happened. But it remains that this is only 
the evidence of Mr R. I note that Mr R did try to raise concerns back  in 2016,  two years 
before Mrs R passed away, but that still evidences little as to what Mrs R would have  said 
about the transactions at the time. 
I am mindful  that Mr R is accepting that Mrs R had a relationship with Mrs S, that involved 
her supporting Mrs R with day to day activities; that Mrs R was prepared to lend £18,000 to 
Mrs S; and I have to have  regard  to the credible  possibility  that Mrs R was in agreement to 
Mrs S  and by extension  Ms O  removing funds from her account and using those funds 
for whatever they were  used for, and which I cant completely  rule out might  have been for 
Mrs Rs own benefit, at least  in part. Of course, Mrs R subsequently  also went  on to give 
formal authority to Ms O, for her to transact on the account.
Mrs R was also receiving statements to her house  which, again, I cant with any degree of 
certainty say that Mrs R didnt have  knowledge of. 
And, finally, Ive considered Mr Rs representations about Mrs Rs ill health and her potential  
inability to have  understood what was happening with her accounts. Im sorry to read from 
the Consultant  Psychiatrists  letter, from June 2014,  of Mrs Rs ill health  involving various  
conditions, including  her having some degree of mental ill health.
However that letter says in summary she probably  does have a very early dementia. 
Obviously, Im very sorry to read that Mrs R was diagnosed at that time, as she was, but Im 
afraid that this doesnt seem to me to be evidence  that Mrs R had no ability to understand 
that she was the victim  of financial abuse from someone else.  The evidence  simply doesnt 
say, Im afraid, that she had no capacity to understand that she was authorising payments, 
general use of her accounts,  or indeed an ability to check on activity on her accounts.  
And as Ive already suggested,  my decision here concerns not just how certain  I am about  
Mrs Rs knowledge of the disputed transactions taking place. For me to require the bank to 
make the refund sought, Id also have  to conclude that the transactions were of a nature that 
the bank ought to have  been alerted to the potential that Mrs Rs accounts  were being 
misused in some way; and that when it investigated, Mrs R would have  raised concern with 
the bank about her being a victim  of fraud.
Ref: DRN02746995As for whether the bank ought  to identified an issue with the transactions  in dispute, I have 
to start with the fact that each individual transaction appeared on the face of it to be a 
regular, properly authorised transaction. And, broadly speaking, account holders will 
generally be liable for payments theyve authorised and, generally  speaking, banks will be 
liable for unauthorised payments. Banks have an overall responsibility to follow  their 
customers instructions and make payments from their accounts that theyre asked to make.
That isnt the end of the story though. A bank also has a duty to exercise reasonable skill 
and care, pay due regard  to the interest  of its customers and to follow  good industry practice 
and take steps  to keep the customers accounts safe, as well as other  obligations. Broadly, 
the law also recognises  that a bank may be liable  where it has reasonable grounds  to 
believe its customers funds are being misappropriated. 
And I do consider  that the overriding  pattern of the transactions between  August 2014 and 
November 2015  were such that they might be said to have alerted to Lloyds  as being 
potentially problematic.  
But, given all that Ive said about  the wider circumstances  in which  the disputed transactions 
were made, I dont think it would be safe to conclude that all the elements necessary, in 
order for the bank to have to refund the debited transactions,  exist, i.e. that Mrs R had no 
knowledge of the transactions or Mrs S misuse  of her accounts;  that the bank ought to have  
identified a potential  issue with use of the accounts; and that if Lloyds  had contacted Mrs R 
about activity  on the accounts, she would have identified the activity as fraudulent.
Taking all the evidence into account, including  Mr Rs own genuine belief about the actions of 
Mrs S, Im afraid Im not convinced  it would  be fair and reasonable to say that the bank have acted 
incorrectly in not refunding  to the estate  of Mrs R, the value of the transactions disputed  by Mr R.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2020.
Ray Neighbour
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0274699