K820x#14complaint
Ms B complains  that Barclays Bank  UK PLC has acted unfairly  and unreasonably in dealing 
with overpayments  made to her mortgage.  She wants the overpayments to be applied 
correctly.
background
Ms B took out a mortgage with Barclays, which allowed some overpayments to be made. 
Ms B said that she made overpayments, but the money had been used to reduce the 
monthly repayment, rather than the length  of the mortgage (a part repayment, rather than 
an overpayment). Ms B wasnt happy  as she said that it meant it was going to take her 
longer to repay the mortgage than she thought.
Ms B complained to Barclays. It said that Ms B had a pre-payment balance. This was the 
total of payments made since  the start of the mortgage which  was more than expected  to be 
received, and would eventually  lead to the mortgage  finishing early. Barclays also said that 
payments made between  2013 and 2016  were treated as part-repayments  (the 2017  
payment was processed as an overpayment at Ms Bs request) as large  lump  sums had 
been paid; this led to the monthly payment being reduced,  not the term. 
Barclays said if Ms B wanted  to make overpayments, she should do so by making  small 
overpayments each  month, rather than paying  in large lump sums. It also said that Ms B had 
been told that if she wanted  particular  payments  treated as overpayments,  she had 90 days 
within which  to contact  Barclays, but warned if she did so, her monthly payment would 
increase and this option was to be removed in the future. It said that its treatment of 
overpayments was decided by its own policies. Barclays  offered £100 compensation in 
respect of other issues raised by Ms B but not within this complaint.
Ms B complained to us. Barclays pointed out that under Financial Conduct Authority 
guidance it couldnt change the mortgage  term without discussing that with the consumer in 
case it affected the affordability  of the mortgage. It also said that its treatment of 
overpayments had been explained  to Ms B many times and it had simply applied its policies.
The investigators view was that Barclays wasnt at fault. He said whether an overpayment or 
part repayment was made, the interest  due was reduced as the balance is smaller so Ms B 
hadnt lost out. The investigator set out Barclays  policy  on when a payment would be treated 
as an overpayment or part repayment  and noted  that each time Ms B had been sent a letter 
giving 90 days to change  the option  for the payment selected by Barclays.  And the 
investigator said the mortgage term couldnt just be reduced due to overpayments; to 
officially reduce the term, Ms B had to make an application and Barclays would have  to see 
if it would  be affordable. But he didnt think that Barclays  had done anything wrong and it had 
clearly set out its policy to Ms B.
Ms B disagreed. She said the investigators explanation had helped, but she felt Barclays 
was at fault as it shouldve  been  clearer when she took out the mortgage how the system 
worked. She also thought it should check its call records to see how to treat the payments, 
rather than expect her to respond to a notice. The investigator thought  that the notices were 
sufficient and it wasnt necessary to explain  all policies when giving a customer a mortgage. 
He also thought that it wasnt reasonable to expect Barclays  to check all calls when dealing 
with payments. The investigator also worked  with Ms B to help her understand the position 
generally regarding  her mortgage,  but she wanted an ombudsmans  view on this issue.
Ref: DRN01349762my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think Barclays is at fault in relation to the issue of the overpayment  made  by Ms B. I 
appreciate that Ms B wants to repay  her mortgage  early, but a consumer cant  change  the 
agreed term of the mortgage without going  through an application process. What  they can 
do, and this is what Ms B appears  to be on course to do, is save up enough to repay the 
mortgage in full earlier than agreed. This isnt the same  as reducing the official term of the 
mortgage. If Ms B wants to change the official  term,  she must apply and show  that the 
change is affordable.
The starting point  is whether  Barclays is able to apply its policies regarding overpayments 
and whether they have been applied fairly and reasonably in Ms Bs case. Lenders are able 
to use their commercial judgment and create  policies about  various  issues. Barclays  has 
such a policy  for overpayment and part repayments   the policy  sets out clearly  exactly how 
different payments will be treated and has effectively created an appeal  process  for 
consumers by sending  a notice telling them how the payment will be dealt with and giving 90 
days for the consumer to ask for the alternative option. 
This process  has been used repeatedly in Ms Bs case and she only in 2017  asked  for the 
automatic option  to be changed for that year. The notices are correctly  addressed.  I also 
note that the policy  is set out in guidance documents and the terms and conditions  of the 
mortgage. The mortgage offer accepted  by Ms B also says that overpayments only reduce 
the balance. Its silent about reducing the term. I cant  say that Barclays  isnt entitled  to have 
such a policy  and I think its been fairly  and reasonably applied in Ms Bs case.  I would point 
out that the statements  (which are correctly addressed), as well as the notices, show  how 
the payments  have  been used. I dont  think it would be fair or  reasonable to expect Barclays 
to have said more  about overpayments when  the mortgage was taken out or to replay calls 
when payments are made, given the number of explanations given about its policy.
But in any event, Ms B hasnt suffered a financial loss. Both overpayments and part 
repayments reduce  the interest due on the mortgage. Ms B says that Barclays  decision to 
treat some of the payments as part repayment will stop her paying off the mortgage  early, 
but I disagree. Once the mortgage  is paid in full, it will end. If that is early due to 
overpayments or part repayments, its still paid off regardless of the official  term. Barclays  
and the investigator  have  explained this clearly to Ms B several  times. Ms B is making 
overpayments and provided she continues to do so, she should repay her mortgage  early 
and reduce the interest due.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept  or reject my decision before 
4 May 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0134976