K822xcomplaint
Mr K acquired a used  car in early  June 2016,  by means of a 60 month  conditional sale 
agreement with Santander Consumer (UK) Plc. He complains that his car was not of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply. He wants Santander to revoke his agreement, and 
to accept rejection  of his car.
background 
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 5 June 2019  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision. In my provisional  decision, I agreed with our investigators view that the complaint 
should be upheld,  but a change in Mr Ks circumstances meant  that I thought her settlement 
recommendations should be modified.
Santander agreed with my provisional  decision.  Mr K did not respond.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the absence of other arguments or evidence to the contrary,  I continue  to think  that the 
conclusion reached  in my provisional decision is correct.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and 
final settlement of it, I order Santander Consumer (UK) Plc to pay compensation of £400  
directly to Mr K. Under the rules of the Financial  Ombudsman  Service, Im required to ask 
Mr K to accept or reject my decision before 30 August 2019. 
Roy Mawford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN07748272COPY  OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
5 June 2019
complaint
Mr K acquired  a used car in early June  2016,  by means of a 60 month conditional  sale agreement 
with Santander Consumer (UK) Plc. He complains that his car was not of satisfactory  quality at the 
point of supply. He wants  Santander to revoke his agreement, and to accept rejection of his car. 
background
Mr K said:
Three weeks after acquiring his car, he contacted  the supplying  dealership to report one 
major power transmission  system fault and other minor  faults
The dealership arranged a courtesy car for around nine months while the dealer and 
Santander were  dealing with his complaint
The dealership inspected the car and found no faults  it was then agreed that the car would 
be independently inspected by a suitably accredited organisation
This independent inspection was undertaken in mid August 2016  but the dealer contested  
the inspectors  report, and Santander suggested  that another inspection  should  be 
undertaken
He declined this suggestion  as a result of which the dealer returned  his vehicle to him, and 
took back  its courtesy car
His car broke down in mid January  2017  the roadside assistance service  indicated that this 
breakdown had been  caused  by a failure in the same transmission system  component,  about 
which he had complained in late June 2016
Santander offered to have the faulty component  replaced, but he declined this offer
Mr K referred his complaint  to us in May 2017. Santander  told us:
Mr Ks car was 67 months  old, and had travelled just over 27,500 miles, at the point of supply
Mr K complained  to it in late July 2016  when the supplying dealership was unable  to find 
faults in Mr Ks car, it arranged for the vehicle to be independently inspected
The independent inspector reported that road testing suggested the component about  which 
Mr K complained might be reaching the end of its serviceable life  but this could not be 
considered premature or the result of a manufacturing fault, given  his cars  age and mileage
The complaint was closed after Mr K declined its suggestion of a further inspection, but 
reopened in 2017 after his car broke down
The dealership quoted a repair cost of £530 + VAT,  and agreed to cover half this cost 
And so it offered to have Mr Ks car repaired at no cost to him, which  it felt would have been a 
fair basis on which to resolve his complaint
It considered that rejection of Mr Ks car would  be a disproportionate  settlement
Our investigator agreed that rejection would not be appropriate in the circumstances of this complaint.  
But she initially recommended that, in addition  to the repair offered by Santander, it should:
1.Arrange for the other faults reported by Mr K to be investigated  and, if any were found  to 
have existed at the point of supply, they should be included in the repair work to be 
undertaken on his car
2.Pay compensation  of £100 to Mr K for the trouble and upset he had experienced because  of 
this complaint
Mr K agreed  with both of our investigators  additional recommendations.  Santander accepted the 
second additional recommendation, but disagreed with the first. It argued:
Mr Ks car passed an MOT test with no advisories, shortly before the point of supply
The car would not have passed,  if one of these other faults  reported had existed at that time 
Ref: DRN07748273Regarding  another of these faults  this fault was not picked up either in the MOT test or 
during the independent  inspections road testing, which  would have been expected if it had 
existed at those times
The car was also subjected  to a Vehicle Health Check, which did not identify any of these  
other faults
In short, it had seen no factual evidence of these other faults
Our investigator accepted Santanders argument, and amended her recommendations accordingly. 
Mr K accepted our investigators revised recommendations.
Three months later, Mr K contacted  our investigator to say that her recommendations had not been 
implemented, and that the supplying  dealership  had no knowledge of them. Our investigator 
contacted Santander,  and it offered to meet the full repair costs. 
As Mr Ks car was in the dealers premises, our investigator  asked Santander  to contact the dealer  to 
confirm this arrangement, and it agreed to do so. But there  was a further three month delay  before the 
car was repaired. During this period, Mr Ks complaint was referred for review by an ombudsman,  
because our investigators revised recommendations  had not been implemented.
Mr K contacted us again, in early May 2018, to complain that the repairs had not resolved the fault he 
initially reported three  weeks  after acquiring his car. He also told us that he was giving  consideration 
to trading in his car. Our investigator  made him aware  that a further inspection of his car might be 
required, in order to establish  whether  or not the repairs  had been carried out satisfactorily.
Mr K contacted us once  more, in mid June 2018, to tell us that he had traded in the car. He said the 
cars trade in value was £500  less that the figure required by Santander to end his agreement. We 
asked Santander, on his behalf, if it would be willing  to compensate  him for this financial  gap. 
Santander responded  saying  that it had already written off one of the monthly payments required  
under Mr Ks agreement.  It told us that, in its view,  the remaining gap was a matter between  Mr K and 
the dealer with whom he had agreed the trade in payment. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Where evidence  is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory (as 
some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities   in other words,  what I 
consider most  likely to have happened in light of the available  evidence and wider  circumstances
Santander has a responsibility to ensure  that goods of satisfactory quality, and corresponding to their 
description, have been supplied  (in this case by the dealer).  This means  that a reasonable person  
would have regarded  the goods as satisfactory, taking into account all relevant  circumstances, which  
for cars include age and mileage travelled.  But there are limits to Santanders responsibilities.  In 
particular, faults must be present or developing at the point of supply.
Mr K said that he initially complained to the supplying dealership three weeks after the point  of supply. 
This would have been within  the 30 days required, by the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA), for Mr K 
to exercise his right to reject  goods of unsatisfactory quality. 
But the earliest evidence I have seen of Mr K complaining is from Santander  its contact notes  
indicate that he complained more than 30 days after the point of supply. On balance,  I am unable to 
find that Mr K complained within 30 days.
The independent inspector  reported that (in his view, on balance) the power transmission  system fault 
Mr K complained about existed, and was developing  at the point of supply. I am content to adopt  the 
inspectors finding.
Ref: DRN07748274These two findings mean that Santander  has a responsibility to arrange for the fault to be repaired.  
And the issue of rejecting unsatisfactory goods (and revoking Mr Ks agreement) would  only arise  if 
the repair  were to be unsuccessful.
Our investigator recommended,  and both Mr K and Santander agreed, that the fault should be 
repaired. But, for whatever reason, this did not happen for some six months.  There  appears to have  
been a breakdown in communications with the supplying  dealership. And, regardless of which party  
was to blame for this breakdown,  I agree  with our investigator that responsibility for getting  the repair  
carried out rested  with Santander.
When Mr Ks car was eventually repaired, he complained that the works  undertaken had not resolved 
the transmission system fault, about which he had initially complained. Mr K subsequently traded in 
his car, without obtaining independent evidence of the continuing  fault. 
I sympathise with Mr K who, by then, had been trying to resolve this matter for about  12 months.  But 
his actions mean that, on balance, I am unable  to find that the repair was unsuccessful. This in turn 
means I cannot agree  that Santander should revoke his agreement.
Our investigator also recommended that Santander should pay compensation of £100 to Mr K for the 
trouble and upset he had experienced  because of this complaint. I think  this figure  should be 
increased to £400  because of the significant delays he experienced during the period after our 
investigators recommendations were agreed by both parties, and before  his car was repaired.  
There are technical notes  about distress  and inconvenience on our public website, in which we 
describe:
how we decide whether  to award  compensation for distress,  inconvenience, trouble, upset, 
damage to reputation,  pain and suffering
how we decide what to award, where  compensation is appropriate
cases where we have  awarded compensation
I feel that compensation of £400 in this instance is appropriate,  given these circumstances.  It is 
consistent with our approach to awarding  compensation, and with those  case descriptions and 
awards.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  explained above, but subject to any further  comments  or evidence I receive  from Mr 
K or Santander Consumer (UK) Plc by 5 July 2019, my provisional decision is that I uphold  this 
complaint. My provisional settlement recommendation is that Santander should  pay compensation of 
£400 for trouble  and upset directly to Mr K.
Roy Mawford
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN0774827