K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  (VWFS) delayed sending  
him penalty fines relating the car he had under a hire agreement. He says this meant he was 
unaware the fines had been incurred.
background
Mr W entered into a hire agreement with VWFS in December 2017 for the hire of a car. He 
incurred a parking  fine and a fine for driving  in a bus lane in 2018 but says that VWFS didnt 
inform of this until a number of months later. Mr W incurred  a number of other fines between  
then and May 2019 and says that had he known about the first fines at the time they were 
charged he would have avoided incurring subsequent fines.
VWFS says that under the terms of the hire agreement  Mr W was responsible for paying the 
fines. It apologised for the delay in sending Mr W the fines  from August and November 2018 
and offered £100 as a gesture of goodwill. It says Mr W accepted this and it has been  
applied to Mr Ws account.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint. She noted  Mr Ws comments  about  when  he 
received the fines  but said that under the hire agreement he was required to pay the fines  
and that it was his responsibility as a driver to adhere to the regulations of the road. She also 
noted that VWFS had made an offer as a gesture of goodwill to pay Mr W £100 because of 
the delays in notifying him of the initial fines and that Mr W had accepted this. 
Mr W responded to our adjudicators view. While he acknowledged her comments he said he 
was only cutting across the corner of the bus lane in order  to access  a left turn. He said at 
worst this was an error of judgment rather than a decision to use a bus lane. He reiterated 
that had he been made  aware of the fine at the first instance he would have avoided doing  
this again. He didnt think that the £100 offered by VWFS was sufficient as this didnt even 
cover the administration cost. He said VWFS had a duty of care to forward the fines  
immediately to customers or have these  sent directly to the customer  from the issuing 
authority.
Mr W also raised a concern that £180 had been taken from his account  while  his complaint  
was still outstanding.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W entered into a hire agreement with VWFS and in doing so agreed  to the terms and 
conditions. One of the conditions is that he will be responsible for any fines  that arise on the 
car. However as VWFS is the registered owner it is explained that it may have to pay the fine 
on Mr Ws behalf and it will then invoice him for the amount along with an administration  fee. 
Therefore I do not in find that VWFS  did anything wrong by invoicing Mr W for the fines and 
the administration charges.
Mr Ws complaint  is that he didnt receive any notification of the fines  until a number of 
months after the first fine had arisen. He then incurred fines  for the same  issue (during in a 
bus lane) which he say he would have avoided had he known about the first fine.
Ref: DRN03840532While I understand Mr Ws comments it is his responsibility to drive in accordance  with the 
rules of the road.  I appreciate that he may have only been in the bus lane for a short  period  
before tuning  off the road but he should  have been aware that entering the bus lane when 
he did was not allowed  and could result in a fine. 
So while I understand why Mr W has raised this complaint I do not find that I can say VWFS  
has responsibility for the subsequent fines as even without notification  of the issue, Mr W 
should have been aware of where he could and couldnt drive.
Mr W has received  £100 as a gesture of goodwill for the delays in the issuing of the first two 
fines and I do not find that I can say VWFS is required to do anything  further in settlement of 
this complaint.
Mr W also raised a complaint that VWFS took money from his account  while  his complaint  
was outstanding. I understand that Mr W raised an indemnity with his bank  and the money 
was credited back to his account. VWFS then confirmed  that it had put action on hold in 
regard to the relevant charges. I find this reasonable.
Overall I do not find that I can uphold  this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2020.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0384053