K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that he was given misleading  advice by Revolut  Ltd.
background
I sent my provisional decision to both parties on 15 October  2019.  A copy of this is attached 
below and forms part of this final decision. In it I set out the background to this complaint, 
and I explained  why I didnt think it should  be upheld.  
I invited to both parties to make further  submissions for my consideration before I reached 
my final decision. 
Mr C responded to say he disagrees with my provisional decision, but hes willing to accept 
it. He did point out that there was no information on Revoluts  website  to warn him that a 
reverted transaction  wasnt void. And he also explained that he hadnt noticed  his question 
had been answered by its Chatbot and not a live agent, and that this contributed to his 
misunderstanding here.
Revolut responded to say that it accepted my provisional decision.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about Mr Cs further  comments,  and I can see how this misunderstanding arose. 
But I still think, for the reasons I outlined in my provisional findings, that Revolut acted fairly 
and reasonably towards him here. So Im not going  to ask it do anything further in respect of 
this complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 November  2019.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN00536632copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr C complains that he was given misleading advice  by Revolut Ltd.
background
On the 6 December 2018 Mr C made a large purchase in Japanese Yen (JPY). The merchant failed 
to collect  the funds  and they were released  back to his multi-currency  Revolut account. Mr C then 
moved some of these  funds out of the account  for other purposes. 
On the 15 January 2019  the payment was debited from his account. There wasnt a sufficient balance  
in his JPY wallet to cover the payment at that time. So Revolut  took funds  from his sterling (GBP)  
wallet to cover the transaction,  leaving  it in a negative balance. 
Mr C complained to Revolut  that this shouldnt have happened. Revolut  confirmed that the payment 
had been reverted on the 22 December  2018,  but explained that it had then been processed as an 
offline transaction on the 15 January 2019. It said that the delay in the payment being collected was 
due to the actions of the merchant, not Revolut. And that it couldnt  have stopped this offline  
transaction from happening.  But as a gesture  of goodwill it agreed to give Mr C 6 months to settle the 
negative balance on his account. 
Mr C wasnt  happy with this response so he came  to our service. He says that if hed known the 
transaction was pending  he would have ensured there were sufficient  funds  in his JPY wallet to cover 
it when it did go through. But based on information hed been given  by Revolut that the payment had 
been reverted - he didnt think this could  happen. 
To put things right Mr C wants Revolut  to apologise for telling him that the payment had been 
reverted. And he thinks it should take steps make it clearer to its customers  what  it means  when  it 
uses terms like this. He feels the advice it gave him prevented him from having control  over the timing 
and exchange rate used for the transaction. And says it cost him an additional £600 as a result.
Our investigator looked at what had happened and said that Revolut wasnt at fault for the merchant 
claiming the funds at a later date. But that he thought Revolut should  have used the funds  that were in 
Mr Cs JPY wallet to make the payment, before taking the remaining  shortfall  from his base currency 
(GBP) wallet. He felt that if it had, the extra  cost of the transaction  to Mr C would have been reduced.  
He also said he thought that the term revert couldve been more clearly explained. And asked 
Revolut to pay Mr C £75 compensation  for the distress and inconvenience caused by the issues he 
experienced.
Revolut didnt  accept this view. It says the information it gave to Mr C about reverted transactions was 
provided by its automated Chabot in relation to a different query, and that he didnt ask to speak to a 
live agent about this transaction until after it had been settled. It also says that it took the payment 
from his GBP wallet correctly, in line with the terms and conditions  of the account. So the case has 
been passed  to me to decide. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
I can see Mr C feels very strongly  about this matter and is concerned that other customers  may 
interpret advice given by Revolut in the same way he did here.  But to clarify, this service looks at 
individual complaints.  We dont have the power to ask a business  to change its processes. So I cant 
ask Revolut to amend the information that it provides to customers. But I can consider whether the 
information it provided  to Mr C was misleading in the individual circumstances  of his complaint.  
Ref: DRN00536633I know Mr C will be disappointed, but having done  so, I dont  think that this complaint should  be 
upheld. Ill explain why.
On the 4 December 2018, two days before he made the transaction  hes complained about here, Mr 
C was provided some information by Revoluts automated online  Chatbot  service. 
He uploaded a screenshot of a transaction from his account and said that he couldnt remember 
whether the reverted  transaction was legitimate. Revoluts automated response service told him that 
If the merchant has yet to accept your payment and 7 or more days have passed, the funds may be 
reverted back to your account  depending on the transaction  type. Alternatively, a merchant can 
cancel a payment at the point of sale, due to security  issues.  Mr C didnt reply to this message. 
Mr C says that based on this information  he thought that, given the money had been returned to his 
account, the merchant would need to contact him to repeat  the transaction hed made on the 6 
December 2018. He feels that Revolut should have explained what  it meant by the term reverted  
more clearly if this wasnt the case. 
Ive thought about this carefully, but Im not persuaded that the information  Revolut gave him was 
incorrect or misleading. I note that whilst Revolut  had explained  that the funds may be reverted back  
to his account it hadnt  stated that this meant the transaction was void, or that the merchant couldnt 
still claim the funds at a later date.  And I dont think this was directly implied. I also havent seen any 
evidence that Mr C asked for more details, or queried  this advice any further with Revolut prior to his 
payment being debited on the 15 January  2019. 
Mr C says that if Revolut had offered  him a more detailed explanation of what  might happen after 
funds are reverted back to an account he wouldve maintained a sufficient  balance in his JYP wallet to 
cover the payment. I dont doubt this. But I dont think it would be fair for me to that Revolut did 
anything wrong by not pointing  this out in the context of the conversation he had with it on the 4 
December 2018. So I dont think it would be reasonable for me to ask it to apologise  to him on this 
basis.
I also havent seen anything to suggest that Revolut  acted incorrectly when it processed the payment. 
I appreciate Mr C didnt have an overdraft facility in place  with Revolut. But its website does explain 
that in some instances offline transactions (such as this one) can take an account  overdrawn. 
Revoluts terms and conditions require customers to top-up their account immediately in such a 
situation. But here Revolut agreed to give Mr C six months  to clear his negative  balance,  which I think 
was reasonable in the circumstances. And I understand its now been repaid.
Mr C was upset that this payment was taken from his GBP  wallet rather  than his JPY wallet. And I 
note that his JPY wallet did have a positive  balance at the time the payment was taken, although 
neither account contained  enough funds to cover  the payment in full. 
Revoluts website says that it will select which  currency balance to deduct  spending from in the 
following order; 
A.The currency  of the payment (e.g. if you are in the UK carrying  out a transaction in Euro, we 
will deduct  funds  from your Euro  balance)
B.Your base currency (PLN), which  is determined by your home  address
C.The next active currency (including  any cryptocurrency) with a sufficient balance
Its website  terms and conditions also advise  that If you choose  to be charged for your purchase in a 
currency other than the currency for which  you hold enough Electronic Money  in your Revolut 
Electronic Money Account, then our Exchange Rate will be used.
Ref: DRN00536634Mr C didnt have a sufficient balance in any currency to cover the transaction when the merchant 
collected it. Revolut  therefore deducted it from his GBP account, as it says it will only allow a 
customer to go into a negative balance in their home currency.  I think this was reasonable. 
Our investigator felt it could have minimised  the additional  costs of the transaction  to Mr C by taking it 
in part from the available balance in his JPY account.  But Revolut says that it only takes funds  from 
one currency balance at a time, so it wasnt  possible  for it to do this. I can see this information  is set 
out on its website. And I dont think its terms and conditions imply otherwise. So I dont agree  that it 
acted unfairly  or unreasonably here.
I appreciate why what happened is so frustrating for Mr C. And Im glad to hear the merchant has 
reimbursed him for the loss he suffered as a result. But for the reasons Ive outlined above, I dont 
think Revolut made any errors here. So Im not intending to ask it to pay Mr C the compensation 
suggested by our investigator. 
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that this complaint should not be upheld  for the reasons Ive outlined above.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0053663