K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Legal & General  Insurance Limited unfairly declined a buildings  
insurance claim for storm damage to his roof. 
background
In March 2018 Mr H noticed his roof was damaged.  There were  a few tiles missing which 
had resulted in a hole in the roof. He thought  the damage had been caused  by a storm.
Legal & General came to look at the roof and declined the claim.  It said the weather wouldnt 
be classed as a storm under  the policy based on the weather reports. It also noted  that it 
thought the cement on the roof had failed, and this is what  had caused  the tiles to slip. It said 
it didnt think a storm would cause damage to the cement.
Mr H complained to Legal  & General. He said his own contractor who attended the property 
had confirmed the damage was caused  by high winds. Legal & General didnt agree to 
change its mind and so the complaint  was brought to our service.
Our investigator reviewed  the weather reports and didnt think  the wind speed was high 
enough to be classed as a storm under the policy definition. But he did note there had been 
a large amount of snowfall around  the time the damage was noticed. And he thought this 
was enough to be considered as storm conditions. But he thought Legal & General had 
acted reasonably in declining  the claim as he didnt think  the storm was the main cause of 
the damage. He said it was more likely the storm had just highlighted an existing issue  with 
the roof. 
Mr H didnt agree so the matter has come to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
outcome as the investigator.  Ill explain why below. 
As our investigator said, when we look at storm damage cases we ask three questions:
has it been proven,  on balance, there were storm conditions on or around the 
date the problem occurred?
is the nature of the damage consistent  with storm damage?
were the storm conditions the main or dominant cause of the damage?
If the answer  to all of these questions is yes then the claim will succeed. But, if the answer  
to any of the above questions is no  the claim  wont  succeed under this section.
Mr Hs policy  doesnt define  what would be considered as a storm. Legal & General has said 
the winds speeds around the time the claim was reported wouldnt be high enough to be 
considered a storm. And I agree that is the case. But this service will also consider  other  
weather conditions to see if they would be considered as a storm. From the weather reports 
it looks like there was a significant  amount of snow that fell around  the time Mr H reported 
the damage to his roof. So like our investigator,  Im satisfied that this would  be enough to be 
considered storm conditions.
Ref: DRN09502762The damage reported to the roof was for two roof tiles that had come away, exposing a hole 
in the roof. This is something that could  be considered as consistent with storm damage, so 
Ive considered whether the storm conditions  were the main  or dominant cause of the 
damage. And having looked  at everything, I think its more likely  that they werent.
Legal & Generals surveyor says the cement holding the tiles in place had failed,  and this 
had happened  over time. It says this damage  wasnt caused by the storm, and the weather 
only highlighted an existing problem. Mr Hs report from his roof contractor says the roof was 
in good condition and excessive high winds  had dislodged the tiles. It said the roof was 
otherwise in a good condition.
Where there is conflicting evidence, our role is to decide what is more likely to have 
happened. Ive looked at the photographs  of the roof; the cement looks like it has cracked in 
various places, away  from the damage reported  by Mr H. So I find Legal  & Generals 
surveyor more persuasive when it says it thinks the cement on the roof has failed over time 
and has allowed the tiles to come loose.  The photographs of the roof also show  a large 
amount of moss present  on the roof tiles, so I dont find Mr Hs contractor persuasive when 
he says the roof is in good condition.  
So on balance I dont  think the storm was the main cause of the damage, which means 
Legal & General are entitled to decline the claim  by relying on the exclusion. And for the 
reasons given above Im not going to ask it to do anything differently. 
my final decision
My final decision is Im not going to ask Legal & General  Insurance Limited to do anything  
differently.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Michelle Henderson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0950276