K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that CIGNA Europe  Insurance Company SA-NV (CIGNA)  has unfairly 
declined a claim he made under his travel insurance policy.
To keep  things simple,  any references I make to CIGNA in this decision will include  it and its 
representatives.
background
In February 2018  Mr M was travelling abroad and took part in a motorcycle  training course.  
While riding on the circuit, he unfortunately suffered an accident  and was seriously injured.
Mr M contacted CIGNA  to make a claim under his policy. He said he was told to pay his 
expenses and medical bills himself, until CIGNA instructed otherwise. Mr M contacted  
CIGNA on a number of occasions about the claim but said he wasnt given answers.  Around  
another two months passed when  Mr M discovered  CIGNA had declined  his claim.
CIGNA said it understood hed been riding  a 100cc motorbike at the time of the accident. 
And his policy  required  him to have a full UK motorcycle  licence,  which he didnt have. 
Instead his licence permitted him to ride motorcycles of up to the size of 50cc without 
completing a Compulsory Basic Training (CBT)  test.
But it said his travel insurance policy requires a full motorcycle licence for cover to be in 
place to ride any motorcycle (up to 125cc). Regardless of this policy requirement, the cc of 
the motorcycle he was riding was 100c and, and as a result it said he didnt have the 
entitlement to ride the bike under either his driving  licence or cover  under his travel 
insurance policy. So it declined the claim. 
In late April 2018 Mr M arrived  back  in the UK. He said CIGNA had applied the motorbike 
exclusion unfairly. He said hed been off-road  at the time of the accident (not a public road) 
under supervision of an instructor, and that he did have an entitlement to ride motorbikes 
under his UK licence. And he said within the region he was in, this term shouldnt  apply due 
to its motorcycle culture. 
In June 2018 CIGNA  wrote to Mr M. It acknowledged it hadnt managed his expectations, 
provided regular  updates,  or let him know the outcome of the claim as soon as it couldve. 
So it apologised and offered him £300. Mr M continued to communicate  with CIGNA who 
wrote to him again  in September 2018, increasing  its offer to £500.  But it said it was satisfied 
that its delay didnt influence or prolong  the treatment he had or the time it took for him to be 
regarded as fit to fly, so it said it wouldnt do anything further. 
Mr M said CIGNA  had gone  as far as costing flights for him, and that its delay  meant he was 
unable to make a claim through other channels, such  as the driving  schools insurance. And 
because he was still unhappy, he brought his complaint to our service  and one of our 
investigators looked into what happened.
The investigator considered Mr Ms claim and said as he didnt hold a full UK motorcycle  
licence (as required  by the policy) CIGNA  had fairly  declined the claim. And she said if Mr M 
knew he would be taking  part in a training course  of this nature it was important  for him to 
check he had the appropriate cover  which he hadnt done.
Ref: DRN06727772The investigator said CIGNA had taken  too long to let Mr M know  he wasnt  covered. But 
she said it had let him know from soon after he first contacted it that his claim could 
potentially be declined  due to the motorcycle exclusion. So she was perusaded that Mr M 
had been made aware the claim could  be declined and hed ultimately be liable for cost of 
care and travel.
Mr M disagreed and said CIGNA had been clear  with him that his costs would be covered 
(including discussions about flights). He also said he believed CIGNA  had been selective 
with the call recordings it had sent our service.  Because he disagreed,  the complaint has 
been passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain  why.
the claim
Mr Ms policy covered him for a number  of different insured events including  medical  
expenses and personal accident cover. In this case, its not in question that Mr M suffered  an 
accident while riding a motorbike.
So Ive gone  on to consider the general terms and exclusions of the policy. The section 
Important information about your policy has a specific  heading for motorcycling which says:
Your policy provides cover for motorcycling as a rider or passenger on a machine 125cc or 
under so long as you wear a crash  helmet  and, as a rider, you hold a full UK motorcycle 
licence. No cover exists for motorcycling as a rider or passenger on a machine over 125cc. 
No personal liability  cover exists under this policy for motorcycling.
This same exclusion is also mentioned within the Leisure and winter sports activities  
section under a heading  entitled Activities that are NOT covered.
Its not in dispute  that Mr M didnt have a full UK motorcycle licence at the time of his 
accident. So in line with the term quoted above,  Im satisfied that his accident was not 
covered by this policy. 
Mr M has given  many  reasons why he believes this exclusion  should not apply, and that he 
believes it to be unfair.  This includes the accident taking place on private property and in a 
training environment. And that the culture  requires people to travel by bike in the country he 
was staying in.
But Im not persuaded by what hes said. Specific  terms around motorcycling are common  
across insurance policies of this nature,  and theres nothing within his policy that references  
excluding motorcycles at a particular location or the nature of the ride. 
What it did specify was the requirement  to have a full motorcycle  licence  which  he didnt  
have. So for this reason the activity  he was carrying out at the time of the accident wasnt 
covered. And Im satisfied this exclusion is fair and has been  correctly applied.  As a result 
Im not directing  CIGNA  to do anything further. 
Ref: DRN06727773handling of the claim
When handling a claim, insurers  have certain obligations under the relevant rules. 
ICOBS 8.1 says that an insurer must:
1.handle claims promptly and fairly;
2.provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate  
information on its progress; 
3.not unreasonably  reject a claim (including by terminating or avoiding a policy);  and
4.settle claims promptly once settlement terms are agreed.
In this case, CIGNA  has accepted that it couldve told Mr M that his claim would  be declined 
much earlier than it did. So its clear  to me that it didnt handle  this claim as promptly  as it 
shouldve. So Ive thought about the financial and emotional impact of this.
Mr M has said the delay stopped him being able to claim  under  the driving schools 
insurance. Hes not provided  any evidence to support this, but by his own admission, he said 
a claim under this route, wouldve required more than one rider to be involved, as well as the 
incident being reported to the police. 
Mr Ms circumstances  dont appear  to meet these  requirements hes outlined. So based on 
what hes told us, Im not persuaded that any delay caused by CIGNA has impacted his 
ability to claim  on the driving schools  insurance.
Within Mr Ms complaint to our service, he complains that CIGNA did not provide  any 
medical adviser support or contact the doctors that were treating him. CIGNA has said Mr M 
managed his treatment  himself, saying hed sent regular  medical  reports  explaining he 
wasnt medically fit to fly and had been  referred  to rehab sessions as a medically necessary 
step to recovery. So it seems to me that Mr M did manage his treatment, if nothing  else,  
because CIGNA didnt provide any support in doing so.
But as CIGNA declined this claim, ultimately Mr M wouldve needed to arrange  this treatment 
anyway  so from this and what hes provided, I dont see hes financially lost out as a result.
Mr M has raised concerns  whether  CIGNA has provided our service with every call recording 
it has. And hes indicated  that any omission  might  mean our service doesnt see the extent  
that CIGNA had suggested cover would be provided. 
Its provided us with five calls between Mr M and its representatives. Its possible this isnt 
every conversation between parties, but Im already satisfied  from what Ive seen and heard 
 including  initial calls when Mr M first reported the claim   that CIGNA had considered  the 
cost of flights, and that journeys were discussed with him as hes outlined.  It seems prudent  
for an insurer to plan ahead and carry out enquiries as to costs  in the event cover was 
provided  so I can understand why these  conversations wouldve taken place. 
So Im satisfied Ive got enough information  to consider this complaint fairly  and dont require 
any further evidence  to support this. But even if there was further information to support what  
Mr M has said, it wouldnt change my mind that he hasnt suffered financially for the reasons 
Ive given above  the claim  wasnt covered and he wouldve needed  to cover these costs 
anyway.
Ref: DRN06727774Ive gone on to consider the impact  of these messages on Mr Ms wellbeing. And Ive 
thought about what wouldve happened if CIGNA  had told Mr M he wouldnt be covered 
much sooner  than it did. I can imagine  he wouldve still been greatly disappointed, but I can 
understand why discovering this sometime after the accident, and during his recovery 
period, would be so alarming.  
Given the anxiety  and stress Mr M and his doctor have described  over this period, Im 
satisfied CIGNAs mistake exacerbated and extended this challenging experience for him. 
But it ultimately I cant ignore it wouldnt have altered the outcome of the claim. Taking all of 
this into account  Im satisfied CIGNAs offer of £500 is a fair offer.  So Im not asking it to do 
anything further.
my final decision
For the above reasons Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2020.
Jack Baldry
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0672777