K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that Smith & Williamson Investment Management LLP (S&W), without his 
agreement, inappropriately purchased shares in an AIM (alternative investment market) 
listed company within  his self-invested  personal pension (SIPP)  plan.  
The listed  company went into liquidation. Mr F says hes lost out financially as a result  and 
S&W should compensate  him for this loss.
background
In January 2015, Mr F signed  an Individual Pension Account Application  form 
authorising S&W to manage his SIPP on a discretionary basis. Mr F selected the 
discretionary investment management service.  When  presented  with the option  to 
choose a risk category between A and D (D being the most risky), Mr F chose C. The 
form gave Mr F the option to restrict the types of investment or markets his SIPP 
could be invested  in. He didnt impose any restrictions.
In December 2017, Mr F signed a mandate giving S&W written authority to manage 
his and his wifes accounts on a combined basis. He removed this authority in April 
2018.
In December 2017, S&W purchased stocks for Mr Fs SIPP, in an AIM listed 
company, Company  A, in two tranches, totalling  £28,442. 
On 8 March 2018, Company A issued a profits warning.
On 14 March 2018, Company As shares  were suspended from trading.
Towards the end of March 2018, Company A issued a second profits  warning.  
Shortly after that, administrators were  appointed.
The business informed Mr F of the problem with Company A, 18 days after the first 
warning.
Mr F complained to the business  saying he had lost £28,442 and asked for 
compensation.
S&W rejected Mr Fs complaint on the basis that:
It didnt think AIM stock was automatically  more  risky than stock  listed  on the main 
index.
There were  no restrictions within the SIPP restricting the purchase of AIM stocks.
Mr F did not ask for any restrictions  to be applied.
The purchase was suitable for Mr Fs medium risk mandate.
In May 2018, Mr F emailed the business. He said he didnt accept its conclusions  and 
the business was hiding behind the mandate signed  in December 2017. Mr F froze 
all his accounts with the business.
Ref: DRN06661272In June 2018, S&Ws Chairman apologised to Mr F for S&W not having told him 
earlier of the suspension of Company As stock, but said that earlier notification 
would not have mitigated the loss which  you suffered. He offered Mr F a full 
remission of fees on his SIPP for the next 6 months.
One of our adjudicators investigated the complaint and was of the opinion that the complaint 
should not be upheld. In summary, he considered that:
Mr F specifically instructed S&W to manage the funds  on a discretionary  basis.  This 
meant that it didnt  need to seek his authority prior to purchasing the stock.
No particular restrictions were  imposed on the types of investment or the market.
The investment  portfolio was broadly in line with Mr Fs attitude to risk.
As agreement couldnt be reached, Mr F asked that his case  be referred to an ombudsman 
to consider. His complaint comes to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the decision 
reached by our adjudicator not to uphold this complaint.  My reasons are largely  the same.
 
Mr F gave  S&W authority to manage his SIPP investments on a discretionary basis, in line 
with his attitude to risk. What this meant was that S&W  had authority to make day to day 
investment decisions  without having  to consult Mr F each time stock was bought  or sold.
The investment appeared consistent with Mr Fs attitude to risk and around 5.78% of his 
SIPP was invested  in Company A. The investment wasnt inconsistent with the investment  
objectives Mr F had agreed to in 2015. I cant see that S&W couldve reasonably  known at 
the time,  that Company  A would go into administration  some  months  later. So, I cant  see 
that the investment was unsuitable  or that S&W acted inappropriately when it invested  as it 
did, without asking him in advance. 
Im sorry  to hear that Mr Fs lost out financially, however I cant fairly hold S&W responsible  
for this  investments can go up and down. 
S&W apologised to Mr F for not getting in contact  sooner after Companys As first profit  
warning. However,  I think the explanation S&W offered for not contacting Mr F sooner was 
reasonable in the circumstances. S&W offered to remit Mr Fs SIPP  fees for the proceeding 
six months. 
Mr F said he didnt  understand  the implications of the mandate he signed in December 2017. 
This authorised S&W to manage his and his wifes accounts on a combined  basis. Ive read 
the notice that Mr F was sent. It asked him to get in touch if he wanted to discuss  it further. 
Mr F signed and returned the form agreeing to the accounts being managed  on a combined  
basis. I cant see that S&W put any pressure on Mr F to agree to this.
I think the letter was clear about what the authorisation entailed. So, I cant fairly  hold S&W 
responsible if Mr F didnt appreciate the implications  of what he was agreeing to.
Ref: DRN06661273I think S&W has fairly dealt with Mr Fs compliant and do not consider any further  award 
necessary or appropriate.
my final decision
I do not uphold  Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 February  2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0666127