K820x#14complaint
Miss T acquired  a new car in March  2019, by hire purchase over 49 months  with 
RCI Financial  Services  Limited (RCIFS), trading  as Nissan Finance. She complains that the 
car was mis-represented to her by the supplying  dealership. She wants  either her car to be 
replaced with a car of the type described to her by the dealer, or to be able to reject  her car.
background
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 1 September 2020   a copy of which is attached  and forms part of this final 
decision. In my provisional  decision, I explained why I disagreed with our adjudicators view 
that the complaint should be upheld. I thought  it should not be upheld.
Neither RCIFS nor Miss T responded to my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where evidence  is incomplete, 
inconsistent or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and wider circumstances.
In the absence of other arguments or evidence to the contrary,  I continue  to think  that the 
conclusions reached  in my provisional decision are correct.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 December  2020. 
Roy Mawford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN01012952COPY  OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
1 September 2020
complaint
Miss T acquired a new car in March 2019, by hire purchase over 49 months with RCI Financial  
Services Limited (RCIFS), trading as Nissan  Finance.  She complains  that the car was mis-
represented to her by the supplying  dealership.  She wants  either  her car to be replaced  with a car of 
the type described to her by the dealer,  or to be able to reject  her car.
background
Miss T acquired a used car in March 2016, by hire purchase over 37 months with RCIFS.  The car was 
11 months old and had travelled just over 8,000 miles.  The hire purchase agreement included  a 
12,000 miles  annual allowance  and excess mileage charges. The required monthly payments were a 
little under £240 until April 2019, and then nearly £6,250 in May 2019.  
Miss Ts new car hire purchase  agreement in March 2019 included a 20,000 miles annual allowance  
and excess mileage charges. The required  monthly payments were a little under £320  for the first 47 
months.
Miss T said:
She had wanted in March  2019 to replace  her then current  car on a like for like basis   she 
had been prepared to consider both new and used cars
Her then current car had not been new when  she acquired it, but it did have a top of the 
range specification
The supplying  dealership offered her a new car, which was the same model from the same 
manufacturer as her then current car  the dealer said this car was like for like in 
specification, except  for small changes to the engine  and transmission system, and an 
improvement to the entertainment system
She was not able to test drive the new car, but she had been assured  that it was like for like 
 she would  not have  been willing to enter into a new agreement, and to make the higher 
monthly payments,  other than for a like for like new car
She took delivery of her car on the day before she was flying abroad
But she sent a text message to the dealer  on the day after delivery, saying  that she was 
disappointed with her new car
She visited the dealer  10 days after delivery   she complained that her new car did not have a 
specification like for like her previous car, which meant it had been mis-represented to her
The dealer told her than a new top of the range model would require  her to make monthly  
payments of £390  but she had already agreed to payments of a little under £320 for like for 
like (about  one third more than she had been paying), and so she should not be expected to 
pay nearly two thirds  more than she had been paying
She referred her complaint to RCIFS 
RCIFS responded to Miss Ts complaint, saying:
The dealer had advised  that Miss T had been given  the opportunity to inspect  the car on its 
premises, both before agreeing to acquire  and immediately before delivery
It also noted that the dealer had offered to discuss upgrading her cars  specification
In these circumstances, it was unable to uphold  her complaint
Miss T then referred her complaint to us. She told us:
She took delivery on the dealers premises
She drove the car away and then found that it lacked  several features, which had been 
included in her previous cars  specification
Ref: DRN01012953These features  could only have been established either by informing her at the time of 
delivery about  their absence or presence, or when  she had been driving the car 
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. He said:
Miss T had raised her concerns with the dealer  within  a reasonable timescale,  in his view
He was persuaded that Miss Ts priority  when acquiring a car was its specification
The model  of car was on the order form signed by Miss T, but not its specification 
Miss T could have checked her new cars specification online,  but he felt that an average 
customer would trust information  provided by the dealers  sales staff
He thought that, if Miss T had been given the correct information about  her new car, she 
would not have entered into the hire purchase agreement  because, by doing so, she was 
essentially paying more  for less
RCIFS disagreed  with our investigator. It told us:
The dealers sales staff never  suggested to Miss T that her new car specification was like for 
like that of her previous car
The car was in the dealers showroom,  and was shown to Miss T by its sales staff
Miss T told the sales staff that she had already test driven this model,  at another branch of the 
same dealership  
Some changes to the specification  would  have  been  completely  obvious  to Miss T before  she 
took delivery  such as the seat fabric in her new car, which was clearly different from that in 
her previous  car
Miss T was not paying more for less  she was replacing a four-year old vehicle, which had 
travelled over 79,000 miles, with a new car 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Where evidence  is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory (as 
some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities   in other words,  what I 
consider most  likely to have happened in light of the available  evidence and wider  circumstances. 
RCIFS has a responsibility  to ensure that goods of satisfactory  quality, and corresponding  to their 
description, have been supplied. This means that a reasonable person  would  have regarded the 
goods as satisfactory, taking  into account all relevant circumstances.  Miss T is saying that her new 
car did not correspond to its description. 
On the one hand, Miss T says (in summary):
Her new cars specification  was described  to her by the supplying  dealership as like for like 
that of her previous  car (with two exceptions)  but her new car had an inferior specification
She had already agreed to increase her monthly payments by one third,  in order to acquire a 
new car with like for like specification  and she was not prepared  to consider a further 
increase of nearly one third,  in order to achieve this requirement  
On the other hand, RCIFS says (in summary):
The supplying  dealership never described her new cars specification as like for like that of 
her previous  car
She had several  opportunities  to inspect her new car before delivery, and it would have  been 
completely obvious  to her that the new and previous cars specifications  were different 
(beyond the already  noted  two exceptions)
The dealer did not mis-represent Miss Ts new car to her
I agree with Miss T that her new and previous  cars do not have like for like specifications.  But I think 
the information from RCIFS about Miss Ts contacts  with the dealer, before  she had taken delivery  of 
her new car, is credible.  I also have difficulty in accepting that Miss T did not observe some of the 
Ref: DRN01012954differences in specification (beyond the already noted two exceptions) until after delivery of her new 
car.
Taking the above points together, I am unable on the balance of probabilities to find that Miss Ts new 
car was mis-represented  to her.
I think  as well that Miss T was not calculating  correctly the effective  monthly  payment for her previous 
car. She was paying  a little under £240, but with a 1,000 miles per month allowance. Above  that 
figure, excess mileage  was charged at £0.08 per mile. 
Miss Ts previous car travelled about 71,000 miles  in 36 months:  that is, nearly 2,000 miles per 
month. This means that she was incurring monthly excess mileage  charges  of nearly £80. (This  also 
explains why her new cars hire purchase agreement includes a mileage allowance two thirds greater 
than her previous  agreements allowance.) 
So, the effective monthly payment for Miss Ts previous car was a little under £320, which  is very 
similar to the monthly  payment for her new car. And the monthly  payment of £390 for a top of the 
range new car, offered by the dealer, would not have been such  a substantial increase on Miss Ts 
previous effective monthly payment. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  explained above, but subject to any further  comments  or evidence I receive  from 
Miss T or RCI Financial  Services  Limited by 28 September 2020, my provisional decision is that I do 
not uphold this complaint.  
Roy Mawford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0101295