K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains that BMW Financial  Services (GB) Limited (BFS) refused to let him reject a 
faulty car.
background
In November 2017 Mr G acquired new car funded in part by a hire purchase agreement. The 
car cost £44,314. A few months later he noticed  a loud squealing sound when he braked and 
took it back to the dealer. He was told this would settle down, but this proved not to be the 
case. He took it back again and the dealer  said it would look at the car for a day, but it took 
four days  to complete its inspection. It replaced the front discs  and pads.
A few weeks  later the noise returned  so Mr G took it back  to the dealer. It kept the car for a 
week and replaced  the rear discs  and pads. This time it provided a courtesy car. By the 
autumn of 2018  the fault remained unresolved  and so Mr G contacted  BFS. It logged  his 
complaint but didnt  provide a final response so he brought the matter to this service. His 
complaint was considered by one of our investigators who recommended  it be upheld. 
She referenced the Consumer  Rights  Act, 2015  which requires goods to be of satisfactory  
quality when supplied.  She that was defined as being what  a reasonable person would think  
was satisfactory. This included things like being free from minor defects and having 
durability.
She noted the videos supplied by Mr G which confirmed the brakes made a squealing noise 
and she concluded  there was a fault with the car. She had shared these with BFS, but it 
didnt responded.
She said Mr G had made a numerous visits to the dealer and while she hadnt seen the job 
sheets BFSs notes recorded two sets of brakes being changed under warranty.  She also 
considered the number  of times  Mr G had been  in contact with BFS and this showed he was 
consistent in his explanation of the problem  and in the number of times  he had been to the 
dealership. As such she considered his evidence  to be credible and she believed  the fault 
had been present from early on and possibly with six months of acquisition.
She didnt  think it was reasonable for a new car to behave as this one did and she was 
satisfied that wasnt  of suitable quality  especially for such an expensive car. The dealer had 
had one opportunity to address the fault and had failed to do so. She suggested that he be 
allowed to reject the car. Mr G agreed  and BFS said on numerous occasions that it would 
respond but it has failed  to do so. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Ref: DRN05702232BFS is also the supplier  of the goods  under this type of agreement, and responsible  for a 
complaint about  their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
I find myself in agreement with our investigator  and as she has set out her view to both the 
parties in a comprehensive  opinion letter and I wont seek  to rehearse  all the points she 
made in this decision.
In short,  it is clear there is a problem  with the brakes on Mr Gs car and despite the efforts of 
the dealer they continue to make  squealing  sound.  I gather this is a problem  for some other 
owners of the same  model. The key issue is whether  the fault is such that it renders the car 
to be deemed to be of unsatisfactory quality.
It is an expensive car costing around £45,000 and therefore the bar for what  is deemed to be 
satisfactory is set quite high. If the car had been second hand and quite elderly it might be 
acceptable for the brakes to squeal. I consider that such  behaviour by this car is 
unacceptable. Furthermore the dealer must have considered it an issue to have replaced all 
the pads and discs and the manufacturer apparently covered this under its warranty  scheme.
On balance I consider  it fair to say that the fault was such that it can be said to have made 
the car unsatisfactory  as required by the law. It is not performing as it should.  The dealer 
hasnt been able to fix it so the only avenue that is open to resolve  the matter  is rejection.
I would add that it is disappointing that BFS have failed  to respond to the videos and the 
opinion issued by our investigator. I can only presume that it accepts her conclusions.  
However, it has unnecessarily delayed settling this matter and Mr G has suffered further 
inconvenience so I have concluded  a suitable sum of compensation is £250.
Ref: DRN05702233my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
end the agreement,
collect the car at no cost to Mr G,
refund  the £5,209.66 cash advance and pay interest at 8% simple from the date of 
payment to the date it is repaid,
refund  10% of repayments from May 2018 to present,
pay £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience suffered,
remove any adverse information  that may have  been recorded  on Mr Gs credit file.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 November  2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0570223