K820x#14Complaint
Mrs M is unhappy  with Santander  UK Plcs  (Santander) response to a chargeback claim 
she made.
Background
In 2018, Mrs M contacted  Santander to make  a claim for money  paid to a holiday club 
provider. She said the holiday club provider hadnt  provided her with the goods  and services  
she had been  promised. She asked  Santander to help her recover the money.
About 30 years ago Mrs M had entered into a contract with a holiday club provider. Shed 
paid several thousand pounds to the holiday club provider by cheque and from a previous 
Abbey National  account.
When Mrs M hadnt received a response from Santander she wrote  again  to complain. 
Santander looked into what had happened. It said sorry that it hadnt responded sooner to 
Mrs Ms original  letter. It also explained, that due to the time that had passed since the 
transactions were  made, it couldnt find any records of the payments Mrs M said shed 
made. Therefore  it was unable to investigate or dispute the transactions.
Unhappy with this, Mrs M brought her complaint to this Service. One of our investigators 
looked into what had happened.  He didnt think it was unreasonable  that Santander no 
longer held information from around  30 years ago. And he felt that even if Santander had 
been able to trace the amounts and the method of payment it wasnt  unreasonable for 
Santander to decline the claim.
Mrs M asked  for an ombudsman to review  her complaint and issue  a final decision.
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed all the information provided, I wont be asking Santander to take any further 
steps to resolve  this complaint. Ill explain why.
I have a great deal of empathy for the situation  Mrs M finds  herself in. She appears to have 
genuine concerns about  the goods and services provided by the holiday club provider.
Mrs M, understandably, isnt able to provide specific information or evidence about how the 
payments were made  to the holiday  club provider  or the amounts. She is aware that one 
payment was made by cheque but is unsure  how the other payments were made. 
And I dont  think its unreasonable that Santander no longer holds information going back 30 
years relating to the transactions in question. It has provided this Service with evidence of 
the searches it has made to try and locate Mrs M and the accounts she held and has been 
unable to.
In this situation I would expect Santander  to treat its customers fairly and to have due 
considerations of their interests. But it must do this within  the framework  of the industry.
Ref: DRN03295102Chargeback is a process that is provided  by card schemes. If there is an issue with the 
goods or services  that have been  paid for using one of the card schemes, the chargeback 
process allows a customer for the transaction to be reversed. But there  is no automatic right 
to a chargeback  and there is no guarantee that a customer would receive a refund.
A bank  doesnt  have  to raise a chargeback. Although,  if theres a reasonable chance the 
chargeback claim would be successful, I would consider it good practice for a bank to try  it 
would therefore  be treating its customers  fairly  and have due regard to their interests.
The rules  for the process are set out by the card scheme, and all banks, etc. are obliged to 
follow these rules when  raising a claim.  A failure to comply  with these rules is a valid 
defence to a chargeback claim.
So, if a bank considers a claim wont be successful, I dont think it would  have to raise the 
claim. And even if a bank did, the card scheme  is unlikely to process  it.
In Mrs Ms case, there isnt any information  available to determine how the payments were 
made and which card scheme rules would apply. And, in these circumstances, I believe that 
Santander have  acted fairly and reasonably in not submitting  a chargeback  claim.  
Although I appreciate my decision will come  as a disappointment to Mrs M, Im satisfied  that 
Santander has acted  fairly  as it is unable to investigate or dispute the transactions  in 
question.  
My final decision
My final decision is not to uphold this complaint against Santander  UK Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 August 2019.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0329510