K820x#14complaint
Mrs R complains MBNA Limited gave her incorrect advice regarding her payments when she 
enquired about  lower  interest rates, leading to her account defaulting.
background
Mrs R has had two credit cards with MBNA for a number of years. She said that while  she is 
able to make  payments  to pay off the debt on one of the cards, the minimum payment for the 
second card only just covers the interest and is normally  around £280-£300 per month. Mrs 
R said she became concerned because she could never get ahead of the payments  on this 
second card.  
Mrs R said she called  MBNA  on 15 January 2019 to discuss her concerns. She said she 
clearly explained  she just needed to see if MBNA  could change the card over to a better 
interest rate. Mrs R said MBNA asked her about her incomings and outgoings and she 
explained what they were either in that call or one a few days  later.  She said the bank did 
not ask her about  her husbands expenses. Mrs R said she was then told she could only 
afford to pay £64 per month and MBNA asked if she could make that on each card. Mrs R 
said she explained she could pay more  than that and that she would send double each 
month for each. 
Mrs R received several letters after changing  her payment saying she had underpaid and 
there was a balance  in arrears on the second card with the higher interest  rate. She said she 
assumed that as this was the same company one department would  look at the notes and 
see the conversations she had had regarding interest rates. She said she had been  told not 
to worry about  the letters  and had been waiting for someone to get back to her about 
changing to a reduced interest rate, but no one did. And every  month  she has paid £120+ 
each month  on both cards. 
Mrs R said she received  a number of letters in April concerning the account, culminating in a 
default letter  on 29 April to say the credit agreement had ended  and demanding repayment 
of the whole amount on the card, over £10,000. But she said had she been given the correct 
advice she would have  carried  on making repayments and wouldnt have defaulted. She 
complained to MBNA.  She asked  them  to take the default off her credit file. 
In its final response MBNA  did not uphold Mrs Rs complaint. It said Mrs R had been given 
the correct information during the call on 15 January and that it had sent various  letters for 
each account  which would have accurately explained the status of her accounts  at the time. 
Mrs R wasnt satisfied with this response so she brought her complaint to this service.  She 
said she made several calls to MBNA to get help with getting a reduced interest rate and it 
had taken from January  to May for MBNA  to come back to her. She said this exceeded 56 
days and that at the end she had a default registered on her credit  file. 
The investigator thought that MBNA  had acted appropriately and had tried to support Mrs R 
when she said she was struggling financially. Mrs R disagreed with the investigator  and 
asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. She responded  to the investigators view in 
some detail which I will consider below.  
Ref: DRN09017212my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I realise this will come as a 
disappointment to Mrs R but having done  so I wont  be asking MBNA to do anything further. 
Firstly I want to reassure Mrs R that I have read all of her submissions. If I dont respond to a 
particular point this is not because I havent  carefully  considered it but because I dont think I 
need to refer to it in order to reach  what I believe is the right outcome. 
MBNA has been unable to provide  recordings of the phone calls with Mrs R. Mrs R believes 
that this is rather too convenient as it had told her she could have a copy of the call were she 
to request it. When we make enquiries to a business to provide information  they are obliged 
to give it to us and of course they can only do so if the information is still available.  While it 
would be useful to listen to the calls,  they are not available now.  It is the case that 
sometimes calls are not available. But MBNA  has provided a copy of all the contact notes. 
And Ive no reason to suspect MBNA has not been  forthcoming nor is there anything to 
suggest information has been  withheld.  
Where evidence is incomplete, unclear or contradictory  I must  make my decision based on 
the balance of probability, that is, what I believe most likely happened.
Mrs R spoke to MBNA in September 2018 to discuss a missed  payment and arrears. The 
contact notes indicate MBNA asked Mrs R whether  the monthly  payments were  affordable  
and she said she was living within her overdraft. The notes say specifically Mrs R was 
unsure  and advised managing but always living in her overdraft in order to meet all 
outgoings and feels wasnt  getting anywhere after paying everything monthly. MBNA offered 
to do an income and expenditure assessment for affordability. 
MBNA applied breathing  space on the account,  where all activity  is paused.  There  is also a 
note indicating it advised Mrs R her credit file may be impacted.
The contact  notes record that MBNA tried to talk to Mrs R about the account on at least 
three occasions between October and January and she was either not available  or unable to 
talk because of work  or driving. There is no record  Mrs R called MBNA back during that time. 
The breathing space was removed on 15 October. 
Im satisfied that by the beginning of January MBNA had become aware that Mrs R was 
having trouble  with her repayments  and had taken appropriate positive steps  to help her, as I 
would expect it to do. While Mrs R has complained  about the lack of actions  from MBNA  
after her calls in January I think it relevant to this complaint that MBNA had already had a 
conversation with Mrs R about her payments  and financial situation three months previously 
and had tried to make contact with her prior to January to discuss  the situation. 
Mrs R said she called  MBNA  on 8 January to discuss  the interest rate on the card.  She said 
it was too high and she wanted  to know if the business would  put her on a lower  rate, thus 
lowering her payments.  
On the contact notes  MBNA said Mrs R called about  her minimum payments. The notes 
indicate Mrs R said since  breathing space  has been removed the payments and interest  is 
not affordable. I am not disputing that Mrs R asked MBNA to change  to a lower interest rate 
Ref: DRN09017213on the account in this or any other phone discussion. But this specific request isnt noted on 
the contact notes for 8 January or any subsequent phone call. 
On 10 January a further period of breathing space was agreed. The notes report  confirm to 
the customer that the account will be blocked  and educate the impact to the credit  bureau. 
Following completion of the income and outgoings  assessment on 15 January the final 
monthly total available for creditors was £179.31.  The monthly payment including Mrs Rs 
arrears was £419.39. 
A payment of £64 per month was agreed, though Mrs R said she could afford  more.  But I 
can see why MBNA  would consider Mrs R would be unable to make  the contractual  
repayments. Mrs R has said no consideration was given to her husbands income but the 
cards were  in Mrs Rs name and it was she who was contractually obliged  to make the 
payments, not her husband. 
MBNA sent Mrs R a letter dated  16 January.  It says:  
Thanks for telling  us about your financial difficulties. After  reviewing your income and 
expenditure, we can see youre unable to make  the payments requested on your 
monthly statement.
While you are in financial  difficulties, although the amount shown on your statement 
will continue to be due, youve offered and demonstrated you can afford  to pay 
£64.00 per month, so you may make that payment for now.
While youre in financial difficulties, weve also reduced your interest  rate to 0% per 
annum, and will waive late payment and over limit default fees.
Registering a default - the offered payment amount wont be enough  to prevent us 
registering a default  with the credit  reference  agencies, even if you continue  to 
maintain payments at this level.
The amount  shown on your monthly statement will continue to be due, and if you 
dont make a payment  of that amount,  we might take further action. However, well 
give you 30 days advance notice of this action (unless you have already received this 
notice).
Im satisfied that the letter is clear and unambiguous and Mrs R has not disputed receiving it. 
Not only does it confirm  the payment Mrs R agreed to, it also says the interest  rate would be 
reduced to 0%. The letter acknowledges Mrs Rs financial difficulties and informs Mrs R of 
the consequences regarding her credit  report. 
Mrs R said her understanding was MBNA would get back  to her about  reducing the interest  
rate so she could start paying off the balance. 
As outlined  above  Mrs R had a conversation  about  the account  and late payments in 
September and MBNA applied breathing space to the account. So Im satisfied that MBNAs 
understanding of Mrs Rs difficulty then, and subsequently in January, related to whether she 
could afford  the repayments. Under  these  circumstances MBNA is required to take positive 
steps to help customers. Perhaps there was a misunderstanding about interest rates  during 
the call, we can never know, but the outcome  of the call was confirmed in the letter sent the 
next day on 16 January.  
Ref: DRN09017214Mrs R said she was told to ignore the letters  and Im not disputing Mrs Rs version  of events. 
But given the discussion from September and the calls in January when MBNA established 
from Mrs Rs income and expenditure that she, by their calculation,  couldnt afford the 
payments Im afraid  I think it unlikely MBNA would encourage Mrs R to ignore letters relating 
to the payment arrangement; especially as they explain the very real affect on her credit file. 
Mrs R said the girl on the phone told her she would receive  letters but not to worry about 
them. Its possible MBNA may have tried to reassure Mrs R about the content of the letters 
but this does not necessarily mean  they should  be ignored. 
Mrs R said she wasnt in financial difficulty and that she could use money  from her business 
to pay down the card. She said MBNA had done  something wrong because it took it upon 
itself to decide what they (meaning  her and her husband)  could afford without asking about 
her husbands  income and despite arguing with MBNA that she could afford more. She said 
MBNA was adamant that she only needed  to pay £64.00. But its not clear  to me why Mrs R 
didnt continue to make the full payments anyway given the consequences of missing  
payments outlined in the letters, if she could afford them.
Im satisfied that following the calls in both September and January and the income  and 
expenditure analysis, MBNA was aware that the information Mrs R provided indicated 
financial difficulty and it had acted  appropriately; in this case  to agree a lower payment and 
to drop the interest to 0%. This is what I would expect a responsible lender to do. But this 
new payment arrangement would still have an effect on a customers credit file. 
Mrs R continued to receive letters in February and March, including a default notice and a 
final demand. Given Mrs Rs understanding that MBNA would  get back to her regarding  
interest rates I consider  that Mrs R had several  opportunities to question why she was 
receiving these specific letters and take action to prevent a default on her account. 
Mrs R has said she called  MBNA  on a number of occasions and asked  for a manager to call 
her regarding the interest rates.  She said she was invited to file a complaint in February 
which she did. But it appears  she did not question the letters regarding the potential default.  
Im satisfied Mrs R ought reasonably to have known she needed to make the repayments, 
not withstanding the fact she understood MBNA  was trying to help her with the interest  rates, 
because she would  have  been provided with a copy of the terms and conditions  when she 
took out the cards which required her to make  the minimum payments. 
Mrs R said she chased MBNA for a response concerning  interest rates and all it did was 
send letters in April to give itself more time.  But I can see that these letters  from April,  
excluding the default letter of 29 April,  relate  to the actual complaint Mrs R made,  not about 
the interest rates themselves. 
Ref: DRN09017215my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 November  2019.
Maxine Sutton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0901721