K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  because  he says Chase Templeton Limited  didnt advise him that his 
claims would  not be paid if his private medical insurer  withdrew from the market. 
background
In 2015 Mr M took out a private  medical  insurance  policy via a broker who I will refer to as 
R. The policy was with an insurer Ill refer to as A. 
Chase Templeton  purchased a book of insurance  policies  from R in 2017. This included  
Mr Ms policy with A. They wrote to Mr M when the policy  was due to automatically renew 
but couldnt get hold of him. In 2018 A withdrew  from the private medical insurance market. 
Mr M says hes now left in a position where hes got a pre-existing medical  condition  and his 
premiums are very high.  He says that Chase Templeton should  have advised him at the 
point of renewal that if A withdrew  from the market his claims wouldnt be paid. Mr M also 
made a complaint that Chase Templeton tried to persuade him not to make a complaint and 
they tried to direct his complaint  to R. 
Chase Templeton  issued a second  final response  letter to address these points. They 
clarified they couldnt have known at the point of renewal that A was going to withdraw  from 
the market and that at no point had the advisor attempted to prevent Mr M from making a 
complaint. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened. She didnt think Chase Templeton had 
treated Mr M unfairly. She noted that theyd tried to contact Mr M a number of times  to 
discuss the policy prior to it being  renewed. She explained the policy renewed, without 
advice, because Chase  Templeton couldnt  get in touch with Mr M. She also explained R 
and Chase Templeton had an agreement about how complaints would be handled following 
the sale of the policies.  So she didnt  think theyd acted  unreasonably  when Mr M made a 
complaint. 
Mr M responded to say, in summary,  that this was key policy  term that ought to have been  
highlighted to him. He says he wouldnt  have  bought  the policy if hed known claims wouldnt 
be paid if the insurer stopped offering the cover. He reiterated that the potential for the 
withdrawal of cover is a key term. So I need to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Chase Templeton  didnt provide Mr M with advice about the policy. So, under the relevant 
rules and industry guidance,  they didnt have  a responsibility to ensure the policy was 
suitable for him. However,  they did need to give him enough information to decide  if it was 
right for him. 
Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint because: 
Ref: DRN00973562Chase Templeton  tried to contact  Mr M about  the policy a number of times before  it 
renewed to see whether the policy was still right for him. But he didnt  respond.  When  
the policy renewed the covering  letters directed him to check  whether the policy  still 
met his needs and offered the right level of cover
 Im not persuaded Chase Templeton  had a responsibility to highlight withdrawal of 
cover as a key term in the circumstances of this case. They  didnt know there was 
any prospect of A withdrawing  from the market so there was no reason  to think  this 
was an issue at that time
Mr M was provided with the policy documents and the correspondence explains what 
Mr M needed to do if he had any questions. So, if the potential of withdrawing cover 
was particularly important to him at renewal, he had the opportunity to query this
I dont think the complaint was handled  unreasonably. I think Chase Templeton 
acknowledged some  aspects of Mr Ms complaint needed to be addressed by R, 
which was reasonable. And, having listened to the relevant phone-call, I dont agree 
there was an attempt to persuade Mr M to drop his complaint.  I think  the compliance 
manager was trying to help Mr M to resolve  the situation and explain the options  
available to him. He explained that the insurer had decided to withdraw from the 
market and that they hadnt failed financially. The call was closed on the basis the 
complaint would be logged and investigated.  
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint against  Chase  Templeton Limited. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision 
before 27 April 2019.
Anna Wilshaw 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0097356