K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L say HSBC  UK Bank Plc mis sold them an Advance  packaged account.
background
Mr and Mrs L opened a new account  with HSBC  in February 2010,  and this was an Advance  
account. This was then changed to a fee-free account in July 2018. 
Our adjudicator assessed the complaint and didnt  think the Advance  account  had been    
mis-sold. Mr and Mrs L disagreed with this, so the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr and Mrs Ls complaint.
Having done so, I dont think HSBC mis-sold the Advance  account. Ill explain why. 
Mr and Mrs L say they went into an HSBC branch to open a new joint account. They  were  
told that if they wanted an overdraft facility, the only account  available  to them was the     
fee-paying Advance account.  Because they wanted the safety net of the overdraft, they 
agreed to take the packaged account, even though they had no need for the benefits. 
Ive thought about this carefully.  Where  theres  a disagreement  over what  happened, I must 
consider what I think is more likely in the circumstances.  Mr and Mrs L have said they were  
told they had to pay a fee to have an account with an overdraft. At the time of the sale,  
HSBC offered fee-free  accounts with overdrafts. While its possible the representative of 
HSBC deliberately and falsely told Mr and Mrs L they had to pay a monthly fee for an 
account with an overdraft facility, I dont think its the more likely scenario. Instead, I think its 
more likely there was a discussion about  the benefits of the account,  including  the 
preferential overdraft rate, and Mr and Mrs L agreed  to take out the account knowing they 
didnt have to. 
Mr and Mrs L have also said they previously held fee-free accounts with other banking  
providers. And fee-free accounts  in general  were  widely advertised and available from 
banks, building  societies  and other  financial institutions. So, I think its more  likely Mr and 
Mrs L were aware they didnt have to have a packaged account and that they could  have 
chosen a fee-free one if they wanted  to. 
Mr and Mrs L say they were recommended the Advance account, whereas HSBC has said it 
didnt provide a recommendation.  Ive looked at the evidence available and I cant see there 
was a detailed  discussion about the benefits  in relation to Mr and Mrs Ls circumstances. So, 
I think its more likely HSBC didnt make  a recommendation for the Advance account.  This 
means it didnt have to make sure the account  was suitable for Mr and Mrs L. But It did have 
to give them enough  information so they could make sure they wanted it. 
At the time of the sale, the main benefits of the account were  breakdown  cover, travel 
insurance, life cover  and preferential rates  on the overdraft. I think  its likely  the 
Ref: DRN07369802representative told Mr and Mrs L about the main  benefits on the account, seeing as they 
were trying to make the account  sound  attractive  to Mr and Mrs L. Though  its possible they 
werent told everything they needed to know about the ins and outs of the account. But as 
they were able to make  a successful claim on the travel insurance  some time later, I do think  
they were given enough information about  the account to understand what  they were 
agreeing to. And its likely  they were attracted to the travel insurance  and the overdraft 
benefits.  
I accept that Mr and Mrs L may now, with the benefit of hindsight, believe they havent 
benefitted from the account as much as theyd  hoped and expected to when they initially 
took it out. And given what they may have read or heard  about  packaged  bank accounts  in 
general, I can understand why they might  now think their account  was mis-sold. But I think 
Mr and Mrs L agreed to take out the account,  knowing they didnt have to. So, I want  to 
reassure Mr and Mrs L that Ive independently looked at all the information provided about 
their complaint. And having  given careful thought to whats  been  provided and listened to 
everything theyve said,  I dont think that HSBC mis-sold the Advance account  to them.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 February  2020.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0736980