K820x#14complaint
Mr S and Mrs S complain  about how Admiral Insurance Company Limited handled a claim 
made on their motor insurance policy, causing unnecessary delays  and inconvenience.  They  
want compensation for this. Mr S is a named  driver on Mrs Ss policy. 
background
Mr S was involved  in a serious  accident and his car was taken to a police compound. Mr S 
said he was unhappy  with the information  Admiral provided when he notified it. Admiral told 
him it would have to wait for the car to be released before it could assess  the damage.  But 
Mr S was able to send  Admiral photographs of the car and Admiral  used  these to determine 
that the car was beyond economic repair. It settled the claim. Admiral agreed that there had 
been six days delay  in the claim and it paid Mr S £248.93 compensation for this. But Mr S 
was unhappy  with this.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought  Admiral  
had provided Mr S with reasonable  information  when he called it after the accident. She 
thought its procedure was to inspect  the car before deciding a claim.  So she couldnt say 
Admiral should have acted differently. And she thought it had responded reasonably when 
Mr S provided the photographs. She didnt  think Admiral  had caused  any further 
unreasonable delays. And so she thought Admirals payment of compensation was fair and 
reasonable.
Mr S replied  that Admiral  had incorrectly told him that the claim couldnt  be progressed until 
the car was released. He thought it should have  taken  Admiral five days  to settle the claim.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr S initially raised several  complaint points. Ive considered  all of these but Ill 
concentrate here on what I think are the most important of these, the information he was 
given and the delays in the claim. I can also see that Mr S has raised new complaints 
relating to the valuation of his car. But I cant consider that here as Admiral  has yet to 
provide Mr S with its response.  
The incident  was reported to Admiral  on 28 September 2018. It told Mr S that he could claim 
through his policy  or through a credit  hire and repair company. Mr S said he wasnt  told that 
if he claimed through his policy he could recover his excess and have his No Claims 
Discount reinstated.  But I think  in the notification phone call he was told that Admiral could 
look to recover these.  So, I dont  think Admiral misinformed Mr S on this point.
Mr S didnt think the option of credit hire and repair was a reasonable alternative  due to the 
potential risks if liability was disputed.  But I think it was for him to decide whether to take this 
option. I cant say Admiral did anything wrong in this. 
Ref: DRN00811112Mr S then called Admiral on 1 October  2018 to say that he wanted to claim through his 
policy. Mr S was dissatisfied with the progress of the claim and he called Admiral  about this 
on 8 October 2018. They  discussed  the cars inspection whilst it was with the police. Mr S 
suggested sending  in photographs of the car instead. He did this and the claim was settled 
five days later. 
Admiral said it would expect a car to be released  by the police after five to seven  days. It 
would then inspect  it and decide on repairs. But it was ten days  before Mr S called it to 
suggest using  photographs instead of a physical inspection. Admiral said this caused a five 
day delay in settling  the claim. 
I think it was reasonable  for Admiral to wait for five days for the car to be released so it could 
then follow  its procedure  for inspection. It said it was unusual  for consumers to provide 
photographs. But I think  it could  have  looked  for alternatives after five days and so I agree  
that this was five days delay. Admiral also agreed  that it could have offered a settlement a 
day earlier than it did. So I agree there  were six days delay  in the claim.
When a business  makes mistakes, as Admiral agrees it has done  here,  we expect it to 
restore the consumers  position. Mr S said hed been caused stress and inconvenience.  He 
said hed been  without a car for longer than necessary.  I can appreciate  Mr Ss wish to get 
matters settled. But I think some  inconvenience is to be expected  following a claim. I think  
Admiral reasonably pursued the claim outside the six days delay. 
Admiral offered Mr S compensation taking into account his stress and inconvenience,  its 
delay in responding to all his concerns, his loss of use for six days due to delays in the claim 
and interest for its delays  in payment. I think the amount  of compensation was fair and 
reasonable as its what Id require in similar circumstances.  I dont require Admiral to do 
anything further.  
 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 May 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0081111