K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs F have  complained that John Lewis Financial Services  Limited (John Lewis) hasnt 
properly dealt with their claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  (CCA).
background 
Mr and Mrs F had a timeshare with a company that Ill call Company A. Their timeshare 
agreement meant they could take an annual overseas  holiday.  Each  year they had to pay 
maintenance fees which by 2016 were  £1,191.  Mr and Mrs F have said that although they didnt 
use their timeshare every year, their maintenance fees were up to date by November 2015.
On 8 November  2015, Mr and Mrs F entered into an agreement  with a different  company 
that Ill call Company B. Under this agreement,  amongst other things, Company B agreed to 
take over Mr and Mrs Fs Company A timeshare  and release them from the need  to pay 
ongoing maintenance fees. To do this Mr and Mrs F bought some Company  B credits that 
they were told could be sold later on for a profit. But Company B didnt do what it said it 
would and Mr and Mrs F were chased  by Company  A for unpaid  maintenance fees.  The 
agreement cost £6,980 and was paid for using Mrs Fs John Lewis  credit  card.  
S.75 CCA sets out certain circumstances in which a finance provider can be jointly liable  to 
its customers for a suppliers breach of contract or misrepresentation where the customer  
paid the supplier using credit   Mr and Mrs F said that applies to this complaint and John 
Lewis are jointly liable.  They asked  to be put in the position they would have been  in if 
Company B had done what it should have done  under  the contract. So they asked for a lump 
sum of money so they could  cancel their timeshare with Company A, a lump  sum to cover  
the management fees that Company A had asked them to pay since  November 2015 and an 
amount of money  that they were entitled to be paid under the contract  with Company B. 
Alternatively they said Company B had misrepresented the benefits of the agreement, so 
asked for their money  back and a lump  sum for the timeshare maintenance fees theyd been 
asked to pay by Company  A. Mr and Mrs F brought their claim together, but they paid 
Company B using  Mrs Fs card. So although  in this decision Ive referred  to both Mr and 
Mrs F, as John  Lewiss customer  it is for Mrs F to accept  or reject my final decision.
John Lewis  considered the complaint and made  Mr and Mrs F an offer.  It said it would pay them 
£6,980 plus interest,  which was the amount theyd paid to Company B. Mr and Mrs F didnt think 
that was enough as they thought John Lewis needed to also cover the cost of their Company A 
maintenance fees due from the date they entered into an agreement  with Company B.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint,  but didnt think John Lewis needed to pay 
the maintenance fees. They said that normally  compensation paid for a misrepresentation 
was designed  to put a consumer in the position they would have  been  in had they not 
entered into the contract. Here John Lewis offer repaid what Mr and Mrs F had paid to 
Company B, with interest,  which was fair. But if Mr and Mrs F hadnt entered  into an 
agreement with Company B, they would  still have had to pay maintenance fees to 
Company A, so they didnt  think these  needed  to be paid by John  Lewis.
Mr and Mrs F disagreed. They pointed out that the maintenance fees were  essentially a 
charge to enable  them  to take holidays using their timeshare. But they were told by 
Company B not to pay the fees,  so due to the misrepresentation made  they built up a liability 
without any benefit.  They said to be put into the position they would  have been  in if they 
didnt enter  into the contract,  John  Lewis needed to reimburse the value of their lost holidays 
which they valued as the maintenance  fees due.
Ref: DRN00997352Our investigator considered the complaint  again in light of Mr and Mrs Fs arguments  and 
came to a different  view. They thought Mr and Mrs F wanted to get out of their timeshare 
agreement with Company A and, but for Company Bs misrepresentations, they could have 
looked into surrendering their timeshare another way. And Mr and Mrs F only continued  to 
accrue maintenance fees as they believed Company B were  dealing with this on their behalf. 
But the investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs F had done enough to see if they could 
surrender their timeshare  once they realised Company B werent dealing with it, so they 
thought John Lewis should  only pay the fees up to the date they first complained.
Mr and Mrs F accepted the view,  but John Lewis disagreed.  It felt that these werent losses 
associated with Company Bs actions as they were always due to be paid and Mr and Mrs F 
knew what the terms of their existing timeshare  were,  so they could have  taken steps to 
avoid these charges.  Despite  that, John Lewis was prepared to pay one maintenance fee 
that fell due prior to the claim as a gesture of goodwill,  but it asked for evidence  that the 
money will be paid to Company A to discharge the outstanding debt. Mr and Mrs F felt this 
wasnt fair as they didnt  think they needed  to provide evidence  of what the settlement fees 
were used for. They were  also concerned that paying maintenance fees to Company  A might 
affirm the timeshare  contract. Our investigator thought John  Lewis offer was fair. As the 
parties didnt agree  how best to settle this complaint, it was passed to me for a decision.
Having considered everything, I came to a similar conclusion as our investigator, but thought 
John Lewis  needed  to do something  slightly differently to resolve the complaint. So I issued 
a provisional decision  to allow both parties the chance to let me have anything further to 
think about before I issued a final decision. In my provisional decision I said the following:
In this decision Ive only considered the issue of Mr and Mrs Fs maintenance bills. I 
dont think its in dispute that s.75 CCA applies  to this complaint  and Ive seen 
correspondence from their representatives  that says they are happy for their complaint 
to be decided based on Company Bs misrepresentations. And they have accepted  the 
offer of a refund of what they paid to Company  B, so Ill not consider that further. 
To work out fair compensation,  I think  Mr and Mrs F are entitled to be put into the 
position they would have  been in, so far as is possible, had they not entered into the 
contract with Company  B. In other  words,  they need  to get back the amount that they 
are out of pocket. But they are only entitled  to get back losses they suffered by entering 
into the contract and not expenses they would have had to pay anyway. And I also 
need to think about whether Mr and Mrs F have taken reasonable steps to reduce their 
losses as I dont think John Lewis should be liable for all the maintenance fees if Mr 
and Mrs F could  have done  something  to stop them building  up.
Mr and Mrs F have  said that Company B told them not to enter into any dialogue with 
Company A or pay any of the maintenance fees.  I think this is plausible  as under 
some timeshare contracts, if a consumer doesnt  pay the fees as they fall due, the 
timeshare provider can end the agreement and take  back the timeshare. So its 
possible Company  B could have appeared to have procured the release of some of 
its customers from their timeshares by simply doing  nothing.
Ive seen several invoices sent to Mr and Mrs F by Company  A. On 21 January 2016  
they were asked to pay £1,191 in maintenance fees for the year which  were  overdue 
by that point. On 27 October 2016 Company A asked for the 2017 maintenance fees 
to be paid  they were  due by the start of January  2017, so it looks like they were 
charged in advance. The total amount due by this date was £2,607.
Ref: DRN00997353On 17 December 2018 Company A wrote  again to Mr and Mrs F asking for payment of 
the maintenance fees. It says they had to be paid until  01/01/2019 and, at that date, 
the total owed was £5,655. From  looking at the amount  charged  in the previous years,  I 
think this is likely to have  covered the maintenance fees due to the end of 2019. 
Mr and Mrs F have  said that since 2015 they have not used their Company  A timeshare 
but they are concerned they are still liable to pay the maintenance fees. They  argued this 
should be paid by John Lewis as, even  if they now paid the owed  fees, they wont be able 
to benefit from the holidays  as the fees related  to previous years.  
Ive thought about the position  Mr and Mrs F would have been in had they not entered  
into an agreement with Company B. If they kept their Company A timeshare, they would 
have had to pay the maintenance payments, but they would have had the opportunity to 
use their timeshare. So if they now have to pay their past maintenance fees, they would 
be paying for something they have already lost the chance to use. They also entered 
into the agreement  with Company B to get out of their Company A timeshare, so I think 
getting out of it was something they were interested in. But by relying  on Company Bs 
promises, they lost the opportunity of getting  out of their timeshare earlier.  I think this 
problem was a direct cause of them  entering into the agreement  with Company B. So, in 
principle, I think  these  maintenance fees are something John  Lewis might have to pay.
In November 2015, Mr and Mrs F relied on what Company B told them, so they didnt 
pay their fees for 2016, correspond with Company A or use their timeshare. So if they 
subsequently had to pay their 2016  maintenance fees, this would  be a loss that I 
think John Lewis should cover.
But Mr and Mrs F first complained, through their representatives, to John Lewis  in 
December 2016.  In that complaint they explained the problems they had and said to 
John Lewis  that they were  seeking  a sum of money to discharge  any liability built up 
under their Company A timeshare as well as a sum required to secure the 
termination of the timeshare.  So I think by that stage they knew  Company B werent 
going to do anything about their Company A timeshare.
I cant see that Mr and Mrs F did anything to explore how they could relinquish their 
timeshare agreement directly at this stage,  even though they knew  their maintenance 
fee charges were building  up. So based on the evidence Ive seen, I dont think  Mr 
and Mrs F did enough to show John Lewis should be responsible  for any 
maintenance fee charges  after they first complained.
As of November 2020, Mr and Mrs F have said they hadnt received any more 
correspondence from Company A. And they didnt want  to pay anything  to 
Company A which might  affirm the timeshare agreement. So I dont think they have 
either paid the 2016 maintenance fee or are currently being  chased by Company A 
for payment. Given that, I dont think it would be fair to tell John Lewis to pay this to 
Mr and Mrs F as they have not actually made  any payment, nor does it appear 
theyre likely  to at the moment. But I also dont think its right that this is ignored in 
case Company A demand payment at a later date.
Ref: DRN00997354If Company A do make a demand  in the future,  I think John Lewis should cover the 
2016 maintenance fee payment, alongside any reasonable  demand  for interest  on 
the unpaid amount. Its possible  that Company A have to make  any demand  by a 
certain date or legally they cant pursue the debt, but its not my role to say whether 
that is the case  certainly I understand Mr and Mrs Fs reluctance to pay anything 
and affirm the contract. But I dont think any liability on John Lewis  should  last forever 
and I think it is reasonable  to say it should  cover  any demand made within the three 
years from the date of my final decision. I also think it is reasonable that John Lewis  
pays this to Company  A directly.
Both Mr and Mrs F and John Lewis accepted my provisional decision. I was also told that 
John Lewis  had already refunded Mrs F the £6,980  paid to Company B with interest,  so I 
dont need to make any award for that amount.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party asked  me to consider  any new evidence and both accepted  my provisional 
decision, I see no reason  to depart  from it.
To resolve  this complaint  John Lewis  needs to pay Company A £1,191 plus reasonable interest 
if Mrs F presents a demand for payment dated  after the date of my final decision.  Reasonable 
interest is defined as a rate of interest  at or below either 8% per year simple or the rate set out 
in any contract between Company A and Mr and Mrs F, whichever is the higher.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, John Lewis Financial Services Limited must pay 
compensation as set out above  if Mrs F presents any demand for payment from Company A 
within three years of the date of this final decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 May 2021.
Mark Hutchings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0099735