K820x#14complaint
Mr L has complained  that Santander UK Plc mis-sold him a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy in 2007.
background
The policy was taken  out over the telephone.  It provided unemployment cover  only.
Our adjudicator did not uphold this complaint.
On his behalf, Mr Ls representative disagreed with the adjudicators assessment. It has 
commented that Mr L was not told that the policy would  add an extra  cost to his monthly  
mortgage related  payments. It has also highlighted Mr Ls entitlement  to sick pay from 
his employer. The representative has stated that Mr Ls savings, and other policies he 
held, meant  that he did not need  PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  
to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in 
deciding Mr Ls case.
I have firstly considered whether Mr L was given a choice about taking out PPI, and 
whether he agreed  to do so. Santander has provided a copy  of a High level needs  
analysis form that it states  was completed when the policy  was sold to Mr L. This 
confirmed that the Santander adviser was recommending  that Mr L take out PPI, to 
cover him in the event of unemployment. It also confirmed that Mr L did not need cover  
for accident and sickness.
The policy was taken  out around  six months after the mortgage  had started. Although 
there is limited evidence available from the sale, taking into account the form completed 
by Santander  at this time, overall in my view it is more likely  than not that PPI was 
presented as a separate product to the mortgage, and that it was optional.  It seems that 
there was a discussion about the level of cover  required, and it was agreed that only 
unemployment cover  was needed.  In addition Mr L already had an existing  mortgage  
with Santander  at this time, suggesting that he would have known that the mortgage  did 
not require him to also take out PPI. The needs  analysis form indicates  that Mr L agreed 
to the advisers  recommendation to take out PPI.
Santander advised Mr L to take out PPI. It therefore  had to take reasonable steps to 
ensure the advice it gave was suitable. It also had to give clear,  fair and not misleading 
information about the PPI so that Mr L could make a properly informed choice.
Having looked  at Mr Ls circumstances when the policy was sold,  my view is that the 
recommendation to take out the policy was suitable  for the following reasons:
Mr L has confirmed that he was entitled  to benefits from his employer if he wasnt  
working. His entitlement to sick pay did not affect the suitability of the PPI policy sold,  
as this only covered  him for unemployment.
Ref: DRN06327122Mr L has not been able to provide documentation relating to any other policies he 
may have  had in place  when sold PPI, or to his savings. The PPI policy  would have 
made a payment in the event Mr L had been  unable  to work due to unemployment, in 
addition to any other benefits that he was entitled to. Bearing  in mind the importance 
of maintaining mortgage repayments, overall my view is that the PPI policy did 
provide a useful  benefit to Mr L.
Mr L was eligible for the cover, and wouldnt have been affected by any of the main  
things not covered  by the policy that might make  it unsuitable for him.
I note the representatives  comments that Mr L was not made  aware of the policys 
cost. However, it seems to me likely that Mr L would  have been made aware  that the 
policy did cost something. The cost of the policy was confirmed  to Mr L within  the 
documentation that was sent to him after the telephone call took place. And I 
consider that, even  if there was a failure to disclose the exact policy  cost to Mr L 
during the sales  call, more likely  than not he would  still have chosen to take out the 
policy if this was disclosed  at that time, bearing in mind  the potential  benefits the 
policy provided.
The policy also looks  to have been  affordable.
There might  have been other areas  in which Santander didnt give Mr L as much 
information as it should have done. But for the same reasons that Ive decided the policy 
was suitable for him, my view is that better  information would not have put Mr L off 
taking out the PPI. My conclusion is that the policy was not mis-sold.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint, and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 April 2019.
John Swain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0632712