K820x#14complaint
Messrs J complain  that Barclays Bank  UK PLC took too long dealing with their buy to let 
(BTL) mortgage application.
background
This mortgage was applied  for on 9 January 2018.  Whilst this was the only mortgage being 
applied for in Messrs Js joint names, this is one of a set of linked complaints involving other 
members of their family relating to mortgages applied for at the same time. Whilst Barclays  
looked at the complaint as a whole, we separated them out into each individual transaction. 
This complaint relates to the re-mortgage  of a property Ill refer to as 47H.
Barclays has admitted the mortgage adviser gave  a poor level of service which led to this 
re-mortgage not completing until 10 July 2018. This was because  the mortgage adviser 
didnt submit a fully packaged application  for processing until 18 May 2018  (the application 
was submitted in April,  but it wasnt fully packaged  so couldnt be progressed). Barclays  has 
said the mortgage adviser should  have submitted the application on 23 January 2018, and 
had she done  so the mortgage would have completed around 16 March 2018. On that basis 
it offered to refund the extra interest  Messrs J incurred with their previous lender for the 
period between 16 March and 10 July compared  to the interest  they would have paid on this 
Barclays mortgage. It also offered £400  compensation.
Our investigator thought that was a fair resolution to this complaint. As Messrs J didnt agree 
its been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I trust Messrs J wont  take it as a 
discourtesy that Ive condensed their complaint  in the way I have. Ours is an informal  dispute  
resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments  to what  I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach  the right outcome.  This 
service is impartial between, and independent from, consumers and businesses. What  this 
means is that we dont  represent either party, and I dont act under eithers instructions or 
take directions  on how a complaint will be looked at or what information is needed.
Whilst I acknowledge how frustrating it is when  a business makes a mistake, mistakes do 
happen. Here Messrs J were told their re-mortgage  would complete  a lot more  quickly  than it 
did. This is a mistaken statement of facts; otherwise known  as a misrepresentation. When 
were looking at complaints of this type,  we consider  the appropriate remedy  is to place the 
consumer in the position they would be in if the incorrect information hadnt  been given. We 
dont put them in the position they would  be in if it had been correct.
Messrs J could never  have been in the position where their re-mortgage completed  four to 
six weeks from the date they applied. There are no formally contracted  timescales of how 
long applications  should take as it simply depends on how many applications Barclays has 
to deal with at any one time. So the best way to decide how long this application should have 
Ref: DRN07024752taken is to look at how long it did take once  the fully packaged application  had been  
submitted by the mortgage adviser. That was seven and a half weeks.
Barclays has said a further  two weeks should be allowed  at the start to give the mortgage  
adviser time to package  up the application  and submit it the processing. Messrs J dont 
agree a further two weeks would have been needed as they say the application was 
completed online on 9 January.  But I agree with Barclays  as the full mortgage package  is 
more than just the online  application submission,  and Messrs J wouldnt have been the only 
customers and mortgage application the mortgage  adviser was dealing with. 
Having considered everything, Im satisfied  a two-week timeframe for the full mortgage  
application package  to be submitted and then a further seven and a half weeks for the 
application to be processed to completion  are not unreasonable timescales. For that reason,  
Im satisfied the financial loss part of the redress offered by Barclays in its response  to this 
complaint is fair. 
Were not the regulator and its not our role to fine or punish  a business and our awards 
arent punitive. Clearly  no amount of compensation  can change what happened; all I can do 
is consider the impact  of a businesss actions on the consumer. Barclays has offered £400 
compensation and having  looked  at all the evidence  and keeping  in mind the level of 
award we normally  make   I consider that to be fair and reasonable.
There are no grounds for me to order Barclays to refund the product fee paid as that fee was 
due for the mortgage product Messrs J selected.  The fee was not payable for the 
administration of the application.  As Messrs J have the benefit of the product  they selected,  
its only right they pay the applicable fee due for it.
Finally I understand  Messrs  J are concerned that Barclays  has been unable  to provide a 
copy of a conference  call that was undertaken as part of the complaint handling. Messrs J 
have said theyre absolutely livid that our investigator didnt think the recording would make 
a difference to the outcome of this complaint.  Messrs J have said it would make a huge 
difference as it will clarify the facts are as they have  stated and that Barclays  clearly  upheld 
every single point  they made. 
But its not in dispute that Barclays have upheld this complaint and admitted that Messrs J 
were given misinformation about  the timescales, so listening to a call simply reiterating this 
wouldnt be needed, even  if it were still available. Messrs J have also questioned  whether 
the loss of the conversation data is considered  a data breach, but thats not something Im 
able to comment on as thats a matter  for the Information Commissioners  Office 
(www.ico.org.uk).
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint in the sense that I consider Barclays  Bank UK PLC made a fair 
offer in its response  to Messrs Js complaint. I leave it to Messrs J to decide if now - on 
reflection - they want  to accept that offer. 
Ref: DRN07024753Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Messrs J to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 April 2020.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0702475