K820x#14complaint
Mr S says the advice  given and the arrangements made by Insight Financial Associates 
Limited (Insight) to switch his occupational pension into a Rowanmoor Self-invested 
Personal Pension (SIPP)  and facilitate investment in overseas property, was unsuitable and 
led to him incur a financial loss.
background
While Mr S and his wife went through the transaction which  is the subject of this complaint 
together, Ill generally refer only to Mr S because its his pension provision Im considering  in 
this case.
Mr Ss representative initially told us that he was contacted in 2009 by his friend  Mr M, who 
was also a representative of The Resort Group (TRG). Mr M recommended  that he should 
invest in a commercial development in Cape Verde.  Mr S was presented with promotional 
material from TRG which promised  returns in excess of 20%.
Mr S and his wife appear to have been interested in investing. They placed a reservation  on 
an apartment. They were  referred to Insight for advice about financing the property, and this 
included considering Mr Ss pension arrangements.
Insight produced two financial planning  reports (FPRs) for Mr S. The first of these,  dated  23 
September 2009, records:
You are an agent of [TRG] with whom  you are dealing with regards to a purchase of an 
overseas property in Cape Verde. You have  been made aware  by them  that you have  a 
variety of options with regards to funding this purchase, one of which being through  a [SIPP]  
and have requested that I find a suitable provider who can accommodate this.
Mr S had a deferred benefits membership of the Pearl Group occupational pension scheme 
(OPS). This had an assessed cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of around £166k in 
September 2009. He was persuaded to sign the applications necessary to release his 
retirement pot and transfer it into a SIPP with Rowanmoor, enabling the investment  in 
overseas property.
I can see from Mr Ss SIPP account  statements that the injection of funds  from his OPS 
which materialised was around £164k  and this was transferred on 26 February 2010. The 
purchase his Cape Verde apartment  for around £150k happened  on 3 March  2010. And he 
made a separate portfolio investment of around  £8k in March  2011.
Mr S was told his Cape Verde property  would deliver a good level of rental income  along  
with capital growth. I understand that construction of the properties was due to be finished in 
2011, after which rental income was expected  to flow into his SIPP account. But it wasnt 
until May 2015 that Mr S began to receive income  from the property.
From one of his SIPP account statements,  I can see that between May 2015 and June 2018 
Mr S received quarterly  rental income totalling  around £10k. I can also see he took tax-free 
cash (TFC) of around £8,200 from his account  in April 2018. Fees and charges have been 
debited throughout the life of the account.
Ref: DRN06282482The crux of Mr Ss complaint is that he believes  his Cape  Verde  investment  now has no real 
sale value and that hes lost the entirety  of his investment and retirement pension fund. Mr 
Ss representative says that in giving him advice about and making  arrangements  for the 
SIPP and the investment,  Insight had failed in its regulatory duties.
Insight says Mr S was an agent for TRG.  Mr Ss representative confirmed that in 2009 he 
worked for Central Finance Solutions (CFS) as an independent financial adviser (IFA). He 
advised clients on various financial products including  personal pensions and investments. 
I can see from the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA)  register that Mr S was an appointed 
representative of CFS at various points in time, including around when the transaction  he is 
complaining about was taking place. He also had wider experience in the financial services 
sector with different firms.
CFS was engaged in introducing prospective  customers interested  in investing in overseas 
property to TRG. I understand it wouldve received commission  and fees for this. And I can 
see that one of CFSs Directors (Mr M) is shown as the agent who introduced Mr S.
Insight says that given Mr Ss involvement in introducing clients  to TRG himself and his 
professional background, he wouldve understood the Cape Verde development opportunity  
and the risks involved. It said it had advised  him against the transfer  of his OPS, but that 
hed signed an insistent client letter expressing his wish to go ahead.
The last adjudicator to consider Mr Ss case didnt  think it should be upheld.  Mr S disagreed  
and so his complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case.  Wheres theres conflicting  information about 
what happened and gaps in what we know, my role is to weigh the evidence we do have and 
to decide, on the balance  of probabilities,  whats most likely to have happened.
Mr Ss representative provided detailed  arguments  in support of his complaint and in 
response to the views of the adjudicator. Ive not provided a detailed response  to all the 
points its raised. Thats  deliberate; ours is an informal service for resolving  disputes  
between financial businesses and their customers. While I have taken account and 
considered all the submissions made on Mr Ss behalf, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart  of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
how does the regulatory framework inform  the consideration of Mr S case?
Mr Ss representative has correctly identified the broad range of regulatory obligations 
placed on firms like Insight when carrying on the activities  it did.
The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for businesses, which it says are 
fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA Handbook). These  
include:
-Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct  its business with due skill, care and 
diligence
Ref: DRN06282483-Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers 
and treat them fairly
The Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated  firms. As such, I need to 
have regard to them in deciding this case.
Further, COBS 2.1.1  R requires a firm to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance  
with the best interests of its clients, in relation to designated investment business  carried on 
for a retail  client. The definition of designated investment business includes arranging 
(bringing about)  deals in investments.
COBS 9.2.1R sets out the obligations on firms in assessing the suitability of investments. 
They are the same  things  that I look at when reaching a decision about whether the advice 
was suitable. In summary, the business must  obtain  the necessary information  regarding: 
the consumers  knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the advice; 
their financial  situation; and their investment objectives.
Its also important to review the FCAs specific stance on advice provided about SIPPs.  For 
example, in January 2013 it issued  an industry alert which said:
It has been  brought to the FSAs  attention that some financial advisers are giving advice to 
customers on pension transfers or pension switches without assessing the advantages and 
disadvantages of investments  proposed  to be held within the new pension. In particular, we 
have seen financial advisers moving  customers  retirement  savings to [SIPPs] that invest 
wholly or primarily in high risk, often  highly illiquid  unregulated  investments
Financial advisers  using this advice model  are under the mistaken  impression that this 
process means they do not have to consider the unregulated investment as part of their 
advice to invest in the SIPP and that they only need  to consider the suitability of the SIPP  in 
the abstract. This is incorrect.  The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable advice 
generally requires  consideration of the other  investments held by the customer  or, when 
advice is given on a product which  is a vehicle for investment in other products (such as 
SIPPs and other  wrappers), consideration of the suitability of the overall proposition,  that is, 
the wrapper and the expected underlying investments in unregulated schemes..
If, taking into account the individual circumstances of the customer, the original pension  
product, including its underlying holdings, is more suitable for the customer, then the SIPP is 
not suitable. This is because if you give regulated advice and the recommendation will 
enable investment in unregulated items you cannot separate  out the unregulated elements 
from the regulated  elements. There are clear requirements under the FSA Principles and 
Conduct of Business rules.
So, did Insight adhere to the regulatory  requirements placed on it?
On balance, I think Insight  met most of the regulatory requirements placed on it. There were  
failings, but I dont think these were  ultimately telling. Ill explain what I mean.
Its clear Mr S was referred to Insight for advice about moving  his OPS to a SIPP  so he could 
invest in high risk overseas property. Insight knew what he was contemplating, but the FPR 
its adviser said it wasnt responsible for the investment  advice.
Ref: DRN06282484I disagree with the argument Insights adviser made.  The regulatory  position is clear. It had a 
duty to act honestly, fairly and professionally in the best interests of Mr S. And to take 
reasonable steps to ensure the advice it gave  was suitable. It couldnt  do this without 
considering the suitability  of the investments being  proposed.
My conclusion here is supported by the alert issued by the then regulator in January  2013. 
And although the alert was issued after the advice given to Mr S, it wasnt  new guidance; it 
was the regulator re-stating the position.
Insight couldnt  ignore  Mr Ss intention of investing in overseas  property.  If it didnt consider 
this to be suitable in his circumstances, it had to say so - rather  than presuming that the 
transfer was necessary for this to happen. It had a duty to consider the suitability of the 
whole transaction,  not simply limit its advice to choosing  the best SIPP provider.
Insight couldnt  seek to exclude  or restrict any duty or liability  it had to Mr S. It had an 
obligation to consider the suitability of the investment he was considering, and it couldnt  
avoid this by asking Mr S to sign terms of business instructing it to only consider the 
pension switch in isolation, or by implying  such in documentation such  as the FPR.
However, having reviewed the documentation from the time of the advice, Insight did end up 
providing advice  to Mr S that was suitable  for his circumstances.
Insight had to obtain information  from Mr S in order to understand essential facts about  him. 
In order to advise  him to transfer his OPS  into the SIPP with Rowanmoor and facilitate 
investment in the Cape Verde development, it had to believe that:
-The service or recommended transaction met Mr Ss investment objectives (including  
his attitude to risk, the purpose of investing  and how long he wanted to invest  for).
-Mr S was able to financially withstand the investment risks.
-Mr S had the necessary experience or knowledge to understand the risks involved.
Insight conducted  a fact-find  with Mr S on 22 September 2009.  At the time he was 49, 
married and had two dependent children. His occupation was recorded  as a mortgage  
adviser, having been a sole trader since 2006  and currently working with CFS.
As Ive set out earlier, Mr Ss role was actually as an IFA who at various points worked as 
one of CFSs appointed representatives. He worked  on various product  sets including 
personal pensions  and investments. The FCA register  captures his wider experience of 
financial services.
The information about his income, outgoings, assets  and liabilities  was limited, the following 
note is typical of others made throughout the fact-find:
You deal with your own financial  arrangements  and did not require advice from me in this 
area
Mr Ss top priority  in terms of general  financial objectives was to maintain his standard of 
living in retirement. He completed a detailed attitude to risk questionnaire  which  indicated he 
had a medium appetite. He indicated  that his investment  horizon was around 5 years. And 
later paperwork  indicates his aim was to retire at the age of 57.
Ref: DRN06282485The tone of Insights  advice seems to have  been  set from this early stage. For example, the 
adviser recorded in the fact-find:
I also reviewed your attitude to risk to see whether this type of investment [overseas  
property] met with it. After  discussion and completion of the ATR questionnaire you [came]  
out as medium.  This does  not meet with your intended investment.
Insight noted that any potential transfer  of Mr Ss OPS fund would need to be assessed by a 
pension specialist because of the guarantees and benefits associated with his existing 
provision.
The specialist adviser concluded that if Mr S transferred his OPS fund he would lose 
important guarantees;  the alternative arrangement and proposed investment was a mis-
match with his risk appetite;  and that the returns required from the Cape Verde property 
would have to be high in order to match what he could expect from his existing  provision.  
The adviser confirmed:
that it is not in your best interest  to move  your pension 
Insight delivered  a detailed FPR dated 23 September 2009. It summarised the position 
based on the information it had gathered  by that time. The report provides further  warnings 
and recommendations that Mr S shouldnt proceed with the transfer of his OPS fund.
For example, in relation to the risk of the investment in overseas property the FPR states:
I made you aware that the overseas  investment you want  to purchase is high risk and 
utilising only the investment  of a commercial property such as your Cape Verde property will 
increase the risk level of your investment as factors such  as the lack of liquidity of the 
property asset  and you only have one asset class.
As highlighted above this investment does not match your medium attitude to risk.
Later in the report theres analysis of the benefits  of his OPS fund. It summarised this by 
saying that it provided him with a guaranteed  pension,  the level of which wasnt  affected by 
future investment returns or annuity  rates.  Insight  concluded:
As such I recommend that you maintain the final salary  scheme through  to maturity 
You informed me that you are looking for a higher potential which you believed  the Cape 
Verde property offered  you and were prepared to lose your guaranteed  pension in exchange 
for this.
The FPR records that Mr S was insistent that he transfer his OPS  fund.  So, to make  things 
clear about  the consequences of doing  this, Insight set out in detail the pension value 
transfer analysis  it had obtained.
This included identifying the critical  yield  thats  the average annual  investment return 
required on his pension  transfer value from the time of advice until retirement  before 
charges, to secure  the same annuity  income that Mr Ss defined benefits pension  wouldve 
delivered.
Ref: DRN06282486This showed that if Mr S was to retire at 62 (his schemes normal retirement age), then the 
return required from his Cape Verde  investment  would need to be 6.4% per year.  And if he 
wanted to retire at 57, then this increased  to 8%. It also noted that there would be higher 
charges associated with a SIPP,  which would  make the position  on transfer even more 
challenging.
Insight concluded  again by recommending that Mr S shouldnt  transfer his OPS fund.
Mr S had some time to think about  Insights  advice. Nevertheless, around  3 months later he 
seems to have made his mind up to proceed. I can see he signed pension  transfer  and SIPP 
application forms, as well as an adviser fee agreement on 17 December 2009. The same 
day he signed a letter addressed to his OPS provider. This said:
I am aware that following the completion  of a risk questionnaire my attitude to retirement  
risk was felt to be Risk 4, Medium  Risk. Following  discussion with [Insight]  I understand that 
the risk associated with purchasing off-plan in Cape Verde is felt to be Risk 7, Medium  to 
High Risk.
I understand that any new investment has to achieve growth  of 8.0% on average to match  
the full pension I could receive from [my OPS] at my intended early  retirement  age of 57
I understand that the property on Cape Verde is not due to be completed until Spring 2011 
and that this leaves a very short time for the investment to grow and for me to take full 
advantage of any rental income as well as recouping costs associated  with the purchase and 
any taxes as a result of the sale when I am ready to take my pension.
However I am fully aware of the risks and wish to still go ahead with the transfer
The regulator has set out guidance for businesses when dealing with an insistent client. This 
can be found at COBS 9.5A. Such clients receive a personal recommendation (advice) from 
the business, but the client nevertheless wants to enter into a transaction thats different 
from what the business recommended; and the client still wants  the business to facilitate that 
transaction.
Mr Ss letter  is written  nearly 3 months  after his initial meetings with Insight and the first FPR 
it produced for him. In it he acknowledges hed been informed about the risks associated 
with the Cape Verde investment and the returns required to make it comparable with those 
guaranteed through  his OPS. He makes  clear he still wanted to proceed.  I think its more 
likely than not the letter represents  Mr Ss own words and sentiment at the time.
Insight produced a further FPR for Mr S dated 23 December 2009. This was issued to him 
on 31 December 2009. The tone and content of that report  is captured on the first page  it 
says of Mr Ss wish to transfer his OPS fund into a SIPP and invest  in overseas property:
I reiterated that this was against my recommendation and the full risks:
-Your existing pension  had guarantees associated and by transferring this you will 
lose them.
-Your new investment will need to grow by 6.8%  per annum to provide you with the 
same returns as your ceding scheme
-This style of investment is high risk due to its nature and can have liquidity and resale 
issuesand does  not meet your attitude to risk.
-As an agent, you are aware of the investment features, including  details of how the 
transaction will take place, the completion details, the maintenance costs  and 
potential returns.  However, I have  made  you aware that these are not guaranteed
Ref: DRN06282487As you are going against  my advice and due to the high level of risks associated I have 
asked you to sign an insistent client declaration  to ensure you understand the implications
Mr Ss representatives initially said he couldnt  recall seeing or receiving the FPR dated 23 
December 2009.  Most  recently its asserted that he was never  advised  not to transfer his 
OPS, in fact he was told that pensions werent  getting good returns and the Cape Verde 
investment was better,  especially as Mr S had a good few years  to go to retirement. 
I dont expect people  to have perfect recall of events  which  took place over a decade ago. 
But I think its more likely  than not Mr S did receive documentation  from Insight,  including 
both the FPRs. I say this because given his background in financial services,  I think  he 
wouldve known how important the paperwork was given the significance  of the transaction.  I 
think he wouldve insisted on being provided with the right documents had it not been  
forthcoming.
Mr S says that the advice process was rushed. He says he relied on what  he was told. He 
says all the forms were signed the same day and that he didnt  have time to read things  
properly. The packs of forms  were  provided to all clients at the same time at a meeting in a 
pub. 
Ive thought carefully about what Mr S has said here. I can see that there  were  bursts  of 
intensive activity,  but the documents dont show that everything happened at once.  
As Ive set out already,  Mr S initially met with Insight in September  2009  when  a fact-find 
was completed.  An FPR was sent to him a few days later. In December 2009 Mr S signed off 
the OPS transfer  and SIPP application forms and provided his insistent  client letter.  At the 
end of the month he was sent the second  of the FPRs.
It was another  2 months  before Mr Ss OPS fund was transferred to his SIPP in late 
February 2010. The whole process had been  underway for around 6 months. I think Mr S 
had plenty of time throughout  to reflect on the advice he was getting  the overall  process 
doesnt appear to have  been rushed. 
Given Mr Ss background as an IFA I think he wouldve been alert to what  was good or bad 
practice, and he wouldve  acted on any concerns. And I find his testimony  that he relied  on 
what he was told without  reading anything to lack credibility given the importance of the 
transaction.
I note Insight provided us with evidence, dated  November 2009,  that suggests  Mr S was 
involved in referring  other  clients  to Insight for the purpose of transferring their pensions  and 
subsequent investments in Cape Verde properties.  If thats  the case, he wouldve 
understood the proposition better than most. And presumably  he wouldve benefitted from 
any such arrangement, securing fees and commission.
I accept that Mr S didnt  have SIPP expertise.  It was Insights role to provide advice here.  
Nevertheless, I think Mr Ss own experience as an IFA is an important factor.  He wouldve 
been alert to regulation and practice in relation to fair and proper advice process. I think  he 
wouldve thought  carefully about  his pension arrangements. He wouldve understood the 
discussions and paperwork better than the average  consumer. And hed have asked 
questions to satisfy  himself about  the proposal.
Ref: DRN06282488As well as getting advice  from Insight,  Im mindful Mr S was also dealing with TRG as the 
promoter of the Cape  Verde investment. And he was an appointed representative for CFS, 
which was an agent for TRG. The director of CFS (Mr M) was a friend of Mr S and it was him 
who introduced  Mr S to TRG. I think the relationship Mr S had with these parties and 
individuals was another important factor in his decision to proceed with the investment.
I think it wouldve been clear to Mr S that Insight was not endorsing his decision to pursue  
his Cape Verde  investment  using his OPS fund.  The risks were clearly  set out for him. And 
so too were the benefits he was giving  up.
In the event, Mr S chose  to disregard these warnings. In my view,  this was because  he was 
determined to proceed with the investment irrespective of any advice not to do so.
So, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable, in all the circumstances  of this case, for me to hold 
Insight accountable for Mr Ss concerns about  his Cape  Verde property  investment.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive already set out, Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint. It follows I dont 
require Insight Financial  Associates  Limited  to do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 August 2020.
Kevin Williamson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0628248