K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited unfairly demanded  that he 
repay benefit he had received through his income protection  insurance  policy.
background
Mr B was a director and shareholder of a particular company,  which Ill call P. He was also 
employed by P. He held an income  protection  policy with Aviva.  The policy  would pay 
benefit, after a deferred period of 26 weeks, if Mr B was unable to perform his occupation  
due to illness or injury.
In 2013, Mr B stopped working due to depression. He remained off work  and made a claim 
under the policy.  Aviva  accepted the claim. However, because Mr B was continuing  to 
receive salary and dividends from P, it didnt immediately start paying  benefit. It started 
paying benefit from April 2016 at which point  it understood that Mr B had no continuing  
income from P.
In September  2017, Aviva  was satisfied  that Mr B was no longer incapacitated. It therefore  
stopped paying benefit.
In November 2017, Aviva received Mr Bs tax return for 2016/17. It noted that Mr B had 
continued to receive  dividends  from P. These dividends  were of such an amount that it 
meant he hadnt been eligible to receive benefit during that tax year. It asked Mr B to repay 
the benefit, which amounted to £62,267.
Mr B began paying back some of the over-payment  but then complained. He said that he 
hadnt been able to work throughout the relevant  period and the dividends  hed received 
from P were from retained, rather than operating, profit  (in other  words,  the earnings  had 
been generated before he became ill). He also said that he should  have been entitled to the 
payment of hospital  benefit during the deferred period.
After obtaining  Ps accounts and Mr Bs tax returns for 2016/17 and 2017/18, Aviva revised 
its estimate of the amount  by which  Mr B had been  overpaid. It conceded that only a 
proportion of the dividends which Mr B had received from P had been  due to operating  profit. 
Consequently, it estimated  that hed been overpaid  a total of £57,183. It didnt  accept that 
Mr B had been entitled to hospitalisation benefit but nonetheless agreed to allow £13,680 for 
this as a gesture of goodwill. It also agreed  to waive a further  £2,024 in view of the error it 
initially made in calculating the amount which Mr B needed to repay. After taking into 
account the £18,217 which Mr B had already repaid it meant the remaining outstanding sum 
was £23,261.  It asked Mr B to begin  repayment  of this.
Mr B was unhappy at Avivas position. He felt it had been wrong to ask him to pay back any 
money. He referred  his complaint  to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. She considered that 
Aviva had acted fairly.
Mr B didnt accept the investigators findings. He said that P stopped  trading in October  2015  
and, although  it declared dividends after that, he received no actual payments. He said the 
dividends were declared for accounting purposes to reduce his debts to P on loans it had 
issued to him in previous years   not least, to pay his medical bills during his illness. He 
Ref: DRN01172872maintained that he shouldnt  have  to repay any of the benefit hed received and that 
furthermore Aviva should return to him the money which hed already  paid back.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
The policy has a Maximum Insurable Benefit under  which the amount of benefit payable  
under the policy  is limited  to a certain proportion of the insured persons income before they 
became ill. However,  the policy also has a clause which means any continuing income must 
be taken into account so that, if the insured level of benefit and the continuing income  
exceed the Maximum Insurable Benefit,  the benefit payment must be reduced accordingly. 
The policy defines  continuing income as follows:
income received by the Insured or to which the Insured becomes entitled or waiver  of a 
regular payment due from the Insured during  a Period of Incapacity  and includes: 
(ii) the weekly equivalent of any continuing  salary,  commission, pension  (unless  the Insured 
was already in receipt of the pension prior to effecting the Policy) or other income  derived by 
the Insured from all remunerative occupations in which the Insured has ever engaged 
including Dividends and Benefits in Kind as defined above.
Aviva began paying benefit  to Mr B on the assumption that he wouldnt be receiving any 
continuing income. It made clear to Mr B at this time that if it transpired  that he was 
continuing to receive  income, including dividends, it would need  to recalculate his benefit 
level and he would need to repay any overpayment.
It turned out that Mr B continued to receive dividends  from P and these, in themselves, 
exceeded the Maximum Insurable  Benefit,  meaning that he apparently had no entitlement to 
benefit under the policy. It was on this basis that Aviva originally asked him to repay  all the 
benefit he had received.  
Mr B appealed against the decision. He explained  that in October  2015, P entered into a 
contract terminating its relationship with a company (which Ill call M) which had provided 
its only source of income. He said P stopped trading from this time and any dividends were  
from retained profit rather than operating  profit. He therefore considered it was unfair to use 
these dividends to reduce  the amount of benefit payable.
Aviva noted  that under  the terms of the October 2015 contract, M agreed to pay P a lump 
sum of £600,000  and a further  £200,000  over the following two years  for consultancy 
services. After obtaining Ps accounts, Aviva  considered that P had continued  to operate  
beyond 2015 but agreed that only part of the dividends paid to Mr B should be classed as 
continuing income. It adjusted its calculations to take account  only of the amount which 
reflected Mr Bs share  of the net operating profit of P. Im satisfied this was a fair approach 
and I agree with Avivas  calculation.
Mr B says that P wasnt actually providing  any consultancy  service to M for the following two 
years and it was just a means of ensuring  that he didnt work for a competitor. However, P 
Ref: DRN01172873was invoicing M for its fees on a monthly  basis  and I consider it was reasonable on the basis 
of the evidence for Aviva to say that P was still operating during this period.
Mr B says that he never  actually received any money from P during  this period and has 
provided bank  statements  in support of this. However, the dividends are declared in Ps 
accounts and are also declared in Mr Bs tax returns for the years  in question so Im satisfied 
it was reasonable  for Aviva to take them into account.
Mr B thinks  he should be entitled to hospitalisation benefit under  the policy. This is benefit 
which is payable for each day (except for the first seven days) that the insured person is 
confined to hospital during the deferred period. Mr B thought he was entitled to £13,680 
through this benefit. However, the policy contains  a clause  stating  that this benefit isnt 
payable if the claim  is directly or indirectly  related to a mental or functional disorder. Given 
that Mr B was being treated  for depression, Aviva considered that he wasnt  entitled to the 
hospitalisation benefit. It nonetheless agreed  to allow  for the payment of this benefit in its 
calculation of what Mr B now owes it. While  I note that Mr B considers he was mis-
diagnosed and is taking action to try and prove this, I consider that on the basis of the 
current available evidence  he wasnt eligible to receive hospitalisation  benefit.  I therefore 
think Aviva  has acted  fairly towards Mr B by nonetheless  agreeing to allow for this.
Aviva has also agreed to reduce the amount which Mr B owes  it by a further £2,024 to reflect 
the error  it made  when it first calculated  the amount he needed to repay. I think  Aviva  should 
have carried out further investigation  into P before deciding whether the entire  dividend  
payments should  be set against Mr Bs Maximum Insurable  Benefit.  However,  I consider that 
its offer to reduce the amount which Mr B owes by £2,024 is fair compensation for its error. 
In summary,  it is unfortunate that the amount for which Mr B was insured was apparently 
insufficient for him to meet his financial commitments.  As a result, he and his wife found it 
necessary to draw  dividends from P to supplement  the policys  benefit. But by so doing, he 
thus reduced the amount  of benefit  to which  he was entitled. I sympathise with Mr B for the 
predicament in which he found himself but I cant reasonably conclude  that Aviva  has acted 
unfairly. If Mr B thinks the policy was mis-sold,  he would need to raise that with the company 
which sold him the policy. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 December  2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0117287