K820x#14Complaint
Mr T complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited refused to let him reject a faulty  car.
Background
In April 2018 Mr T acquired a second hand  car costing £9,275 funded by a deposit  of £150 
and the balance was covered by a conditional sale agreement. It was some five years  old 
and had done 91,809  miles. At the end of September  having  been driven for some 6,000 
miles the car broke  down. The RAC report records  a suspected  flywheel failure. 
The car was taken back to the dealer. Mr T says it was unhelpful. An email  trails shows that 
the dealer estimated the repairs would cost £2,658 including VAT and the warranty would 
cover £1,200 of this. The dealer said it may be able to make a contribution as a gesture of 
goodwill. 
Mr T contacted Moneybarn and complained. He said that in addition to the car being unfit for 
purpose it had been  mis-sold. He said he had been put under pressure to buy it and he had 
been told that taking out finance would help his credit rating. Moneybarn rejected his 
complaint and said he hadnt  notified  it of the fault until six months had elapsed.  It also said it 
believed the car had been repaired.
Mt T brought  his complaint to this service where  it was considered  by one of our adjudicators 
who didnt recommend it be upheld. He said he thought  the agreement  along with the terms 
and conditions were  clear, signed and accurate. He noted that two items on the previous 
owners and service history form signed  by Mr T hadnt been completed. However he didnt  
think this was significant and concluded it was likely that they had been covered in the sales  
process.
He didnt believe the salesmans alleged claim that another potential  buyer was coming to 
look at the car created undue  pressure  on Mr T. Nor did he think  it significant that the 
salesman may have  suggested the agreement would improve Mr Ts credit rating.
Our adjudicator told Moneybarn that as Mr T had established the fault had occurred before 
six months had passed the onus was on it to establish it wasnt present  at the point of sale. It 
arranged and paid for an independent  inspection. The inspector concluded  that the dual 
mass flywheel displayed excessive movement due to general in service wear  and 
deterioration, which, on the balance of probability,  would not have been developing at 
finance inception.
Our adjudicator agreed there was a fault, but he couldnt say that it had been inherent at the 
point of sale. He added  that the car had been  driven for over 6,000 miles after acquisition.  
Mr T didnt  agree and said that there was no evidence  to conclude that the salesman had 
referred to the missed  tick boxes on the form. He also said it was wrong to endorse the 
pressurised sales tactics. He also said that it was ludicrous to suggest him driving the car for 
6,000 miles had been  the cause of the fault. He thought it was wrong that he owed £13,000 
for a car that was sitting on is driveway  which was unrepairable. He said the inspector hadnt 
looked at the crankshaft 
Ref: DRN08144222My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement, that is the conditional  sale agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Moneybarn is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible 
for a complaint about their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
I have every sympathy with Mr T, but I dont consider  I can uphold his complaint. I will 
explain why.
I cannot say what  happened  during the sales  process.  Mr T has raised two issues. He says 
he was told another  person was coming to look at the car which put him under pressure to 
make a decision as to whether to buy the car or not. He hasnt provided any evidence  that 
this was said or that it was untrue. Without  that I cannot say that the alleged  statement was 
factually untrue. 
On the matter of the benefit to his credit file it would be unwise of anyone without the 
necessary knowledge and expertise to give financial  advice. I cant  say if this alleged 
statement was untrue in regard to Mr Ts financial situation, but I dont  consider  it was such  
an inducement as to cause Mr T to take out the finance agreement. He only raised  it as an 
issue after he had problems with the car. 
I am satisfied that the agreement was sufficiently  clear  and Mr T had every opportunity to be 
satisfied with both the car and the agreement.  The fact two boxes  were  not ticked  or circled  
doesnt mean the agreement isnt valid or that Mr T was unaware of what he was signing. As 
such I am not persuaded that car or the finance  agreement was mis-sold.
On the issue of the fault it is regrettable that this happened some  five months after Mr T 
acquired the car. It had done  a fairly  high mileage for a five year old and car and so would 
have been liable to fairly  heavy wear and tear. I have to be satisfied the fault was present at 
the point of sale. I gather the car had been  serviced  prior to the sale and I see that according 
the DVLA records it passed its MOT in January 2018 and again  in July 2019.
Ref: DRN08144223I have to rely on the findings of the independent  inspector who concluded that it was unlikely 
that the car had been faulty at the point of sale. Quite simply, I have seen no reasons or 
evidence that would  allow me to reach  a different  conclusion. So while it was unfortunate 
that the car broke down  I dont consider I can hold Moneybarn responsible. In the 
circumstances I cannot safely  conclude that this complaint should  be upheld.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or reject  my decision before 
5 July 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0814422