K820x#14complaint
Mr D on behalf of business D has complained about the way One Sure  Insurance  Limited 
dealt with the set up and cancellation of his motor  trade policy.
background
In January 2019 Mr D bought a motor  trade  policy through  a broker, One Sure. In February 
2019 Mr D cancelled his policy  after receiving  a cancellation notice from the underwriter.  The 
underwriter of the policy said it didnt receive  all of the information it asked for. 
Mr D made  a number of complaints about  the information One Sure  had given him before he 
bought the policy. He was unhappy  that both One Sure and the underwriter requested  
information from him. He wanted a full refund of the premium hed paid so far. 
One Sure didnt  uphold Mr Ds complaint.  It said it had acted reasonably.  So Mr D asked us 
to look at his complaint.  
Our investigator didnt  think One Sure had done anything  wrong.  Mr Ds complaint about the 
insurer has been dealt  with separately. 
Mr D didnt agree. So his case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. 
The investigator set out in detail each complaint Mr D raised  and her findings in her view. I 
dont intend to repeat what she wrote in the same level of detail in my decision.  I understand 
Mr D doesnt agree with the investigators  findings.  He believes she should have requested  
recordings of calls that took place between him and a manager at One Sure after he bought  
the policy. He said this will show it breached the contract between them. 
In summary,  Mr Ds complaints are:
One Sure gave  him different timescales to provide information: both two weeks  and a 
couple of months. 
One Sure unreasonably asked for more information after he bought the policy.
It didnt tell him about the cancellation charges  before  he bought the policy.
One Sure told him it would take up to six weeks to receive a refund. 
One Sure provided recordings of the key calls it had with Mr D before he bought  the policy. 
And its provided a copy of the policy documents which  were  sent to him when his policy 
started. One Sure  has also provided  copies of chaser letters and emails between  it and the 
underwriter. Im satisfied  that we dont need further call recordings to decide  on Mr Ds 
complaints. 
I can see One Sure told Mr D he needed  to provide verification documents within  21 days,  
and proof  of trade documents within 60 days. I think this message was consistent. 
Ref: DRN06522872One Sure also made it clear before he bought the policy  of the cancellation charges and its 
non refundable  arrangement fee. Mr D asked  a series of questions about what the charges 
would be based  on different scenarios. So Im satisfied  that he was aware of them before 
buying the policy. 
On 11 February 2019 the underwriter issued a seven  day cancellation notice to Mr D 
because it hadnt  received  all of the information  it requested, including a current  photo card 
driving licence  as the one provided had expired.  
Mr D called One Sure on 11 February  2019 and it negotiated with the insurer to charge Mr D 
a pro rata amount  for the days he was insured. Mr Ds policy was cancelled  on 11 February  
2019. One Sure arranged a pro rata refund on 13 February 2019. 
As the broker, I think One Sure acted reasonably. It requested verification documents from 
Mr D at the outset. The underwriter requested additional information.  This isnt something I 
can hold the broker  responsible for as underwriters  have  different criteria. It gave clear 
timescales at the outset  and in its chaser  letters. There  was a discrepancy  with some of the 
evidence Mr D provided. One Sure asked Mr D twice before he bought the policy if he had 
an active taxi licence.  He said no. But he did. This led to the underwriter asking Mr D to 
remove the licence  in order for the policy to continue.  
I appreciate Mr D wasnt happy with the requests for additional information. But I dont think 
One Sure misled Mr D or acted outside  of the terms of the policy  and its business agreement  
with him. I think it tried to prevent the cancellation  of the policy and assisted Mr D where it 
could. 
Overall I dont think One Sure has acted unreasonably.  So Im not asking  it to do anymore. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D on behalf  of 
business D to accept or reject my decision before 18 March  2020.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0652287