K820x#14complaint
Ms C complains that TSB Bank  Plc unfairly defaulted her loan account and she wants this to 
be removed from her credit file. 
background
In April 2016, Ms C took out a personal  loan with TSB. She set up a direct debit to cover the 
monthly repayments. The direct debit  instruction  was set up on a joint account  she held with 
her ex-partner. Ms C says she moved out of the address she had when she took out the loan 
in the summer  of 2017 and she wasnt aware  the loan repayments werent being met. Ms C 
repaid the loan in full in December  2017. She says she was told that if she did this then it 
would not affect  her credit file. Ms C says the default  marker has impacted her ability  to get a 
mortgage which is causing her stress. 
TSB says the personal loan was in Ms Cs sole name so it was her responsibility  to ensure 
the loan was repaid. TSB says it wasnt aware of her address changing  so it sent her missed 
payment and default notice letters to the address it had on file. It also tried unsuccessfully on 
numerous occasions to contact her by phone. TSB says it correctly reported to the credit  
reference agencies  that the account  had defaulted in November 2017,  so it wouldnt amend 
this. But as she has paid the loan in full in December 2017, the account will now show  as 
being settled.   
  
Ms C wasnt  happy with TSBs response  so she brought  her complaint to us. One of our 
investigators considered  her complaint  but they didnt  think  it should be upheld. They thought  
TSB had fairly defaulted the account and reported the default to the credit  reference 
agencies. Ms C didnt agree as she says she contacted TSB in 2017 to let it know that she 
was no longer living at that address. As Ms C didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Ms Cs complaint.  I understand this will come as a disappointment  to her but Ill 
explain my reasons why.
I wouldnt expect a credit provider to record an account as being in default just because one 
payment had been missed, but theres usually a trigger point. And Id expect the credit  
provider to have  sent reminders  before taking further action, such  as sending a default 
notice.  
Ms C missed  her monthly loan repayment  in July, August and September  2017.  A payment 
was made  in October 2017 but she then missed her November 2017 payment. TSB has said 
her direct debit payments were returned unpaid due to insufficient funds, but in October 
2017 the payment went through as the originating  account held sufficient funds. 
Ref: DRN07949472TSB wrote to Ms C at the address it had on file in June and July 2017 to let her know about 
her missed  payments. In these letters she was made aware that if she didnt make any 
payments towards  her loan then TSB would have to transfer her account  to its collections 
department. TSB also sent Ms C a default  notice in August and November 2017. As no 
further payments  were  received  TSB defaulted the account and reported this to the credit 
reference agencies  in November 2017. 
Ms C says she moved out of her address in June  2017 so she didnt receive any of TSBs 
letters. She says she thought  her ex-partner was paying for the loan through the direct debit 
set up on their joint account. I can see TSB did receive some returned mail but it also tried 
unsuccessfully telephoning  her on a number of occasions between  July and October 2017. 
TSB contacted her on the number  it had on file  which is the same number shes given this 
service.  
It is a customers  responsibility to ensure contact information is updated.  And as the loan 
was taken out in Ms Cs sole name,  it was also her responsibility to ensure she paid her 
monthly loan repayments which included checking her joint account to ensure it held 
sufficient funds to cover  the payments.  Ms C says she did phone  TSB and let it know of her 
new address. But TSB do not have any record of this. It also says due to its system 
migration, it holds no call recordings prior to April 2018. I appreciate Ms C feels  strongly 
about this, but taking  everything into consideration, if Ms C did provide the bank with her 
new address in 2017, when she didnt receive  statements at her new address she should 
have realised that the bank didnt have her new address. So she should then have taken 
steps to update the bank.
Ms C repaid  her loan in full in December 2017  and received  a letter  at her new address 
confirming this. Ms C says this proves  she did update her address. TSB has told us it cant 
change an address on its system until a customer goes into a branch with valid identification. 
It says the letter it sent to Ms C in December 2017 was manually produced by its collections 
department to clear  the debt. I acknowledge the letter was sent to her new address  and I can 
understand why she feels  this supports  her statement that she did update her address in 
2017. However I dont  think  its unreasonable of TSB to have sent one letter manually to a 
different address than the one it held on file in order to confirm the debt had been settled. 
And as I said before,  when Ms C didnt  receive any statements to her new address she 
shouldve queried  whether  TSB did have her correct address.  
Ms C says she was told by TSB if she repaid her loan in full it wouldnt default the account 
and this was supported  by the letter she received in December 2017 which said no further  
action would be taken.  Ms C didnt clear  the debt until December 2017,  but by that time the 
account had already been defaulted  and reported  to the credit reference agencies.  I havent 
seen any evidence which supports Ms Cs assertion  that TSB told her the default would be 
removed from her credit file if the loan was paid in full. I appreciate  Ms C says shed like us 
to listen to calls she had with TSB in 2019 as she says she was informed all calls were  
recorded so it should have the calls from 2017 where she was told this. However, TSB has 
told us it doesnt  hold the call recordings from 2017 which Im willing  to accept  in my 
experience banks rarely retain calls indefinitely and I wouldnt expect them  to. 
Ref: DRN07949473Once an account is defaulted,  the default  will usually remain on a consumers credit  file for 
six years. As Ms C has paid the loan in full the account should  show  on her credit file as 
being satisfied.  And Ms C has confirmed that it does. Im aware Ms C says TSB had told 
her she still owed £18, however as her credit  file is showing the debt as being satisfied Im 
content no further money is owed. I appreciate this may not change the difficulties Ms C 
says she is having  trying to get a mortgage but I cant say TSB had done anything  wrong  in 
defaulting the account or reporting this to the credit reference agencies,  so I wont  be telling 
the bank to remove it.  
Overall, I appreciate how strongly Ms C feels about  this and I understand this decision will 
come as a disappointment  to her but I wont be asking  TSB to do anything more. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 September 2019.  
Asia Khanam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0794947