K822xcomplaint
Mr J and Ms P complain  that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold  them  a 
monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) in 1996.
background
Mr J and Ms P took out a mortgage with NatWest in 1996. They were sold a PPI policy in 
connection with this mortgage.
The PPI policy would  have provided  Mr J and Ms P with a monthly  benefit  for up to 12 
months per claim if they were off work sick or lost their job.  
NatWest have already  offered to refund Mr J the proportion  of premiums he paid under the 
policy. This is because Mr J was self-employed at the time of the sale and there were 
exclusions relating  to self-employed people making a claim under the policy which  NatWest  
say may not have  been made clear to Mr J. However, they havent offered to refund Ms Ps 
proportion of premiums  because they dont  think the policy was mis-sold to her.
Our adjudicator thought that NatWests offer was a fair way to resolve  this complaint. Mr J 
and Ms P didnt agree with our adjudicator and so the complaint has come to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr J and Ms Ps case.
Having done that, I think  the offer NatWest have made to pay Mr Js proportion  of premiums 
is a fair way to resolve this complaint. This means  NatWest dont have  to pay Ms P the 
proportion of premiums  she would have paid. I will now explain why.
First of all Ive considered whether Ms P was eligible for the policy  at the time of the sale.  
Based on Ms Ps age, residence  and employment at the time of the sale, Im satisfied  she 
was eligible for the policy.
NatWest had to make  it clear to Ms P that the policy was optional and needed her consent  
before it could be applied to the account. Ive thought about everything  NatWest, Mr J and 
Ms P have told us and looked at the documents from the time of the sale to help me decide  
what is more likely  to have happened  during the sale.
In particular Ive seen a copy of the mortgage advance offer and a direct debit mandate. The 
mortgage advance  offer reflects that Mr J and Ms P had selected PPI and also sets out the 
cost of PPI. Both Mr J and Ms P signed  this document.   A separate  direct debit mandate  
specifically for PPI was completed and was also signed by both Mr J and Ms P. 
So while I appreciate what Mr J and Ms P have told us, based  on the documents available  to 
me from the time of the sale,  I think its more likely that Ms P would have been  aware  the 
PPI was optional  and that it was only applied to the account because  both her and Mr J 
agreed to take it out. 
Ref: DRN09420142I havent seen  sufficient evidence to conclude  that NatWest advised  Ms P to take PPI. This 
means NatWest didnt have to take into account  Ms Ps circumstances when selling her PPI. 
So for example,  they didnt need  to take into account her existing repayment provisions. 
But they still had to give Ms P information  in a clear, fair and non-misleading way   in 
particular about  the costs/benefits and main  exclusions/restrictions  in the policy  - so that she 
could make a proper choice about  whether or not to take the policy out.
I dont think NatWest gave Ms P all of the information as they shouldve  about the 
costs/benefits and main  exclusions/restrictions in the policy.  This in itself doesnt mean the 
PPI was mis-sold to Ms P as I have to go on and consider whether better information 
wouldve put Ms P off taking the policy. I dont  think it wouldve. I say this because:
-The PPI would have  paid out in addition to Ms Ps savings and employee sick pay. It 
would also have  paid out for up to 12 months if Ms P lost her job.
-Ms P didnt appear  to have been  affected by the main exclusions or restrictive terms 
in the policy  which  wouldve  made  it more difficult for her to make a successful claim. 
For example, terms relating to pre-existing medical conditions and unusual working 
arrangements.
-Ms P couldve cancelled the PPI at any time without losing out financially if she no 
longer needed or wanted it.
-I havent seen  any evidence which suggests the PPI wasnt affordable for Ms P.
So taking everything into consideration, I dont think NatWest mis-sold Ms P this PPI policy. 
This means  I wont  be asking NatWest  to refund Ms P the proportion  of premiums she paid 
for PPI.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr J and Ms P paid on their  PPI   and whether 
NatWest treated them unfairly.  
NatWest have told us that the commission for Mr J and Ms Ps PPI was less than half of 
what they paid for each  premium. Weve looked at how NatWest has been working this out 
and based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr J and Ms Ps commission  was less 
than half the cost of the PPI. As thats the case,  I dont think  it needed  to tell them about the 
commission  so I dont  think  NatWest treated them unfairly. This means  it doesnt need  to 
pay Ms P back any of the commission she paid for the PPI. As already mentioned Mr J has 
been offered a refund of premiums he paid anyway so NatWest  dont  need  to do any more.
my final decision
I think National Westminster Bank Plcs  offer to refund Mr Js proportion  of the premiums 
plus interest is a fair way to resolve this complaint. National  Westminster Bank Plcs should 
make this payment  to Mr J and Ms P if they havent  done so already. I dont require National 
Westminster Bank Plcs to refund Ms P the proportion of premiums  she paid under the 
policy.
Ref: DRN09420143Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J and Ms P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 March  2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0942014