K820x#14Complaint
Mr H says Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Egg, mis-sold him a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
Mr H applied for a credit  card with Egg in 2004. At the same time, PPI was added  to the 
credit card covering Mr H in the event of his death,  diagnosis of a serious illness, disability 
and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the PPI had been  mis-sold. Mr H disagreed, so the complaint 
was passed to me to review afresh.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  
Mr Hs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Before adding the policy, Egg had to make it clear  to Mr H that it was optional.  Im satisfied 
Mr H applied for the credit card online. And, from experience of how Egg sold these policies 
online at the time, I think hed have been given the option to either accept or decline PPI as 
part of the card application process.  Eggs internal  records of the application indicate he 
chose to have  PPI. 
So I think Egg made it clear that it was selling PPI, that it was optional  and that Mr H agreed 
to have it, knowing he had a choice. 
I dont believe Egg recommended the PPI to Mr H. This means Egg didnt have to look into 
whether it was right for him. But it should have provided enough information about the PPI 
for Mr H to make up his own mind  as to whether it was right for him.
From what  Ive seen, I dont think Egg made  all the information  Mr H needed clear to him. 
But I must also go on to consider what difference that made to Mr H. I dont think  better 
information would have stopped him from buying the PPI because: 
Based  on what I know of Mr Hs circumstances at the time, he was eligible for the 
cover. And while the PPI had certain  exclusions to, or limits on, the cover  I cant see 
that he was affected by them.  Even if Mr H was working part-time,  as he says, that 
wouldnt have affected his ability to claim. And the information captured by Egg 
during the application indicates he considered himself to be employed as opposed to, 
say, a temporary worker.
Mr H says he cant remember what  sickness or redundancy benefits hed have 
received from his employer. He indicated he only had minimal savings he could use 
to meet  his card repayments if he wasnt working. The PPI benefits, on the other 
hand, would  have  paid out for up to 12 months per claim  and could have allowed him 
to retain his savings. Overall,  I think Mr H would  have  valued the extra  protection  the 
Ref: DRN09616552PPI provided.
Theres nothing to suggest hed have considered the monthly  premium  to be 
unaffordable. And the PPI was flexible enough that Mr H could  have cancelled  it at 
any time, and at no extra cost, if he no longer wanted it.
Which means Egg doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Egg will pay back some of the cost of the PPI because: 
Egg got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mr H about  that. Because Egg didnt tell Mr H, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Eggs basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think  that offers  fair in 
this case.
What the business needs  to do
Egg has to pay back any commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the 
PPI premium, if it hasnt already done so. Egg should also pay back any extra interest Mr H 
paid because of that.
Egg should re-work the credit card account  and pay back the difference  between what  Mr H 
owes and what hed have  owed if the commission and profit  share it got hadnt been over 
50% of the cost of the PPI. Egg should  also pay 8%* simple interest if he paid off his credit  
card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr H can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC doesnt have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back any commission  and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 January 2020. 
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0961655