K820x#14Complaint
Miss H says Bank  of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy for a mortgage.
Background
Miss H took out a PPI policy with a mortgage  in 1997. Miss H paid for the PPI with a regular 
monthly premium, which didnt attract interest.  It covered her in case she was off sick or out 
of work for a month or longer.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Hs case. 
Ive decided that Miss Hs PPI policy wasnt mis-sold   Ill explain why.
This sale was over two decades ago and the accounts involved have long since  closed, so 
I think its understandable that neither side have the original documents from the time.  
Indeed, under data protection rules Halifax were  required to dispose of Miss Hs data rather 
than hold onto it for too long. Miss H doesnt  remember agreeing to PPI, which is also 
understandable given  the time thats  passed,  and since buying insurance  is not often 
memorable. Ive thought carefully about whats most  likely to have happened based  on the 
limited information I have.
It would have been a very serious  failing  for Halifax to have added  the PPI without Miss Hs 
permission, or to have  misled her into thinking she had to have  it. But I have no evidence  to 
show thats what Halifax did here. Nor have I seen any wider problems with Halifaxs sales 
process from the time.  And the sale was too long ago for me to reasonably expect Halifax  to 
be able to produce evidence to defend itself now. So I dont think I have a fair basis  on which  
to conclude that Halifax misled Miss H. I think its more likely that it followed a relatively 
standard sales process, gave Miss H a choice, and that she chose PPI at the time  though  
I can certainly understand if she no longer  recalls  doing so after so long.
Its not clear whether  Halifax  recommended  the PPI to Miss H, or not. The requirements 
were stricter  on Halifax  if it did recommend it, so to be fair to Miss H, Ive assumed it did. 
That means Halifax had to check the policy was right for her  and based  on what  Ive seen 
of her circumstances  at the time,  I think it was. For example, it looks like Miss H was eligible 
for the cover and wasnt affected by any of its main exclusions  or limitations.
Ref: DRN06960762It doesnt look like Miss H had any alternative  protection if she was off work sick, which 
potentially left her at serious risk without PPI. And the PPI could have covered her for longer 
than her redundancy benefits wouldve lasted if they were needed to cover her normal  
income. I understand Miss H may have been able to find another job, but long periods of 
unemployment can and do happen,  even in lines of work that seem secure. The waiting 
period for the PPI was normal   lower, in fact, than other similar policies, and I dont think  it 
was unreasonable given  that the point of the insurance was to cover  longer-term  sickness or 
unemployment. While Miss H cancelled  the policy, customers cancel insurances for many  
reasons  and cancelling a policy some years later doesnt necessarily mean  it was 
unsuitable at the time it was taken out.
Ultimately, its worth  bearing in mind  that this mortgage was a very significant, long-term 
commitment that was Miss Hs sole responsibility  and if she fell behind  on the payments 
she couldve  lost her home. So it looks like the PPI couldve  really  been useful for her in 
protecting her home and giving  some  peace of mind in case  things went wrong.
It is possible that the information Halifax gave  Miss H about PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  The question, then,  is whether  I think better information was likely to have 
changed her mind.  But as I explained above,  Miss H wasnt  affected by any of the main 
things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve really been useful for her in case  something  
went wrong. The policy was competitively  priced  given how much it would pay out in a claim. 
And the PPI was paid on a rolling  monthly  basis, so Miss H could cancel it at any time 
without a penalty. So while I understand that Miss H now feels  she wouldnt have taken  PPI, 
I dont think that better information was likely to have put her off taking it out at the time of 
the sale.
Lastly, I understand Halifax had trouble finding  Miss Hs policy when she complained, and 
I can understand if this was frustrating. It can be difficult  to find such  policies when they were 
taken out and cancelled so long ago and neither side have  all the relevant documents  
anymore. I cannot  see that Miss H has suffered  a significant loss because of Halifaxs  
mistake. So while I can understand how she feels, I dont make any award  here.
My final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Miss Hs complaint. This final decision 
marks the end of our services consideration of the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 August 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0696076