K821x#15complaint
Mr C says Whichdeal Ltd mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a regular premium  PPI policy taken out in April 2009. Mr C had taken 
out a loan to purchase a car. He borrowed £8,645 to be repaid over a period of 60 months.
The PPI policy sold to Mr C by Whichdeal cost £30.89 per month.  The policy  was designed 
to protect  Mr Cs monthly repayments  if he couldnt  work due to an accident,  sickness or if 
he became involuntarily  unemployed.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be upheld. Whichdeal disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Cs case.
Neither party has been able to provide much  paperwork  from the time of the sale. For 
example neither Mr C nor Whichdeal has given us a copy of the PPI terms and conditions  or 
policy documents.
Because of this Ive looked at policy documents from other, similar policies sold by 
Whichdeal when deciding this case.  
Having done so I think it is likely the policy sold to Mr C contained terms which  would have 
made it hard for a self-employed person to make  a successful claim for unemployment.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Cs complaint  because  I dont  think Whichdeal gave him clear  
enough information about the policy. I say this because I think  it is unlikely Whichdeal 
pointed out that it would be difficult for self-employed people  to make  an unemployment 
claim on the policy. 
I think this wouldve mattered to Mr C because  hes told us he was self-employed  in 2009  
when he was sold the PPI policy. Whichdeal has questioned whether Mr C was                
self-employed in 2009. Ive thought about  this, but although Mr Cs recollections of the sale 
have been a little vague, he has been  consistent  that he was self-employed in 2009.         
And hes shown us self-assessment tax forms that make me think it is most likely he was         
self-employed.
I dont think Mr C would have bought the PPI if hed been given enough  information  about 
the policy to realise  itd be difficult  for him to make an unemployment claim. So, I think  Mr C 
has lost out because of what the business did wrong. 
Ref: DRN00654542what Whichdeal  must  do to put things right 
The loan repayments were £193.09 per month  and the PPI premiums of £30.89  were  added  
to the monthly  loan repayments. This meant  Mr Cs total monthly repayment was £223.98.
Ive seen a copy  of the transaction  history of the loan.
I can see that Mr Cs first monthly repayment of £223.98 in May 2009 was returned  unpaid 
by his bank. Between May 2009  and September 2009 Mr C attempted  to make the monthly  
repayments on nine occasions. On seven  occasions  the direct  debit  was declined due to 
insufficient funds.  After that the loan went into default and no further  repayments  were made. 
The lender  either wrote  off the debt or sold it to a third party in 2011.
So from what Ive seen,  my understanding is that Mr C only ever paid two PPI premiums  of 
£30.89. 
Whichdeal should put Mr C into the position hed be in now if he had never taken  out the 
policy. So Whichdeal  should:
A.Pay Mr C the amount he paid each month for the policy. 
B.Add simple interest to each payment from when Mr C paid it until he gets it back.         
The rate of interest is 8% a year. 
C.Whichdeal can take off the amount Mr C got for any successful  claims from the amount it 
owes him.
D.Whichdeal should tell Mr C what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Whichdeal to take off tax from this interest. Whichdeal 
must give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Whichdeal  Ltd to pay compensation to   
Mr C in line with the instructions  above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 August 2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0065454