K822xcomplaint
Ms M is unhappy about the service  TSB Bank plc has provided  in relation to her bank 
accounts.
background 
From April 2018, TSB experienced problems with its Information Technology (IT)  system.
Ms M says she received a message from TSB on 18 May 2018  asking her to make  contact  
with it. She couldnt get through to TSB on the telephone  and she could see there was 
something wrong with her accounts after checking  them at a cash  point,  so she visited a 
branch. TSB told her that there had been  fraudulent  activity  on her accounts  on 14 May 2018 
 £25,000 had been transferred from her savings account to her current account, and a 
payment of £4,995 was made from her current account to a third party.
Ms M has said that TSB refunded the £4,995 that was paid out of her current account  on      
5 June 2018. But shes unhappy  that it didnt ensure her banking  security when it upgraded 
its IT system. And shes complained that for around a month, she wasnt  allowed to use, 
remove or access the funds left in her savings account or the remaining £20,005 transferred 
to her current account. So she was left in a vulnerable situation; unable to move a large sum 
of money out of her accounts that had been  compromised.  And she couldnt use the money 
to make some payments that were  due, so she had to rely on her credit  card.
Ms M has explained that there have  been  further instances  of fraudulent  activity  on her 
accounts. And her debit  card which TSB was supposed to have blocked was used in 
fraudulent transactions.
Ms M is unhappy with the way TSB has handled  this matter. Shes said shes  spent hours  in 
branch trying  to get through to the fraud  department,  TSB didnt  log her case  for 10 days, 
she didnt receive  call backs or any contact (other than generic letters) from TSB about  her 
case, and TSB didnt  deal with her with any reassurance  or urgency.
Ms M has said this matter has caused a medical condition  she has had under control  for a 
long time to flare-up  to such an extent that shes found eating, drinking and speaking  difficult.
Our investigator considered Ms Ms complaint and thought that TSB should pay her £500  for 
the trouble and upset it caused her. But Ms M didnt think £500 was enough  compensation, 
so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
my provisional findings
I issued my provisional decision on 3 January 2019. Ill set out my findings below.
TSB has now refunded  all fraudulent transactions made from Ms Ms accounts,  and shes 
regained access  to the funds in her accounts. I thought that it should  also rework the 
accounts as if funds had never been  fraudulently removed from them,  so that Ms M doesnt 
lose out on any interest.
Ref: DRN00475532It was clear to me that Ms M has experienced a great deal of trouble and upset in this 
matter. Shes said that being unable to remove her funds from compromised accounts for 
around a month left her worrying that more money  would be fraudulently  taken from her, and 
I understood why  particularly as it seems that further fraudulent  activity  has taken place on 
her accounts. I could also see how not being able to access her money and make payments 
that were due for some time wouldve been inconvenient and frustrating for Ms M.
Ms Ms General Practitioner (GP)  has provided a letter which  confirms  that her medical 
condition has been well-managed for many years  but she suffered a severe flare-up on      
18 May 2018 which has had to be treated with medication, and has affected her ability to 
speak, eat and drink. This supports what Ms M has told us about the effect  this matter has 
had on her health.
I said that being a victim  of fraud  is likely  to upset  someone whether or not something  else 
goes wrong. So I didnt think it would be fair to say that TSB has caused  all of the trouble 
and upset Ms M has experienced. But it was clear  to me that TSBs  system issues have 
contributed, and that TSB couldve  acted differently to reduce the impact on Ms M. I thought 
TSB should pay a fair amount of compensation for the part it played.
Taking everything into account,  I considered  an award of £750 to be a fair and reasonable 
level of compensation  for the trouble and upset TSB caused Ms M. And I thought TSB 
should reimburse the £25 fee Ms M says she paid her GP for their letter  explaining how this 
situation has affected her health.
I said that if Ms M provided some evidence to show she had to make  some payments on her 
credit card during TSBs system issues, and how much interest she was charged on those 
payments, then I would  ask TSB to reimburse  her.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I provisionally decided  that TSB should:
rework Ms Ms accounts as if funds had never  been fraudulently removed from them,  
so that she doesnt  lose out on any interest
pay Ms M £750 for her trouble and upset
reimburse the £25 fee Ms M has said she paid for her GPs letter
reimburse any credit card interest  Ms M shows she had to pay because of relying  on 
her credit  card rather than her savings to make large payments during the system  
issues  I said that TSB can deduct the amount of interest Ms M earned because the 
payments werent made from her savings
I invited Ms M and TSB to give me any further information they wanted me to consider in 
making my final decision.
Ms Ms and TSBs responses to my provisional  decision
Ms M let me know  that she disagrees with my provisional decision, and she doesnt  think 
that £750 is a fair and reasonable level of compensation.  She said that TSB caused  all of her 
trouble and upset,  and the shock and stress that led to the flare-up of her medical condition 
in its entirety. And she asked what else I thought  may have contributed.
TSB didnt  respond  to my provisional  decision  with any new information or evidence.
Ref: DRN00475533my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments  including  Ms Ms response  to 
my provisional decision  to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the circumstances of this 
complaint. Having done so, I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision of           
3 January 2019.
I understand that Ms M disagreed with my provisional decision,  but she didnt provide any 
new information that might lead me to change  my mind. I considered  the impact of TSBs 
actions in making my provisional decision.  I dont  agree that TSB is entirely to blame for 
what Ms M has been through, and I still think that £750 is a fair and reasonable level of 
compensation for the part it played.
Ms M asked what else I think may have contributed to the trouble and upset this whole 
matter has caused  her. As I explained  in my provisional findings, I think  that being a victim of 
fraud is likely  to upset someone  whether or not something else goes wrong. I dont think TSB 
can be held responsible for the actions of a fraudster. But I do think that TSB couldve acted 
differently to reduce the impact on Ms M.
In my provisional decision,  I said that I would direct  TSB to reimburse  Ms M if she sent me 
some evidence of how much interest  she was charged because she had to make some  
payments on her credit card during TSBs  system issues.  Ms M said she would provide a 
copy of her credit card bill, but this hasnt been  received.  So I cant be sure how much Ms M 
was charged,  and I dont think I can reasonably ask TSB to reimburse her.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. If it hasnt done so already,  TSB Bank  plc 
should:
rework Ms Ms accounts as if funds had never  been fraudulently removed from them,  
so that she doesnt  lose out on any interest
pay Ms M £750 for her trouble and upset
reimburse the £25 fee Ms M has said she paid for her GPs letter
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2019.
Kyley Hanson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0047553