K823xcomplaint
Mrs J makes this complaint on behalf of the estate of her late husband Mr J. Mrs Js had 
help 
making this complaint from a friend, who Ill refer to as Mr S. Mr S has been acting as 
her representative. 
Mrs J complains that Financial Solutions Unlimited (FSU) mis-sold Mr J an interest only 
mortgage 
in 2006. Mr S says that FSU: 
- gave Mr J unsuitable mortgage advice by recommending that he take out an interest
only 
mortgage to purchase a new property when he was seriously unwell.
- shouldnt have recommended a self-certified mortgage when Mr J had held a stable
job with a reputable employer for years.
- made factual inaccuracies in Mr Js mortgage application. Mr S only became aware
of 
this more recently following a Subject Access Request (SAR) made to the
mortgage lender in 2018.
background
Mr J applied for mortgage of around £146,000 in February 2006, having received mortgage 
advice 
from FSU. Mr J was buying a property for around £170,000. Mr J had been advised 
by FSU to take out a self-certified interest only mortgage on an initial rate of 1.76% less than 
the lenders SVR for 18 months. The mortgage would then revert to the lenders variable 
rate. The loan had a 25-year term. 
At the time Mr J was seriously unwell. Sadly, he passed away in June 2006, a few months 
after the mortgage completed. 
From 2012 Mrs J struggled with demands from the mortgage lender asking for repayment of 
the balance in full. The lender later made the decision to allow the mortgage to continue and 
Mrs J says the mortgage was transferred into her name as the executor. Around this time 
Mrs J had met with FSUs adviser to explore whether she could afford a new mortgage with 
another lender in her sole name. FSU says that Mrs J decided not to go ahead with a capital 
repayment mortgage in 2012 as the existing mortgage was on a much lower rate, and Mrs J 
was going to choose to make additional capital payments to reduce the mortgage balance.
Again, in 2017, Mrs J got another letter from the lender asking for the mortgage to be paid 
off. 
Mrs J complained to her lender. Following this complaint, Mrs J made a SAR in 2018 and 
found information in the mortgage application which she considers to be incorrect. Mrs J 
complained to the lender about the sale of the mortgage. The lender said Mrs J should 
complain to FSU if she was unhappy with the way the mortgage was sold to Mr J including 
the advice given and the application that was made. 
DRN01687542Mr S  made a complaint to FSU on Mrs Js behalf in December 2018. FSU responded on 6 
February 2019. FSU said the complaint should be time-barred and had been brought too late 
under the complaint handling rules. I issued a jurisdiction decision on 3 April 2020 setting out 
why I thought we could look at this complaint now. 
Our investigator  went on to look at the merits of this complaint. He didnt think the complaint 
should be upheld. In summary, his view was that he couldnt safely conclude from the 
evidence now available to him that the mortgage sold by FSU had been unsuitable for Mr Js 
needs at the time it was sold.
Mr S  disagreed with the Investigators findings. In summary Mr S replied to say:
- he  doesnt believe the evidence is incomplete; rather that the paperwork now
available is all that was completed at the time;
- He  doesnt think someone in Mr Js line of work would have needed a self-
certification mortgage and he doesnt see how it can be a reasonable
recommendation by the broker;
- He  doesnt believe that Mr J was porting a mortgage of the same amount to a new
property. He understands that Mr J was borrowing more money and the new
mortgage would have been six times his income.
my findings
Ive considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate  the arguments that Mr S makes, and I can understand why Mrs J feels so 
strongly about this matter. The seriousness of Mr Js illness and subsequent passing of Mr J 
must have made things incredibly difficult for her. Having read the wider circumstances of 
this complaint, what happened to Mr J was tragic. 
Im also sensitive  to Mrs Js distress in the years that followed when the lender asked for the 
entire loan balance to be repaid with little notice. Im grateful to Mr S for confirming that Mrs 
J has sold the mortgaged property in 2019 and that she now lives in rental accommodation. 
Mr S  has also made a complaint to Mr Js mortgage lender and that matter has been 
considered by another ombudsman. I have not considered the actions of the lender as part 
of this complaint. 
While I  am conscious of the wider situation, this complaint concentrates solely on FSUs 
advice given to Mr J in 2006 and whether this advice was unsuitable for Mr Js needs at the 
time. 
Was the  mortgage advice given to Mr J unsuitable for his needs at the time?
Ive looked  carefully at the documents completed at the time the mortgage was sold. This 
should have included a detailed fact find of Mr Js financial situation, and a recommendation 
from the broker. The brokers recommendation would have advised Mr J to follow a certain 
course of action considering his stated objectives and financial position at the time. It would 
have given reasons as to why the advice was suitable for Mr Js needs. 
Regrettably FSUs  said that the fact find and recommendations that were shared with Mr J in 
2006 are no longer available. Mr S has said he doesnt think these documents were ever 
completed and he considers their absence now is proof of this. 3Where there is a dispute about whats happened, or evidence  that would support what  
happened at the time is no longer available, I must  determine what  I think  happened on the 
balance of probabilities. The advice was given by FSU happened  around 14 years ago. 
Mortgage regulation has increased  since 2006,  but the advice given by FSU would have 
been a regulated activity at the time.  
On balance, I think its reasonable  to accept FSUs statement that this documentation is no 
longer available-  rather than assume  it never existed in the first place. I think a fact find of 
some description would have been  completed and a recommendation would have been 
shared with Mr J. While its disappointing  that this documentation from the sale isnt now 
available as part of my review of this complaint, I dont  consider it to be sinister  that it is no 
longer available. I say this considering  the passage of time since the advice was given in 
February 2006.
While the fact find and suitability letter arent  available, I have seen the mortgage application 
completed at the time which is signed  by Mr J. We also have first-hand testimony  of the 
broker who met with Mr J and gave him advice at the time, although I acknowledge this 
recollection is about events that happened  some  time ago and human memory can be 
fallible. The broker has recollected  various  aspects of the wider  financial aims Mr J had, and 
that Mr J was selling one property while Mrs J was selling another in her name, and that Mr J 
was buying this new property in his sole name.  While this was 14 years ago, the brokers  
recollection is supported  by property sales recorded at the Land Registry  in 2006 and so I 
think I can take into account what he says. 
The mortgage application gives some idea of Mr Js financial position  at the time- assuming 
it is not (as Mr S suggests) fabricated  by the broker and it is a correct statement  of Mr Js 
position. Ive looked at this document and closely scrutinised it. I do give weight  to the 
mortgage application made  in 2006  as evidence.  It was signed by Mr J as a correct record  of 
his financial position.  
The application confirms  that face to face advice  was given  by FSU, and Mr Js current 
address is recorded  as the property in his sole name  (that he was selling before he could 
move). The application  records that Mr J was planning to borrow  £145,000 to fund his 
purchase of a property  worth £170,000  at that time. He has an existing mortgage with the 
lender he was applying for the new mortgage with and he wanted to transfer his existing 
interest rate to avoid paying fees.  The application also records that Mr J was separated  and 
that there  wouldnt be any other people living in the new property with him after the 
purchase. I mean  no discourtesy  to Mrs J when saying  this- but I think it is relevant to 
potential discussions about  what might happen  to the mortgage  and property  in the event  of 
Mr Js death. The mortgage  application  is presented as if this was a financial transaction  that 
Mr J was entering into alone.
There are gaps in the information available. Its unclear whether Mr J was applying to borrow 
more money, whether  Mr Js existing  mortgage with the same lender was interest only or 
capital repayment,  and whether Mr J already  had a self-certified mortgage. 
There is no record as to why FSU considered  the application made  to the lender was 
suitable for Mr Js stated financial objectives  at the time. This is a fundamental gap in the 
overall picture. 4Ive thought about what Mr J may have been  wanting to achieve  to explore if there could 
ever have been a situation in which the mortgage sold could  have been  suitable. 
Mr J wanted to purchase a different property. The new property was around £40,000 more 
expensive than his previous one. No party in this complaint  has said that it was the brokers  
idea for Mr J to sell his existing property and purchase another  more expensive  home.  I think  
its safe to say moving to a more expensive  property was Mr Js plan.  He may well have 
asked the broker  to help him achieve this objective.
Mrs J says that her husband had been unable to work much in the five or so years  he 
received treatment. She recollects he may have worked around five months in several years. 
If Mr J wanted  to borrow more money from his lender one easy  way to do this fairly quickly  
and with minimal checks was for Mr J to self-certify his income. It might seem  unusual for 
someone in Mr Js line of work  to have done that. But if Mr J had been on sick pay for much 
of the past five years it may have been an option  discussed by him and the broker at the 
time  for example  if he was expecting his income to rise shortly through  a return  to work. 
Equally Mr J may have  wanted the administrative ease or speed that a self-certified 
mortgage could  offer. Having thought about  Mr Js potential  objectives at the time, Im not 
persuaded that a self-certified mortgage was clearly unsuitable for Mr Js needs at the time.
Mr S has said that Mr J was increasing the amount of his mortgage  loan to buy a more 
expensive property. I think this is probably  the case from the facts  available now.  Because  
Mr J was taking on more  mortgage debt, he may have wanted  to keep his payments low. 
Mrs J seems to have  been selling another property  around the same time- and in May 2006  
she managed to sell the property  in her name. 
Its unclear to me whether  she was planning  to release equity from her property and 
potentially use this to reduce  Mr Js debt if they were to live together. Again, that may have 
been an objective.
Mr S has asked  how it could have been good advice for the broker  to have recommended  an 
interest only mortgage for Mr J without  checking  he had a way to repay the borrowing at the 
end of the 25 year term. Again, the lack of evidence from the time means  we dont know 
whether Mr Js previous  mortgage was interest only too. And we dont know  whether Mr J 
had some other plan as to how he would repay the mortgage at the end of the term. It may 
be that Mr J had a plan to set up a repayment vehicle but he didnt get the chance  to sort this 
out as his health worsened. 
Maybe Mr J had hoped  that the sale of Mrs Js other  property might  mean that, if they lived 
together in the future, both their incomes  could be used to convert this mortgage to a capital 
repayment mortgage at a later date. Switching to capital repayment at a later date was a 
common plan for many  interest  only mortgage  holders  at the time. With the limited  evidence 
available to me now, Im not persuaded that an interest only mortgage  was clearly unsuitable 
for what Mr J was trying to achieve  at the time.
I then turn to the issue of whether the broker should have sold a mortgage to Mr J at all if he 
knew that Mr J was terminally ill. And if he did, shouldnt the broker have made it clear to Mr 
Js lender.
Ive thought very carefully about this matter, and in doing so I have considered  the brokers 
regulatory duties  at the time and whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.  5The adviser who met with Mr J in 2006  has said that he was, and still considers himself  to 
be, a friend  of Mr Js family. The adviser says he was fully aware  of Mr Js medical 
conditions in 2006. He knew that Mr J had been  away visiting hospitals  for treatment. But he 
says he thought Mr Js treatment had ended and that no further treatment was required.  He 
says Mr and Mrs J had not told him of any further  health conditions during the mortgage 
application. 
Mr J was already a customer of the mortgage  lender,  and he already had a mortgage with 
them of around  £100,000.  This wasnt an entirely new mortgage commitment for a lender 
and Mr J was not a first-time buyer who had no knowledge of financial affairs. 
Ive said that I agree  that the new mortgage seems to be an increase in the amount Mr J 
would owe, and Mr Js recent work  history  was complicated as hed had a great deal of 
absence from work  due to sickness. I believe that this increased  lending wouldnt have been 
approved by the lender  in the current lending market. Increased  regulation  has meant  that 
applicants and brokers can no longer self-certify income, and income  must  be proven with 
payslips. And I think its fair to say many lenders would not want  to make additional money 
available to a borrower who has been on long term sick leave.
But it wouldnt be reasonable for me to apply  todays lending regulation and good industry  
practice to advice that happened 14 years ago. In 2006, at the time of the advice and when 
the application went ahead, self-certified mortgages were available and some  consumers 
were able to access lending which they would  no longer have available  to them now.
It may be that Mr Js existing lender already knew about his health  condition as hed been 
suffering from ill health for years. Mr J may have informed them  himself- and he could have 
chosen to tell his lender at the point of this new transaction. Overall, Im not persuaded that 
the broker failed  in a duty of care to Mr J to disclose his state of health to his existing 
mortgage lender-  albeit before Mr J made an application for a new product and further 
advance. There  isnt anything on the application that asks for a declaration  from the broker 
about the applicants state of health, and in the specific circumstances of this case, it is 
conceivable that while the broker knew how poorly Mr J had been, he thought his treatment 
had been successful and his prognosis  was good.
Mr S has pointed  out that there are errors  and inconsistencies in the mortgage application. I 
agree that the completion of parts of the mortgage application is patchy at best. It does 
appear that there are sections which could have  been completed  more carefully and 
thoroughly. 
There is a question about how much Mr J was earning at the time of the application and 
whether the income figure was correct. Im not persuaded that the amount of the form was 
clearly wrong, and if it was that it was falsified by the broker.  The name of Mr Js employer 
was right and his role. Overall, Im not persuaded that Mr Js income was deliberately  
falsified by the broker. Mr J signed  the mortgage  application to declare that the information 
recorded on it was correct. And I cant safely say how this figure was reached and that it 
wasnt a figure Mr J had confirmed with the broker at the time.
I know my decision will be disappointing to Mrs J and Mr S. However,  with the information  
now available to me, Im unable to say that the mortgage made available  to Mr J in 2006 was 
clearly unsuitable  for Mr Js financial objectives  at that time.6my final  decision
My final decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the  rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J, or Mr S 
acting on her behalf, to accept or reject my decision before 24 December 2020.
Emma Peters
ombudsman