K821x#15complaint
Ms J has complained about Allianz Insurance Plcs handling of a claim under her buildings 
insurance policy after her tenanted property suffered an ingress of water.
background
Ms J owned  a tenanted property. The property was insured with Allianz. The insurance 
policy included both buildings  and legal expenses cover.
In March 2018, Ms J was informed by her tenants of a problem of water coming in to the 
property. She notified her broker  who, in turn, notified Allianz.
Allianz said it understood that the property was unoccupied and, on this basis,  advised  that 
Ms J wasnt  covered for ingress  of water. However, after receiving further information, 
Allianz accepted  its understanding about occupancy was wrong. It arranged for its loss 
adjuster to visit the property. 
The loss adjuster inspected the property in April 2018. She noted the problem  appeared to 
be caused by a ramp on the next-door  neighbours property which was affecting the damp 
proof course  on Ms Js property. She authorised Ms J to carry out repair  work.
Ms J pointed out there was no point in carrying out repair work until the cause of the water 
ingress had been  addressed. She said that her neighbour  hadnt accepted that the ramp 
was the problem. Allianz agreed that Ms J was correct. It arranged  for a leak investigation  
specialist (which Ill call S) to investigate the matter further. 
S attended the property in May 2018.  Its report concluded that the ramp  was the cause of 
the problem.
Given that the repair work couldnt be carried out until the problem of the ramp had been  
addressed, and the neighbour wouldnt  agree  to remove the ramp, Allianz said it couldnt 
progress the buildings  claim.  It advised  that Ms J should consider making a claim under  her 
legal expenses cover. This was also provided by Allianz, albeit it was managed  by a different 
department. I shall refer to this department  as Allianz Legal for convenience.
Ms J made a claim under  her legal expenses cover. Allianz Legal assigned  a solicitor to 
handle her case. However, Ms J had become unhappy with the way Allianz had so far 
handled her claim. She made a complaint.
Allianz issued its final response letter in September  2018. It accepted it had made errors, 
including by initially rejecting the claim,  and that these had caused delay. It offered £250 
compensation.
Ms J didnt accept the offer and the money wasnt paid.  Ms J referred her complaint  to us.
Meanwhile, the solicitor  assigned by Allianz Legal decided  it needed  an expert report which 
could be used in court. Allianz, through its loss adjuster, agreed to assist  by paying for S to 
reattend the property and carry out further  tests.
S reattended  in January 2019. Its report confirmed  that the water ingress was caused by the 
next-door neighbour. However, its initial report wasnt suitable for the purposes of a court  
Ref: DRN04658582case. There was extended  correspondence  involving Ms J, the solicitor,  Allianzs  loss 
adjuster and S in an effort to remedy this.
In the course  of this, Ms J became increasingly  dissatisfied with the solicitor. She eventually 
complained to the solicitor and, following that, to the Legal Ombudsman about  the solicitors  
conduct. 
Ms J was also unhappy with the way Allianz/Allianz Legal were managing her claims. She 
complained to both of them.
In March 2019, Allianz issued another final response letter.  It accepted that, through its loss 
adjuster, it had caused confusion by getting  involved  in the appointment of S and in chasing 
S for amendments to its report so as to make it suitable for the court action. It further  
accepted that S had caused  inconvenience to Ms J by arriving over two hours  late on the 
day of its second  visit. It offered £150  compensation.
Later in March 2019, Allianz Legal  issued a final response concerning  its handling of Ms Js 
legal expense claim. It was satisfied that it had handled the claim appropriately and therefore 
didnt uphold  her complaint.
In August  2019,  our investigator (who appears to have been unaware  of the final response 
letters issued by Allianz and Allianz Legal  in March  2019) recommended  that the complaint 
should be upheld.  She noted that it took a long time for Ss report  to be obtained in a form 
which was ready for court. She considered that Allianz/Allianz Legal should have done  more  
to avoid this delay. She recommended that Allianz  should pay a further £250 compensation 
to Ms J.
Allianz didnt accept the investigators findings.  It explained  about the further final response 
letters which  had been issued in March 2019. It said that it was a requirement under The 
Insurance Companies (Legal Expenses  Insurance)  Regulations 1990  that legal expenses  
insurance was kept separate from general insurance  to avoid conflict  of interest. This meant 
that Allianz Legal had to deal with Ms Js complaint about her legal expenses claim 
separately from the complaint which Allianz  was dealing with about  her buildings  insurance  
claim. It said that the investigator had merged  the issues  and for that reason it couldnt  
accept her recommendation. However, it paid the £250 compensation which  it had offered to 
pay in its final response letter of September 2018.
In light of Allianzs response, Ms J referred a new complaint to us concerning  Allianz Legals 
final response letter to her of March  2019. However,  she still considered she should  she 
should be receiving  the additional £250  compensation from Allianz recommended  by the 
investigator.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded to uphold the complaint. My 
findings were as follows:
First, let me clarify the scope of this complaint. I accept Allianzs  argument  that Ms Js 
buildings claim and her legal expenses claim should be kept separate from one another. 
With that in mind, I am considering the handling of Ms Js buildings claim by Allianz  up to the 
date of its final response letter in March 2019.
Ref: DRN04658583I am not considering the conduct of the solicitors who acted for Ms J under her legal 
expenses cover. As Ms J is aware,  she needs  to raise any concerns in this respect with the 
solicitors concerned and, if still unhappy,  with the legal  ombudsman.
I am also not considering the handling  of Ms Js legal  expenses claim by Alliance Legal  
about which it issued  a final response on in March 2019. Ms J has since referred a separate 
complaint to us about this. 
I also understand that Ms J has since made a further complaint to Alliance Legal and it 
issued a further final response letter  in April 2020 offering £500 compensation. If Ms J is 
unhappy with this, she should  again  refer the complaint to us.
Now let me turn to the merits  of the complaint. I agree that Allianz handled the claim poorly.  
It initially believed the claim  wasnt covered  because Ms Js property was unoccupied. It later 
accepted this was wrong.  Although it is not entirely clear whether  the fault for this 
misunderstanding lay with Allianz or Ms Js broker, Allianz has accepted  responsibility. This 
error delayed the claim by up to three  weeks.
Allianz furthermore accepted that its loss adjuster should have recognised  that repair  works  
couldnt be carried out until the cause  of the water  ingress had been resolved.  It also said it 
should have done more  to help Ms J make  her legal expenses claim.
In view of these various failings, in September 2018  Allianz offered £250  compensation. Im 
satisfied this was adequate compensation for the poor service  to this date.
Following this, there was little that could be done to progress the buildings  insurance claim 
until the issue with the neighbours ramp had been  resolved.  This was being addressed 
through the legal expenses claim.
However, while Allianz has been very forthright in pointing  out that the two claims, and any 
resultant complaints, need to be kept separate from one another,  it unfortunately didnt 
display this separation in practice. When it was decided that an expert report was needed for 
the legal  action, it seems  that Allianzs  loss adjuster  agreed to pay S to do this. It was the 
loss adjuster which originally wrote  to S, although  the solicitor  later issued its own letter of 
instruction. As a result,  I dont think it was entirely  clear to whom  S was reporting. And the 
loss adjuster then became involved in chasing S for amendments to the report, even though  
these amendments were  necessary only for the purposes of the legal expenses  claim, not 
the buildings  claim.
Allianz has acknowledged the confusion  caused and in view of this, and the fact that S was 
over two hours late in arriving for the inspection, has offered £150 compensation. As far as I 
am aware,  this compensation has already  been paid.
Allianzs loss adjusters  involvement in Ss appointment to carry out a second  inspection, and 
its subsequent  involvement in the liaison with S, blurred the distinction between the buildings  
claim and the legal expenses claim. It is arguable as to whether the problems this caused  
should be dealt  with in this complaint or under Ms Js complaint about the handling of the 
legal expenses claim. However, given that Allianz  chose to issue a final response offering  
compensation which was separate from the final response issued by Allianz Legal, 
I consider it is reasonable to consider the actions of Allianz (as opposed to Allianz  Legal) 
and its agents  under this complaint.
Ref: DRN04658584I dont consider that £150 compensation is enough.  The actions of Allianzs  loss adjuster 
caused confusion  over who had commissioned S and served  to blur the distinction between 
the buildings  claim and the legal  expenses claim.  This caused  Ms J a great deal of trouble 
and created difficulty in her dealings with the solicitor. I consider that Allianz should pay Ms J 
a further £100 compensation.
I should emphasise that the above award is purely  in respect of the actions of Allianzs loss 
adjuster, and Ss lateness in attending  the second  appointment.  As I have explained,  I have 
not considered  the handling of Ms Js legal expenses claim by Allianz  Legal  within  this 
decision.
I invited both parties to comment  on my provisional decision.
Allianz accepted  my provisional decision.  Ms J offered no comment  on it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that Allianz has accepted my provisional decision, and Ms J has offered no comment 
on it, Im satisfied  that my provisional decision should stand. For the reasons given in my 
provisional decision, I consider that Allianz should  pay Ms J a further £100 compensation.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Allianz Insurance Plc to pay Ms J £100  compensation.  For the avoidance of doubt, this is in 
addition to the compensation amounts of £250 and £150 it has previously paid to Ms J.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 September  2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0465858