K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains that a car that was supplied to him under a conditional sale agreement with 
Moneybarn No. 1 Limited  wasnt  of satisfactory  quality, that Moneybarn wont  reimburse him 
for some repair costs and about the cars warranty.
background
A used  car was supplied to Mr A under  a conditional  sale agreement with Moneybarn that he 
signed in November 2017. The sales invoice shows that the car was five and a half years  old 
and had been driven for 81,600 miles.  The car was recovered to the dealer a few days  less 
than six months after it was supplied to Mr A because it wouldnt  start. The dealer found  a 
faulty timing chain and solenoid  valve, removed  the turbo pipe and carried  out an oil service. 
The replacement timing  chain kit was covered by the cars warranty  but Mr A was charged  
£330 for the recovery,  the oil service and the replacement solenoid valve  and a further  £10 
for some fuel. The car broke down again in December 2018 and Mr A paid £235 to a 
different garage  for some work on his car in January 2019. He says that further work is 
required on the car but he cant afford  it.  
He complained to Moneybarn  about the issues with the car but he wasnt satisfied with its 
response so complained to this service. Hes made some late payments to Moneybarn  and 
Mr A has also complained that Moneybarn has repossessed his car and about the interest 
that hes paying under the agreement.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld  in part. She said that 
Mr A had incurred costs as a result of faults he had with his car that were  found within  the 
first six months  and she didnt think that it would be fair to say that they were  normal  wear 
and tear. So she recommended that Moneybarn should  reimburse  to Mr A the £330 that hed 
paid for the faults to be repaired.  But she said that the repairs  carried out in January 2019 
were the result of normal wear and tear so it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for Moneybarn to 
reimburse those costs. She didnt feel that Moneybarn could be held responsible  for the 
items that Mr As warranty policy  does  and doesnt cover.  And she didnt  believe  that 
Moneybarn had acted  unfairly or unreasonably in relation to the interest  that it had charged 
Mr A.
Mr A hasnt responded to the investigators recommendations but Moneybarn has asked for 
this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman.  It says,  in summary, that the May 2018 
invoice was over seven months after the inception of the agreement and Mr A hasnt 
provided any evidence  to substantiate  that those issues, or the underlying cause, were 
present at the point of sale. And it says that it shouldnt be liable for paying for the 
replacement solenoid as its a serviceable item and it wouldnt be an unexpected cost for a 
customer acquiring a second-hand car.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Moneybarn, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that the car was of 
satisfactory quality. That will depend  on a number of factors,  including the age, and mileage 
of the car and the price  that was paid for it. The car that was supplied  to Mr A was about five 
and a half years old, had been driven  for 81,600  miles and its price was £7,650.  Satisfactory 
Ref: DRN00796592quality also covers durability which means that the components within  the car must  be 
durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long that time is will depend 
on a number of factors. 
The car was supplied to Mr A in November 2017. A few days  less than six months  later the 
car was recovered to the dealer because it wouldnt start. The dealer carried  out diagnostic 
testing and found a faulty timing chain, solenoid valve and the turbo pipe was removed. The 
dealer replaced  the timing chain kit under warranty. It also carried out an oil service  and 
replaced a solenoid valve and it charged  Mr A £330  for that work (including the recovery and 
diagnostic testing)  it also charged him £10 for fuel. 
Although the car was five and a half years old and had been driven for 81,600,  I dont 
consider that its reasonable to expect a car that cost £7,650  to breakdown  in this way within 
six months of being supplied  to the customer.  So I consider that it was more  likely than not 
that the car wasnt  of satisfactory quality when it was supplied  to Mr A. The timing chain kit 
was replaced by the dealer under warranty  and I consider it to be more likely than not that 
the other issues were  only identified  at that time because of the repair to the timing chain. So 
I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Moneybarn to pay £330  
to Mr A to reimburse him for the costs  that he incurred (other than the £10 that he was 
charged for fuel).
There were further issues with the car in December  2018 and Mr A paid £235 to a different 
garage in January 2019. But I consider that the work that was done  by that garage was the 
result of normal wear and tear  and Im not persuaded that the issues were caused as a 
result of the car not being of satisfactory  quality when it was supplied to him. So I dont 
consider that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require Moneybarn  to reimburse any of 
those costs to Mr A.
The warranty had not covered all of the repairs that have been required on the car. But the 
warranty was provided by the dealer  and not Moneybarn. And Im not persuaded that theres 
enough evidence  to show that Moneybarn  has acted incorrectly  in connection  with the 
warranty or that it would  be fair or reasonable for me to require it to take any action about  the 
warranty in response  to Mr As complaint.
Mr A has also complained about  the interest that hes paying  under the agreement. But 
information about the interest was included in the agreement. And Im not persuaded that 
hes provided enough evidence to show that Moneybarn has apportioned  his monthly 
payments between interest and capital incorrectly  or that its acted incorrectly  in 
connection with his payments in any other way. 
Mr A made some late payments to Moneybarn  and hes also complained that Moneybarn  
has repossessed his car. But those issues didnt form part of his original complaint to 
Moneybarn so Im unable to consider those issues as part of this complaint. If Mr A wants  to 
complain about  those issues, he should  first complain to Moneybarn  and then, if hes not 
satisfied with its response,  he may be able to complain to this service.
 
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mr As complaint in part. And I order 
Moneybarn No. 1 Limited  to pay £330 to Mr A to reimburse him for the costs  that he incurred 
in May 2018.
Ref: DRN00796593Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 August 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0079659