K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that BMW Financial Services (GB)  Limited (BMWFS) mis-sold a loan to 
him.
background
Mr K took receipt of a used car in July 2017. He financed the deal through a hire purchase 
agreement but there  was negative equity on a previous  agreement. He says the dealership  
said theyd take care of the negative equity  and he assumed that meant  theyd pay it for 
him. 
But in August 2018 he complained to BMWFS  as hed realised  the dealership had set up a 
couple of loans, one with BMWFS, to pay off the negative equity alongside the HP 
agreement that had also been established  with them. He said he was unaware  these  
additional loans  had been set up and that additional credit checks would have been carried 
out that would have  impacted his credit score. He wanted his payments refunded.
But BMWFS  didnt uphold his complaint. They said they would usually contact  the dealership 
in these situations but they couldnt  do so here as the dealership had subsequently  ceased 
trading. They noted  that Mr K had signed  the fixed sum loan agreement that had been taken 
out to part settle the negative equity and that by doing so hed agreed that a verbal 
explanation of the finance had been  provided to him.
So Mr K referred his complaint to this service. He said the whole process at the dealership 
had been rushed and he asked our adjudicator for her opinion. She noted Mr Ks testimony 
about what had happened at the dealership but as hed been unable to provide any further 
evidence to suggest the dealership had agreed  to waive  the negative  equity  she couldnt 
agree the loan had been mis-sold. She explained  that Mr K had signed the document  and 
she thought if he had been unaware of the additional loans he wouldve been  likely to 
complain earlier than he did. She also noted that Mr K hadnt  provided any evidence  to show 
that thered been damage to his credit file that had financially  disadvantaged him. So she 
didnt think BMWFS needed to take any further action.
But Mr K disagreed and he asked  for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view and for similar reasons. Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ref: DRN06517562The fixed  sum loan agreement that Mr K disputes  is a regulated  consumer credit  agreement 
and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it. Relevant  legislation  says 
that the finance provider,  BMWFS in this case,  is responsible for what  was said about the 
goods or services  before the credit agreement was entered into by the consumer. So here 
we can consider what was said by the dealership, when they set up the loan, against 
BMWFS.
Mr K says he wasnt aware of the additional fixed sum loan that was taken  out with BMWFS 
and that he believed the negative equity was being taken care of by the dealership. But Im 
not persuaded by his testimony because:
he didnt  complain  to BMWFS for a year and I think it would have been clear there 
was more than one direct  debit on his account  which I think  it would be most likely  he 
wouldve wanted  to query earlier
he signed the fixed sum loan agreement and I think  its reasonable to suggest that 
means he was aware of it and what it financed
Mr K has been unable to provide any further evidence  of an agreement  from the 
dealership to settle the negative equity for him. I think its most likely that if this 
agreement had been reached  there would have been some further evidence he 
couldve supplied
Mr K has suggested that as a result of the additional credit checks  that would have been 
performed to approve these loans, he has been  disadvantaged. But Ive not seen any 
evidence of this either.  So whilst I accept there would have been an impact on his credit 
score Im not persuaded he suffered any detriment as a result.  And overall, I dont  think  
BMWFS need to take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 August 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0651756