K820x#14complaint
Ms Z complains that Metro Bank  PLC blocked her card when  she reported an unauthorised 
transaction.
background
On 4 February 2019 Ms Z messaged  Metro Bank PLC (Metro) to ask it to block  a transaction  
after she noticed that a payment had debited her account that she hadnt authorised.  Metro  
replied that she would need  to contact its fraud team  about this. On 6 February Ms Z 
contacted Metros fraud team and confirmed that she hadnt  authorised  the payment that had 
debited her account.
Metro treat this transaction  as fraudulent and refunded the payment taken from Ms Zs 
account. It also blocked her card to prevent any further unauthorised payments  debiting her 
account. But Ms Z asked  Metro to unblock  the card as she was abroad and without access 
to any other  cards.
Metro informed Ms Z that it couldnt unblock her card but she could continue to use online 
banking and make  transfers in this way. It said she could collect  a new card from her branch  
on returning to the UK. And it told Ms Z she could speak with customer  services to discuss 
whether it a replacement  card could be posted to her non-UK  address,  which  she declined. 
On 4 March 2019 Ms Z contacted Metro to lodge  a complaint. As she was still abroad she 
asked it to issue a replacement card to her non-UK address and Metro  agreed to do this. Ms 
Z received  her replacement card on 27 March and activated  it on 29 March. After Metro  
investigated Ms Zs complaint it offered her £70 compensation to recognise that the service 
she received during  her call of 6 February  could have been  better.
Ms Z wasnt happy with how Metro  had dealt with her complaint. She rejected the 
compensation it had offered because she said it should pay more  given  the time it had taken 
her to resolve what had happened.  She also said that blocking her card had prevented her 
from pursuing a business opportunity. And she didnt  think  £70 fairly reflected the 
inconvenience she had experienced  as a result of Metro  cancelling her card. 
When Ms Z referred  her complaint  to our service our investigator empathised  with Ms Z. But 
they didnt think  that Metro needed to do anything more here.  They thought the 
compensation Metro  had offered Ms Z was fair and reasonable  in the circumstances. But Ms 
Z disagreed  and so this complaint has been referred  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Ms Zs complaint is about whether Metro made  a mistake in blocking her card.  
Its clear that she doesnt agree with the action Metro took here. She thinks it should have 
blocked the payment instead  of her card. But, Metro couldnt have blocked the transaction 
because it wasnt a pending payment. It had already debited  Ms Zs account. 
Ms Z feels that Metro  shouldve given her options prior to her card being  cancelled so that 
she could have decided  whether she wanted  it to block her card.  She says had she known 
Ref: DRN01499522Metro were intending to block  her card she wouldve instructed it not to do so because of her 
reliance on this card while abroad. 
But banks have a duty to have robust  strategies to safeguard  customer  accounts from 
potentially fraudulent transactions. Preventing fraud is as important for the bank as it is for its 
customers. Here, Metro was informed  by Ms Z that an unauthorised transaction had debited  
her account  and it had a duty to keep  her account  secure. Once it knew the payment was 
unauthorised it had to treat that transaction as a fraudulent.  And this meant it had a duty to 
block her card. So, Metro  couldnt have given Ms Z any options  of alternatives to blocking 
her card. Ill explain why.
Where a claim is made that theres been an unauthorised card payment a customer doesnt 
have the option of keeping their card active. This is because  if Metro doesnt block  a 
customers card this will leave a risk that further  unauthorised transactions may continue  to 
debit their account. Metro  could be financially  responsible for any payments debiting a 
customers account after it had been  notified  of an authorised transaction. So, this explains 
why a decision by Metro to block a card would override a customers request to keep the 
card active.  
Based on what Ms Z told Metro about the payment that debited  her account I think it was 
reasonable for Metro to treat that payment as fraudulent. In those  circumstances, it was also 
reasonable for it to have concerns that other  fraudulent payments  could  continue  to debit Ms 
Zs account.  The only way to prevent that was to block the card.  So, Im persuaded that 
Metro acted properly  in immediately blocking Ms Zs card. Im satisfied that it did so in efforts 
to protect  Ms Zs account from further  unauthorised  debits. It follows that I cant reasonably 
find Metro at fault for the actions it took.
But, while I dont think Metro made an error in blocking Ms Zs card I do think it missed an 
opportunity to record a complaint when she contacted it in February 2019. I say this because 
during that call I think it ought  to have been clear to Metro that Ms Z was extremely  unhappy  
that her card was blocked. She was abroad  at the time and had been  for an extended period 
due to family difficulties,  which prevented her from knowing when she may return  to the UK. 
Ms Zs circumstances meant she wasnt in a position to have a replacement card delivered 
to her registered UK address.  And as she didnt  have  access to an alternative card she 
wasnt able to make payments. I think, in those  circumstances, Metro ought  to have 
recognised Ms Zs frustration and offered to record a complaint at this point.
In thinking about whats fair to put things right for Ms Z, Ive considered things from both 
sides. And Ive taken into account that Metro has already offered £70 to recognise that the 
service Ms Z received during that call could have been better.  
Its clear that Ms Z doesnt think £70 adequately reflects her inconvenience  and experience  
or the time its taken her to try to resolve  this complaint. She complains that it took almost 
two months for a new card to be issued  to her non-UK address and that not having  access to 
a card prevented  her from pursing a business  opportunity she planned to start while  abroad.  
But I think that, even  if Metro had recorded Ms Zs complaint during Februarys telephone 
call, its unlikely this wouldve  prompted it to send  a replacement card to her non-UK address 
at this point. I say this because during  that conversation Metro  offered to transfer Ms Z to 
customer services  so she could discuss whether it was able to post a card to her non-UK 
address.  Ms  Z didnt pursue this. But while I appreciate that the circumstances of Ms Zs 
Ref: DRN01499523departure from the UK meant she didnt know how much longer she would be abroad I have 
to bear in mind  that this option was offered to Ms Z at this point and not taken up by her. 
I havent seen  any evidence that Ms Z asked for a replacement card to be posted  abroad 
until 4 March 2019. So, I cant fairly  find that Metro was responsible  for any delay in Ms Z 
receiving a replacement  card.  When Ms Z asked  Metro  to post the card to her non-UK 
address I think it acted promptly. And I also think the period  of time from when Ms Z 
requested the replacement  card to it being  delivered to her is reasonable given the inevitable  
delays that international post would cause. Overall, Im satisfied that missing an opportunity  
to record a complaint  didnt cause any delay in a replacement card being sent to Ms Z or 
prevent her from pursuing her business opportunity.
Metro said it usually only issues replacement  cards in branch or to a customers registered  
address. But here it went outside of its usual process to dispatch  Ms Zs card to her non-UK 
address. I think this demonstrates  that Metro  recognised the difficulties Ms Z found herself  in 
whilst abroad and that it was trying  to assist her.  
I appreciate that blocking Ms Zs card meant that she didnt have access  to a card to make 
payments. But she was able to continue  to use her account for online transfers and online  
banking. And Ive seen  evidence  that Ms Z transferred money and made  a bill payment while 
abroad. 
Ms Z complained that making  transfers  and paying  bills online cause her inconvenience 
because this process involved Metro sending a verification code on her UK mobile,  which 
has been disconnected in July 2018 when she left the UK. So Metro  werent  able to send  
verification codes to her. In view of this Ms Z said she had to contact Metro while abroad to 
ask it to make the transfer and payment on her behalf. 
But while Ive carefully considered what Ms Z has said Im satisfied that the difficulties she 
encountered here arent something I can fairly hold Metro responsible for. I say this because  
it isnt its fault it couldnt send  a verification code to Ms Z via her registered  mobile  number. 
The terms and conditions  of Ms Zs account state that a customer  must  tell Metro if their 
contact details change. So, it was Ms Zs responsibility to keep  her contact details with Metro 
up to date. Those terms also make clear  that Metro  wont be responsible  if it fails to contact 
a customer in circumstances where they havent provided their latest contact details.  
I can understand how frustrating this all must have been for Ms Z. But I think whats  been 
offered is fair to compensate her for the missed opportunity  on the part of Metro to record  
her complaint. So Im not going to ask it to do anymore.
my final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint beyond the £70 that Metro Bank 
PLC agreed to pay Ms Z to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms Z to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2019.  
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0149952