K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains a purchase  he made  through his JD Williams  & Company Limited  account  
had a 15% not a 20% discount code applied. He would  like an apology,  a refund equivalent 
to the 5% discount,  a refund of the additional interest and penalty charge applied to his 
account. And a gesture of goodwill  payment.
background
Mr W says he made a purchase through his JD William & Company Limited (JD Williams)  
account in June 2018 believing a 20% discount  would be applied to his purchase. However  
he says JD Williams only applied a 15% discount.
He says despite multiple exchanges with JD Williams it refused  to admit it had made a 
mistake. And gave  no refund  for the price difference or for the higher interest  charges 
applied due to the lower  discount.
He says he is also not happy that in its final response letter  JD Williams said Mr W hadnt 
responded to emails  asking for evidence  of the 20% discount code. Mr W says he followed 
up with JD Williams on a number of occasions which it didnt respond  to. He believes 
JD Williams sought  to frustrate his complaint in the hope that he would go away. 
JD Williams said as Mr W hadnt been  able to provide the business  with the discount code 
he had used in June 2018 it hadnt been  able to honour the discount.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint as Mr W hadnt been  able to provide any 
evidence of the code he says he used.
JD William accepted this view but Mr W didnt.
Mr W said he must have  used a code on his account  since  he did get a discount,  just not the 
one he expected to get. He adds that JD Williams hadnt even been able to evidence  the 
15% discount he did get.
He didnt feel JD Williams had investigated his complaint properly   it didnt ask for a copy  of 
the screenshot of the code, didnt say the code he gave wasnt  valid and didnt respond  to 
initial information Mr W sent the business. He said he had evidenced that most of 
JD Williamss Facebook codes in 2018  were for 20% discounts. 
He also felt the wording  of our investigators view suggested he was being dishonest.
Our investigator considered Mr Ws comments but didnt change  her view.  She didnt feel it 
would help to pursue  evidence of the 15% discount.  She didnt feel that would  explain  why 
the business hadnt applied a 20% discount.
She agreed  it would  have  been better if JD Williams  had asked for a screenshot of the 20% 
discount code  when Mr W first complained but said she had asked Mr W for this. And as part 
of her investigation she had also looked  online but was unable to find the discount code in 
question.
Finally she apologised  if Mr W found  the conclusion of her view offensive.  She said it might 
have indicated she didnt  believe Mr W. But she explained that it was simply she had no 
Ref: DRN06371692evidence on which to go back to JD Williams  to recommend it applied  the additional 5% 
discount.
Mr W commented he was surprised that our investigator hadnt asked the business  to 
provide the code it claims was used. He still wished  to have  an Ombudsmans final decision 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There doesnt seem to be any dispute that Mr W did get a discount  when he made a 
purchase in June 2018, the issue is the level of the discount.
I can understand Mr Ws frustration that in its final response letter JD Williams said Mr W 
hadnt responded to its request for evidence of the promotional code he used. I can see from 
the information that Mr W has given us that he did give the code. He also provided some 
personal information that JD Williams  asked  for.  Then sent two chasing emails in 
September and October 2018  when  he hadnt had any response.  
We asked JD Williams why the fact Mr W had responded to its request for evidence of the 
promotional code hadnt been noted  in fact the opposite had been noted   in its final 
response letter. It said it didnt have that information at the time. 
Frustrating as that must have been for Mr W I agree with our investigator  that even if 
JD Williams had responded to the email Mr W sent on 24 July 2018  with the code 
information it wouldnt have changed the outcome.  
I think JD Williams would have explained  that it didnt recognise  the code as one of its.  At 
that point it might have  asked for a copy of the screenshot showing the promotional  code.   I 
appreciate Mr W says he did have this but no longer  does. Its also unfortunate that Mr W 
didnt think to either keep  a copy of this, or to send this to JD Williams when he first 
complained even though  JD Williams  didnt specifically  ask for this.
In terms of the promotional code Mr W used this isnt a code JD Williams recognises.  It says 
its codes are 5 character long  the code Mr W says he used is eight characters long. 
JD Williams has said it generates  longer  single  use codes  but these are sent by email only 
and they arent posted on Facebook which is where Mr W says he got his code from.
Despite all of this I think Mr W must have had a valid code  otherwise he wouldnt have got 
any discount at all. Mr W has told us most  of JD Williams Facebook codes over 2018 were  
for 20%. But that doesnt mean the one he used was for 20%.   
Unfortunately looking  at all the evidence I have  I cant reasonably  conclude  that JD Williams 
applied the wrong discount. So on that basis I dont think I can reasonably ask it to refund 
the 5% discount  Mr W didnt get, to refund additional  interest and charges as a result or to 
make a gesture  of goodwill  payment  as Mr W would like.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN06371693Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2020.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0637169