K821x#15complaint
Mrs B, represented by a claims  management company (CMC), complains  that Uncle Buck  
Finance LLP lent money to her that she couldnt afford to repay.
background
Mrs B entered into six loans with Uncle Buck between  September  2014 and August 2015. 
Loans four to six were instalment loans.
The CMC says that Uncle Buck failed to identify  that Mrs B had become dependent on 
payday loans  and was borrowing to make  her repayments. It says that the loans  didnt help 
Mrs B in regard to her long term financial needs and made it more difficult  for her to access  a 
long term solution  to her financial issues.
Uncle Buck  says it has a robust process  for assessing affordability including  checking 
income and expenditure information and carrying  out a credit  check.  It says its checks are 
proportionate and in line with the guidelines.
Our adjudicator upheld  this complaint in regard to loans three to six. He said that although 
there was a gap of around four months between loans three and four he consider all six 
loans as part of the same lending chain. He didnt think  there was enough evidence  to say 
that it was unreasonable of Uncle Buck to provide loans one and two but he didnt think 
loans three  to six shouldve been  provided.
Our adjudicator said that proportionate checks before loan three  would most likely  have 
shown Mrs B was having problems  managing  her money. He mentioned the defaults on her 
credit file, her other outstanding short term loans and the increase in the amount borrowed. 
He said given the circumstances Uncle Buck should have realised Mrs B was unlikely to be 
able to sustainably  repay this loan. By loan four he thought  Mrs Bs overall pattern of 
borrowing suggested she had become  persistently reliant on short-term loans. 
Uncle Buck  didnt accept  our adjudicators  view.  It questioned why a gap of four months 
wasnt considered  significant and why the increase in loan amount from £400 to £450  meant  
the loan shouldnt have been provided.  It said there was no compelling evidence to show  
that loans three to six werent sustainably affordable for Mrs B. 
As the complaint hasn't been  resolved informally, it has been  passed to me, an ombudsman, 
to decide. This is the last stage of our process.
my findings
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  We've  set out our general approach to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mrs B could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts  and 
Ref: DRN06773842the consumer's  income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These  factors  
include:
the lower  a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Uncle Buck  was required to establish 
whether Mrs B could  sustainably repay  her loans - not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Bs complaint.
Based on what I have seen I agree with our adjudicator that there is not enough evidence  to 
say the first two loans  shouldnt have been  provided.
The third loan was taken out as soon as the second  was repaid. This was the third loan in 
two months and the loan amounts were increasing. This loan was for £450 and the 
repayment amount  represented a substantial proportion of Mrs Bs income. Given  the 
pattern of borrowing that was emerging and the size of the repayment compared to Mrs Bs 
income I think that Uncle Buck should  have  been  concerned that this loan wasnt  sustainably 
affordable. Therefore I am upholding this complaint in regard to this loan.
There was a break of just over three months  from when loan three was repaid and loan four 
taken out. While I note the gap I dont find this was sufficient for Uncle Buck to be able to 
conclude that Mrs Bs finances had moved on from whatever  situation  had required her 
previous loans and so I have considered all the loans  as part of the same lending chain.
Ref: DRN06773843Ive looked at the overall pattern of Uncle Bucks  lending history with Mrs B, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Uncle Buck should reasonably  have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Uncle  Buck should have realised 
that it shouldnt  have provided  any further  loans. 
Given the particular  circumstances of Mrs Bs case, I think  that this point  was reached by 
loan four. I say this because from loan four, Mrs B was provided with a new loan within  days 
of settling a previous one. So Uncle Buck ought  to have realised it was more likely than not 
Mrs B was having to borrow  further to cover the hole repaying  her previous loan was leaving.  
I think that Mrs B lost out because Uncle Buck continued to provide borrowing from loan 
three onwards because  these loans had the effect  of unfairly  prolonging Mrs Bs 
indebtedness by allowing  her to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an 
extended period  of time. From  loan four, the sheer number of loans and deferrals was likely  
to have had negative implications on Mrs Bs ability  to access mainstream credit and so kept 
her in the market  for these high-cost loans. So Im upholding the complaint about loans three 
to six.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in regard to loans  three to six. Uncle  Buck 
Finance LLP should:
refund  all interest and charges that Mrs B paid on the loans  from three to six 
(November 2014 to August 2015);
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement*;
remove any negative information  about loan three from Mrs B's credit file;
the number  of loans taken from loan four onwards means any information recorded 
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loan four onwards should be removed 
from Mrs B's credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle  Buck 
must give Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0677384