K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that Capital One (Europe) plc declined his claim for a refund under section 
75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  in respect  of a car.
background
In July 2017 Mr T bought a used car, and paid for it with his Capital One credit card. It was 
12 years  old and the mileage was about  260,000.  He says that the very next day, the clutch 
warning light came on, and so he took it back to the dealership. Instead of carrying out a 
repair, the dealer  simply turned the light off using a computer. Mr T says that this happened 
six or seven  times, and that each time the fault light came on, the car went into limp mode.
Ten months later, in May 2018, the car finally broke  down and had to be towed home by the 
AA. The next day the car was taken to another garage,  because the dealership  had gone  out 
of business. The new garage diagnosed a terminal fault with the gearbox, one which would 
not be economical to repair,  and so the car was scrapped.  Mr T has provided  reports  written 
by the garage  and by the AA.
Mr T raised  a section 75 claim with Capital One. He said the fault light indicated that the car 
had had a defect when it was sold, and that this was a breach of the contractual  term that 
the car would be of satisfactory quality. And he said the dealer had misrepresented  the car, 
because he must have known about the fault before he sold it. But Capital One declined his 
claim, saying  that there was no evidence about any faults before the breakdown. It also said 
the car had passed its MOT test with no advisories in December 2017. It concluded that the 
breakdown was probably the result of wear and tear, for which  the dealer  and therefore 
capital One  would not be liable.
Mr T brought  this complaint to our Service. He said that MOT tests dont test the gearbox,  so 
passing the MOT did not disprove his claim. But our adjudicator did not uphold  this 
complaint, because he thought that Mr T had not proved  that the car was faulty  when it was 
sold. Mr T asked for an ombudsmans decision. He said the fault light proved that the car 
had been faulty when  hed bought  it.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
When a consumer purchases something with a credit card, section 75 (when it applies) 
makes the credit card provider jointly and severally liable for any breach of contract  or 
misrepresentation by the seller. A misrepresentation is a false  statement  of fact which 
induces someone to enter a contract. It is not in dispute that section 75 applies here.
My role in this complaint is to decide  whether Capital  One erred in deciding  not to uphold 
Mr Ts claim under section 75. That does not necessarily mean substituting  my own opinion 
about his claim for Capital  Ones,  but just assessing whether Capital Ones  decision was a 
reasonable one on the available evidence.
I agree  with Mr T that the MOT test result  is a red herring. MOT tests do not involve 
examining the gearbox.1 So the test does not undermine his claim, and so I ignore it. It is 
however evidence of the mileage at the time, which  was about £270,000 miles.
Ref: DRN02936032However, the main  reason Capital One declined Mr Ts claim was the absence  of any 
evidence to corroborate his claim that the fault light had kept coming  on, and that he had 
taken the car to the dealership, at any time during the ten months he had the car before it 
broke down.  I think that is a fair reason to decline a claim. Capital One was not obliged  to 
take his word for it; its entitled to ask for evidence,  and to take the lack of evidence into 
account.
After receiving the adjudicators decision, Mr T said he had obtained a full diagnostic history 
of the car, which showed all the times when the fault light had come on, including  a time 
before the car was sold.  Our adjudicator asked Mr T for this evidence. His reply was to 
refuse to provide  it until his case was assigned to an ombudsman.  When  this case was 
assigned to me, I asked  him for it again  (on 21 February), but he did not reply.  I wont  
speculate about  why, but I will simply say that if he had this evidence  then he should have 
shown it to Capital  One.
In the absence of evidence  to verify  that there  was a problem before the car broke down,  
I dont think it was unreasonable  of Capital One to conclude that the gearbox  failed as a 
result of fair wear and tear since it was sold. Although there  is a statutory implied  term that 
goods sold will be of satisfactory quality (and this includes that they will be free of defects), 
that does not prevent the age and prior use of second-hand goods from being  taken  into 
account in assessing what level of quality  is satisfactory and which  defects are acceptable.  If 
a new cars  gearbox  failed  after only ten months,  I would  infer that there  was something 
wrong with it when it was sold, but a car which breaks down after 13 years  and over 270,000 
miles does  not support  such an inference.
my final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
1 https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/car-parts-checked-at-an-mot/car-parts-checked-at-an-
mot
Ref: DRN0293603