K822xcomplaint
Miss C complains about J D Williams & Company  Limited, trading as SimplyBe (SimplyBe) 
for putting in place  a repayment  plan for her without explaining to her that this would have 
consequences for her credit score. She is also concerned that SimplyBe took too long to 
remove the plan when she requested this and that this had consequences  for her ability to 
borrow. She wants appropriate compensation for her distress,  inconvenience, and the 
impact upon her credit availability. 
background 
Miss C has held an account with SimplyBe for a long period. 
In early 2019, Miss C was on an unpaid period of leave from work. She had a balance on her 
SimplyBe account which she was repaying  by a monthly sum. 
On 8 January  2019, Miss C contacted SimplyBe by email to request that they accept a 
reduced payment  from her for a period  until she returned to work. 
SimplyBe set up a repayment plan and added this to Miss Cs credit file. 
SimplyBe then emailed Miss C on 16 January 2019  and advised that the plan had been put 
in place and that she now needed  to provide supporting evidence. The email explained that 
her credit account had been suspended and her credit file updated with details of the 
repayment plan.  
Miss C was concerned  about this as, around that time, she was looking to obtain a mortgage 
to move home. 
She emailed  back and asked that the repayment  plan be cancelled and removed from her 
credit file. SimplyBe responded asking for confirmation that she wanted to cancel  the plan 
and she confirmed that she did. 
The plan was cancelled  and removed around  22 January 2019. 
Miss C monitored her credit report  and noted  that her credit  score had reduced.  She also 
received correspondence from another credit  company indicating  that her credit with that 
company had been reduced to her outstanding  balance. 
Miss C complained to SimplyBe. She felt that SimplyBe ought to have explained the 
implications of a plan before putting it in place, and ought to have  sought  her confirmation 
that she accepted those  implications. 
SimplyBe sent Miss C their final response  to her complaint in March  2019. 
SimplyBe did not uphold her complaint.  It indicated  that the process  to remove the plan had 
been put into effect very quickly after her request to cancel the plan had been received. 
Miss C was not happy with this response and contacted us. 
One of our investigators  has looked  into this complaint  and set out her view to the parties. 
Our investigator felt that SimplyBe ought  to have  informed  Miss C that a repayment plan 
Ref: DRN08583092would negatively affect her credit  file before putting  this in place. She therefore thought that 
SimplyBe ought to pay £75 compensation to Miss C to reflect her distress and 
inconvenience. 
SimplyBe accepted  this view, but Miss C did not. The complaint  has therefore been  passed 
for an ombudsman decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I understand Miss Cs concerns about  a negative  impact upon her credit  file and this 
appears to have been particularly important to her at the time due to her planned home 
move. She has indicated  that she feels that SimplyBe need  to be held accountable  for 
causing damage to her credit file and for causing her credit facility with another  lender to be 
reduced. 
I should make clear the role of the Ombudsman  service. Our role is not to penalise  
businesses which do something  wrong,  but to consider whether in an individual situation a 
consumer has been treated  unfairly  and, where they have, we can award  compensation to 
reflect that unfairness. This can include compensation  for financial effects  where we have 
evidence of those  effects, and for distress and inconvenience. 
I have considered the evidence of correspondence  between Miss C and SimplyBe and I 
agree with the investigators view that it was not made clear to Miss C that her credit file may 
be negatively impacted by a repayment plan before one was put in place and reported to 
credit reference agencies. I can appreciate that learning that a plan had been put in place 
and that this had already been added to Miss Cs credit file would  have been  distressing and 
worrying. 
SimplyBe has provided evidence that it put into effect the reversal  of the plan promptly  on 
request from Miss C, although it noted that it could take an additional period for changes to 
show on her credit file. I think that SimplyBe acted reasonably  in making the changes  
promptly when Miss C requested them, but I also think that the fact that there  is a built in 
time delay  to corrective changes being  reflected in Miss Cs credit file makes it more 
important that SimplyBe make sure they only add negative  information appropriately. 
Consequently I agree that SimplyBe  provided a poor service to Miss C by putting the plan in 
place, and reporting this to credit  reference  agencies, without Miss C making clear  that she 
understood and agreed to this. 
Looking then to what SimplyBe should do to put matters right, I have to look at the effects  
that this had on Miss C, both financially and in terms of distress and inconvenience.
Miss C set out that her credit score  reduced as a result of the plan, and that while  the plan 
was being removed another credit card company reduced her credit  to her remaining 
balance. 
I have made  further  enquiries with Miss C, to find out whether the effect on her credit score 
was temporary, and whether she can provide evidence  that the other credit company 
reduced her credit  facility  due to this plan. Miss C has not responded to my request for 
information or evidence and, consequently I cannot be satisfied that any changes that 
Ref: DRN08583093occurred in her credit  file were due to this temporary issue, or that this had a financial effect 
on Miss C. 
I recognise that Miss C was caused  worry, and that for the period until her credit file was 
corrected she was inconvenienced by not being able to apply for further credit and having to 
regularly check her credit file. I note, however, that this was not for a long period. 
I think that the recommendation of the investigator, that SimplyBe pay £75 compensation to 
Miss C, is reasonable to reflect  this impact. I appreciate that Miss C does not consider this 
amount sufficient to reflect her distress,  but I am satisfied  that it is in line with other  awards 
we would make in similar circumstances.  
I therefore uphold  Miss Cs complaint and direct J D Williams  & Company Limited  to pay to 
Miss C £75 compensation.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Miss Cs complaint  and direct  J D Williams  & 
Company Limited  to pay to Miss C £75 compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 June  2020.
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0858309