K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that Lloyd & Whyte  Ltd sold him a professional indemnity insurance policy 
which wasnt suitable for his needs and as a result  he had to stop trading for a short period, 
suffering a loss of income and other losses.
background
In late 2016 one of Mr Cs customers made a complaint about him. After going  through his 
complaint process,  he referred them to the regulator (G). He was asked for a copy of his 
professional indemnity insurance, and Mr C then realised his insurance didnt provide the 
cover he thought he had.
Mr C contacted a professional association and was then referred  to Lloyd & Whyte in April 
2017 to obtain professional indemnity insurance. At the same time, Mr C stopped  working 
and referred himself to G, as he was concerned about his professional  indemnity insurance.  
Mr C explained to Lloyd  & White  that his previous insurance wasnt covering the things it 
needed to, so he was looking for new quotes.  He also explained that hed had to shut his 
practice while he sorted this out. Lloyd & Whyte sold Mr C another  insurance policy.  He says 
G asked to see his new insurance policy to make  sure he had the necessary cover.
In June 2017 Mr C received  a letter from G advising that it was investigating his self-referral,  
which suggested that hed been practising  without  indemnity cover  for four years. He spoke 
to Lloyd & Whyte again, saying they knew what his occupation was so they should  have 
known what insurance  he needed. Lloyd & Whyte said his cover  was adequate and the 
exclusions Mr C was concerned about were  standard.
G held a hearing in June  2017. This confirmed that Mr C had closed his practice  and ceased 
practising in April 2017.  G added that there was no suggestion Mr C deliberately obtained  
inadequate insurance. But it still suspended him for six months.
Lloyd & Whyte told Mr C the exclusions in his policy  which resulted in him having 
inadequate cover   are common, but said the insurer had removed the exclusions for a 
month to help him arrange alternative  insurance elsewhere. Lloyd & Whyte  said they would 
never knowingly provide  inadequate insurance  cover and, as goodwill gesture, offered to 
refund the premium  paid since the last renewal.
Mr C asked to cancel  the insurance  policy  and be refunded from the original start date but 
Lloyd & Whyte said it could only offer a pro-rata refund. Mr C wasnt happy with this and so 
he complained.
Lloyd & Whyte issued  a final response  saying the policy was sold in good faith at the time, 
and it couldnt  cover any loss of income.  Lloyd & Whyte later said it would offer a refund of 
premium.
Mr C was able to find another insurance  policy and got his licence back before the six 
months suspension was up. But he was unable to work for around three months.
Our investigator said that as Lloyd & Whyte recommended the policy, it had a duty to make 
sure the cover was suitable for his needs, but this policy  wasnt  suitable and there are others 
that would  have been. She thought Mr C did what  he could to get back to work as quickly as 
possible and keep  his losses  to a minimum.
Ref: DRN08429262The investigator didnt  think Lloyd & Whyte  was entirely to blame for the suspension  
because there were problems with Mr Cs previous insurance. So she recommended  that it 
pay for 50% of Mr Cs loss of earnings  from the date he was suspended to the date this 
suspension was lifted, subject to Mr C providing evidence of that loss. And she thought he 
should get compensation of £1,000 for the other harm caused  including damage to his 
reputation, the distress  caused to him, which led to some health problems, and all the 
trouble he was put to getting  things  sorted  out.
Lloyd & Whyte accepted the investigators view but Mr C didnt  agree.  He said:
Its true there were problems with his previous  insurance, but that had no bearing  on 
his suspension.
It was because of those earlier issues that he asked Lloyd & Whyte  to recommend 
another policy. They knew what cover he needed but G found that the policy  they 
sold him wasnt adequate and thats why he was suspended  not because of any 
failing with his previous insurance.
His problems only started when he was suspended due to the potential risk at that 
point. His loss of earnings for the suspension  period  was caused by Lloyd & Whyte 
and he doesnt  understand  how the investigator could say Lloyd & Whyte  was only 
partly to blame.
The effect on his business is very difficult to quantify as it is conjecture,  but he does 
know the referrals he used to get reduced  a lot. He puts this down  to the suspension  
being noted on his registration  for all to see.
His turnover reduced significantly  turnover for the three months before he was 
suspended was around £30,000;  for the five months  after the suspension was 
removed it was only £14,000.
The stress of all this caused him health  problems and he had to see his doctor  about  
this.
The compensation of £1,000 offered is totally inadequate; it has been a very stressful 
time for him and his family.
He had to get legal advice, including the cost of a barristers  advice, and should be 
compensated for this;
The investigator made no mention of the premium  refund.
Mr C has provided evidence  from his accountants and bank statements as evidence  of his 
loss of earnings. He says his turnover reduced to around £2,000  per month  and his savings 
reduced from around £30,000 to a few hundred. He says his financial position became 
desperate; it was really  difficult for him to look after his family and his house.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in February 2019. In the provisional decision 
I said:
In order to carry out his work, Mr C has to have appropriate indemnity insurance cover; if he 
doesnt have this in place  hes in breach  of his professional requirements and at risk of being 
suspended. So its important for him to have  the right cover  in place.
When Mr C renewed his insurance, Lloyd & Whytes role was to assess his needs  and find a 
policy that would cover his needs. So for example, when renewing his cover  in 2014 it 
recommended a particular policy to match the demands and needs of a practice owner 
requiring medical malpractice cover. And when the insurance was renewed in April 2017 
Lloyd & Whyte again recommended  a policy following an assessment of his demands and 
needs.
Ref: DRN08429263Knowing what Mr Cs profession  was, Lloyd & Whyte should  have recommended a policy  
that met his professional requirements. To do this, it should have got enough information 
from him to assess his needs;  considered  the policy to ensure it met those needs; and 
advised him about any significant exclusions. Lloyd  & Whyte has accepted  that it didnt 
provide all the cover Mr C needed.
Mr C referred  himself  to the G and was suspended. This must  have  been  hugely disruptive  
he wasnt able to carry on working,  and had no income during this time. In addition, he 
suffered the distress  of going through  formal proceedings  and being  suspended, and was 
put to some  trouble getting another  policy. None of this would have happened if hed been  
sold a suitable  policy.
Im satisfied that if Mr C had known this policy wasnt suitable  for him he wouldnt have 
bought it. He would never  have wanted to be in a position was he was in breach of his 
regulators requirements. In these circumstances Id generally direct a refund of premium 
and I think its fair that should happen.
In addition to this, Mr C has suffered other  losses. So Ive considered  how to address these.
Our investigator thought it was fair for Lloyd  & Whyte to compensate  him for 50% of his 
losses; she thought  the problems werent entirely  down  to the problems with this policy,  as G 
referred to the earlier complaint and problems  with his previous insurance.
I appreciate there had been other problems. But the issue was only referred  to G after the 
problems with this policy came to light. Gs decision says The ongoing concern of [G] is that 
[Mr Cs] current  indemnity  remains  inadequate the risk in this case  arises from the 
information that [Mr C] does not currently  have  adequate indemnity cover. And the 
information before the Committee suggests that [Mr Cs] current  indemnity policy  is 
inadequate. The committees task was to assess the risk and it concluded there was a risk 
to the public.
Based on this, my judgment is that Mr C was suspended because he didnt have the right 
cover in place  the suspension was based on the risk to patients at that point. Regardless 
of any earlier  problems,  if Lloyd & Whyte  had sold him a suitable policy in April 2017, he 
would have been able to practise as he wouldnt have had a problem with his cover when G 
considered the matter  in June 2017. So the suspension wouldnt have happened. For that 
reason, I think Lloyd & White was responsible for the losses  he suffered because he was 
suspended.
Mr C says it is very difficult  to give a precise  figure  for all his losses. But hes provided 
information from his accountant and copies  of bank statements for the relevant period.  The 
accountant estimates his loss as £24,546.
This is the professional opinion of Mr Cs accountant. Its based on a comparison of his profit  
and loss account with the previous  year,  together  with analysis of his overheads.  So this 
carries some weight and I have used it as a starting  point for deciding the loss he should be 
compensated for.
.
However, the calculation is based on gross profit rather than net profit,  which is a more 
accurate figure for the actual loss suffered. And it includes  a figure for overheads. Those  are 
Ref: DRN08429264included in the profit and loss accounts.  So I dont think  it would  be fair to count them twice. 
For these reasons, I take the reduction  in net profit  as the starting point, which is £7,214.
Mr C thinks this doesnt give the full picture. He says his business was growing and he would 
have expected his income  to go up. The accountant  agrees with this and estimates that he 
expected turnover to increase by 15%.
Ive also considered the further information he has provided.  He mentions two key points  
the accountants estimate doesnt take account  of the reduction in his savings  or the fact he 
had to borrow from his parents.
Mr C has provided bank  statements to illustrate  what happened to his finances. These show 
that in the months leading up to June  2017 his income was indeed  increasing. This supports 
what he says about expecting turnover to increase.
At 1 June  2017  the balance in Mr Cs account was around £16,000.  By late August this had 
dropped to around £9,000  and it stayed at around that level for the rest of 2017. In March  
2018 it was  as Mr C has said  just a few hundred pounds, but has since increased  to 
around £10,000.
There seems  little doubt this matter  had a severe impact on Mr Cs finances and his bank 
accounts show this. Its difficult to calculate  the loss. Although Mr C says the evidence from 
his accountants  doesnt give the full picture,  I cant see that the other evidence hes provided 
shows additional loss; rather, it adds to the picture of a lengthy period of reduced income.  As 
Mr C himself has said, trying to give an accurate  figure  for his overall financial position 
involves some conjecture.
For these reasons my judgment is that the loss should be based on the reduction in net profit 
with an allowance  for the anticipated increase in turnover, which the accountant  has 
estimated as £5,956. And so I would put the financial  loss at £13,170. I know Mr C thinks  his 
losses are more but I dont think the evidence confirms this.
Mr C has also explained the impact the situation  had on him, and says this caused him a 
great deal of distress. He says he found himself in a seemingly impossible position; G 
wouldnt remove his suspension  until he had insurance in place, but he couldnt  find an 
insurer that would provide  cover while he was suspended. After  some discussions, G and an 
insurance broker sorted things out so he could get cover in place and start working again. 
This whole process  must have been very frustrating.
Mr C relies on referrals  from others for much of his work. Once it was noted that he had 
been suspended, these  referrals dried  up. And even  once his suspension was lifted and he 
was able to work again, it was difficult to get referrals. In my judgment there  was a significant  
impact on his reputation  and it has taken time to restore this.
Hes provided a note from his GP which says Mr C went to see the doctor in January 2018 
with a stress-related problem. He has since suffered panic attacks and was diagnosed as 
suffering with anxiety  and low mood, which may be due to the problems with his insurance. 
The note indicates  there were  other  factors involved,  so it wasnt  solely due to the issues  
with his insurance. But Im satisfied  this played a part.
Our investigator asked  Lloyd & Whyte  to pay compensation  of £1,000 for the harm  caused  
including damage  to his reputation, distress, embarrassment and ill health, and the trouble 
Ref: DRN08429265he was put to. Ive considered whether this is enough in light of the further information Mr C 
has provided and in my view it doesnt adequately  reflect the severe  impact  over a period of 
many months. Taking into account  all the circumstances  I think a payment of £2,500  would 
be fair.
Ive also noted  that Mr C (along with a number  of others affected) contributed to the cost of 
getting legal  advice. The compensation also takes into account  the time and expense  
involved in that.
I said I intended to uphold the complaint and direct  Lloyd & Whyte  Ltd to refund Mr Cs 
premium for the 2016-17  policy and to pay him compensation of:
£13,170 for his financial  loss; and
£2,500 for the damage to Mr Cs reputation, and the distress and inconvenience  
caused to him.
developments 
Both parties  have replied  to the provisional  decision with detailed comments. I have 
summarised some of the key points.
Mr C says:
The figure for loss of earnings has been assessed as an actual loss which  may or 
may not be fair depending on whether one is paying  or receiving, but he does not feel 
it is adequate.
The £2,500  offered  for the effect on his health is derisory.  This stress had an 
increased effect as it was on top of the stress he had already been subjected to by 
the first insurer who Lloyd and Whyte  knew  all about when they set up their policy for 
him. Whilst the earlier stress wasnt Lloyd & Whytes  fault they should still have 
provided the right insurance to make  sure he wasnt going  to suffer the same  all over 
again. 
He should  have been left in a position of being able to relax believing everything 
would at last be ok and he would not have his licence suspended.
As it stands the figure suggested  will not even  cover monies borrowed from family 
members to keep himself over the suspension and aftermath period.
Theres no mention of reimbursement for the cost of the legal advice, doctors  letter 
and accountants  report.
Lloyd & Whyte says:
When Mr C called  to obtain  insurance he did say his previous insurance wasnt 
adequate. But this was because previously  he only had public liability cover; he didnt 
have professional indemnity insurance. As a professional, it would be reasonable to 
expect Mr C to understand the difference.
Mr C only consulted it in April 2017,  so any previous policies were  sold by someone  
else.
The proposal form he completed only gave brief details of what  he did, and didnt 
fully explain the risk to be insured. 
It was aware of his occupation and provided  professional indemnity insurance  
accordingly. The issue surrounding the exclusion in cover for claims arising  out of 
failure to recognise  certain specific conditions wasnt raised until the audit by G. So 
the policy sold by Lloyd & Whyte covered Mr C for other incidents that may have 
arisen as a result of the treatment and advice provided by him. And Mr C did not 
advise at any point  that he specifically required cover for this element.
Ref: DRN08429266Although G found the policy to be inadequate, Mr C had no professional  indemnity 
insurance prior to 27 April 2017.  Even  if the policy  didnt have  the exclusion in 
question, there would have been  no cover  for any incident before that date, such  as 
the claim made against him in 2016.  If that patient hadnt made  a complaint in 2016  
its possible Mr C would have continued  practising  without professional indemnity 
cover in place. And he was initially called in front of the regulator due to the lack of 
professional indemnity  insurance. 
With regard to the loss of income  and the expected increase of 15%, Mr C himself  
has said that trying to give an accurate figure  for his overall financial position involves 
some conjecture. Its feasible the increase may have been less, or there  could in fact 
have been a reduction, so this proposed  percentage isnt accepted.
my findings
Ive summarised some  key points  above but confirm I have considered all the available 
evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. Having done so, I see no reason to change my provisional  decision. Ill explain 
why.
Even if Mr C didnt  make it clear exactly what he wanted, there  was some onus on Lloyd & 
Whyte to find out and recommend a suitable  policy, and ultimately this policy wasnt suitable. 
And while Lloyd  & Whyte  may not have been  involved in selling Mr Cs previous policy, it did 
sell this one.
I think its relevant that Mr C didnt just fill in the proposal form and send it in; he called Lloyd 
& Whyte and went through the form on the phone, asking what  to put in answer to various 
questions. 
Lloyd & Whyte point  out that Mr C didnt have  cover in place before April 2017, and thats 
what led to his referral to G. Whilst that may be the context in which  the referral happened, 
once he realised he didnt  have the right cover, he wanted to put it in place; the whole point 
of approaching Lloyd & Whyte was to make sure he got the right cover.  And he was referred  
to Lloyd & Whyte as a specialist in this area.  Having become aware he didnt have the right 
cover in place, it was important for Mr C to resolve  this so that he could continue working. 
Even if the exclusion in question  was common, it was significant and affected whether the 
policy was suitable  for Mr C, so I think it should have been brought  to his attention.
Im satisfied that if Mr C had known the new policy wasnt suitable he wouldnt have taken it.
Regardless of the lack of cover prior to April 2017,  the hearing report makes it clear G was 
not finding facts  but looking at risk  and the relevant  consideration was the risk at that time.  
So the reason he was suspended was because  of the risk presented by the level of cover he 
had at that point   it wasnt related  to problems with his previous policy.
Mr C has questioned the amount of compensation and says it doesnt cover all his losses.  
Lloyd & Whyte on the other hand,  says the increase  in turnover wasnt definite and doesnt 
accept that figure.
As has already  been noted,  the losses are difficult to quantify with any certainty. I appreciate  
the difficulties  Mr C found himself in. I based  the figure on the evidence  available  and set out 
how I had come to that figure. Mr C has provided some further comments  from his 
accountant. Ive considered these but they dont  persuade me to change  my view. The figure 
Ref: DRN08429267I calculated was based on the loss of profit shown in his accounts, with an uplift  for the 
anticipated increase in turnover. On the information  Ive seen I still think  its a fair settlement, 
for the reasons given in the provisional  decision.  
Mr C also questions the sum of £2,500 proposed for the non-financial harm. Again, I 
appreciate how difficult  things were for him. But as I explained in the provisional decision,  
there were other factors affecting his health and not everything was related to this policy.  
And I took into account the trouble and expense he was put to (along with others)  in getting 
legal advice and his other expenses. Taking everything into account, I still consider the 
payment of £2,500 to be fair.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint  and direct  Lloyd  & Whyte Ltd to refund Mr Cs 
premium for the 2016-17  policy and to pay him compensation of:
£13,170 for his financial  loss; and
£2,500 for the damage to Mr Cs reputation, and the distress and inconvenience  
caused to him.
Lloyd & Whyte Ltd must  make these payments within 28 days  of the date on which  we tell it
Mr C accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple*.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 September 2019.
Peter Whiteley
ombudsman
* If Lloyd & Whyte  Ltd considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income  tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr C how much its taken off. It should also give Mr C a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate 
Ref: DRN0842926