K821x#15complaint
Miss D says Casheuronet  UK LLC (trading as Quick Quid)  irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about nineteen  payday  loans that Quick  Quid  provided to Miss D from July 
2009 onwards.  Miss Ds last loan was provided in May 2016.
Our adjudicator partially upheld Miss Ds complaint  and thought  the complaint about loans 
three to six, loan eight  and loans eleven to nineteen should be upheld. 
Quick Quid disagreed so the complaint was passed  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Quick Quid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss D 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Quick Quid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Bearing in mind Quick  Quids response to our adjudicators  assessment, I think that it is 
important for me to start by saying that Quick  Quid was required to establish  whether Miss D 
could repay  her loans  in a sustainable  manner  not just whether the loan payments  were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Ref: DRN05052772Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. 
This is because the rules  and guidance  in place at the relevant times define a sustainable  
manner as being without undue difficulties  and in particular without incurring or increasing 
problem indebtedness, over the life of the credit agreement and out of income  and/or 
available savings. So it follows  that if a lender realises, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to 
realise, that a borrower is unlikely to be able be able to make their repayments in a 
sustainable manner  if they have a history of failing to settle  loans over the life of the credit 
agreement. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ds complaint.
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate  check for loan eight would most likely have 
shown that:
the loan repayment required represented  a significant proportion  of Miss Ds income. 
In these circumstances, there  was a significant risk that Miss D wouldnt have been 
able to repay this loan without undue difficulty or borrowing further.
Having looked  at the overall pattern of Quick Quids lending history with Miss D, I think that 
there were two instances where Quick Quid  should  reasonably have seen that Miss D was 
unlikely to have  been able to make her loan repayments  in a sustainable manner. I think  that 
it should have  realised this was the case by the time it provided  loan three and by the time it 
provided loan eleven. I say this because:
by the time of loan three, Miss D had owed Quick Quid  money  for a period of 
approaching eight months.  There were a number of deferrals on loans  one and two. 
And loan three was for a similar amount to what Miss Ds actions appear to suggest  
that she was finding  difficult to repay. In my view, Miss D owing Quick Quid  money  
for this period  of time, in these circumstances, was in itself a clear demonstration of 
Miss Ds inability to settle her loans over the life of the credit agreement.  
I think that a similar  pattern had emerged  by the time of loan eleven. By this stage, 
Miss D had owed Quick Quid money for eleven  months. And there were also late 
fees and deferrals on previous loans. Miss D borrowing more than she borrowed for 
loan ten also suggests that she was borrowing further because she had difficulty 
repaying.  
Miss D was given loans for periods  that cannot reasonably be described  as short-
term. And, in my view,  Miss D paid large  amounts  of interest to, in effect,  service  an 
increasing debt to Quick Quid over an extended period.
I think that Miss D lost out because Quick Quid loans three to six, loan eight and loans 
eleven to nineteen because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Ds indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive  credit intended for short-term  use over an extended period of 
time.
Ref: DRN05052773the number  of deferrals and the extended  period of time she owed Quick  Quid  money 
was likely to have  had negative  implications on Miss Ds ability to access mainstream  
credit and so kept her in the market  for these  high-cost loans.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans three to six, loan eight and loans eleven to 
nineteen and Quick Quid should put things right.
putting things right  what Quick Quid  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Miss D paid on loans three to six, loan eight and loans 
eleven to nineteen;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
the period  of time Miss D owed Quick Quid money means  that any information still 
recorded about the upheld loans is adverse. So all entries about loans three to six, 
loan eight and loans eleven to nineteen should  be removed from Miss Ds credit  file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Quick Quid to take off tax from this interest. Quick Quid 
must give Miss D a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Miss Ds complaint. Casheuronet UK 
LLC (trading as Quick  Quid) should pay Miss D compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 July 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0505277