K822xcomplaint
Mr M and Miss C say Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold  them  a mortgage  
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
In 2003, Halifax  sold Mr M and Miss C a monthly premium PPI policy  to protect their joint 
mortgage repayments if either of them was unable to work because  of disability or 
unemployment. It was sold as part of a package  called  a Total Mortgage  Protection Plan 
(TMPP).
This complaints about the sale of the PPI and not the other elements, such  as life and 
critical illness cover, which could be included in the TMPP package.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr M and Miss C disagreed, so 
the complaint  was passed to me to review  afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve  set out our general approach  to complaints 
about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr M and 
Miss Cs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
There are gaps in the information thats still available  from the time of the sale,  which  isnt 
surprising given how long ago that was. So Ive reached my decision on the balance  of the 
remaining evidence. Ive carefully considered Mr M and Miss Cs argument  that they wanted 
life cover and werent told PPI had been  added. But, while theres nothing to conclusively  
show Mr M and Miss C were told about the PPI or had agreed to take it out, from experience 
of Halifaxs sales processes then, I dont  think  its likely that it would have  added  this cover  
without telling them about it and getting  their agreement to buy it.
I think that Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr M and Miss C. That meant Halifax needed  to 
take steps to ensure its advice was right for them. Regardless of what  steps it took, I think  
the PPI it recommended  was right for them in any case. 
For example, from what Mr M and Miss C have told us about  their circumstances, they were 
eligible for the cover and I cant see that Mr M and Miss C would have found the monthly 
premium unaffordable.  
I dont believe Mr M and Miss C were affected  by any of the main things the policy  excluded  
or limited cover for either. I realise  theyve mentioned they had pre-existing medical  
conditions they couldnt have claimed for. But the policy terms explain that disability claims 
can be made for pre-existing medical  conditions where  as Halifax  accept was the case  
here  the PPI was applied for with a mortgage (or within three  months of mortgage  
completion).
It seems  as though Mr M and Miss C were both entitled to enhanced sick pay for a time,  and 
redundancy pay, from their respective employers. But the PPI benefits were considerable 
Ref: DRN06656272and potentially paid out for up to 24 months for each successful disability and unemployment 
claim. They would have allowed Mr M and Miss C to either retain the savings theyd built up 
or use them towards their other living costs if either of them  wasnt  working. Considering  
Mr M and Miss C had entered into a long-term financial commitment that was secured 
against their home, I think theyd  have valued the extra security the PPI provided. 
Halifax also needed to give Mr M and Miss C enough information about the PPI to allow  
them to decide  for themselves if it was right for them. I think its possible that the information 
it gave them  for example, about  how much  the PPI cost  could have been better than it 
was. But, for much  the same reasons that I dont  think  the PPI was unsuitable for them, I 
dont think that better  information would have changed their decision to take it. I think  they 
would still have thought it gave them a useful benefit  at an affordable cost.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr M and Miss C paid for it. But Halifax  has already offered to give Mr M and Miss C back 
some of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Halifax will make arrangements  to make payment now Ive issued my final decision, if it 
hasnt already done so. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M and Miss C 
to accept or reject my decision before 2 February 2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0665627