K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C say Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold them  mortgage  payment protection  
insurance (PPI).
background
Mr and Mrs C took out a mortgage in 1995 and a further advance in 1998. Mr and Mrs C 
took the MPPI in 1995 and it was increased in 1998  to take account of the additional 
borrowing. Mr and Mrs C paid a monthly amount for the policy. The PPI was in Mr Cs sole 
name. 
Our adjudicator didn't uphold  the complaint. Mr and Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Cs case.
After doing so, Ive decided  not to uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.  Ill explain why. 
Lloyds has only been able to give me limited paperwork, which  isnt surprising considering  
the length of time since the sales and businesses arent required to keep records  indefinitely.  
But I do have a copy of the 1995 mortgage  application. It is a poor quality copy  but I can see 
it has been completed by hand and signed by Mr and Mrs C. 
Section 12 of the application is entitled MortgageSure and it asks whether the cover  was 
needed. And the yes box has been  ticked and 100% for the benefit of Mr C. This is 
followed by some questions about  the potential policyholders employment and health,  and 
the relevant tick boxes  have been completed in response. 
This would suggest  there was some discussion  in order to establish who, out of both          
Mr and Mrs C, needed the cover, and the benefit. I see from the application form that Mrs C 
wasnt working. Mr C was the sole income earner so it would seem  logical the MortgageSure 
was taken to cover  him. I think this shows Lloyds made Mr and Mrs C aware that they had a 
choice about buying the MPPI and that they chose to take it, but in the name of Mr C only.
I dont have a copy of the application for the 1998.  As I dont have anything more, and Im 
satisfied it was made clear in 1995 that Mr and Mrs C had a choice about taking the policy,  
there isnt enough  information for me to conclude that their choice wasnt similarly made  
clear in 1998.
Lloyds said it recommended the MPPI to Mr and Mrs C, and it seems  to have been right for 
Mr C based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time of both of the sales. He hasnt 
told us his circumstances changed between the two dates. 
Mr C has said he was self-employed and because of that the MPPI wasnt  right for him. But 
Ive reviewed the terms and conditions Lloyds  has been able to give us which are dated 
Ref: DRN047645421998. There isnt a policy document available from 1995 but I think its more  likely they didn't 
vary much from the later terms. And I see the terms for a self-employed person  to be able to 
make a claim were no more difficult than for an employed person. So I dont agree Mr Cs 
self-employed status would have affected his ability to benefit  from the policy.   
The MPPI would have paid out for up to 12 months  if Mr C wasnt  working  and had made a 
successful claim. And as he was the sole income earner I think the policy would have  been  a 
great benefit to Mr and Mrs C if he wasnt able to work. A mortgage is a large  and long-term 
financial commitment and the penalty  for householders not keeping  up with the mortgage  
repayments is significant  even as severe as losing their home. 
Ive seen a copy  of the mortgage offer document from 1995  and it shows  the costs of the 
policy. But I appreciate  this would have been sent out after the meeting and Mr and Mrs C 
may think Lloyds could have explained the cost of the policy better than it did. But even  if it 
had, I think Mr and Mrs C would still have bought it as they would have benefitted from the 
policy if Mr C had made a successful claim. 
Its possible Lloyds didnt  point out the main things the policies didnt cover  a pre-existing 
medical condition  as an example. But Mr C doesnt  appear to have been affected  by any of 
those things. So I dont  think  it would have made a difference to their decision to take the 
cover.
Ive taken into account Mr and Mrs Cs comments, including what  theyve said about  Mr C 
being self employed and not being given  comprehensive information  about the PPI. But 
because of what Ive said, these points dont change  my conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 October  2019
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0476454