K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains that Yes Lease Limited wont  return the documentation fee it charged him 
when he cancelled an order for a car. He also complained that Yes Lease  sought to charge 
him a cancellation fee. The two fees together total £900, including VAT.  
background
I set out the background  to this complaint in my provisional decision, the text of which  Ive 
attached to  and which forms part of  this document. I concluded, provisionally, that Yes 
Lease should refund the documentation fee and waive the cancellation  fee. In addition,  it 
should pay interest on the documentation fee and pay Mr R a further £200 in recognition  of 
the inconvenience to which hed been put.  
Mr R accepted my provisional  findings.  Yes Lease  said in response  to it that it would  agree  
to waive  the cancellation fee, but that it wouldnt refund the documentation  fee. It said that its 
own agreement was separate from any agreement  with VW Finance, for which it acted  as 
broker, and that the documentation fee was a reflection of the work it had done to set up the 
finance. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I havent, however, changed my view 
from that which I reached in my provisional decision. 
I do understand Yes Leases  argument  here.  Its own agreement with Mr R was separate 
from his prospective agreement with VW Finance  and from any arrangements between  
those two businesses.  And of course  Yes Lease will have incurred costs in drawing  up that 
document. Its agreement  with Mr R was, however,  a linked  transaction  within  the meaning 
of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974  for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision.
The effect of the relevant provisions of the Act  again, which I set out in my provisional 
decision  is that fees paid should be returned if the agreement is cancelled. And Im 
required, in deciding whats fair and reasonable, to have regard to any relevant law. 
Relevant law here includes the Consumer Credit  Act 1974.  
The Act was designed to a large  extent  to protect  and extend the rights of consumers such  
as Mr R, and so I would be reluctant to conclude that applying  its provisions would result  in 
an outcome that, overall, is unfair. For these reasons, I havent altered my view from that set 
out in my provisional  decision.    
Ref: DRN04911882my final decision
My final decision is therefore  that, to resolve  Mr Rs complaint, Yes Lease Limited should:
      confirm  to Mr R in writing that it will not seek payment of any cancellation charge;
      refund the documentation fee of £300 (that is, £250  plus VAT), together with interest at 
8% simple from the date of payment to the date of the refund; and
      pay Mr R a further £200  in recognition  of the inconvenience to which  hes been put.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 January 2020.
 
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN04911883provisional decision 
complaint
Mr R arranged for the lease of a car through  Yes Lease Limited. Delivery of the vehicle was,
however, delayed, and Mr R cancelled his order. Hes complained that Yes Lease  wont
return the documentation fee of £250 plus VAT and is seeking to charge a cancellation  fee of
£500 plus VAT  £900 in total.
background
Mr R placed an order with Yes Lease for a new car on 31 January 2018.  Because  the car
was new, it wasnt immediately available but had to be finished  to his specification  and
shipped from the factory.
The purchase order recorded that Mr R would take the car on contract hire for 24 months.  It
included information  about the initial and monthly rental, annual mileage allowance, excess
mileage charges and that Mr R had paid a documentation fee. It also said:
Document fee/deposits  are non-refundable. Cancellation charges may occur
and:
With all orders  a deposit may be required,  you will be advised of the amount  at the point
of order. Once your order has been accepted  any cancelation by you will result in the
loss of your deposit/fees  and will incur additional  charges from Yes Lease  of £500 +
VAT
The purchase order made clear that Yes Lease acted as a credit  broker,  not a lender.
The purchase order didnt  include a guaranteed or even estimated delivery date, but Yes
Lease says it indicated in early February  that it expected Mr Rs car to be delivered  on or
about 6 April. The manufacturer, however, identified an issue  with an element of the cars
electrical system that needed  to be fixed. It seems this was a wider  issue with the model, not
confined to Mr Rs car. Yes Lease  indicated that this would mean a delay, but that the car 
could be delivered  by mid-May. This delay was potentially a problem for Mr R, since  he
needed a car, but his existing contract was coming to an end.
Mr R however remained hopeful that the car would  be delivered in time and signed a hire
agreement with VW Finance, reflecting the terms outlined in the purchase order.
When the car hadnt been delivered by 9 May, however, Mr R cancelled his order.  It appears
the car could  have  been delivered shortly after that, but by then Mr R had taken a car from a
different supplier so was not in a position  to take delivery of the vehicle hed ordered through
Yes Lease.
Mr R received back the initial rental that hed paid,  but Yes Lease said that he wasnt entitled
to have the documentation  fee returned  and that hed have to pay the £500  plus VAT
cancellation fee as well. It said those fees  and the fact that they were not refundable 
were set out clearly in the purchase order Mr R had signed in January.
Mr R referred  the case to this service  and one of our investigators considered it. She
concluded that the terms of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (and in particular section 57)
meant that Yes Lease should treat the purchase order  as if it had never  been  entered  into.
The maximum it could charge was £5. She recommended that Yes Lease refund  the
Ref: DRN04911884documentation fee (less £5) and not charge  the cancellation fee. She said Yes Lease  should
also add interest at 8% a year simple on the refund.
Yes Lease  didnt accept that recommendation and asked that an ombudsman  review the
case. It said that Mr R had broken its contract by cancelling outside the 14-day cooling-off
period. Its terms were,  it said, clear  that the documentation fee could not be refunded and
that a cancellation fee would apply.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As Ive indicated,  however, this is my
provisional decision only  so either  party can respond to it before I reach any final
conclusions.
Ill deal first of all with the purchase order, albeit fairly briefly. In my view it said clearly  that
the documentation fee wasnt  refundable and that a cancellation fee would be payable  
unless cancellation  was because prices had changed, which doesnt apply here.
But I agree  with the investigator that the effect of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 is to limit the
charges that Yes Lease  can apply in this case.  Section 173 of the Act says that a term in a
regulated agreement or linked transaction is void to the extent that its inconsistent with a
provision in the Act for the protection of the hirer. In other words, where the Act is
inconsistent with the hire agreement  or any linked  transaction, the provision thats  better for
Mr R takes precedence.
Section 57(1) of the Act says:
The withdrawal of a party from a prospective  regulated agreement shall operate  to apply
this Part to the agreement, any linked transaction and any other  thing done  in
anticipation of the making  of the agreement as it would apply if the agreement were  made  
and then cancelled  under section 69.
The hire agreement that Mr R signed with VW Finance was, in my view, a prospective
regulated agreement. VW Finance has said that was its understanding too. It set out the
terms on which VW Finance would have  leased the car to Mr R, had he taken delivery of it.
It was a regulated  agreement  that is, one covered  by the Act. The purchase order wasnt
itself a regulated  agreement, so I need  to consider whether it was a linked transaction
within the meaning of the Act. The definition  of linked transaction is at section 19. It says, at
subsection (1):
A transaction entered into by the hirer with any other  person  (the other party) is a
linked transaction  in relation to an actual or prospective regulated agreement (the
principal agreement) of which it does  not form part if 

(c) the other  party is a person mentioned in subsection (2), and a person so mentioned
initiated the transaction by suggesting  it to the debtor or hirer  who enters  into it 
(i) to induce the creditor or owner  to enter into the principal  agreement,  or
(ii) for another purpose related to the principal agreement, or
(iii) where the principal agreement is a restricted-use  credit agreement, for a purpose
related to a transaction financed, or to be financed, by the principal agreement.
Ref: DRN04911885The parties mentioned  in subsection (2) include:
(b) a person who, in the negotiation of the transaction, is represented by a credit-broker
who is also a negotiator in antecedent negotiations for the principal  agreement;
(c) a person who, at the time the transaction is initiated, knows that the principal
agreement has been made or contemplates that it might be made.
The principal  agreement  here was the prospective hire agreement  made  between  Mr R and
VW Finance.  That was a restricted-use agreement,  in that it was for the lease of specific
goods  the vehicle. The purchase agreement was therefore entered into for purposes
related to the principal hire agreement and fell within section  19(1)(c)(i) and (ii). I take the
view as well that Yes Lease contemplated at the time of the purchase order that the
agreement with VW Finance might be made. Thats  shown by the fact that the main terms of
the hire agreement were  included in the purchase  order.
I believe therefore that the purchase order was a linked transaction. It follows that Mr Rs
cancellation rights  in respect of that agreement  were no different from those  in respect of the
hire agreement. The hire agreement  was cancelled before activation, and VW Finance said it
refunded the initial rental payment (which was later returned to Mr R). So it appears  that VW
Finance accepted that the hire agreement was validly cancelled.
Section 69 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  says that a valid notice of cancellation  operates
to cancel both the regulated agreement and any linked transaction. As Ive explained, I think
the purchase order was a linked transaction. And section 70(1) says:
On the cancellation of a regulated agreement,  and of any linked transaction, 
(a) any sum paid by the debtor or hirer, or his relative, under or in contemplation of the
agreement or transaction, including any item in the total charge for credit, shall become
repayable, and
(b) any sum, including any item in the total charge  for credit,  which but for the
cancellation is, or would or might become, payable by the debtor or hirer,  or his relative,
under the agreement or transaction shall cease to be, or shall not become, so
payable
Since the purchase order was cancelled along  with the hire agreement,  it follows  that Yes
Lease wasnt entitled to charge the cancellation fee and had to refund the documentation
fee. The investigator said that Yes Lease  could charge up to £5. But that figure is referred to
in subsection (7) of section 70 and relates to the total charge for credit, where  that includes a
fee or commission charged  by a credit broker.  None  of Yes Leases fees were however
expressed in that way, and so I take the view that Mr R is entitled to a full refund.
For these reasons, I largely  agree with the investigators overall conclusions. I do consider in
addition though that this matter has caused  Mr R unnecessary inconvenience for which he
should receive some further compensation, and so I propose  to include a further payment of
£200 in my award.
my provisional decision
My provisional decision is therefore  that, to resolve this complaint, Yes Lease Limited
should:
confirm to Mr R in writing that it will not seek payment of any cancellation charge;
Ref: DRN04911886refund the documentation fee of £300 (that is, £250 plus VAT), together  with interest at 
8% simple from the date of payment to the date of the refund; and
pay Mr R a further £200 in recognition of the inconvenience to which  hes been put.
Ref: DRN0491188