K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Tesco Personal Finance  PLC, trading as Tesco Bank, should reduce his 
annual threshold  spend following the closure  of Tesco  Direct  so he can qualify for a 5,000  
bonus Clubcard  point incentive.
background
In November 2017, Mr S opened a premium credit  card with Tesco  Bank and, for an annual 
fee, he receives benefits. Those benefits include worldwide annual  family  travel insurance, 
preferential rates on foreign currency, double Clubcard points and the ability  to earn 5,000  
bonus Clubcard  points if he spends £5,000 with Tesco  within a 12 month  period.  Mr S said 
the 5,000 bonus point  incentive was the main reason he opened his account.
In July 2018, Tesco Direct ceased trading. Mr S thought this would restrict his ability to 
qualify for the 5,000 Clubcard point bonus because he said he wouldnt be able to buy 
higher value items, which had been available at Tesco Direct. He wasnt happy  with this and 
complained to Tesco Bank. He said it should  reduce the annual  spend threshold and either 
refund all or part of his credit cards annual fee or award Clubcard points to offset  it in the 
alternative. But Tesco Bank didnt agree and said it wasnt responsible for closing 
Tesco Direct. It also said, based on Mr S spending, hed have been unlikely to reach the 
required annual spend threshold to qualify  for the 5,000 Clubcard point reward.
So, Mr S brought  his complaint to us. Our adjudicator looked into this and, while  they 
empathised with Mr S, didnt think that Tesco Bank had done anything  wrong  or needed  to 
do anything more here. But Mr S disagreed and asked for his complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  While I sympathise with Mr S, having 
considered everything  that he and Tesco Bank have said, Ive reached the same conclusion  
as the adjudicator for broadly the same reasons. I understand that Mr S will be disappointed 
with my conclusions so Ill explain why I dont uphold  this complaint.
I think its important to say at the outset that the decision to close Tesco Direct is a business 
decision that was made  by Tesco  Plc. It wasnt a decision that Tesco  Bank, who this 
complaint is against,  had any involvement with. So it wouldnt be fair for me to hold it 
responsible for that decision here.
Ive seen the terms and conditions  for Mr S credit  card account and they clearly outline the 
benefits that come with the account.  Mr S wouldve had to accept these to proceed with his 
application before  opening his credit card account. So I think Tesco Bank  explained clearly 
what benefits were included with this account.  Mr S doesnt accept  Tesco Banks comments 
that the annual fee mainly covers the cost of travel insurance. But while  I think  the annual 
fee was correctly charged here,  as our adjudicator said, the cost for each benefit  was a 
commercial matter for Tesco Bank to calculate and to explain to Mr S  which  Im satisfied it 
did here.
These terms and conditions say account  benefits are subject to change. But theres  been  no 
change to the benefits the card offers. I say this because the 5,000 Clubcard point reward  
Ref: DRN09570442remains available to Mr S provided  he spends £5,000 with Tesco within  12 months  of 
opening his account.
I accept the main reason Mr S opened  the credit  card account was to take advantage of the 
reward points. And I can understand hes disappointed with the closure  of Tesco  Direct 
because he believes this has restricted his ability  to reach the £5,000 threshold spend 
needed to earn the 5,000 Clubcard point reward. But Tesco  Bank says many  of the larger  
items Mr S couldve bought at Tesco Direct  can be bought  in store.  Tesco Bank has also told 
us that he can also use his card to earn points in a wide variety of other  Tesco outlets. So 
the closure of Tesco Direct doesnt seem  to prevent Mr S from continuing to earn points he 
can use elsewhere.
Mr S is unhappy Tesco  Bank analysed his spending  history because he says it didnt know 
what he may have intended to buy from Tesco  Direct.  But I think  it was reasonable for it do 
so in order to fully consider the complaint he raised. I also think  its comments  were fair here 
because its likely, on balance, that even if Tesco Direct hadnt closed Mr S wouldnt have 
spent enough  to reach the £5,000 threshold  spend  to qualify for the 5,000 Clubcard points 
reward. I say this because  Ive also seen a record of what Mr S was spending per month. 
Tesco Direct ceased trading in July 2018 and, one month later,  Mr S had spent just over 
£2,000 on his credit card.  So, this meant that to meet the required threshold  spend, Mr S 
wouldve needed to spend almost £3,000 more between then and November 2018. Given  
his spending pattern,  I can understand why Tesco didnt  think this was likely.
I understand Mr S feels very strongly about  the issues  raised  in this complaint and Ive 
carefully considered  everything hes said. But as the adjudicator has explained, were not the 
regulator of banks. So, we cant tell Tesco Bank to reduce the annual threshold spend  
needed for Mr S to qualify for the 5,000 Clubcard point reward, refund  all or part of the 
annual fee paid or award Clubcard points  to offset this in the alternative. It follows  that Im 
not going to ask it to do anymore here.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2019.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0957044