K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained about CIS General Insurance Limiteds (CIS)  handling of his car
insurance policy.
Reference to CIS includes their agents.
background
Mr B has had his car insured with CIS for a number of years. His insurance was arranged  by 
an insurance broker. The broker  also administered the policy. There is a separate  complaint 
against the broker which has been dealt  with under a different reference number. So this 
decision is limited to the issues relating to CIS, the insurer.
Mr B said that on 9 February  2016, he was involved in a very minor accident with another 
car. He said that he was reversing while in a car park when he bumped into another car that 
was also reversing. He said the other car drove off without exchanging details. Mr B called 
his broker to report the incident a week later on 16 February 2016. He said during that call 
that both he and the other driver were equally to blame for the accident and that his car only 
suffered a very small scratch which he didnt want to claim for. He said the main reason for 
his call was to alert the broker that he had received a call from a claims company, who he 
believed were fraudsters,  encouraging him to make  a claim.
He agreed to the accident being recorded  as a notification only  and he said he would not 
claim for the damage to his car. The broker advised  Mr B to also report  the incident  to CIS 
so that they too were aware  of it. Mr B agreed to do that and the broker  put him through to 
CIS during the same call. CIS recorded the accident as notification only on a shared 
insurance database called The Claims and Underwriting  Exchange (CUE). CUE keeps 
information about policyholders insurance  histories. And most of the insurance industry has 
access to that information.
A day later, on 17 February 2016, CIS approved repairer contacted  Mr B to discuss  the 
damage to his car and possible repair. But Mr B told them that he didnt make a claim and 
didnt agree to his car being taken to the approved  repairers garage.
Mr B complained to CIS in 2018  when he received his renewal quote.  He wasnt happy  that 
his premium had increased and that the 2016  accident appeared in his policy documentation 
under claims or accidents and that there  was a suggestion that his car was damaged. 
The February 2016 accident had appeared in all of Mr Bs policy renewals since  the accident 
and he said that he was promised by the broker in 2017 that it would be removed, but it 
hadnt.
Mr B said that when he reported  the matter in February 2016, he did so only to alert CIS and 
the broker of the possible  fraud and not to make a claim. He said he has been unfairly 
penalised by having the incident wrongly recorded  against his record  as a claim and 
accident that resulted in damage.
Mr Bs complaint also included the following:
That CIS breached  confidentiality by speaking with their approved  repairer about 
Mr Bs car during which details of his policy  would have  been discussed.
Ref: DRN03189132His premium  went up by around £50, probably because accidents  were wrongly 
recorded against his record.
When he received his 2018 renewal, he asked  if some  of the insured items could  be 
altered. For example,  European cover was included in his policy  but as Mr B doesnt  
intend to drive in Europe he wanted  that removed. He also wanted the personal 
accident cover under  his policy increased above the £10,000 policy  limit.
CIS didnt  uphold Mr Bs complaint. Mr B then brought  his complaint to our service. One of 
our adjudicators looked into it. He felt that CIS hadnt done anything wrong. As Mr B didnt 
agree with our adjudicator, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 31 July 2019. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be 
disappointing for Mr B, but Im not intending  to uphold his complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive considered all of Mr Bs points  carefully. But, in this decision, I will focus on what 
I consider to be the key issues. My role is to decide  if CIS have  dealt with Mr B in a 
fair and reasonable way.
the February 2016 incident
Mr B has told our service that no accident took place on 9 February  2016 in a car 
park. He said there was no damage  to his car and no incident requiring the exchange  
of details with a third party  or notifying  insurers.
But I have listened  to the recording of the call Mr B made on 16 February  2016.  That 
was a week after the incident when  it was still fresh in Mr Bs memory. Mr B was very 
clear during  that call that an accident did happen in a car park which resulted in a 
small scratch to his car. He also clearly  said the other driver made  off in her car in a 
hurry. He added that he was equally to blame, but made it clear  he didnt want  to 
claim. He just wanted to notify  his broker and insurer of the incident in case a 
fraudulent claim was made on his behalf for damage and/or injury.  So Im satisfied 
that Mr B was in an accident, and that his car suffered some  very slight  damage.
Its clear from what Mr B said that the accident was very minor.  But it was 
nonetheless an accident. Under  the policy, Mr B had to report any accident or 
incident involving his car that may lead to a claim.  And insurers have an obligation 
to record accurately all relevant accidents  or incidents on CUE.  There are various 
classifications for accidents. An accident  can be recorded as the policyholders  fault;  
non-fault; or notification only. In Mr Bs case,  as neither he nor the other  driver  
claimed for the accident, it was correctly  recorded as notification  only.  So I think  CIS 
acted reasonably in making the record.
Mr B is adamant that he was contacted by fraudsters encouraging him to make  a 
false claim. Whether or not that is true is, in my view, a separate  issue to the actual  
accident. According to Mr Bs original report an accident happened on 9 February 
2016 where the other driver made  off. That other  driver didnt make a claim against 
Mr Bs policy. Nor did Mr B make  a claim, so it was properly recorded  by CIS as 
notification only. If what Mr B suspects  is true, its possible a claims company or 
fraudsters found  out about the accident and they tried to benefit  from it. Or its 
Ref: DRN03189133possible they made a speculative  enquiry with Mr B as has been  common practice in 
recent years. What tends to happen  is that people are randomly called and asked if 
theyve had a recent  accident and an offer is made  to make a claim on their behalf. 
Known cases of fraud have been committed as Mr B has pointed out. When Mr B 
called in February 2016, he said when  he received  the call from the suspected 
fraudsters he initially thought it was a legitimate call from another driver so he did 
start to give his details.  Its possible the fraudsters then tried to capitalise on that.
Mr B feels  that by CIS recording the incident  on CUE and by our service saying that 
CIS didnt  do anything wrong,  both CIS and our service are endorsing  the fraudsters 
actions by giving the fraud  legitimacy.  But that is not the case. As I've said above, 
CIS quite  correctly recorded  the incident  on CUE  as notification only.  So it did 
nothing wrong  there. And, as far as Im aware, no claim  has been made by anyone, 
whether fraudulent or not. So theres been no fraud  for CIS or anyone else to give 
legitimacy to. Mr B did the right thing by complying with his policy and telling CIS of 
the incident and by alerting them to the possibility of fraud. But CIS responded to that 
in the correct manner by recording the incident as notification  only. So Im not 
intending to uphold this part of the complaint.
did CIS breach  confidentiality?
Although Mr B made  it clear in February  2016 that he didnt want  to claim for any 
damage to his car, its apparent  that CIS told their approved repairer about the matter 
who then called Mr B. CIS, like most insurers, have a number of repairers  they work 
with in repairing  policyholders vehicles following accidents. I think CIS 
misunderstood the situation and thought  Mr B wanted his car repaired following the 
minor accident, so they asked one of their authorised repairers  to get in touch with 
Mr B. When they did, Mr B told the authorised repairer that he didnt want  to take the 
matter forward and that was the end of the matter. Mr Bs policy  contains  a section 
on data protection  and explains how CIS will use his information. And I think theyve 
acted in line with the information in Mr Bs policy. So I dont think  CIS breached 
Mr Bs confidentiality or that they did anything  wrong. So Im not upholding this part of 
the complaint.
Mr Bs premium  increased
Mr B believes the increase to his premium when  his policy renewed in September 
2018 was unfair. He thinks it went up because of three wrong  accidents  recorded 
against his policy.  It might help if I explain that we're not the industry regulator. That 
means it's not my role to tell an insurer how much they can charge for their policies. 
And our service  generally takes  the view that, providing they treat people  fairly - that 
is they treat customers with similar circumstances in the same way - insurers are 
entitled to charge what they feel they need  to in order to cover a risk.
When calculating premiums, insurers take into consideration a very large  number of 
risk rating factors. In other  words, they assess the level of risk each policyholder 
poses and the likelihood of them making  a claim in the future by looking at many  
different factors. It might  help if I give just a few examples  of the hundreds  of factors 
insurers consider: the type of car insured; where  the car is kept; the policyholders  
occupation; the policyholders age; the type of licence the policyholder has; the length 
of time the car has been owned; the number of years the policyholder  has been 
driving; and past driving incidents  the policyholder has been involved  in. But its not 
Ref: DRN03189134down to me to tell insurers  what factors  they should take into account when 
assessing risk, nor how to go about those assessments. Different insurers  will have 
different views on what presents a risk and the extent of those. Thats essentially a 
matter of commercial judgement, balancing  risk against the need  to compete with 
other policies on offer,  and not something  we would usually think its fair to interfere 
with.
And one of the reasons  why different insurers charge different premiums for the 
same risk is because insurers have different views on risk. So, different insurers give 
differing levels  of importance to different factors. For example, one insurer might 
consider the insured car to be a high risk car and therefore charge a higher premium 
to reflect  that risk. But another insurer might not consider that particular car to be 
high risk, so their premium might be lower. Insurers base their views on risks using 
statistics and other data.  In Mr Bs case,  CIS have confirmed that only the February  
2016 accident was recorded against  his policy as notification only.  No other 
accidents are recorded. They have also confirmed  that his policy  was calculated 
correctly. The information I have been  provided  by CIS is commercially sensitive so I 
can't share it with Mr B. But having  looked at it carefully, Im satisfied that CIS treated 
Mr B in the same way as they would other  policyholders in similar circumstances. So 
I think they calculated  his premium reasonably. So Im not upholding this part of the 
complaint.
amending the policy  cover
I understand that when he received his 2018 renewal, Mr B asked if some of the 
insured items could  be altered. He wanted the European cover removed and for the 
personal accident cover increased above  the £10,000 policy  limit. But CIS didnt do 
that. CIS have said that some aspects  of the policy, like the European cover and the 
personal accident limit, are fixed and cannot  be amended.  Other things, such  as the 
excess limit, can be amended on request, although  it may increase  the premium.  I 
dont think it was unreasonable  for CIS to not change the policy  terms for things  that 
were standard in their policy. The renewal invitation  was sent to Mr B in advance  of 
the renewal date, so if Mr B wasnt happy  with the level of cover, he could have taken 
out cover  with another insurer. Im therefore  not intending to uphold  this part of the 
complaint.
Finally, for completeness, I understand that Mr B thinks his no claims bonus (NCB) 
years were  affected by the February  2016 accident. But that wasnt the case  and CIS 
have confirmed that as it was a notification only incident, his NCB years  werent  
reduced or stepped back.
The parties were invited to comment on my findings. CIS accepted my provisional findings. 
Mr B said he was considering withdrawing his complaint because the incident was recorded  
against his record  as notification only  and not as an accident.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my findings remain  the 
same. 
Ref: DRN03189135In response to my provisional decision,  Mr B said he no longer wished to pursue his 
complaint. So I've considered very carefully  whether  or not to close the case  without issuing 
a final decision.  But I need to be fair to both sides  and given that the matter has progressed 
this far, in order to bring it to a final conclusion, as far as the involvement of this office is 
concerned, then I think the fair and reasonable thing  to do is to issue  this final decision.  Mr B 
doesn't have to accept it but if he does  it will become binding on both parties.
I think I should clarify once again what the position  is regarding the information recorded 
against Mr Bs driving history.  Mr B told CIS that he had a minor accident  in February 2016 
where his car and another  car bumped into each other in a car park. Mr B did the right thing 
by reporting the accident as that is what  his policy says he should do. CIS, like all insurers,  
have a duty to record  accidents that their policyholders are involved in. There is a shared  
database where insurers record that information.  Most insurers have access  to that 
database and can see information relating to policyholders like Mr B. 
There are three main classifications insurers use when recording an accident:  (1) if an 
insurer pays out on a claim  made  by either  their own policyholder or by a third party and the 
insurer cant recover their costs from anyone,  then that gets recorded as a fault claim; (2) 
where a claim is made by either  the policyholder or the third party but the insurer  does 
recover the costs they have paid out, then that gets recorded as a non-fault claim; and (3) 
where an accident happens  but neither the policyholder  nor the third party  make  a claim, that 
accident would be recorded on the database as a notification only incident.  Thats  because  
the insurer has been notified  of an accident  but no claim has been made by either  the 
policyholder or the third party.
In Mr Bs case, as he was involved in a minor accident but neither he nor the other  driver  
made a claim, CIS have  correctly recorded it as notification only. While this doesnt  affect  
Mr Bs no claims  discount, it can affect his premiums going  forward because  some insurers 
consider the fact that a policyholder was involved in a minor accident increases  their risk. So 
while, as Mr B has acknowledged, it doesnt affect  his no claims discount,  the record of 
having a notification  only  incident  can be significant when taking out insurance  in the 
future.
I acknowledge that Mr B has told our service  that no accident  happened and that no injuries 
or damage  were suffered.  But as explained  above, I have listened to his call with CIS and 
when Mr B reported the incident he did say there was a minor accident and that his car 
suffered a minor scratch.  The words accident  and incident are sometimes  used 
interchangeably. But I should  make  it clear that what Mr B reported is considered to be an 
accident, even  though  it was very minor.  So even  if the record is that there was a 
notification only incident, the record will state  that there was a minor accident.
Ref: DRN03189136my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 September  2019.   
Mehmet Osman   
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0318913