K822xComplaint
Mr L has complained  about  advice he received from Portafina LLP to transfer a defined  
benefit occupational pension scheme  (OPS) he held with his former employer to a Self-
Invested Personal Pension (SIPP).  The funds within the SIPP  were then used to invest  in 
several unregulated  collective investment  schemes  (UCIS).
Background 
Mr L was introduced to Portafina in 2014 after hed been in contact with another  business, 
from here on referred to as Firm C. At the time, Firm C was an appointed  representative  
(AR) of a regulated  business, Firm S. Firm S was authorised by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) to provide investment advice, but neither it, nor Firm C were  permitted to 
provide pension transfer advice. 
Following conversations with Mr L, including a call on 19 May 2014, Portafina  produced  a 
suitability report setting  out its advice. The report noted that Mr L was 56 years old, 
employed and earning approximately £10,000  a year.  He was separated and had two 
teenage children.  It noted Mr L owned  his own home, with an outstanding mortgage of 
£7,000 with two years remaining. He was in good health and believed  he was likely to retire  
at age 65. Mr L had no savings or investments and had an outstanding credit card balance 
of £1,600.
The report  noted  the following about  Mr Ls OPS:
His preserved local government pension was projected to pay an income  of £8,421  
per annum from age 60, if the maximum  level of tax-free cash  (TFC) of £56,137 was 
selected.
The scheme offered  a lump sum on death of £49,183 and a spouses  pension worth 
48.4% of Mr Ls pension entitlement.
The cash  equivalent transfer value (CETV) was £193,935.
The suitability report noted Mr Ls Main  Stated Objectives were to access his TFC and pay 
off his mortgage and loan;  to purchase  a car; to create an emergency  fund and leave  money 
for his children.  It was also noted Mr L required greater flexibility and enhanced death  
benefits.
It further notes that drawing income flexibly from age 55 onwards was important and 
maximising TFC from this age was a significant  benefit. Having discussed the pros and cons 
of annuities, income drawdown  and his OPS, Mr L felt that being  able to draw a higher 
pension via income drawdown was better  value  for money. Death  benefits  were explored 
and discussed,  including  the ability to protect Mr Ls dependant from a reduced pension if he 
predeceased her during retirement. It was noted Mr Ls view was that a flexible pension  
which could meet his changing needs  and circumstances  in the future was more  desirable 
than the OPSs inflexible benefits.  However, he didnt want to lose significant pension 
benefits to achieve this flexibility; he was only prepared  to suffer a potential pension  
reduction of up to 30%. Mr L agreed  it was sensible  to assume hed use the income 
drawdown option and said he preferred ownership and control  over his pension benefits.
Mr Ls risk profile suggested  he had a balanced attitude to risk (ATR). Based on this risk 
classification, Portafina estimated a personal pension  would grow at a rate of 6.13%,  not 
including advice and plan charges. It said the required  growth rate (critical yield) needed for 
Ref: DRN04249412a new personal  pension plan (PPP) to match the benefits Mr L was entitled to through  his 
OPS was 20.5%.  But if Mr L used  income drawdown to access  benefits, instead  of 
purchasing an annuity,  then over his lifetime the investment return  needed  to match  his OPS 
was 6.65% per year.
Although Portafina  wasnt  providing advice regarding where Mr Ls fund would  be invested 
after a transfer   this would be given  by Firm C  it set out the asset  allocation  it considered  
would be in line with Mr Ls risk profile.
Portafina recommended that Mr L transfer  his OPS to a SIPP  as it met his primary objectives 
of providing access to his TFC, flexibility, greater control and enhanced  death benefits. The 
recommended SIPP  was established  in October  2014, to which Mr Ls CETV was 
transferred over. The servicing rights  for the SIPP were later transferred over to Firm C, who 
invested Mr Ls SIPP fund as follows:
UCIS
Brisa Investments  £9,300
Biomass Investments  £14,300  
UK Strategic  Residential  £9,300
Lakeview UK Holdings   £14,300
Real Estate Investments USA plc  £14,400  
£12,000 was left as cash and the remaining funds, almost 50% of the value, were invested  
across 18 regulated funds.
In April 2018, with the assistance of a CMC,  Mr L complained to Portafina about the advice 
he received to transfer. He said the advice  was negligent and unsuitable for someone with 
no investment experience, a low ATR and low capacity  for loss. He also considered that 
many of the subsequent investments were high risk and illiquid  and not suitable for him. As 
Portafina didnt  respond to his complaint, Mr L referred his complaint to our service.
An investigator considered the matter and concluded that Mr Ls complaint should be 
upheld. He didnt  think Portafinas advice was suitable. In summary  his view said:
The critical yield required to match Mr Ls OPS benefits was unlikely to be achieved.
The investments  within the SIPP werent suitable  for an inexperienced investor so 
close to retirement and didnt match his ATR.
UCIS funds should be restricted to between 3-5%  of a portfolio and Portafina  should 
have been aware a significant amount of Mr Ls pension would be invested in them.
As Portafina had a close working relationship with Firm C he could see no reason 
why the underlying investments werent  considered as part of the recommendation.
The recommendation to transfer  wasnt in Mr Ls best interests, as he had little spare 
cash and had the option to retire in four years on a full pension.
There was little exploration of alternatives, such as switching  his credit card or 
mortgage debt to alternative  providers with lower rates.
There was no need for Mr L to transfer to repay his debts as he could have taken his 
TFC in four years  which wouldve covered the amounts,  with plenty to spare. 
Portafina disagreed  with the investigators findings  and in summary said:
Mr Ls preferred retirement age was 65. The drawdown option gave him the flexibility  
to retire later than the scheme normal retirement  age of 60.
Ref: DRN04249413The spouses death benefit  wasnt important,  as he was separated and preferred  
leaving the full benefit to his children in the event of his death.
Other options were  discussed, but Mr L had no other assets available  to reduce his 
debt and didnt  want to add to it or continue to pay interest. The only way to achieve 
his objectives  was to release funds from his pension.
As Mr L intended to take funds via drawdown  and not an annuity, his investment 
timeframe was 30 years.
It was Firm Cs responsibility to provide Mr L with investment advice.
It had considered what it believed would be the likely investment strategy  post-
transfer in its report and understood this was the likely allocation  that Firm C would 
recommend too.
Portafina also provided a copy of a recording of a call it had with Mr L in May 2014,  which  it 
believed supported its position.
The investigator considered Portafinas  response and the content  of the call recording, but 
his opinion remained the same. As no agreement  could be reached, the case  was passed to 
me for a final decision.
The redress  methodology the investigator outlined in his opinion  of 26 September  2019 was 
later updated. The parties  were  notified of this on 10 February  2021.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I think  the complaint 
should be upheld.  Ill explain  why.
Portafina advised Mr L to transfer  his OPS to a SIPP but says it didnt provide any 
recommendation regarding the investments held within the SIPP as Firm C was meant to 
provide this. Although the intention was for another regulated firm to advise on and arrange 
Mr Ls underlying SIPP  investments,  I dont think that meant Portafinas responsibilities 
ended once the SIPP was set up, the funds  transferred, and the money then made available  
for investment. I believe that as Mr Ls financial adviser, Portafina still had a duty to ensure 
the overall transaction was suitable,  notwithstanding that another regulated firm was going to 
be involved. 
Suitable advice  couldnt,  in my view, be given without thinking  about the intended  
investment. Portafina  appeared  to recognise this in its suitability report when, despite saying 
Firm C would  provide specific investment advice, it set out recommendations for the fund 
asset classes Mr L should invest in and to what extent. The recommendations made  up a 
model portfolio  for a balanced investor, which Portafina satisfied itself Mr L was. And its 
partly on the basis that Mr L invested in line with a suitable model portfolio and achieved the 
relevant targeted returns that Portafina concluded transferring could increase his overall 
pension benefits  and therefore be worthwhile.
The regulators position
Having thought carefully about what happened  here, I dont think Portafinas  advice to 
transfer was suitable. And I dont think it was right to try to limit its advice in the way it sought 
to. At the time of the advice the regulator  had made its view clear  that it considered in order 
Ref: DRN04249414to suitably advise  on pension transfers, a firm needed to consider the suitability of the 
underlying investments to be held in it. 
The regulators position  was evident  in its 2013 alert where it said:
Financial advisers  () are under the mistaken impression () they do not have to consider 
the unregulated  investment as part of their advice to invest  in the SIPP and that they only 
need to consider the suitability of the SIPP in the abstract. This is incorrect. 
The [regulators] view is that the provision of suitable advice generally requires consideration 
of the other investments  held by the customer or, when advice is given on a product which is 
a vehicle for investment in other products (such as SIPPs and other  wrappers), 
consideration of the suitability of the overall proposition,  that is, the wrapper and the 
expected underlying investments in unregulated  schemes. It should  be particularly clear  to 
financial advisers that, where a customer seeks advice on a pension  transfer in 
implementing a wider  investment  strategy, the advice on the pension transfer must take 
account of the overall investment strategy the customer is contemplating () If you give 
regulated advice and the recommendation will enable investment in unregulated items, you 
cannot separate out the unregulated elements from the regulated elements.
I acknowledge that the regulators statement in the alert is not guidance  or rules or 
standards in the sense  that such requirements  are specified by the regulator  in its 
Handbook. Nonetheless, I regard it as a relevant  consideration  when determining  this 
complaint by reference to what is, in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  
of the case.
In doing so, I also acknowledge that in the scenario set out in the alert,  the other firm that 
made the investment recommendations for the underlying assets of the SIPP  was an 
unregulated introducer. Whereas in Mr Ls case, Firm C was authorised to conduct  
investment business  under its AR agreement with Firm S, and in turn Firm C could itself be 
pursued for compensation by a consumer within the financial  services  regulatory regime.  
Portafina may believe that this in turn distinguished the circumstances of Mr Ls transaction 
from the scenario  that the alert was aimed  at, and as a result absolved it from its duty to 
assess the overall suitability of the proposed investments. It might say that was particularly 
the case as it had said to Mr L that it wasnt providing any advice on the underlying  
investments as Firm C was doing  that. Whilst  Ive given  that possibility careful thought,  
I dont agree that the alert was limited to those  very specific circumstances. 
I can see that the alert makes it clear that suitable  investment advice  generally  requires 
consideration of the other investments held by the customer, as well as the suitability of the 
overall proposition  when  advice is given on a product that is a vehicle for investment in other  
products (such as the SIPP in Mr Ls case). It further  refers to the broadly applicable rules 
and guidance  that ensure that in all instances of advice, a firm must first take time to 
familiarise itself with the wider investment and financial circumstances. In saying that, I dont 
think the FCA intended that in pension transfer  cases, regard to the overall proposition  was 
only required  where the introducing firm was unregulated, or where the assets  contemplated 
included unregulated investments.
In my view, the regulator was indicating that these are standards that have broad application 
to pension switch  and transfer advice,  but pointing out that it had particular concern about 
cases in which unregulated firms and unregulated products put the consumer at risk. So, 
Ref: DRN04249415I think the alert is relevant  to firms in the position of Portafina in this case. This is further 
demonstrated by an alert from the regulator in 2014  which stated: 
 Where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing  that the customer will () transfer 
() to release funds to invest through a SIPP, then the suitability of the underlying  
investment must form part of the advice given  to the customer. If the underlying investment 
is not suitable (), then the overall advice is not suitable.
If a firm does not fully understand the underlying  investment  proposition intended to be held 
within a SIPP, then it should not offer advice on the pension transfer () at all as it will not 
be able to assess suitability of the transaction  as a whole.
Both alerts specifically referred  to the regulators  overarching Principles for Businesses  
(PRIN) and Conduct of Business Rules (COBS), which  Portafina  was subject to. And with 
reference to PRIN and COBS the alerts  said a firm would  fall short  of its obligations under 
these precepts if it didnt  familiarise  itself with the intended investment strategy  and that it 
wouldnt be able to recommend a new product, like a SIPP, without doing so. So, Portafinas 
advice on the suitability of the transfer had to include the suitability of the underlying 
investments. I dont think there was any ambiguity regarding  the regulators position  on the 
matter.
Under COBS 2.1.2 Portafina also couldnt seek to exclude or restrict its duty or liability to 
Mr L under  the regulatory system.  So, saying  it was operating under a limited retainer didnt 
absolve it of its duty of care to ensure the advice it was providing  was suitable  again, this 
had to include consideration  of how Mr Ls funds would be invested .
COBS 9.2 required  Portafina to take reasonable steps to make sure its recommendation was 
suitable for Mr L. To achieve this, COBS 9.2.2R said Portafina had to obtain enough 
information from Mr L to ensure its recommendation met his objectives, that he could bear 
the related investment risks consistent with these  objectives and that he had the necessary 
experience and knowledge  to understand the risks involved in the transaction.  COBS 9.2.2R 
included the following wording:
() The information regarding the investment objectives of a client  must include, where 
relevant, information  on the length of time for which he wishes  to hold the investment, his 
preferences regarding risk taking, his risk profile,  and the purposes of the investment.
So as part of the fact-finding process  Portafina had to understand Mr Ls objectives and the 
related risks.  It wasnt  free to ignore how Mr Ls funds were going to be invested  irrespective  
of Firm Cs involvement. I consider the underlying investments in the SIPP  to be inextricably 
linked to the risks relating to the SIPP, so assessing the risk and suitability of a transfer 
without knowing what Mr L would invest in within  the wrapper, doesnt  in my mind seem  
reasonably possible.
Like COBS, PRIN formed part of the regulatory  framework that existed  at the time of 
Portafinas advice  and had to be complied  with. Principles 1 (conducting business with 
integrity); 2 (exercising due skill, care and diligence); 6 (having regard for customers  
interests and treating  them  fairly); 7 (communicating information in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way) and 9 (ensuring the suitability of advice  for a customer  entitled to rely on the 
firms judgement) are of particular relevance to this case. In addition to what  Ive outlined  
above, Ive considered Portafinas advice with these  in mind. 
Ref: DRN04249416As Portafina didnt consider itself responsible for any advice regarding the underlying assets 
of the SIPP  it recommended, it says it was unaware of where,  further to Firm Cs 
involvement, Mr Ls transferred funds  would ultimately be invested.  As Firm C was regulated  
and able to provide investment advice  with a duty to ensure this was suitable, it says it saw 
no issue with this.
I recognise that the FCA allows  for two advisers  to work together to provide suitable advice 
to their mutual client. However,  the alerts  make it clear that a firm that is asked to advise on 
a pension transfer needs to be aware  of the intended investments before it advises on the 
transfer, in order  to provide suitable  advice.  So, it shouldve requested this information from 
Firm C before providing advice. And, as confirmed in the 2014 alert, if it didnt  fully 
understand the underlying  investment proposition intended to be held within  a SIPP, then it 
should not offer advice on the pension transfer or switch at all. So, in the absence of 
Portafina knowing the investments Firm C intended  for Mr L, it couldnt  provide him with 
suitable advice  to transfer his OPS.
I accept that as a result  of its AR agreement with Firm S, Firm C was required to give 
suitable advice.  However, I dont agree  that this negated Portafinas duty to do the same. As 
Mr Ls appointed  financial adviser, it had a significant responsibility  to provide suitable advice 
and act in Mr Ls best interests. And as Ive said, this had to include an awareness of where  
Mr Ls funds would be invested. 
Portafina says that as part of its due diligence it carried  out on Firm C, it requested details of 
the investment  strategy it was likely to deploy  for clients  such as Mr L. And this was reflected 
in the suitability report where it set out what spread of investments it thought would be 
suitable for Mr L, as follows:  
Cash 10%
Equities 60%
Other Fixed Interest 12%
Secured Structured  Bonds 18%
But I dont think that satisfies the regulators expectations as set out in the alerts. The checks  
it made weren't specific  to the investments  envisaged for Mr L. So, I still think  Portafina  
needed to do more to satisfy itself that its recommendation was based on the expected  
investment proposition that Firm C intended  for Mr L. It needed, at the very least, to ask Firm 
C for an outline of that proposition. Portafina couldnt reasonably assess the suitability of the 
transfer it was recommending without doing so.
Portafina says the asset allocation table outlined its expectations as to the types and blend 
of investments to be recommended by Firm C, so its advice to Mr L was not given in 
ignorance of the likely  investments strategy. But I dont think  it was sufficient for Portafina 
simply to recommend a broad spread of investments in its suitability report  for Mr L in the 
expectation that that would bring about the necessary alignment with Firm Cs investment 
recommendations. Further, I do not agree that broad references to investment classes, 
(such as equities  and other fixed interest), would give consumers in the position of Mr L 
sufficient information  to enable them to spot discrepancies. As things transpired  for Mr L, 
and in the absence of any further checks by Portafina, the investments he was eventually 
advised to purchase  were  significantly removed from the investments Portafina 
contemplated when  it advised him to transfer  away from his OPS  in the first place.
Ref: DRN04249417Further, I should add that even if I was satisfied Portafina could adequately assess  the 
suitability of the transfer by merely  recommending potential investments into broad asset 
classes, with no further steps taken to align its advice with Firm Cs recommendations, 
I dont think the asset allocation  set out in the table would in any event have been suitable 
for Mr L. I say this because the model  portfolio  suggested that 18% of the pension  fund 
should be invested in secure structured bonds.  These are described  in the suitability report  
as asset back debt securities that are issued  for a fix term. The report  goes on to explain that 
these are not covered by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS). And that 
there are credit risks  due to the possibility of the company borrowing the money going into 
default  and liquidity risks.  In my view, this puts them  at the higher end of the risk spectrum 
and would generally mean that theyre unsuitable for an inexperienced investor,  with a fairly 
modest pension fund. So, Im not satisfied that a portfolio that wouldve invested 18% of 
Mr Ls pension fund in unregulated and potentially illiquid funds, wouldve been suitable for a 
client in Mr Ls position in any event.
The reality  is that having  followed Portafinas transfer advice, over 40% of Mr Ls SIPP was 
invested in UCIS. I think the regulators 2010  UCIS findings are relevant here. Here it said 
that as well as UCIS only being eligible for promotion to certain customers (generally 
sophisticated, high net worth  investors),  as an example, even when a customer  was deemed 
eligible for the promotion of UCIS,  suitable advice involved limiting a client's  exposure  to 
these investments to 3% to 5% of their retirement  provision. In Mr Ls case, 43% of his SIPP 
 which, other than his state pension entitlement, represented his only retirement provision  
was invested in UCIS. I dont think UCIS  was suitable for Mr L at all, let alone in the 
proportion invested.  Theres nothing to indicate Mr L had the requisite knowledge or 
experience to accept  or understand the risks associated with these types of investments.
In my view, had Portafina requested information  about the proposed  investments and been 
advised that Firm C intended to invest Mr L mostly  in UCIS, it couldve queried this given 
how at odds it was with what it determined an appropriate asset  allocation  for Mr L was.  
I dont agree with Portafinas assessment of Mr Ls risk rating a balanced  Ill explain why 
later  or its recommendation he invest 18% of his transferred  funds in structured bonds in 
Portafinas suitability  report. However,  I think that had appropriate enquiries been made, it 
wouldve become  apparent  something was amiss with Firms Cs proposal  and that the 
transfer was therefore unsuitable and likely to lead to Mr L being exposed  to more risk than 
Portafina considered  appropriate. 
I think its likely that, having  realised how significantly the investments Firm C intended to 
make differed from those  it had based  its suitability assessment  on, Portafina couldve taken 
preventative action or at the very least made Mr L aware of the situation so he could, if 
servicing rights had already been  transferred to Firm C, sought to take corrective action 
himself. 
Overall, I think Portafina needed to satisfy itself that its recommendation was based on the 
investment proposition that Firm C intended  for Mr L. It shouldve asked Firm C for the 
specifics of this or, as a minimum, an outline of the proposition. Had it done so, and Firm C 
had given it a clear framework of the proposition, then I wouldve expected Portafina to have 
advised Mr L that it couldnt  recommend he transfer  away from his OPS  in those 
circumstances. If Portafina had warned Mr L against  investing  in line with Firm Cs proposal,  
I think its more likely than not that Mr L wouldve listened to it and not gone ahead with the 
transfer. 
Ref: DRN04249418In my view, the fact that Portafina didnt take sufficient steps to consider the investment 
proposal for Mr L when  assessing the suitability  of the proposed transfer meant  that it 
couldnt reasonably conclude the course  of action it recommended  as a solution  to Mr Ls 
needs was being made  on a sound basis. And as a result of these shortcomings,  it seems to 
me that Firm C was in effect given  the freedom and opportunity to do as it wished with how 
Mr Ls SIPP was invested.
Notwithstanding what Ive said above, I dont  think the suitability of Portafinas advice turns 
solely on where Mr Ls funds were ultimately  invested. Portafinas recommendation that he 
transfer to a SIPP in the first place is an important  consideration. And were it not for the 
transfer and Portafinas incomplete and, in my view, flawed advice regarding  this, Im not 
persuaded Mr L wouldve ultimately  gone on to invest  as he did.
The advice to transfer 
OPSs typically have  significant benefits  and guarantees. Giving  up the benefits and 
guarantees available under an OPS and subjecting future pension  income  to the risks 
associated with unpredictable investment returns should only be done where it can be 
shown that it was clearly  in the best interests of the consumer. The COBS  guidance 
(COBS19.1.6G) at the time of the advice, stated:
When  advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits  
occupational pension scheme  whether to transfer,  convert or opt-out, a firm should  start by 
assuming that a transfer or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should  only then consider a 
transfer or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence,  
that the transfer or opt-out is in the client's  best interests.
Given what the regulator says, my starting point is that a transfer wont usually be suitable. 
Therell need to be good reasons why a transfer  will be in the consumers best interests.  And 
generally, a transfer  will only be in the consumers  best interests if theres  a reasonable 
prospect that the new arrangement will provide better retirement benefits. The transfer  will 
also need to be suitable, taking into account  the individuals particular circumstances.
At the time of Portafinas advice Mr L was 56 years old, employed  and in good health. He 
was a standard retail investor with nine years until his intended retirement  age and four 
years until his preserved pension became payable in full. Aside from his state pension 
entitlement, his OPS  represented his sole retirement  provision. There was no record of Mr L 
having any other savings or investments and although he was a home  owner, he had an 
outstanding amount on his mortgage.  It seems  to me Mr Ls OPS  was his most  valuable  
asset. It provided a guaranteed income  at retirement  with increases, as well as a lump sum 
death benefit, should he pass away before retirement. Based on this I think  Portafina should 
have recognized the significance of Mr Ls OPS and proceeded with caution.
Transferring his OPS  meant  that Mr L would be losing his guarantees and instead relying on 
investment performance  from a new scheme. But I dont think his situation lent itself to taking 
such risks.  I think it shouldve been  clear that while Mr L may have been open  to taking 
some risk, he wasnt able to take a significant amount. 
Based on a risk profile Mr L completed, Portafina said it believed he had a balanced ATR. 
Mr L confirmed he was willing to accept losses of up to 20-25%  of his pension  in order to 
meet his objectives  and also mentioned in the call of 19 May 2014 that hed held shares in 
the past and wasnt concerned with fluctuations. 
Ref: DRN04249419Although his ATR was in keeping with that of a balanced investor,  Mr L didnt have the 
capacity to accept  this level of risk, when his OPS was his main pension provision and he 
didnt have any savings  or investments, or alternative pension arrangements which  could 
replace any losses.
In assessing Mr Ls capacity for loss Portafina  said it considered  factors like Mr Ls chosen 
retirement age, other retirement provision, current circumstances  and future capital needs. 
Having done so, it concluded  that he had the capacity to absorb potential  losses and 
shoulder risk in pursuit of [his] overall  pension objectives. But its not entirely clear to me 
how Portafina reached this conclusion, particularly  when  there  was nothing to suggest  Mr L 
had any alternative  provision beyond state  benefits to fall back  on if transferring didnt work 
out. 
In its suitability report Portafina said that, if Mr L used TFC available following the transfer to 
repay his mortgage  and other debt, he could  redirect his repayments (a gross figure of 
£89,678) into his pension fund. I dont  believe this was realistic,  when the repayments  of 
£492 a month made up approximately half of Mr Ls monthly income  (based on an annual  
income of £10,000). It seems to me there was little prospect of Mr L being  in any position to 
make further  contributions  to his pension, based on his circumstances at the time.
Portafina also added that if Mr L chose to continue paying off his debt through monthly 
contributions rather than using TFC, hed have a total repayment  of £74,732 on the debt. 
Having carefully considered the figures  provided in Portafinas report,  I dont think theyre  
entirely accurate.
Mr Ls outstanding  mortgage was £7,000 and his credit card debt was £1,600.  The combined 
monthly repayments of £492 equate to £5,904 a year. A market  average  rate of 10.55%  
APR (as quoted  in Portafinas suitability  report) on £8,600 is £907.30, so the loan would be 
reduced by approximately £5,000 after one year. Based on this, his debts could be fully 
repaid within  two years. The fact find completed by Portafina states that his mortgage had 
two years remaining, which supports this assumption. Total payments of capital and interest 
over this period  would amount to approximately £12,000. This is nowhere  near the figures 
quoted by Portafina and the benefits in repaying the debt early  seem to me to have been 
overstated by the adviser.
 
An important part of assessing the viability of an OPS transfer, is a careful analysis of the 
investment returns required from any investments in the receiving scheme, to match (let 
alone exceed)  the benefits  that are being  given up by transferring  out of the OPS.  And that 
needs to be done in conjunction with other important considerations, including  the investors  
ATR, financial circumstances and objectives.
Under COBS 19.1.2, the regulator  required a business arranging a pension transfer to:
1.compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a defined 
benefits pension  scheme with the benefits afforded by a personal pension  scheme  or 
stakeholder pension scheme,  before  it advises  a retail client to transfer out of a 
defined benefits  pension scheme;
2.ensure that that comparison includes enough  information for the retail client to be 
able to make an informed decision;
Ref: DRN0424941103.give the retail client a copy of the comparison,  drawing the retail client's attention to 
the factors that do and do not support the firms advice, no later than when the key 
features document is provided;  and
4.take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firm's  comparison 
and its advice.
COBS 19.1.3 goes on to say that in particular the comparison should:
1.take into account all of the retail  client's relevant circumstances;
2.have regard to the benefits and options  available  under the ceding scheme and the 
effect of replacing  them with the benefits and options under the proposed scheme;
3.explain the assumptions on which it is based  and the rates  of return  that would have 
to be achieved to replicate  the benefits  being given up; and
4.be illustrated on rates  of return which take into account the likely expected returns of 
the assets in which  the retail client's funds will be invested.
Portafinas advice  was given at a time when  there  were no industry  standard  projection rates 
to assess the likelihood of the critical yield being achieved. But at the time the regulators 
assumed future growth rates for personal  pension illustrations were 2% (low); 5% 
(intermediate); and 8% (high). Whilst advisers  weren't  required to refer to these rates  when 
giving advice on pension  transfers, I consider they provide  a useful indication of what  growth 
rates would have  been considered reasonably  achievable when the advice was given  in this 
case.
In terms of the investment risk Mr L would  be taking on by transferring, Portafina produced  a 
Transfer Value  Analysis  (TVAS)  report. This showed the critical yield required to match 
benefits from the OPS  was 20.5%.  So, the transfer value needed  to consistently grow at a 
rate of around  20.5% each year for Mr L not to be financially worse  off by transferring. This 
was very high. But if the transfer was only going  to match the benefits  given  up thered be 
little point in transferring  there  needed  to be a reasonable prospect Mr L would be better 
off. So, I think a return closer to 21%, which significantly exceeded the highest maximum 
projected growth rate at the time,  would  have been required for Mr L to gain any advantage. 
Im not satisfied that was a reasonable expectation.
Im also mindful that Portafinas critical yield calculation was based  on Mr Ls full transfer 
value and therefore didnt include any provision for Mr L taking  TFC immediately, or for the 
initial and ongoing  advice plan and other charges. As a result, I think  the growth required to 
just match  the benefits Mr L would be giving  up was understated. 
Portafina has argued that the critical yield is not relevant, as it based its recommendation on 
the lifetime hurdle rate instead of the critical yield, which produced a much lower  target  of 
6.65%. However,  this target was still higher  than the level of growth Portafinas own model 
portfolio was projected to return, 6.13%.
Both the critical yield and the hurdle rate were greater than the level of growth Mr L could 
reasonably expect to receive, based on both Portafinas own figure and industry  standards.  
Therefore, he was highly  likely to receive a lower income in retirement by transferring. This 
was not made clear  to Mr L and, in fact the opposite was stated in Portafinas suitability 
report:
Ref: DRN042494111The gross investment  return  after charges required to match your scheme's benefits based  
on the agreed planning assumptions is 6.65% per year.  Therefore  we believe that a transfer 
could be able to increase  the overall pension and tax free cash  benefits available to you.
Furthermore, and as the regulator has made plain, when considering whether to make a 
personal recommendation to transfer  away from a defined  benefit scheme, a firm should not 
regard a rate of return which  may replicate the benefits being  given up from the defined 
benefits pension  scheme as sufficient in itself (COBS 19.1.7B G). In light of that, I think  its 
important to emphasise that the starting  point for the transfer advice in this case ought  to 
have been that it was unsuitable (COBS 19.1.6G).  So, I think  Portafina  ought to have made 
Mr L aware that it was in his best interest to preserve his OPS benefits.
Mr L did sign a declaration on 3 July 2014  confirming that he understood he would be worse 
off in retirement. However, this statement only refers to the critical yield of 20.5% and 
theres no mention  of the hurdle rate, which Portafina relied on, also being unachievable. 
And having listened to the call recording Portafina provided, I note that while  it quickly  
dismissed the critical yield and focused on the hurdle  rate, it was again  not made clear to 
Mr L that hed likely be worse off, irrespective of which illustrative  growth rate was used.
Mr L didnt appear to want or need  the additional death benefits provided  by transferring out 
and said as much during  his call with Portafina.  Mr L said he intended to leave  his house to 
his children (the mortgage of which was covered by a Decreasing Term Assurance policy)  
and was only concerned about  having funeral costs covered.  On a scale of 1-10 Mr L scored  
death benefits as 5 out of 10 in terms of importance.
While I can appreciate most people will want to pass on as much money as possible to their 
children, especially when they are relatively young, this was clearly not an issue  which  
concerned Mr L. The main purpose  for a pension is to provide an income  in retirement.  
Other considerations, like death benefits are secondary to that, particularly where,  as here, 
there was nothing to suggest Mr L was in ill health, such that it wasnt expected that his 
pension fund would need to support him for a long time. 
Furthermore, his OPS would provide a lump  sum of almost £50,000 if he died prior to taking 
his pension. Alternatively, if he reached age 60 and took his benefits, Mr L could take a 
similar amount  of TFC.  Either  of these lump sums, when combined with a mortgage free 
property, couldve provided a substantial legacy if this was what  Mr L wanted to achieve. So, 
transferring his pension wasnt  an all or nothing proposition when it came to providing death 
benefits.
In my view, there was no obvious need  for the flexibility the plan provided and although this 
was raised by Portafina during a call as a benefit,  there was no conversation  about  how this 
would work  in practice. There  was no discussion about how much  income  Mr L would need  
in retirement and whether this would vary, or why. And as he had no other pension provision, 
Mr L would  be reliant upon  his OPS  to provide a regular income for the rest of his life and 
would be unlikely to be in any position  to be able to take a lower income at any time.
It was noted that Mr Ls intended retirement age was 65 and transferring  would  allow him to 
take his pension income later than the scheme age of 60. Irrespective of his preferred  
retirement age, there was no benefit  to Mr L in not taking his pension  when  it became  
payable at age 60. Delaying taking the money by five years would deprive him of over 
£40,000 of income  that he would be paid from age 60 to 65 from his OPS. This was not 
Ref: DRN042494112highlighted to Mr L and there was no information to show why he did not want to receive his 
pension at the earliest opportunity when  he had a relatively low income at the time; there 
was no penalty  for taking  his pension from age 60 and there was no evidence that he would  
get more if he delayed taking his OPS  beyond 60.
It seems  to me that the only legitimate reason for considering recommending Mr L transfer 
his OPS was to release funds early in order to pay off his outstanding debts. There is no 
doubt that Mr Ls mortgage  and credit card debt,  although relatively small in terms of the 
balance, took up a very large share of his income and his desire to repay this debt early  
would have been a strong motivator. 
However, the adviser had a duty to fully explore all alternatives to transferring in order to 
demonstrate that doing  so was in Mr Ls best interest. Portafina has argued that Mr L wanted 
to take his TFC to pay off his debt, as he had no other assets  available to reduce his debt 
and did not want  to add to it or continue to pay interest. Because  of this it said the only way 
to achieve his objective in this respect  was to release funds  from his OPS.
The report  does state that Mr L, did not wish to take on further lending or pay any interest 
and he did not wish to remortgage,  due to the redemption penalties that may be involved. 
On the face of it, these seem like reasonable considerations. However, there is no record  of 
Portafina making any enquiries  as to what penalties, if any, would apply if Mr L remortgaged, 
either with a new lender, or with the same  provider on a different  basis or over a longer term 
to reduce costs.  Given that his mortgage  balance was only £7,000, even a punitive 
redemption penalty  of 10% would not have resulted in significantly larger  debt, when set 
against the TFC available in four years time.
Its worth  noting that during Mr Ls call with Portafina, there was no discussion about re-
structuring Mr Ls loans,  so how it could say that Mr L didnt want  to remortgage  is unclear. 
Mr L said that he wanted to take the TFC to pay off his mortgage, purchase  a new car and 
give cash to his children,  but the representative did not ask any questions  about these 
objectives, for instance how much a car would cost and why he needed to give his children 
(then aged 16 and 19) money at that point. It appears that Mr L told Portafina what hed like 
to do, but I think  Portafina made  little attempt to drill down into and explore alternative  means  
of meeting these  goals.  
Portafina had a significant and overriding responsibility to challenge Mr Ls objectives and 
not accept them at face value. Mr L wasnt a financial expert and was heavily reliant on 
Portafina for its advice  and expertise.  So, I think it needed to do more than just note Mr Ls 
objectives and agree to facilitate what he thought was the best way of achieving them, 
especially when there might viable alternatives to meeting those  goals.
While Mr L was aware of the level of TFC transferring would provide, I cannot see that he 
was made  aware  that, as well as paying  a guaranteed indexing  income for the rest of his life, 
his OPS would always provide a lump sum large enough to clear all his debts. For instance, 
the suitability report said that the TVAS had projected a pension of £10,748 from age 60 
from Mr Ls OPS,  but it didnt make it clear  that if he took this higher level of income, he 
would still get TFC of £28,203.
Mr L didnt have to wait until age 60 to take his OPS benefits, however I note that there was 
no discussion about or investigation into taking  them  immediately. This option was available  
to Mr L, as confirmed in the letter  issued  by his OPS on 19 August 2014.  The exact level of 
pension and TFC this would have provided  is not known, but this is because Portafina  didnt 
Ref: DRN042494113appear to make any such enquiries at the time. However, the CETV of 20 August 2014 
showed the current  value of Mr Ls OPS benefits as being  a pension of around £10,000 
and a lump sum of around  £26,000. Based on this, I think  its clear that Mr L couldve 
received a large enough lump sum to pay off his debts while  still retaining  a guaranteed 
pension income.
Regarding the risks associated with its recommendation, I do accept that Portafina covered 
some of these. However, disclosure isnt the same as suitability and in my view Portafina 
shouldnt have gone on to recommend the transfer. 
I dont think the advice for Mr L to transfer  was suitable and think it presented a level of risk 
above what he shouldve  been advised  to take.  Accordingly, I dont  think it was in his best 
interests. Although  Portafina provided Mr L with information about  the transfer, I dont 
believe it was as clear, comprehensive and balanced as it needed to be for him to make  an 
informed decision about whether to transfer .
Ive thought about whether, if hed been  correctly advised by Portafina  not to transfer, Mr L 
would have gone ahead with the transfer  anyway.  Having carefully considered  all the 
circumstances in this case, I dont believe  he would  have.  I accept  that Mr L had a motivation  
for wanting to access his TFC, as this would have improved his financial situation in the 
short term, but the long-term  disadvantages of doing  so were not set out clearly.  Based on 
the call recording and statements in the Portafinas  suitability report, it appears that Mr L was 
largely given the impression  that he could transfer his OPS, take the TFC and likely still get 
as much income in retirement as his OPS would have paid him, if not more.  I think  this was 
misleading.
I believe it was clear  from the outset that Mr L was seeking to rely on the comprehensive  
information and suitable advice he reasonably expected to obtain  from Portafina. And I think 
Portafinas failings  in appropriately  assessing  the overall suitability of the transaction  it was 
recommending played  a pivotal role in his decision  to transfer.  I think  its unlikely that Mr L 
wouldve opted to transfer when he did, had he been made aware  of the alternatives 
available, such as the benefits  of restructuring his debts or taking his benefits  before age 60 
but remaining  in his OPS.
As a professional adviser  which,  unlike Firm C, was authorised to provide transfer advice, 
Portafinas recommendation  wouldve  carried significant weight and could, I believe, have 
dissuaded Mr L from proceeding with the transfer  and subsequent  investments. I accept its 
possible Mr L may still have wanted  to go ahead  anyway.  But I think, at the very least, if 
Portafina had advised against  this, that would  have made him think  about things. 
Alternatively, had Mr L proceeded against  such advice, Portafina couldve discharged its 
professional responsibility  to him appropriately. For example, it couldve treated him as an 
insistent client. However,  theres nothing  to indicate Mr L wouldve acted against the advice 
hed been given.
Overall, I consider that the losses suffered by Mr L are as a result of the inappropriate advice 
provided by Portafina.  And had it not been  for this unsuitable advice, I dont believe he would 
have gone ahead with the transfer  of his OPS or invested over 40% of his fund in UCIS. 
I recognise that it can be argued Firm C may have  also separately caused  some of Mr Ls 
losses. So, Ive considered whether I should  apportion only part of the responsibility for 
compensating the loss to Portafina.  In the circumstances, though,  I think apportioning 
Ref: DRN042494114responsibility to Portafina for the whole  of the loss represents fair compensation. I dont  
accept that anything Firm C did was an intervening act which  absolves  Portafina of its 
responsibility for Mr Ls losses. 
I think its important to emphasise that Firm C and Portafina were  in a business  relationship  
in which  each firm agreed to provide services that were designed to bring  about  a single 
outcome for clients  pension-release advice and investment. Because  Firm C wasnt 
authorised to provide pension transfer advice, it referred Mr L to Portafina. Portafina  advised 
Mr L to transfer to a SIPP, it set up the SIPP and arranged for his existing pension  benefits 
to be transferred. I acknowledge that Firm C advised  Mr L to invest a significant share of his 
SIPP funds  in UCIS. But, as Ive explained, Portafinas understanding  that it could  
reasonably limit its advice  to just the transfer  and the SIPP was wrong; it needed to consider 
the proposed  investments too, even if Firm C was advising Mr L on the investments. It was 
only as a result of Portafinas involvement  that Mr L transferred his OPS benefits to the 
SIPP. Portafinas role was pivotal, since the eventual investments were fully reliant on the 
funds being transferred first; if that hadnt happened, he couldnt have invested as he did.
In terms of the FSCS, I am aware  that, as a fund of last resort, the FSCS wont  pay out on 
claims where it is aware that another firm was involved in the transaction,  and it considers 
that firm might also be responsible for a consumers losses.  This means that apportionment 
of only part of the loss to Portafina could risk leaving  Mr L out of pocket. But I think its 
important to point  out that Im not saying Portafina  is wholly responsible  for the losses simply 
because Firm S and Firm C are now in liquidation.  My starting point as to causation  is that 
Portafina gave  unsuitable advice and it is responsible for the losses  Mr L suffered in 
transferring his existing  benefits to the SIPP and investing as he did. That isnt, to my mind, 
wrong in law or irrational  but reflects the facts  of the case  and my view of the fair and 
reasonable position. So, overall, I think apportioning responsibility to Portafina for the whole 
of the loss represents fair compensation in this case.
Putting things  right 
A fair and reasonable outcome would  be for the business to put Mr L, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for Portafinas unsuitable advice. I consider Mr L would 
have remained in the occupational scheme. Portafina must therefore  undertake  a redress  
calculation in line with the regulators pension review guidance as updated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority  in its Finalised Guidance 17/9:  Guidance for firms on how to calculate  
redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers. 
 
The FCA has announced it intends  to update the inflation assumptions used in this 
guidance. This could  materially  affect the amount of compensation due. Portafina must  
therefore take into account any amendments  to the regulators Finalised Guidance FG 17/9.
This calculation should  be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance  with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ls acceptance  of the decision.
If this is completed before  publication  of the FCAs intended amendments  to the guidance, 
Portafina must re-run  the calculation within a month of the amended  guidance being 
published  ensuring that any shortfall  this shows in the original calculation  is promptly  made 
up to Mr L. Portafina need  only re-run  the calculation once, to take account  of amendments 
Ref: DRN042494115currently planned by the FCA. Portafina  does not subsequently  need  to recalculate following 
any further amendments  the regulator  might later make
Alternatively, Portafina may wait until publication  of the FCAs  amended Finalised Guidance 
(expected in March 2021) before calculating and paying the compensation due to Mr L in this 
case.
Portafina may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ls 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related  Pension Scheme (SERPS  or S2P). These 
details should  then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ls SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation  demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ls pension plan.  The payment should  allow  for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief.  The compensation  shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If a payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr L as a lump sum after making a notional  deduction  to allow  for 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement   presumed  to be 20%.  So making a notional  deduction of 15% overall  
from the loss adequately  reflects this.
The payment resulting  from all the steps  above  is the compensation amount. The 
compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr L within  90 days of the date 
Portafina receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further  interest 
must be added  to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple  from the 
date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days,  that 
it takes Portafina to pay Mr L.
Its possible that data gathering  for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes  beyond  the 90 day period allowed for settlement above   and so any 
period of time where  the only outstanding  item required to undertake the calculation is 
data from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont  apply.
In addition, Portafina should  pay Mr L £300 for disruption to his retirement planning.
My aim is to return Mr L to the position he would have  been in but for the actions of 
Portafina. This is complicated  where  investments are illiquid  (meaning  they cannot  be 
readily sold on the open market), as their value cant be determined. That appears  to be 
the case here.
To calculate the compensation, Portafina  should  agree an amount with the SIPP 
provider as a commercial value, then pay the sum agreed to the SIPP  plus any costs, 
and take ownership  of the investment. If Portafina  is unable to buy the investment, it 
should give it a nil value  for the purposes  of calculating compensation. The value of the 
SIPP used  in the calculations should include  anything Portafina has paid into the SIPP  
and any outstanding charges yet to be applied to the SIPP should be deducted.
Ref: DRN042494116In return for this, Portafina may ask Mr L to provide an undertaking to account to it for the net 
amount of any payment he may receive  from the investment. That undertaking should allow 
for the effect of any tax and charges on what he receives. Portafina will need to meet  any 
costs in drawing up the undertaking. If Portafina asks Mr L to provide an undertaking, 
payment of the compensation awarded  may be dependent  upon provision of that 
undertaking.
The SIPP only exists because of the illiquid investment. In order for the SIPP to be closed 
(should Mr L wish to move his investment portfolio) and further SIPP  fees to be prevented, 
the investment  needs to be removed from the SIPP. Ive set out above how this might be 
achieved by Portafina taking over the investment, or this is something that Mr L can discuss  
with his SIPP provider  directly. But I dont know how long that will take. 
Third parties are involved, and we dont have  the power to tell them  what  to do. To provide 
certainty to all parties, I think its fair that Portafina  pay Mr L an upfront lump sum equivalent 
to five years worth  of SIPP fees (calculated  using  the previous years fees). This should 
provide a reasonable period for the parties to arrange for the SIPP  to be closed.
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can award  fair compensation of up to £150,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs  that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £150,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance. 
Determination and money award: I require  Portafina to pay Mr L the compensation amount 
as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £150,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £150,000, I additionally require Portafina 
LLP to pay Mr L any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds  £150,000, I only require Portafina LLP to 
pay Mr L any interest as set out above  on the sum of £150,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount  exceeds £150,000, I also recommend that 
Portafina LLP pays Mr L the balance. I additionally recommend  any interest calculated as set 
out above on this balance  to be paid to Mr L.
If Mr L accepts  my final decision, the money award  is binding on Portafina LLP. My 
recommendation is not binding on Portafina LLP. Further, its unlikely that Mr L can accept 
my decision  and go to court to ask for the balance.  Mr L may want  to consider getting  
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this decision.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and direct Portafina  LLP to pay compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2021.
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0424941