K820x#14complaint
Miss B says Canada Square Operations Limited mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out online in 2003. The policy  was taken  out at the 
same time as Miss B applied  for an Egg credit card. It gave  her accident, sickness and 
unemployment protection.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss B disagreed so the complaint was passed 
to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to complaints  about  the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Bs complaint. Ill explain  why. 
Ive looked  at the PPI screen Miss B wouldve seen during her application for the 
credit card.  This gave her the options  Yes, I want to protect  my repayments or No, I 
understand it is my responsibility to keep up my repayments should I fall ill or lose my 
job. The options  were  set out with equal  prominence. Ive also seen a copy of the 
application report for Miss B. This recorded the information Miss B provided during 
her online  application, and the choices  she made. There is a Y flag for PPI showing 
Miss B selected the cover  during the application process. Overall Im satisfied 
Canada Square  Operations made  it clear  to Miss B that PPI was optional and she 
chose to take it. 
Canada Square  Operations didnt recommend the PPI to Miss B, so it didnt have to 
check if it was suitable  for her. It was up to her to decide, given the other  ways  she 
had to make her repayments if she wasnt working.
 
Its possible Canada Square  Operations didnt give Miss B all the information  about 
the PPI that she needed before she made  her decision. But it seems Miss B chose to 
take out the policy and so appears to have wanted  this type of cover. She wasnt 
affected by any of the exclusions  or limitations and the policy  was competitively 
priced and apparently  affordable. So, on balance, I think  it unlikely Miss B wouldve 
made a different decision if better  information had been provided.  
It follows that I dont think Miss B has lost out because  of any problems  with this sale.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 June  2019.
Ref: DRN06822382Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0682238