K821x#15complaint
Ms C complained with the assistance of representatives. She says she received poor 
service, management and unsuitable advice  from Montfort International Limited (Montfort) 
that has caused her loss.
Ms C says she was unsuitably advised to transfer her pension  benefits out of her UK 
schemes and into a Qualifying Recognised  Overseas Pension Scheme (QROPS), where it 
then remained un-invested. She also complained  about fees and charges taken.
Ms C transferred amalgamated  benefits from two occupational  pension  schemes (OPS) and 
a personal pension plan (PPP) with a total value of around £136,200. This was the entirety 
of her pension provision at the time.
background
Ms C first contacted Montfort in June  2010.  In her initial email she set out that she intended 
to move with her partner  to Australia to live for six months to two years (depending on what  
made more  financial  sense). There were  no issues in relation to living  and working in either 
territory. The move took place in October 2010.
In early communications and fact finding  documents there was a long term intention  to split 
their time between both countries until retirement (expecting to finally  retire  in Australia) 
expressed. Ms C went on to explain more about  her circumstances at the time in the UK. 
And Montfort  also went on to record personal information having  spoken to, and apparently 
met with Ms C.
Montfort have now expressed a number of opinions on what  Ms Cs intentions  were.
Its understood Ms Cs circumstances  at the time were:
age 45 and self-employed  earning around £75,000 a year.
 Ms Cs partner was aged  48 and worked  part-time earning around £16,000.
They both worked  within the public service  sector. 
Neither of them  had arranged or obtained work in Australia.
 Ms C and her partner owned two properties; one in the UK (value around £220,000 
with £114,000 outstanding on a mortgage) and one in Australia (AUD $450,000 with 
$330,000 outstanding  on a mortgage).
The UK property  was to be rented out and they intended to rent when they returned 
to the UK.
No other  assets  save two cars and a small ISA; (one car said to be valued at £1,500 
and one at AUD $400, and an ISA of £300).
There were  also two loans totalling £18,500  and three credit  cards with balances  of 
£7,000 and AUD $10,700 overall owed.
Ref: DRN05114402They said theyd decided to emigrate around five years  ago to achieve a better lifestyle. 
Australia was chosen as Ms Cs partner had an Australian passport. Their  hopes for the first 
12 months of residency  were said by Montfort  to involve the reduction of tax and securing  of 
employment.
Records from the time say that Ms C told Montfort that she didnt yet know if she would 
remain in Australia; and she intended to continue to return  to the UK, both to visit family and 
undertake short term work  projects. She said they needed advice on seeking the right 
pension schemes  and whether to use the UK or Australian tax system; as well as tax 
efficiency. 
Ms C had three pension  plans at the time. A PPP and benefits in two Local  Government  
Pension Schemes (LGPS) which were occupational pension schemes (OPS).
Montfort emailed Ms C on 16 June 2010  saying we can certainly help you achieve  your 
goal  and they set out what they understood this to be.
Montforts internal  notes  confirmed Ms C was considering  returning  to the UK to complete 
short term contracts and that Montfort  would need to consider whether this would allow  her 
to break  UK tax residency. As she intended to visit her family as well as short  term work  this 
was flagged as a clear  tax issue. There was a note on Montforts records  that one of their 
colleagues or advisers said if she should be out for one UK tax year it is not fatal to come 
back in that year but if she comes back for work  she needs to take advice.
Further internal  notes include the need  to complete a fact find. And go on to record  that a 
pension transfer  analysis is needed and next to the section titled Pension and QROPS- $
Hedging it recorded USUAL ISSUES . The internal notes then list follow  ups for Montforts 
resident  sub-contractors .
On 21 July 2010 Montfort contacted Ms C and told her that Australia and New Zealand had 
different tax systems to the UK. So any UK assets, investments, savings or pensions could 
be potentially taxed  by Australia or New Zealand. So the adviser said she may also benefit 
from a QROPS. 
Montfort said they were  running free personal  migration consultations. A copy of a 
Confidential Client Review for Migrating Clients for Montfort has been provided, although its 
undated, it refers  to a future Australian address from mid Oct 2010. So this service  has 
previously explained  we understand it to have been  completed pre-migration. This is 
consistent with the compliance related job sheet also provided. It sets out that Ms C had paid 
in full and commission  had been  agreed  when advice was provided. 
The future business plan appears  to rule out a pension or tax report  or QROPS and refers  to 
aligning her pension  and mortgages  in the UK with Australia. Its clear the advice and 
situation changed at some  later stage.
On 6 January  2011 Montfort contacted Ms C. They  were recommending  an amalgamation of 
her two OPS. No complaint has been  made about  this. 
On 16 June 2011 Ms C emailed Montfort  in reply  to certain questions  and said: plan now is 
to remain in Australia . Ms Cs email  contained some of her employment information. It 
Ref: DRN05114403appears she was continuing to work within a similar  sphere to that in the UK that involved 
vulnerable members of the public.
Montfort said in their submissions provided on 17 January 2016 that despite this information 
they still had to factor in that Ms Cs situation  might change, and that she was still settling in.
They say they were looking at a fluid situation  which is why they left it with her to come back  
to them.
Albeit more  recently  Montfort have made strong  representations there was no doubt Ms C 
was remaining in Australia and the fact shed obtained employment  was part of this.
By the start of July 2011 Montfort were  speaking to Ms Cs UK pension providers to get more  
information.
On 4 July 2011 Montfort confirmed the updated  LGPS valuation  was £82,696.83 guaranteed 
until 24 Sept 2011. And they said before proceeding to advise they wanted to check ..as to 
what you see your long term plan being, now that you are back in Australia.. We have on our 
records that you were thinking  about  returning to the UK occasionally to do short term 
contracts; is this still the plan or have you had a change of mind in this direction (or have we 
got it wrong altogether?!).
On 5 July 2011 Ms C emailed Montfort to let them know  their plan was now to remain in 
Australia, but this may change in the future dependent  on the health of my mother, 
however, the long term plan is for us to remain/ retire in Australia.
Later the same day Montfort told Ms C theyd  revise their Stage 3 advice report  and send  it 
out. They explained the next step would  be to speak to discuss the recommendations and 
work out a way forward.
In Montforts submissions of 17 January 2016, Montfort asked us to particularly  note there 
were ongoing  discussions with Ms C about  investment. And they have drawn attention  to an 
email from themselves dated  20 July 2011. In which they thank both of them  (assumed to be 
Ms C and her partner) for speaking with them  and indicate they are attaching a risk profiler 
document. Montfort say this will allow them  to then look at the QROPS  options for you and 
put together  a recommendation[they  say they have the PPP valuation of £53,422.70]  so a 
bit higher than it was at the end of last year. However this is not guaranteed and can go 
down; lets hope it goes up instead.
On Ms Cs risk questionnaire (signed 28 July 2011) she completed the 20 questions  in 
relation to how she would asses herself.  There are 5 options to select  to assess  how 
accurately a description personally applies. The options being; strongly disagree, disagree, 
neither agree or disagree, agree and strongly agree.  In summary Ms C answered as follows:
-When asked if she thinks that compared  to the average person shed say she takes  
more risks she disagrees.
-When asked if she would be willing to risk a percentage  of her income to get a good  
return on an investment she neither agrees  nor disagrees.
-She disagrees that she thinks its necessary  to choose high risk investments to 
achieve high returns.
Ref: DRN05114404-She disagrees that even if she experienced a substantial loss on an investment she 
wouldnt be put off making  risky investments.
-She agreed she would  rather know she was getting a guaranteed rate of return  than 
be uncertain about her investments.
-She agreed she didnt  feel comfortable with financial uncertainty.
-She disagreed  that if her investment portfolio dropped significantly in value  during  the 
first three months it wouldnt bother  her.
-She disagreed  that she would never take a chance with any amount of money.
-She disagreed  that the only way to make money was to take financial risks and on 
whether she would be happy  investing  a large  proportion of her income  into a high 
risk investment.
-And strongly disagreed that taking financial risks was important to her.
She was neutral as to whether she had been  extremely cautious in past financial 
investments and whether she thinks its reckless to take financial  risks.  She was also neutral 
as to whether  she was more concerned about possible loss than probable gain when faced 
with a financial decision. She was neutral about  whether she took lower financial risks 
compared to the average person; and whether shed rather put money  in a bank account 
than invest in shares.
She was also neutral  about whether she would accept potential  losses in order  to pursue  
long term investment growth  and about whether she felt comfortable investing in shares.
Miss C also indicated she felt slightly comfortable  when taking a financial risk and when 
asking to place  herself  on a scale  of risk she put herself in the middle position as neither 
risk averse nor a risk taker.
Ms C said she intended  to use the invested  money in the medium  term (5-10  years);  and 
that she had no (or very limited 0-5%) capacity to lose any of her investment  without  it 
having a significant impact  on her future  standard  of living. Montfort asked if she needed 
sudden access to a lump sum, and she said she may need this (and it appears this would 
mean having access to this investment).
There is an email from Montfort dated  12 August 2011 which appears to follow up on this 
risk questionnaire. It says:
It has been  pointed out to me that your risk profile was 4 out of 10- lower medium risk- but 
you answered the following question with a very cautious answer: How much of this 
investment could you stand to lose without having  a significant impact on your future 
standard of living? Answer: None of very limited losses  (0-5%).
With someone who is a lower  medium risk investor, we would expect to see something 
more like: Small/medium losses could be tolerated Do you agree?
Miss C replied on 15 August 2011 Small yes but medium  losses currently no. Hope this 
helps.
Ref: DRN05114405A copy of Ms Cs 17 page (including appendices) personal report  from Montfort  entitled
Qualifying  Recognised Overseas  Pension Scheme  Recommendation  dated  8 August 2011 
has been provided. 
It includes the following:
you have migrated to Australia. Our recommendations  are based on the fact you have taken 
up permanent residencyyou require having  your pension managed in such  a way that you 
can take advantage of options available through a qualifying recognized  overseas pension  
scheme (QROPS) once you have completed 5 years plus of non-UK tax residency.
Montfort went on to say theyd identified Ms C might want  to be able to draw cash funds from 
the QROPS and she wouldnt be able to do that from her current pension  arrangements.  
They said theyd identified she might  want to draw earlier than was available  from a UK or 
Australian scheme. So said it was important to move her funds to a jurisdiction with a 
suitable minimum retirement age, like, they suggested 50. But noted that due to over-riding 
UK rules during the 5 year QROPS period this would end for her on 5 April 2016 and so she 
wouldnt be able to take benefits before then. By this point she wouldnt have reached age 
55 (the UK minimum age).
Also recorded in Ms Cs recommendation was that the QROPS route was of more  interest  to 
her than a transfer  to an Australian scheme as she wanted to maintain security,  so that if she 
were to return to the UK or move to another country  she could transfer out of the QROPS.
From what  Montfort have said to us recently it doesnt appear Montfort accept this part of 
their initial report.
In the original report Montfort explained the Australian rules meant she wouldnt be allowed 
to transfer out of Australia if she moved  on before the age of 60. And Montfort went  on to 
provide further  comment on potential tax complexities.
The report  didnt consider the options of a stakeholder  or personal plan or any type of 
alternative work place  pension, as it said Montfort  thought the greater  flexibility afforded  by 
the QROPS  operated than if benefits  were retained with the UK. The report  set out that 
Montfort had also not considered a transfer  of Ms Cs OPS to a section 32 bond  and the 
preservation of her guaranteed minimum pension, because Ms C requires an off-shore 
solution.
In summary  Montforts overall recommendation was a transfer  of Ms Cs OPS and PPP 
benefits to a QROPS  based in Guernsey (specifically The Bourse Retirement Trusts 
Scheme via the Bourse Investment Services platform QROPS) with the transfers to initially 
be invested and held in the Bourse Trusts Scheme bank account.
On 17 August 2011 Montfort emailed Ms C attaching files called QROPS  application ,
QROPS  transfer request, QROPS investment manager, Bourse PR and QROPS 
Beneficiary Election . It was said these were being  sent in order for her to proceed with their 
recommendations if she decided to do so. Any questions about the suitability report  were 
directed to their adviser. Instructions followed on how to complete the forms.
The email  also set out that in relation to Miss Cs pension plans, the overseas transfer 
discharge forms had been  requested from the providers.  
Ref: DRN05114406It was noted that Bourse  needed a particular form signed as her OPS  had an element of 
protected rights.
On 22 August 2011 Ms C signed  the Bourse QROPS application form. Her intended 
retirement age was provided as age 55. On 23 August 2011 Ms C emailed Montfort to say 
shed reviewed the documents sent via email and had a number  of concerns she wanted  to 
discuss further. And she noted  what areas  these covered. They  included:
-The transfer value  of her PPP was around £53,420. But shed seen this figure wasnt 
guaranteed and wanted to know if the figure  was likely to significantly reduce due to 
current economy/fall in share  prices.  And if so, she asked,  was this the right time to 
transfer this pension to QROPS?
-She asked what was meant by telling her that moving her pension to a Guernsey 
QROPS was a Benefit  Crystallization Event, which  would  result  in using 7.56% of her 
lifetime allowance.
-She was worried about annual costs  in relation to Bourse and Montfort Fees and she 
noted there was reference to 0.8% of any funds and she was concerned about the 
potential for growth of funds and wanted  to discuss potential  investment possibilities 
prior to progressing.
-She was also concerned about  the loss of her guarantees and benefits in relation to 
her OPS; and that Bourse didnt provide any guaranteed or protected income.
-Shed  understood that cash deposits  in Guernsey were limited  to £50,000 so she 
wanted to know  if the private bank experienced difficulties, was there  a potential for 
her to lose around £86,000.
-Ms C quoted Montforts recommendation statement dated 8 August 2011 we would 
not be in a position to recommend a transfer to QROPS  but it is the fact that although 
you have intended to exit the UK permanently and live in Australia your future plans  
could involve future relocation  to a future jurisdiction.
And Ms C said that if a more cost efficient  saving and income  method was recommended 
they would  strongly  consider it.
Montfort replied later the same day as her adviser was going  away so he wouldnt be 
available to speak  at the time shed suggested.  He said he was providing  some answers to 
her questions and gave her the details of other people to speak to in his absence. In 
summary Ms C was told:
-Montfort were monitoring the situation with transfers to ensure she got the best value. 
And if, when they received her transfer  request, the scheme  value had significantly 
reduced, theyd  speak  to her about it. They said the day value was £48,453 so there 
had already been a decrease, though that might increase by the time they received 
the forms from her.
-They said it wasnt necessarily the case that a transfer shouldnt be made at this time 
because if they used the right investments in the QROPS  then her fund value may 
well be able to recover quicker by transferring than it would in her existing scheme. 
Ref: DRN05114407They said this was because the current market made it a good one in which to buy 
investments whilst they were low in value,  perhaps, they suggested, artificially low. 
So they said she would potentially be able to buy more units/ shares following her 
transfer, so the funds  might then quickly increase in value, compared to her existing 
PPP.
-Montfort told Ms C, she didnt need  to worry about references  to her lifetime  
allowance. And because it was a long way short of the maximum and she wouldnt 
be building up further UK funds it would never  cause her an issue.  They said the FCA 
obliged them to point  it out but it was almost entirely irrelevant for nearly all of their 
clients.
- In relation to Ms Cs question about  costs  and growth Montfort said in summary that 
given her risk score  of 4 out of 10 as a lower  medium risk this meant she was 
prepared to take a moderate amount of risk in order to provide  higher returns. 
-And because the value of her funds in the QROPS were over £100,000,  this gave 
them the chance to use a Discretionary  Fund  Manager (DFM) and this was what they 
recommended for her. A DFM would set up a portfolio  with a wide mix of investments 
within her risk profile and so this would spread the risk. They  said this would allow  for 
the smoothing out of poor performing areas of the market. So the overall return would  
be very favourable.
Montfort told Ms C that although the DFM would charge a fee for funds under their 
management, theyd  expect to still achieve a return of 10% or more  a year growth for her in 
a lower medium risk portfolio, when averaged out over time.
Montfort added that this approach should only be considered if the funds would be left in the 
portfolio for at least  3 years and ideally until she took benefits  from the QROPS.
-In relation to her questions about her OPS and other options, Montfort said they 
recommended using a DFM. And said that although Bourse didnt offer guaranteed or 
protected income, the retirement  options and thus the benefits were  more flexible 
than UK schemes  and could  be tax free or at the very least  significantly tax reduced.  
They said it might  be that at a future point she would  take the funds to Australia 
anyway, where the benefit options were  even more flexible.
-Montfort agreed that her funds could be at risk if they were  invested in the one bank 
account in Guernsey.  But noted  they were recommending a DFM.  And so although 
some funds  would  be left in the bank account (to allow her to place a deposit on a 
currency order at some point  and to allow for ongoing administration  fees)  this would 
be well under £50,000.
Montfort went on to address their previous comment from 8 August  2011. And said they 
were not considering a transfer to Australia at the time. So the QROPS route was giving her 
the flexibility and control  she required for the future and allowed her to exit the UK net.
They said a direct transfer to an Australian  QROPS would perhaps be cheaper on charges, 
and she would take a hit on the exchange rate at present but the long term tax planning  
costs could be significant, if she ended up leaving Australia prior to her minimum retirement 
age of 60 and then left her pension marooned.
Ref: DRN05114408Montfort suggested Ms C could use a self-invested  pension plan (SIPP) in the UK and said 
this was a slightly cheaper  option than the QROPS (although not significantly). And said 
the advantage of this would be to have more  control  over the exchange rate than her 
existing scheme, if she went on to make an onward transfer to Australia.  Though  they said 
this would mean that she would continue to be bound by UK rules  until such  time as she 
moved the funds.
In summary  Montfort said although  there are perhaps other  cheaper  options out there,  they 
do not achieve the same objectives as the QROPS, with its increased flexibility,  once you 
have satisfied the 5 year QROPS period. 
Montfort then wrote  We did discuss all the options recently and at that time you explained to 
me that the QROPS was your favoured route.  For the sake  of relatively little difference  in 
costs, in the long run, any other route  would  therefore be second  best and I would suggest  
therefore they are not ideal.
The QROPS  provider  (Bourse)  told this service in November 2015 that their 2011 records 
showed a payment made to Montfort  of £6,126.44. This had been made up of 4% of the 
£136,143.39 (£5,445.73) initial fee and 0.5%  of the same amount (£680.71).  Bourse 
acknowledged this half yearly fee of 0.5%  had been  paid to Montfort  in advance,  rather  than 
in arrears (as it should have been), and apologized. They said no further fees were  paid to 
Montfort from the plans  bank  account.  Bourse told us they would only pay ongoing fees 
usually upon receipt of an invoice which hadnt  been  received here.
Bourse confirmed their QROPS had a foreign  exchange (FX) facility  and told us their facility 
was available  via their bankers and also via external FX dealers.  They  also confirmed  the
QROPS could open an Australian  currency account.
Ms Cs original complaint and responses
Ms C complained with the assistance of representatives. She complained  in particular that:
-a SIPP  would have  been a more  suitable option;
-her money was left sitting  in cash and not invested in line with her attitude to risk;
-she was charged a 0.5% commission payment  at the outset which  she feels  
shouldnt have  been paid as there was no ongoing advice received.
On 28 June 2013 Ms C emailed Montfort  having  received her statement from Bourse.
She was concerned to see a payment had been made to Montfort for Advisor fees of
£6,126.44 on 14 October  2011. She refers  to asking why the fee had been taken as she 
hadnt received  a recommendation  for future investments.
Montfort emailed Ms C on 8 July 2013. In this they apologized  that Ms C hadnt been 
impressed with the service of Montfort  and a particular  named individual.  Montfort confirmed 
they wanted to assist  Ms C and give her the benefit  of their experience and told her the 
named person could be left out of future dealings.
Limited material has been provided  to illustrate  contact between  this particular person and 
Ms C prior to this date. No complaint was made to us about a specific person.
Ref: DRN05114409Montfort said that having spoken to Ms C on the phone they thought the original 
recommendation for a Guernsey based QROPS  at the time of transfer had been  right for 
her. They also suggested  that cash could sometimes be the right investment option and 
gave some general reasoning for this. But they acknowledged that a flexible investment 
portfolio might also be suitable,  so long as liquidity was prioritized, to ensure any beneficial  
changes in the exchange rate werent  missed.
At this time Montfort explained  they thought the signs were for an exchange rate 
improvement as the UK economy improved and the Australian over heated.  So Montfort  
advised that an investment portfolio should be looked at to combat inflationary risk. But say 
Ms C confirmed she had cancelled their servicing  agreement, so they couldnt  do anymore 
until she agreed to a new one. They said they would need to complete updated fact finding 
and risk assessments.
In February 2014  Ms C complained formally to Montfort. In summary  she said:
Montforts recommendation  letter  had set out a transfer fee of 4% and an ongoing 
management charge  of 0.5%  half yearly from inception. But Montfort  had taken this 
management fee wrongly at inception.
Montfort had failed to ever make an investment recommendation. And she referred to 
an email sent by Bourse on 11 January 2012 outlining  what was needed  to set up an 
investment.
On 2 February 2012 Montfort emailed Bourse  asking if Ms Cs OPS transfer had 
completed. Ms C says this had completed in October 2011. At the time a reminder 
that the funds  were  held in cash was provided to Montfort.
Montfort contacted  Ms C on 26 June 2013  suggesting she should review her 
pension. Ms C was concerned this was a knee  jerk reaction  to an email  Bourse had 
sent to Montfort  on the same day.
Montfort had previously mentioned they should look at an investment  portfolio for her; 
so the fact they had taken their annual  management  fee, means she should  have 
received this service.
When Montfort emailed Ms C on 8 July 2013,  there was a comment that the 
exchange rate had moved in her favour.  But Ms C says there was never a currency 
trading agreement set up so she was in a detrimental position if she had wanted  to 
trade.
Ms C wasnt happy with her overall original recommendation. She thought  a SIPP  
would have been more suitable  as the fees shed been charged thus far, were 
quadruple to what she would  have  been  charged  by a SIPP. 
She didnt think her fund should  have been  left sitting in cash. She thought it should 
have been invested  in line with her attitude  to risk.
Ms C highlighted that shed transferred a large  portion of her funds out of a final salary  
scheme.
Ref: DRN051144010On 22 April 2014 Montfort apologized to Ms C for the delay in replying to her. They said the 
delay had been caused by an upgrade  to their computer system  which  had led to the loss of 
key information.  They said they were reinstating lost information  but had decided  to take 
what they referred to as the unusual step of replying in part using their memory and some 
client notes. They undertook to reply  more fully once they had their system fully mended  and 
once they had Ms Cs feedback.
They told Ms C that it would make no difference if her 0.5% fee was taken in advance  or in 
arrears in any event. But said they needed  access to her statements to understand what  had 
happened as they didnt  know if Montfort  had wrongly requested a fee too soon,  or Bourse 
had paid a fee which shouldnt have  been paid or if something else had happened.
They said there was already  an inbuilt FX facility within the Bourse product. So Montfort 
couldnt understand why she was complaining there  was no FX account established.
Montfort also said they couldnt understand why she was complaining about being charged 
for investing. They said that fund managers  all charge fees for their management service 
and Montfort charge  a fee for advising on structure  and actual funds.
Montfort said they couldnt  access the necessary information to answer her complaint about  
the lack of investment recommendation. But they said that when both of Ms Cs previous 
advisers had left Montfort, the message and position  was the same;  nothing  was to be done 
until prompted by Ms C or when it came for Montfort  to review; and in any event Ms C was 
comfortable in cash.
Montfort also said theyd  seen an email to Ms C when they recommended  an investment 
with Connaught. They said the detail  of the investment  wasnt  relevant but this indicated  
shed known she wasnt invested as they were in the process of making  recommendations 
to Ms C. They said they were confused about why she hadnt pressed them earlier if she 
was concerned her funds  were in cash.
On 24 April 2014 Ms C told Montfort  she wasnt happy with their email  responses which  she 
said didnt address the concerns provided  in February 2014. And she said she found the 
emails vague, speculative  and containing  inaccurate assumptions.  So she said she was 
going to refer her complaint to this service.
Montfort asked Ms C to explain. They said they wanted her views  so they could complete 
her final response letter. They said they couldnt  check the facts without access  to her 
information and so they asked her for access.
Ms C didnt accept what Montfort said and suggested they were failing to comply  with the 
regulators rules in relation to investigating and responding to a complaint.
Montfort said they wanted to provide a final decision letter  and their records  were complete. 
But they couldnt access information  from Bourse  without her permission. They said the 
issue of not being able to access  Montfort  internal records was temporary and unexpected.
In 2014 Ms C came to us and said attempts to resolve the matter through Montforts formal  
investigation and complaints procedures  had been  unsuccessful.
Ref: DRN051144011Prior to the merits of Ms Cs complaint being looked at, Montfort raised the issue  of whether 
this service had jurisdiction to consider the complaint, and a decision was issued on this. We 
also spent some time requesting the business  file from Montfort.
adjudicators view on merits of complaint, responses and addendum
During the time this case has been  at this service, a number  of adjudicators have  either 
worked on the investigation or been a point of contact whilst waiting for a decision to be 
made by an ombudsman. But only one view and addendum have been issued.
In my provisional decision I provided  a summary of the main  points of what  the adjudicator 
who issued the view and addendum said. I explained I did this to assist parties. But I 
stressed this was part of the earlier history of the complaint at this service. I came  to this 
case and my decision afresh and independently.
11 November 2015 view
The adjudicator issued a view concluding  Ms C's complaint  should  be upheld.  It was thought 
the advice to transfer into a QROPS gave no clear  advantage over a potentially cheaper 
alternative of a transfer into a SIPP. So suitable advice would have involved the use of a 
SIPP combined with advice to invest appropriately  within it. 
On the issue of charges the adjudicator thought Ms C had been justified in raising concerns 
over the payments made  to Montfort. The amount received into the QROPS was 
£136,143.39. The arrangement had been for Montfort to receive 4% initial and 0.5% 
biannually (totalling 1% per year) in arrears.
But the QROPS  provider had confirmed that it paid 0.5% in advance at the same time as the 
4% initially,  so not in arrears. The adjudicators  initial view was that Montfort  received 
commission above that which they were  entitled  to receive.  He accepted  this might have 
been an error on the part of Bourse and not noticed by Montfort; but they had still 
unreasonably benefitted from this and he thought  they should repay Ms C the difference  
received (£680.71).
The adjudicator thought  the initial intention was for further advice to be provided on an 
ongoing basis, but he didnt think this had happened.  So the on-going commission  couldnt 
be justified with hindsight.  It has been posited that Ms C didnt want ongoing advice from
Montfort.
The adjudicator went on to look at any failure  or duty to provide investment 
recommendations. He thought the recommendation letter and subsequent correspondence  
between Ms C and Montfort demonstrated  that part of the advice they were providing was in 
relation to the investments which would  be held within the QROPS.  He noted the completion 
of the attitude  to risk questionnaire  and referred to the email  of14 October  2011,  when  
Montfort confirmed  an investment  recommendation letter would be following shortly.
The adjudicator set out Montforts reasoning on why no investment advice was provided;  
namely that Ms C had wanted to keep  her funds in cash  to allow her to exchange into 
Australian dollars easily. But he didnt accept this.
He didnt think there was any evidence in the file to support this being her intention.  He said 
he would  have expected to see some  discussion of this between Montfort and Ms C. 
Ref: DRN051144012Particularly as he thought  staying in cash for anything  more than a short period of time was 
going against Montforts advice. So if their advice had changed (to staying in cash  
indefinitely), he said he would have expected to see that evidenced. Alternatively he thought 
that if Ms C was going against advice on an insistent client basis, he would also have 
expected to see that documented.
The adjudicator also noted that in such circumstances  hed expect to see Montfort provide
Ms C with regular updates  on the rate of exchange  if she genuinely had the intention of 
actually exchanging currency, but there was no evidence this was provided.
Instead the adjudicator said hed seen, in an email  dated 23 August 2011, that Ms C 
indicated she was concerned about the potential growth of the funds. He didnt think  this was 
consistent with being a concern of someone wanting to stay in cash.
Montfort said Ms C had an attitude  to risk of 4 out of 10 and they recommended  the DFM. 
The adjudicator thought  this clearly showed Montfort  had concluded it was suitable for Ms C 
to invest (rather than stay in cash). So he said he couldnt understand why Montfort were 
now arguing it was always  the intention for Ms C to stay in cash  as he didnt think there  was 
any evidence of this.
The adjudicator also acknowledged Montforts  proposition that if Ms C expected her funds to 
be invested, they queried why she hadnt asked them  what  was happening  in early 2012.  
The adjudicator said hed considered this submission, but didnt think it excused Montfort 
from failing  to provide  advice. The adjudicator thought it was more  likely by this time Ms C 
was preoccupied  by the service being provided  by the accountant introduced to her by 
Montfort. This was in the context of tax returns being required to be submitted in the near 
future.
In addition he didnt  think it was unreasonable to suggest that Ms C might not have realised 
her funds remained in cash. Shed said her understanding was Montfort were managing her 
funds and acting  in her best interests. She didnt have access  to online statements, so 
wouldnt have been able to check this. Additionally she had no previous experience of 
investing generally, (nor through her pension).
He went on to note that her OPS had required no investment management  and her PPP 
investment had never been altered. So he accepted she was entitled to assume that 
everything was going  as planned unless Montfort  told her otherwise  and he didnt think they 
had.
The adjudicator went on to question whether, assuming a cash position had been agreed, 
that would  have been a suitable recommendation. He couldnt see that it would have been 
here. He thought the cost of the new arrangement and inflation risk would have meant  that 
any cash position would result in an overall reduction in Ms C's retirement  fund. He accepted  
a recommendation  to remain in cash if there  was a particular reason  to think  that the UK 
pound would  significantly strengthen against the Australian dollar in the near future  might  be 
appropriate. But there was nothing documented and it couldnt have been known with any 
certainty.
As Ms C was a Lowest Medium risk investor,  remaining  in cash placed  her at risk of 
inflation related  loss and the potential that exchange  rates could turn against  her. At the 
same time, shed given  up the security offered by her previous schemes  and was then 
missing out on investment  growth.  Given the critical yields required by the new scheme  to 
Ref: DRN051144013match the benefits she was giving up, the adjudicator  thought it was essential  that 
investment was recommended in order to maintain the same level of benefit.  In any event, 
he couldnt understand why an appropriate  investment recommendation  hadnt  been made 
which provided sufficient  liquidity in the event that Ms C wished to convert her holdings  into 
Australian dollars. Or alternatively, why she couldnt have held some of her funds in cash in 
case of a requirement to exchange at short notice.
Overall he concluded  the events which led to Ms C's funds remaining in cash were  linked to 
staff leaving Montfort  without properly updating  their successors on what was required. He 
said the evidence  clearly showed  that it was intended that investment advice would be 
provided but this seemed to have  been forgotten. Regardless of Ms C's lack of action, she 
was the inexperienced  client paying the adviser  to recommend what  was best. So in these 
circumstances he thought it was only fair to conclude that Montfort  were  responsible.
The adjudicator acknowledged Montfort had referred to two calls. Hed not had access  to the 
notes from these calls,  but he didnt think that a call two years  after the advice could justify 
the cash position. He accepted the call note from 2011 might be useful and invited 
submission of this and other matters. The adjudicator went on to consider Ms Cs 
submission that a transfer into a SIPP would have been a cheaper option.
The adjudicator accepted  that in some  cases a SIPP could provide a cheaper solution to an 
individual in Ms C's position. But he didnt think this was the main consideration for Ms C 
here. He thought the issue of suitability  was dependent on the features which each option 
provided and how they applied to Ms Cs circumstances.
He went on to set out how he thought the differences  between a SIPP and a QROPS  could 
be summarised. He thought the potential of additional  flexibility  in taking benefits  was the 
primary distinction here. But he wasnt persuaded these potential  benefits were necessary or 
of real value for Ms C.
Other than the suitability report, he said there was no evidence  to suggest that Ms C 
intended to take benefits at the earliest opportunity. As this was Ms C's only pension 
provision it seemed unlikely that she intended to retire  early. In all likelihood  he thought she 
would have to work  beyond  those  dates in order to maintain a higher standard  of living. He 
also didnt see any benefit offered  in real terms to the potential lump sum, once everything  
else was taken into account.
Ultimately the adjudicator  thought Ms C could have achieved everything  that she required 
through a SIPP.  This included holding foreign currency (had she wanted to exchange funds  
to Australian dollars) and she would subsequently  have  been able to transfer the funds  to an
Australian pension  scheme had she wished  to at a later date.
Overall he didnt think the advice to transfer into a QROPS was the most  suitable or cost 
effective route for Ms C. He said what he thought Montfort should do to redress  this. This 
comparison was initially recommended to run from the date of the transfer until the date of 
complaint against  Montfort. The adjudicator also thought  Ms C should be paid £200 for the 
trouble caused  by the unsuitable advice; and set out how amounts should be paid.
following the initial view
Ref: DRN051144014Montfort sent a number  of submissions. During this time a new adjudicator had been 
allocated to this case, (as the previous adjudicator had moved on) and an addendum view 
followed.
The addendum acknowledged Montfort  said their responsibility should end in early  July 2013 
(the initial view proposed  responsibility ended at the date of complaint).The addendum view 
agreed with what Montfort said in relation  to dates and an amended approach to redress 
was provided. The relevant  period  for redress was to commence from the date of transfer  
until the date Ms C changed  advisers  (because  it was accepted by the adjudicator  that the 
new advisers could  have advised  and actioned a change in position. The remaining 
recommended redress  was to remain the same.
The adjudicator also posed a number  of questions to Montfort in her addendum view. Ive 
previously highlighted  that I didnt think these had been fully answered.  This hasnt changed.
Montfort identified  theyd received five payments relating to Ms C. But this information wasnt 
consistent with what Bourse had told us (and the adjudicator sent Montfort  the information 
from Bourse). So the adjudicator asked Montfort to confirm where theyd identified these 
payments came from. Ive previously  explained  I dont think this has been addressed. And I 
continue to think this is the case. Montfort appear to have changed their representations  on 
this.
The adjudicator noted shed seen  Montfort stressed  Ms Cs wish was to remain  in cash, and 
said their notes and personal discussions with Ms C (when a named individual  of Montfort 
was liaising on the tax issues in 2011 -2012)  confirmed  this. Montfort said she only wanted:
 to look at an investment  recommendation  when she was ready to do so and no earlier.  
Such an attitude is very common amongst migrants  as they come to terms with what are 
seen as more  important matters such as (not all are of consequence to Ms C however they 
do together put a perspective  on migration  and the period  following - we gauge this as do 
others as about  a period  lasting on average  2 years)".
The adjudicator asked Montfort to show where  Ms Cs wish to remain  in cash  was confirmed 
including documentary material  and Montforts justification. She thought the evidence  
showed an investment  recommendation was intended, but not followed  through;  as the 
previous adjudicator had set out. And she hadnt seen anything that enabled her to conclude 
Ms C actively wanted to stay in cash against  any intended investment recommendation, or 
that this was ever properly discussed.
The adjudicator recorded that Montfort said the notes left by Ms Cs adviser  when he left 
Montfort said that Ms C wanted to remain  in cash until she had considered  matters  further  
..[Montfort] had no reason  to doubt his notes as they tallied with Ms Cs conversations with 
me [the individual  who has dealt with Ms Cs complaint] and besides  if she were  concerned  ] 
about the investment recommendation she could bring it up - she didn't because she knew  
what was happening with the fund - it was staying in cash!  "
The adjudicator asked Montfort for the note left by the adviser, as well as the telephone  note 
of the conversation the individual dealing with the complaint said he had with Ms C which  he 
said tallied  with the original adviser's notes.  
I have previously set out that I didnt think this had been adequately  addressed.  I continue  to 
think this.
Ref: DRN051144015The person  dealing with the complaint  for Montfort also said that During  my discussions 
with Ms C.. she made no indication to me that she wanted the investment recommendation 
to be anything other than she hold in cash pending a more  favourable  FX to be obtained."
The adjudicator asked for Montfort to provide details and evidence  about where this was 
documented; and whether an investment report had been issued? If it had, Montfort were 
asked to also provide  a copy  of this. The adjudicator also asked Montfort to provide evidence  
to support their comment "So we gave her that time and said we would review again  when  
she was ready or in 12 months which we attempted  to do.
And we asked where the following had come  from; in the meantime  we advised her of who 
to contact - it's on file and that she should  watch the FX reports that were being  delivered by 
her FX dealer ".
It doesnt appear these  requests have been  addressed. Save for the fact that Montfort have  
sent us details on a number of occasions  of the Australian adviser  they said they introduced 
Ms C to.
The adjudicator went on to refer to a copy of an email sent to Ms C by another person at
Montfort. The email mentioned:
I believe  we should look at an investment portfolio for you so that you can combat the 
inflationary risk that currently  exists  but one that works with your migration and limits 
investment and liquidity risk, I am more  than happy  to put this together  for you. However 
usually to pay for investment advice, there is a servicing agreement in place."
The adjudicator asked why this recommendation had not been  made  previously. The 
adjudicator also asked Montfort to evidence where theyd communicated  to Ms C that
she was not worse  off by having this QROPS. Our advice  was based upon what  news and 
rumours were prevalent at the time."
The adjudicator expressed her view that another suitable option  would  have been  to remain  
in a UK based  pension. The adjudicator  went on to identify Montforts comment "we had 
highlighted to her [Ms C] .. if we moved  the fund directly to Australia  then
(a)She would  not have  been able to move the pension back to UK if Australia did not 
work out for her."
The adjudicator went on to highlight the previous  adjudicator  hadnt  implicitly or explicitly  
accepted Montfort  had told Ms C, her fund would  remain in cash and that they would provide 
an annual review, to the extent that Ms C should have known and understood this. The 
previous adjudicator had highlighted Montforts  recommendation letter that said Montfort 
would:
"...review your [Ms Cs] situation  and look at the availability of investments or discretionary 
fund managers...  to manage  your [Ms Cs] fund.
She also asked Montfort to point to where their claim  Ms C had set up the Moneycorp
Account and this was so she could trade at advantageous rates and be update on market  
movements was documented.
The adjudicator asked Montfort to provide call notes and specifically she referred  to
Ref: DRN051144016Montforts comment that they advised Ms C that we couldnt be calling her every day in 
case the FX moved and that she should  take advantage of the service  set up by Moneycorp 
so she could keep  abreast  of currency movements.  And that theyd told us "[Ms C] had 
been in regular contact since the time of the transfer  and was being asked what she wanted 
to do about investing and was she ready  for the investment report.  Montfort said theyd told 
her essentially  say it would stay in cash as she had requested".
Montfort were asked for documentation on these points and asked why it could be said cash  
would meet Ms Cs attitude to risk; and whether there were  liquid investments they had in 
mind to enable quick  currency transfers and potential growth.
Montfort said the previous adjudicator had made  reference in his view to the fact Ms C was 
not a sophisticated investor;  but that hed failed to mention that Ms C, by moving out of the 
UK, had moved  herself into a complex situation  requiring  sophisticated advice.
The adjudicators addendum view considered this submission contradictory. She said Ms C 
made the decision to move outside  of the UK on the basis of advice provided by Montfort. So 
it was Montfort's responsibility to provide advice which  would have been the most suitable  
option for her at the time. Montfort and the adjudicator went on to have some  discussions 
about what was meant  by this. Montfort  felt this statement was mis-leading  and that it had 
been Ms Cs choice to move to Australia. The adjudicator didnt think  anyone  would 
reasonably have understood the adjudicator  to have been suggesting Montfort were 
responsible for Ms C physically leaving the UK, she thought it evident this related to Ms Cs 
financial position, given  particularly the nature of this complaint and the facts.
The adjudicator went on to remind Montfort each  case is considered on its individual merits.
She acknowledged this service  was aware of Montforts concerns about Ms Cs current  
adviser but said that in the circumstances,  she thought this irrelevant; as we were 
considering the suitability  of the advice at the time, irrespective of who advised  Ms C at a 
later date. The adjudicator  explained she agreed overall with the original view, subject to the 
updated redress; unless  the further  information shed requested  from Montfort allowed her to 
change her view.
Ms Cs response to view
Ms C agreed with what the adjudicator  said overall.  She told us Montforts submissions were 
wrong. She said there  hadnt been many conversations during 2011 and 2012  about her 
holding cash.  She thought Montfort contradicted  themselves saying that once  she arrived  in 
Australia she wasnt the easiest person to make contact with. Ms C says Montfort  are wrong 
to say she knew they hadnt delivered a formal investment strategy because she wasnt 
expecting one; this isnt what happened. She says there was never any discussion that 
Montfort would review the situation if they hadnt heard from her in 12 months.
Ms C says issues  relating  to the completion of her tax return are irrelevant to this complaint.
She agrees a tax adviser was identified and introduced to her by the individual  who has dealt 
with her complaint  at Montfort; and she says there  were issues  in relation to poor 
communication and delay  in completing the return.  This was despite assurances from the 
Montfort person  this would not be the case. Ms C refers to this being similar to her 
experience with Montfort.
Ms C wants  to make it clear she has not constructed  and fabricated [her] complaint for 
unknown motives as suggested  by Montfort. She says she paid them for professional 
Ref: DRN051144017service in good faith due to her limited  knowledge  in the area.  But she remains  concerned  
the service received was far from satisfactory.
Ms C told us she hadnt replied to all the comments provided on the 23 page document  
supplied by Montfort in January 2016; but would do so as required. But in summary  the 
information was inaccurate and didnt  represent a true reflection of the facts.
Montforts responses
Overall Montfort are unhappy about  a number  of issues relating to the complaint and they 
initially suggested they were never given the opportunity by Ms C to put things  right. They 
have made  substantial submissions over a very extended  period of time. As Ive previously 
explained I hope its understood I have only summarized the main thrust herein.
In their submissions of 17 January 2016, Montfort  stress their reason for recommending the
Guernsey based  QROPS  didnt relate  to the lump  sum available. As they say the long term 
plan was always to move to an Australian  QROPS if she was seen to be staying in Australia 
but [they] couldnt recommend immediately  as we were concerned  about  the situation  (which
she had referred to in our communications) of a possible return  to the UK.
Montfort suggest Ms C ignored their emphasis and referral to liaise with [their]  Australian  
adviser on her needs post arrival. They  say that if she had pursued the relationship  she 
would have benefitted significantly by managing any changes  to strategy regarding the 
timing of being able to draw benefits.
As part of their submissions they pointed to extracts from their advice to Ms C. Including 
comments to Ms C, that she required flexibility in her pension  solutions should she not 
remain in Australia and that they have noted  as part of their advice a move  back to the UK 
may be involved. More  recent submissions made by Montfort are apparently inconsistent 
with these submissions.
But as part of these  earlier  submissions Montfort told us that if Ms C moved funds to 
Australia immediately and subsequently left Australia, then Australian legislation would 
prevent any transfer  of funds out of Australia due to the fees that would be incurred. So they 
say their recommendation is to allow the option  to move funds to an Australian QROPS as 
part of a possible future strategy  and that Guernsey was always a holding  position.
Montfort dont accept Ms C didnt  fully understand and appreciate matters; including how her 
funds were held. Montfort pointed to her employment and said she was an intelligent person.  
They say she was informed and educated  about  her position. And say that even if she had 
limited investment understanding, which they vehemently disagree, she would have known  
her position  and if she had any doubts  she would have raised the issue. 
Montfort say the investment recommendation was deferred because Ms C clearly wanted to 
remain in cash due to the exchange rate. In any event they say she gained from what 
happened as the FX rate was improving  during  the period she was in cash. So they ask why 
we have not considered this.
Montfort make a number  of submissions about their experience, Ms Cs knowledge  and 
choice and what they would have done if they had not heard  back  from her within 12 
months. They have  also made comments about the phase Ms C would have been in and 
how this would have  affected her; and what else they were considering at the time. They 
Ref: DRN051144018also say that if they are wrong about  Ms C not expecting  an investment report; why didnt 
she contact them to ask where her investment  advice was. They say there is no other 
explanation than that she wasnt expecting  it.
In April 2016 Montfort told us Ms C had been  positioned so as to monitor  the FX and her 
phasing into the market was clearly not going to be into the traditional market anyway.
Montfort say the person who took over as Ms Cs client manager after her first adviser left, 
also then left. And it was during his handover to the individual  dealing  with Ms Cs complaint 
that he said Ms C wasnt ready  to go into the market. We havent  been sent anything to 
document this it appears. In any event Montfort  insist Ms C saw safety in remaining in cash. 
Montfort think you can only push  a client so far and this is a fair position for a client who has 
just migrated. 
Montfort have raised concerns about  people now at Ms Cs current  advisers and 
representatives and are unhappy about alleged links between individuals.
on charges
Montfort think the issue of the 0.5%  charge is a major concern. They say Ms C was aware of 
the charging structure and there  was no attempt to overcharge. More recently, following my 
provisional decision they have said more on this.
further matters
In relation to this complaint, Montfort have repeatedly  provided  this service with a copy  of a 
correspondence dated 15 May 2008  from the FSA (the regulator at the time). It is addressed 
to a person working at Montfort  and says its replying to a letter from 16 April; a copy  of 
which has not been provided.
This letter sets out that the regulator  would expect any authorized  adviser to take all 
material circumstances into account. A reply is then given to an unknown  question in 
relation to a scenario that has obviously been  posed. It includes the reference  that all known 
future plans  must be taken into account. And that the regulator would not expect all advisers 
to be conversant  with overseas tax regimes unless they purported  to be experts  in such  
advice.
In my provisional decision I specifically asked for the surrounding documents  of this 
correspondence, if I am being  asked to take it into account. So that I may understand the 
context.
Nothing more  was provided  on this; save a further copy of the same  letter.
Montfort referred to having been  led by the regulator. I also previously explained  that if this 
is intended to imply  they have followed  specific guidance, then this isnt clear to me.
Montfort have made a number of submissions about needing to educate their clients. And as 
part of this process they have repeatedly told us we need to take into account  their Stage 1 
document. They have referred  to this document being how they provide preliminary 
guidance and inviting client comment and questions. Montfort say Ms C had many 
questions and she knew what the situation was. They have  also made submissions in 
Ref: DRN051144019relation to how this fits into the picture  that is then completed by the provision of the Stage 2 
and Stage 3 reports.
Montfort say that when  clients choose  to live outside  the UK, they [Montfort] cant be 
responsible when the person chooses  to move into a complex and sophisticated financial 
advice area.
Montfort repeatedly  stress the importance  of the Stage 1 report  as part of their advice 
process and that they feel that we are not taking it into account. They say Ms C knew the 
issues and she was so well-informed.  We had to upskill  her. They have told us that Ms C 
was .. given a thorough  de-brief and we raised her understanding by delivering  Stage 1 on 
9/8/10. She was advised not to read it in one go but take it slowly and raise questions of her 
adviser and the Australian Adviser.
Montfort sent us copies  of the appendices they say they send in advance  of their advice. 
They also told us that in their view Financial  Planning reports  often contain appendices  that 
dont get read. So we supply these in advance, this is particularly important so that clients 
facing a life changing challenge of migration dont poo-poo the complexity  of such.
Montfort have repeated  the thrust of this submission again, a number of times, more  
recently. Montfort think that clients will only read a report if It has been paid for. They  
supplemented their thinking  that theyre not responsible for the complexity, but have to 
explain it so that a client gets it. And they have  also told us:
A client may not meet a definition  of being  sophisticated yet when  one has to look at cross 
border issues, there  is no getting away from the fact that issues arising  will be sophisticated.
That is not a firms fault but a fact of circumstance.  Hence  the need  to drip feed valuable  
information that prepares the client for the advice.
On 28 February 2017 Montfort contacted this service and asked the adjudicator what we had 
received from Montfort in relation to fact finding.  They asked if we had received their Stage 1 
report and they provided submissions on the importance and relevance of this document.
They say its their pre-migration  education programme delivered so that clients understand 
their advice. Montfort point out that clients choose to migrate,  its not Montfort  who have 
made them; so the client  has chosen  to put themselves in a complex  situation.
On 4 March 2017 Montfort provided  us with a copy of a Stage 1 report entitled for Mr & Mrs 
Migrant. They also asked  if we have the Stage 2 and Stage 3 report. Montfort have asked 
me to look at the explanation on risk profile  provided  in their Stage 2 report.  They say this 
was sent to Ms C in January  2011. This also contains a note for migrants at the bottom  
which reads we believe most migrants are confused about their investment risk profiles..  
[and that they are in effect] Migrant Cautious .
Montfort say they sent their Stage 3 report to Ms C on 1 February 2011. They  believe this 
document and its invitation for her to ask any questions about risk made Ms C fully  aware  
about risk and she acknowledged receipt  of this document. Montfort have referred to Ms Cs 
stage 3 document being updated on 6 July 2011.
In addition to other  documents,  as Ive previous set out, a copy  of Ms Cs personal report  
from Montfort entitled Qualifying Recognised Overseas Pension Scheme Recommendation  
dated 8 August 2011 has been  provided. Montfort  say they told Ms C repeatedly that her 
situation wasnt straightforward.
Ref: DRN051144020Montfort ask me to conclude that Ms Cs position differed to a UK person who wasnt 
moving. They told us what they thought were some  of the relevant concerns for Ms C, as 
someone with the lowest medium  attitude  to risk. These included:
Lost opportunity  if the FX is up and Ms C wants  to switch  to Australian dollars but her 
portfolio is down. 
Concerns if a person wants to move  the funds to an Australian scheme within months  
of exiting a UK scheme.
Montfort say its normal  in these circumstances to pause and reflect instead of rushing  into a 
portfolio of investment as the settling in process  takes priority as a rule over all other 
matters.
Montfort say they continued to discuss investment with Ms C after 27 October 2010.  And 
they say that during 2011 and 2012  when  the tax position was being considered, there were 
many conversations  about the holding being  in cash. They  say there  was  also significant 
discussion about the Australian  dollar and keeping an eye on when to enter the market.
Montforts submissions of 28 April 2016 said there  is one overarching rule with a migrant 
dont ever ever rush them  So they have referred to not pushing  Ms C to invest when they 
say she had said she wasnt  ready for formal investment advice, as otherwise they would 
have lost the client.
Montfort ask us to consider that its standard practice for a UK adviser  to phase a portfolio 
from cash to full investment and they think this was not particularly different. And they think  
its important to understand that a QROPS  and a SIPP  can both have an Australian  focused 
portfolio, but not where there is a retail  registered personal pension.
Montfort say there was a real concern at the time that the UK could restrict transfers out of
UK registered pension schemes. And they say it would have been even worse  for them  if the
UK had banned  transfers out of the UK. Montfort  think if this had happened,  it would have  
led to a complaint  that Montfort had failed to consider an important  issue.
Montfort think Ms C had been impatient  to get her tax affairs finalized. And they think this 
explains her reluctance to engage with the person who went  on to deal with her complaint  at 
Montfort, because  she held him responsible  for the introduction to a tax adviser with whom 
shed been dissatisfied. Montfort think her dis-satisfaction was wrong.
Montfort say they jumped into action when  she called;  but their view is that by then she had 
clearly been speaking to people whod  influenced  her against Montfort and she had moved 
her authority  away from Montfort.
In submissions received  on 28 April 2016 Montfort  appeared to be suggesting a number of 
the alternatives that Ms C didnt want. And on 29 April 2016 Montfort sent in submissions 
that included highlighting  that where  a UK pension is transferred into the Australian 
superannuation scheme, there  is a tax advantage. And particularly they say there  is no 
penalty provided you are EX-UK for 5 complete  UK tax years.
More recently Montfort have sent in a number of ongoing submissions and thoughts on this 
complaint. These have  included a stream of thinking  on what  Montfort say were Ms Cs 
Ref: DRN051144021concerns about  moving to Australia (having never lived there) with an Australian partner; and 
they suggest she was concerned about  how she would cope and how it would be best 
managed. These submissions dont seem entirely consistent with Montforts  more  recent 
submissions.
Montfort say Ms C was worried about UK rules  changing and that the tax rules didnt allow 
for an opt-out if things  didnt work out. Montfort say that Ms C was well aware via their 
provision of the Stage 1 etc.
They say for this reason the conclusion  a QROPS was unsuitable doesnt tally with the 
circumstances. And that any other conclusion would be to think an individual should do 
nothing and thus adopt a reactive not proactive approach.
Montfort say their advice  wasnt driven  by a financial interest as they werent going to charge  
for any on-movement to an Australian scheme.
On 28 April 2016 Montfort provided  a table entitled Part 2. This uses the headers key 
issues  and what were montfort  up against . And goes on to use headers referring to 
objectives and reflections.  This document includes personal recollections and thinking.  In 
summary this appears to urge the point that circumstances can be challenging and 
unknown; and what the consequences are of not taking account of circumstances.
Montfort say they fail to understand why a SIPP should be preferred. And in relation to any 
suggestion that Ms Cs benefits could have remained  in the UK they respond: What if UK 
changed the rules- what would her reaction be if we had not considered this position and 
how could this potentially  damage her Australian Age pension benefits? To not do so would  
have mean  failing to treat the customer fairly .
Montfort repeat that after examining  the benefits  they couldnt not move her funds out of the
UK for fear that benefits would be marooned in UK.
Montfort have told this service that Ms C knew full well that she needed to speak to her 
Australian adviser or themselves if she had any questions. And they say that she contacted  
them to complain prior to their review; and so beat  them to it. They  repeat that she knew 
exactly what her situation was.
Montfort say neither Ms C nor the Australian  adviser reported any change in circumstances  
from the day on which Montfort last spoke to Ms C. This is when its said Ms C said shed be 
back in contact when  she was ready, when Montfort were anticipating doing a full review 
(which they say would  have been  about 12 months later). Montfort have expressed the view 
that they believe they were going to be shoved off the scene when it came  to the review 
anyway.
Montfort say theyre  disappointed in who they think  Ms C sought alternative  advice  from. 
In March 2017 Montfort expressed their view that this service considers QROPS toxic as a 
product. Montfort  say QROPS are not a product but a complex concept. They also said their 
view was this service  treats QROPS  as a complex  solution only suitable  for sophisticated 
investors.
Ref: DRN051144022On 17 March 2017 Montfort emailed the adjudicator saying an adjudicator  had given a view 
that a QROPS wasnt necessary. They thought the adjudicator had reached  his view too 
quickly and they set out what they wanted this service to consider and confirm knowledge of.
They said Ms C was unsure of her long term residency as to whether it would be Australia 
or not. And Montfort  said they were also worried that the long term impact  of scams would 
be the cessation of QROPS. They  said they had been worried  that if they didnt move her 
into a QROPS, her pension scheme  could have been marooned in the UK if shed stayed in 
Australia. Montfort think  that if theyd  moved  her to Australia, it would have been marooned if 
that didnt work out. They said the Guernsey QROPS solved this problem, as it can move to 
the UK or Australia.
Since the adjudicators first view,  Montfort have sent significant quantities of further  
submissions. It isnt practical or necessary for me to highlight  everything provided, but I have 
considered it all carefully. For completeness Id like to highlight some  of the other  material  
has included:
Media Release from the Australian Senate  Select Committee  Note from 2002.
A leaflet  for an event  about QROPS  from June 2011 (including  the biographies of the 
speakers).
A Times  article from 1996 about the potential  impact  of scams.
Links to on-line government guidance.
 A copy of their document entitled Letter of Introduction  in relation to Ms C with her 
UK address  (signed  in September  2010).  Said to contain the terms of the letter that 
Ms C and her partner signed.
I have not made any finding on whether these (in the last document noted  above) would be 
binding terms or not, and I have not been asked to.
Some of this material and other material provided by Montfort has been sent to us more  than 
once.
Montfort say its a vital part of their service that Ms C was linked with an Australian adviser; 
as they are the eyes and ears in the country.  They say she was less than one hour driving 
from the advisers offices; so they say there  was no issue of distance and in their view there 
wasnt an adviser where she was living with the necessary competence . Albeit Ive seen 
their terms  set out they dont represent  the adviser they introduced her to but that they might 
receive a fee should advice be given,
They say that because she signed to be introduced  to the adviser she well and truly knew 
the ropes as they had been  well explained  as to the necessity.. [but] when she arrived  in 
Australia she proved difficult (we have been  advised)  to engage with, with the Australian 
adviser, she was , we understand always busy. Should a client not engage despite being 
advised of the importance  then when non engagement does happen  (which  is rarely) it 
makes it very difficult to deliver a conjoined  advice  process.
Montfort say they hope we understand the importance of having trusted advisers  outside  the
UK. In summary Montfort said that if a client wont engage theres nothing they can do. They 
say it would have  been easy for the people she made  contact with to have referred her back 
to Montfort but this didnt happen. 
updated information from Ms C
Ref: DRN051144023Prior to completing my provisional decision in September 2018 I confirmed the current 
position with Ms C and set out what wed been told. Its understood:
She returned to the UK in September 2017.
She lives, works (since January 2018)  and pays tax in the UK.
She is now working for local government again  and is a member of the LGPS.
She has a UK bank  account and has no history  of making  investments.
She remains invested in the Bourse Guernsey QROPS.
From  October 2011 to June 2013  her funds had remained  in cash.
From  March  2014 Ms Cs funds  were invested following advice from her new 
advisers, via a discretionary fund manager.
She didnt know what  costs and fees were incurred to complete the investments and 
ongoing advice  and management.
provisional decision and updated thinking on redress
On 11 September  2018 I issued a provisional decision where I indicated that at that time I 
intended to uphold Ms Cs complaint in part. But I intended to depart from parts of the 
original view and addendum. I set out what I thought was the right approach  to redress. But I 
also invited further  information. 
I was concerned that as some significant  time had passed since the complaint was first 
made the thrust of Ms Cs complaint  and the real issues  may not be at the centre of thinking.  
Id seen that during the time this complaint has been waiting for an ombudsmans  decision,  
there had been  a flow of further  submissions,  (including incomplete submissions) and emails 
promising further  submissions from Montfort. Id also seen Montfort had asked what  weve 
received, which  tended  to suggest to me, they may have found it a challenge to keep track of 
their own submissions.  A  number of their emails repeated points and attachments 
previously submitted. So as well as indicating my proposed thinking; I also encouraged focus 
on the issues and points parties  wished to make.
I asked parties to reflect with care and to send anything further  as a single complete 
submission with any attachments at the same  time.  I thought  otherwise parties may do 
themselves a disservice, having seen the approach adopted by Montfort, if submissions  
continued to be provided apparently incomplete  or ad hoc. 
I went on more recently  to provide my updated thinking on redress.  Parties were given the 
opportunity to respond to this. I reminded parties  to focus on providing a single submission. I 
also explained that save for anything new, the opportunity to respond  was in relation to my 
proposed redress  as I thought there  had been more than sufficient time to respond to my 
provisional decision.
Montforts responses
Montfort provided a number of further  submissions. I hope  it will be understood again that 
although I havent summarized everything they have said,  I have read and considered  
everything with care.  I am in any event of the view that the majority of their responses 
involved repetition and an apparent  failure to recall  what has previously been said.
Ref: DRN051144024Much of what Montfort have said centres on their current  thinking  that they clarified Ms Cs 
initial thoughts about a permanent move and seeking permanent employment in Australia. 
And they have circled  round to making substantial  submissions on the merits and why their 
systems and processes  are properly designed to ensure recommendations are suitable. 
They have also provided a copy of their proposed timeline and notes on what  they say 
happened and when.
Montfort say that because  Ms C started  work  in Australia on 4 January 2011 she must have 
secured employment  between  17 October 2010 and 6 December 2010  when she returned to 
the UK following the death of her father. Montfort  think this shows  a crucial confirmation  of 
her commitment to Australia. In fact Montforts  position has become more  entrenched and 
they have told us:
Ms C always  intended to move permanently to Australia, the case  put forward  by Ms C and 
her advisors appears to be based  upon  uncertainty of her future  plans. There  was no 
uncertainty as the new evidence will categorically  confirm... If they were going to flit between 
UK, they would have  made it known and they would have made  it known to Montfort.  
It seems  Ms C 9 years on appears now to be tax resident  in UK and this is without any 
shadow of a doubt a change in plan from when  she met with Montfort and completed [the] 
tax questionnaire. There was no intention to become tax resident in the UK again,  else they 
would have said.  And
An acknowledgement of the complexity  of interpreting these technicalities  is fundamental to 
this case. If she was showing any intention of returning to UK, then our advice would have 
been appropriate to her objectives and commentary.  The only reference we have to a return 
to the UK that we can find was in her first email,  everything else signifies a permanent move 
with visits for family and social  reasons. Returns for family visits are not uncommon .
Albeit they also added:
There  will always  be a possibility that someone  would leave a country  however miniscule 
and return and move on because of a job offer in perhaps even another country. We have to 
consider the degrees to which what is likely and what is not and what  is actual fact supplied  
by a customer. Ms C was definitely not moving  back to UK to live; she had been questioned 
and questioned on this and never suggested  a return to live in UK was on the agenda.
Montfort say now that it was abundantly evident as they advised in this case  that there 
was no perfect solution.  But that the UK allowed people to transfer  a pension outside of the 
UK whilst the Australian system trapped a pension transferred  into their system until a 
condition of release  was achieved.
Montfort have continued  to make  substantial representations on what  Montfort  say are the 
differences between  the UK Pension and Australian Superannuation situations.
Montfort say the plan was always to get Ms Cs pension into an Australian superannuation 
and that: it was simply considered that an immediate  transfer  would not suit her then 
situation.  Montfort  now say Ms Cs thinking had changed and moved on from her very 
earliest contact with them. But they do highlight  one of her early  questions to them Which 
tax system, Australian or UK is best suited to our needs. 
And Montfort  say this is highly relevant to understanding migrants  thinking,  they think they 
can choose the tax system they want.  We are forever  having  to deal with people  who think 
Ref: DRN051144025that as a resident of Country  A in this case Australia that if they earn income in another  
country in this case UK, they can choose  which country they pay tax in. This is a complete 
fallacy and misjudgement.  You dont choose  your tax status. Your visa, your time in a 
country and your ties, etc determine and make  the decision for you, you cant  pick and 
choose. We ask whether  the Ombudsman  is aware  of this because  we have not seen  
evidence that this has been  factored in as this is core to a QROPS strategy against a SIPP 
strategy.
In response to what should  happen  next if I were to uphold the complaint, Montfort feel they 
are being  held responsible for Ms C having  a change of plan.  They think a transfer back to a 
UK SIPP can only be considered if she is categorically staying in UK, and that its important 
to bear in mind  that remaining in the UK was never  on the horizon in 2010. They  have also 
referred to their thinking about Ms Cs need for updated and appropriate advice.
They think  Ms C currently  has the best of both worlds.. she can always bring the funds back 
[to the UK] and she can always  move the funds  to Australia. But in respect  of any 
submissions Montfort say there are just too many  permutations  to consider without the full 
facts.. her current  advisors would base  their advice on her plans for long-term residency [and 
to not base advice in this way] would be admitting incompetence . 
As Montfort  dont think the advice to move  into a QROPS was unsuitable, they dont appear 
to think that any ongoing  fees ought to be met by them. They  think  they would have  only 
recommended a DFM if needed.  And have commented their belief  that if Ms C remains in a 
QROPS this is because  her current advisers  consider it right for her current circumstances.
They think  just because  QROPS tend to be more expensive than a UK scheme, it doesnt 
make any cheaper option, the better  option.
In relation to the issue of the fee (0.5%)  paid to Montfort initially rather than in arrears as it 
ought to have been, Montfort have sent in further comments and told us:
the work involved.. in this case of ensuring the clients situation was bedded down  is 
significantly greater than for a transfer for a UK resident, Ms C was not a UK tax resident.
Overall I understand  the thrust of Montforts  position to continue  to be:
this most complex of subjects, that of dealing with people  with cross-border issues  requires 
a firm to go to such lengths to confirm  that we were  sure beyond reasonable doubt that Ms C 
was moving permanently and even then we had a contingency in place if she did waiver. 
Ms C and her advisers
In general terms Ms C and her advisers  agree with the proposed  redress. 
It has been confirmed  that it looks unlikely Ms C can be reinstated  into her OPS. Ms Cs 
advisers appear to have  acknowledged that if this is the case  then Ms Cs plans  for long 
term residency will need  to be reviewed; but say that currently  this is uncertain with both the 
UK and Australia as possible  options.  They think there are some aspects of the QROPS that 
would make it suitable for it now to continue (and have  referred  to the adequacy of 
administration and the range of investments choices).
Ref: DRN051144026Equally theyve referred to the costs  associated with the QROPS; and that these could be 
significantly reduced or negated through the direct use of a UK scheme. But they have 
highlighted the transfer out fee and commented that incurring this fee might not be the most 
appropriate option if Ms Cs future plans might be outside of the UK. And theyve  identified  a 
consideration should be made of how any redress ought to be paid.
Its also said that the reasons stated for the use of the QROPS (e.g. currency control) could 
have been possible  through  the UK SIPP offerings available at the time. 
Its agreed on behalf of Ms C, that my comments in my provisional  decision on Ms C are 
right, that she didnt  have any real need  to access her benefits sooner rather than later and 
she planned to continue to work.
Ms C has responded  promptly and as requested to this service.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I havent  changed  my 
thinking overall from that provided in my provisional  decision. I dont think  Montforts advice 
for Ms C was suitable  given her particular circumstances.
I have looked  with real care and attention at everything that has been provided to date. If I 
dont comment on any particular point  or thought or document,  it should be understood that 
doesnt mean I havent looked at something, and taken account of it, as part of my overall  
thinking. As Ive previously explained,  its not part of my ambit to rehearse everything that 
has been provided to this service.
Ive summarized the view and addendum provided earlier in the investigation. This was done 
to assist. But I hope it is understood that I have looked at this case  afresh.
In their more recent submissions Montfort  made a comment about being asked to respond to 
my proposed  redress and they said they felt I ought  to have been asking about the facts 
surrounding the case as thats the issue when determining when a complaint is upheld, not 
the redress. They also appear to think evidence (previously supplied) about whether the 
move to Australia was to be permanent  or not hadnt  been  considered  and so ought to be 
considered new evidence.
I dont agree and I think this highlights why I thought the provision of a flow of submissions 
can sometimes cause focus  to be lost. More recent submissions from Montfort appear to fail 
to recall what has already  been provided  and said; and without  reference  to my provisional 
decision. For example  on 13 June 2019,  Montfort  said there  had been  absolutely  no 
reference  to their Stage 1 procedure. This was not accurate as this was addressed in the 
provisional decision as well as forming part of ongoing correspondence  from and with 
Montfort. My provisional decision was of some length to assist in overcoming this concern. In 
the same  way this decision is also of some length  to reflect  the history. This matter has gone 
on for some time, and I hope  the provision of this final decision will enable parties to move  
on and Ms C to start to make some more  definite  arrangements.
It is important  to bear in mind this service is and is intended to be an alternative  to the court  
process. Its intended to be informal and is intended  to be accessible to all, including those 
who are not legally or financially  qualified for example.
Ref: DRN051144027I dont think the advice given to Ms C was suitable  for her objectives  or circumstances. I 
dont think that at the time Montfort advised  Ms C, it was necessary or appropriate for her to 
be advised to transfer out of her OPS  arrangement.  I dont think  it was suitable for her to 
have transferred into a QROPS; nor do I think a SIPP  would have been required  at the time. 
I think, had Ms C been suitably advised at the time, she would not have changed her 
arrangements at the time. Save for, as Ive previously set out, the amalgamation of the OPS 
within the LGPS.
I dont think the advice to transfer to any QROPS was appropriate or necessary at that 
particular time. In my provisional decision I set out that I understood it was agreed, that when 
Ms C first met with Montfort her future  plans were  very much  undecided. 
Montforts submissions since my provisional decision now say the opposite to this and they 
are now firmly of the opinion that Ms C always intended to move  and stay in Australia and 
should she have  returned to the UK, this would have been  on the most temporary of basis.  
Save they accept the initial email from Ms C indicates uncertainty.
Montfort have referred to making extensive  checks with Ms C to confirm her position  in their 
post provisional decision correspondence,  I havent  seen this documented to any 
substantive extent and I would have  expected  this to be the case. And I consider this a 
complete change from what was said by Montfort before.
In saying that I think Montfort have changed what they say about  Ms Cs intentions,  I have 
referred myself to my provisional  decision,  where  I accepted all that Montfort had told us 
about Ms C being  someone who was yet to have made final decisions about  her future. And 
what they said about the uncertainty and caution  experienced by many of those migrating. I 
previously agreed with Montforts submissions that clients moving overseas should be 
treated and advised with caution too; and that such moves may often fail or result in a return 
to the UK. For example  Montforts own submission that Ms C was unsure of her long term 
residency  as to whether  it would be Australia or not.
It was also recorded  in their original  recommendation report that their advised  route  was of 
preference to transferring  to Australia as she wanted  to maintain security, so that if she were 
to return to the UK or move to another country she could  transfer  out of the QROPS.
Ms C didnt return to the UK until more recently. She had originally secured professional  
employment and was apparently based  in Australia.  I agree this couldnt have been  known  
at the time she was originally advised.  But equally Ive seen Ms C gave persuasive reasons 
as to why she was intending to return to the UK for some time (for work and family reasons) 
as well as the background  of continued property  ownership. I also think  at times during  the 
history of Montforts submissions on this case, they have  acknowledged that it is usually  right 
for an adviser to take into account  in such circumstances, the potential for a migration to fail. 
Here I think there was a real basis to conclude Ms C might well return  to the UK and work in 
the short to medium  term, even if she stated an intention to eventually base herself in 
Australia. She was not intending to stop working  imminently, nor was she apparently in a 
position to do so. I dont see a need  for an immediate off-shore holding position.  Nor have I 
seen persuasive  submissions on this.
I have made  it clear that at the centre  of my considerations have  been  Ms Cs personal 
circumstances and position at the time of the advice.
Ref: DRN051144028The funds in dispute represented the total of her pension provision at the time.  They  would 
have provided  a proportionally  significant  and largely guaranteed  income  for the rest of her 
lifetime. So there would need to be a good  reason  to give this up in exchange for benefits  
that were subject to market risk and performance  and that could reduce significantly.
When Ms C met with Montfort she was intending  to move overseas, in circumstances where 
she would  need  to secure employment (although she indicated  an intention to complete UK 
based work). She said her returns to the UK would also be determined by the health and 
care needs  of her family (UK based). Neither  she, nor her partner had substantial  assets 
(save for some equity  in property). They did however have some proportionately significant  
level of debt.
Ive seen Montfort appear to think its important that Ms C must have secured employment 
between October and December 2010 (when she returned according to them for a short 
period of time following  a family  bereavement).  They think  this demonstrates her 
commitment to Australia. But Ms C had always indicated her priority was to look for work 
when she first arrived in Australia; and this took place in October 2010. So I dont think  her 
securing of work during  this time was unexpected  or is of any real relevance to what  Im 
looking at.
In their submissions of 17 January 2016, Montfort  stressed the reason for recommending  the 
Guernsey based  QROPS  didnt relate  to any lump sum being available. But said the long 
term plan was always to move to an Australian  QROPS if she was seen to be staying in 
Australia but [we] couldnt recommend immediately as we were concerned about the 
situation (which she had referred  to in our communications) of a possible return  to the UK.
I agree  with Montforts thinking, it would have  been  unsuitable in the circumstances to 
recommend an Australian  QROPS  at the time; and as Ive explained, based on that 
rationale, I dont accept any change in her arrangements was necessary, at the time. Again I 
acknowledge Montfort no longer appear  to adopt this, their own submission.
I accept that depending on the outcome and success of Ms Cs move,  a transfer  to an 
Australian QROPS  may well have been a valuable part of a future strategy. But I dont 
accept it was suitable or necessary to have a Guernsey  based  arrangement  as a holding  
position. 
I explained in my provisional decision  that I thought there was an inherent weakness  in 
Montforts submission that the Guernsey QROPS solved the problem of Ms Cs uncertainty  
about her future at the time she was advised,  as theyve told us it could move to the UK or 
Australia. I thought (and continue to think) this highlights that any transfer and change in 
position at that time was unnecessary. 
I dont accept what Montfort have said about  why it would have been wrong for Ms Cs 
benefits to have remained in the UK:
What if UK changed  the rules- what would her reaction be if we had not considered this 
position and how could this potentially damage  her Australian Age pension benefits? To not 
do so would have  mean failing to treat the customer fairly.
I think it would have  been overtly risky to base advice on a hypothetical position  and not 
within Ms Cs comfort  range. Even where there  was speculation about potential  government 
Ref: DRN051144029changes in the future; unless there was a reasonable and clear enough indication. I havent 
seen sufficient here to support this.
Montfort say that after examining Ms Cs benefits  they couldnt  not move  her funds out of the 
UK for fear that benefits would be marooned in UK.
I dont understand  the reasoning behind this. I dont accept it establishes a satisfactory or 
sufficient reason for a transfer to be completed  at the time it was. Ms C was not approaching 
retirement; she intended to continue working  in the UK and Australia for an indefinite  period. 
Her migration was in a very early  stage.
When Montfort originally  advised,  they said it wasnt necessarily the case  that a transfer 
ought not to be made at that time;  because  if they used the right investments then her fund 
value might be able to recover quicker by transferring than it would  in her existing scheme. 
I dont think this demonstrates a sound or well-reasoned basis  for leaving  an OPS with 
guaranteed benefits (as well as her other  pension provision). I think it indicates an approach 
to investment risk (and capacity for loss) that wasnt aligned to Ms Cs profile. Montfort  didnt 
do all Id expect to see, in relation to her transfer out of her OPS.
I dont think Montfort gave adequate consideration to Ms Cs options.  I dont  think  they 
sufficiently considered whether Ms C might  be best placed not to change  her position at the 
time at all. And I dont accept the reasons provided  at the time for why other options werent 
suitable. 
The report  didnt consider the options of a stakeholder  or personal plan, or any type of 
alternative work place  pension as it said Montfort  thought the greater  flexibility  afforded by 
the QROPS  operated above the position if benefits were retained  with the UK. But I dont 
accept there  was any imminent need  or appetite for greater flexibility.  There  is a feeling of 
pre-determination to the process.  The report also set out that theyd also not considered a 
transfer of Ms Cs OPS  benefits to a section 32 bond (which would have preserved her 
guaranteed minimum  pension), because Ms C requires an off-shore solution. Again I dont 
accept there  was an imminent need  or appetite for an off-shore option.
I think Ms C enquired about her options, but I havent seen anything that makes me think 
Montfort adequately answered or provided  satisfactory or suitable  advice on this. I dont 
accept there  was a need to do anything at the point the transfer  out was recommended and 
then made.  I think such advice exposed Ms C and her limited pension  assets  to a higher 
level of risk and uncertainty, unnecessarily. And had she sufficiently understood this, I dont 
think she would have  gone ahead. I also think some of the language of the report and 
adopted by Montfort to Ms C could reasonably be understood to suggest  a pressure to act. 
Ms C was not well placed to risk her pension arrangement, nor take on the associated  
increase in costs  and uncertainty.
I also think the time between recommendation and the next steps  taken was comparatively 
short and this tends  to demonstrate to me the reliance Ms C placed in Montfort.
As part of their transfer advice, Montfort calculated  the transfer value offered in lieu of the 
OPS deferred benefits, would  need to grow  at a rate of between  10.88%  and 11.85% to 
match the benefits she would be giving up. Montfort went  on to set out these were  quite  high 
growth rates. I think their advice and commentary  on this should  have gone further. I think 
the growth required was significant and tended to be persuasive against the move.  I 
Ref: DRN051144030previously set out my understanding  that at the time of the report in 2011  the regulator  
required UK pension  providers to project  benefits assuming investment returns of 5%, 7% 
and 9%. No party disagreed with this.
So even if (which I dont  accept) there were alternative persuasive grounds for transfer, at 
this point, I think Montfort should have realised the transfer value offered from the OPS was 
not attractive  and in the overall circumstances their advice should  have  been  not to transfer 
the value of the OPS benefits  to a QROPS arrangement.
I understand the submissions that Ms C might suffer if the Australian Dollar rose against the 
Pound Sterling,  but equally it could be said she would benefit  if the exchange rates moved  
the other way. Given the uncertainty of future exchange rates, (as well as her own 
circumstances) and the likelihood she would  be significantly worse off if she transferred from 
the OPS; I think Montfort should have properly made the recommendation not to transfer 
and I think Ms C would  have accepted this advice.
Ive also seen a range of submissions from Montfort on tax and the potential advantages and 
disadvantages to different  options. Ive seen  reference  to this being  a complex situation and 
the need for expert  tax advice. I agree. In any event where there  was this much potential  
uncertainty, I dont  think any party was in a position  at the time to reach a definitive tax 
based solution.
Montfort said that although the QROPS provider didnt offer guaranteed  or protected  income, 
the retirement options and thus the benefits  were  more flexible than UK schemes and could  
be tax free; or at the very least significantly tax reduced. And Ive seen Montfort also set out 
in their advice report that they were recommending the use of a DFM  with Bourse.  I also fail 
to see the need for a DFM was adequately considered.
Taking everything into account,  I think the approach was expensive and unnecessary.  Ms C 
hadnt expressed any real need  for flexible  retirement options  and her future plans  were  
sufficiently undecided as to make  a recommendation  to give up guarantees, undesirable. 
I accept Montfort provided a substantial amount of documentation as well as information  to 
Ms C. I dont accept this was sufficient  to inform her to the degree  that I conclude  she 
understood enough to be capable of assessing  and making an adequately informed choice 
about Montforts recommendations. Ms C paid for advice, and could reasonably  be expected  
to rely on it. 
I particularly understand  that Montfort  stress the importance  of the Stage 1 report they 
provide. And Ive seen copies provided to this service. I understand Montfort have provided 
several different  copies,  in early 2016,  on 18 August 2016 (this being the one they said Ms C 
received) and on 4 March 2017.  On 19 September 2017 Montfort asked us to confirm  we 
had the right Stage 1 report that Ms C would have  received. The one they appear  to refer to 
seems to be longer  than the one they provided on 18 August 2016. As Ive commented 
already, Montfort  appear to have forgotten  I previously  set this out.
Given the pro forma nature of Montforts Stage 1 report, I cant  confirm which one was 
provided to Ms C. But I have looked at all copies provided to us. I dont accept this report is 
sufficient to inform Ms C to the extent she might  reasonably be said to be responsible  for her 
transfer decision.
Ref: DRN051144031I understand this report is said to be supplemented  by Montforts  further service.  And here 
Montfort emailed Ms C on 13 September 2010 confirming they were still awaiting information 
from various companies. They explained  theyd  then go on to complete  the Stage 2 report  
confirming our findings and our understanding of your situation and their Stage 3 report 
our recommendations .  And they said theyd try and do as much  as possible before Ms C 
and her partner left the country. It doesnt appear  all of that was possible. But Ive looked 
carefully at all Montfort say they provided.
Montfort made submissions about  the level of education, knowledge and financial 
sophistication they said Ms C has; as well as their general approach to the education of their 
clients. Ive seen that Montfort think Ms C would have raised any issues  if she had doubts  
about them; and they have also referred  to her posing  questions  to them.
I set out my thinking  on this in the provisional  decision. Montfort  dont appear  to continue to 
pursue this point.  But for completeness Montfort  previously appeared to suggest that through 
the asking of questions,  (for example on 23 August  2011), Ms C demonstrated  her 
understanding. I dont  agree. On this date, for example, Ms C emailed Montfort with a 
number of queries;  in my provisional decision I set out what these included.  
She was worried about annual costs  and advisers fees and she noted  there  was 
reference to a % of any funds. She was concerned about  the potential for growth and 
wanted to discuss  potential investment possibilities prior to progressing.
She was concerned about the benefits in relation to her OPS. And that the QROPS 
didnt provide any guaranteed or protected income. 
Ms C quoted Montforts statement dated  8 August 2011 we would not be in a 
position to recommend  a transfer to QROPS but it is the fact that although you have 
intended to exit the UK permanently and live in Australia your future plans could 
involve future relocation to a future jurisdiction. 
And Ms C said that if a more cost efficient  saving and income  method was 
recommended she and her partner  would strongly consider it.
Overall I accept Ms C may be accurately  described as an educated professional.  But that 
doesnt make her sufficiently expert or conversant in financial matters, and particularly those 
pertaining to transfers out of OPS  and into other  arrangements; and where  overseas  rules 
and residency come into play.  The regulator has rightly highlighted the importance and value 
of expert  advice being required; and I havent  seen anything that makes me think  Ms C was 
sufficiently experienced or knowledgeable to be able to be in a position to confidently reject  
advice. I think it was reasonable  for Ms C to seek advice and then rely on the advice.
I think any client who is facing an uncertain  change of life might be considered  financially 
vulnerable to some extent, and I think Montfort  have  proposed this amongst further 
submissions. And Ive seen the type of work Ms C has experience in. I dont accept this 
experience was likely to have given her any knowledge, above that of any other  retail  client. 
I dont accept the asking of questions indicates  a sufficient level of understanding such  as to 
limit or remove Montforts responsibility for their advice.
I accept there is a complexity  to the matters needing to be considered.  And there was a 
need for informed  advice.  I also accept that Montfort sent out a significant amount of material 
Ref: DRN051144032to Ms C. But I dont accept the provision of this material was sufficient to allow  her to 
appropriately be described as having been  sufficiently educated in the relevant matters  to 
make her own choices and evaluate her next best step. In any event Ive seen an amount of 
the material was sent before she had received any advice. Ive also seen that much of the 
information was technical and general in nature and didnt apply directly  to Ms C.
Montfort say they told Ms C repeatedly  that her situation wasnt straightforward. I have no 
doubt this may have  happened; and certainly Montfort have  made similar representations to 
this service. I accept Ms C knew she needed expert  assistance and advice, and thats what 
she sought. I think in all circumstances  that it was reasonable for her to think she could rely 
on what was recommended to her.
It seems  to me that where Montfort work on the basis their clients  may well not understand 
the products and options available to them, and may well not read everything they are given; 
this should highlight the importance of providing  focused, quality information and advice, 
directed specifically at each client  and their own circumstances.  As well as ensuring they 
had a satisfactory procedure for documenting all contact  and relevant  conversations;  and 
documenting case handovers when staff left the company. Having seen what was provided 
here, I dont  think this was achieved.
I dont accept it was necessary for Ms C to have been referred  to an Australian  adviser  when 
she was, as the advice she sought  was specifically from Montfort, who had held themselves 
out to being expert on the area of (potential  Australian) migration. As has formed part of 
Montforts submissions,  Ms C wasnt required to see the adviser Montfort  recommended  to 
her and here its known  Ms C didnt go on to form a working relationship with the Australian 
adviser Montfort sought to introduce  her to. Montfort  appeared to me to make some criticism 
of this, but I dont  agree.
Montfort intended to provide the investment  recommendations and the QROPS  remained in 
Guernsey. Montforts  own recommendations were  based on this remaining in place for some  
time.
risk
In relation to Ms Cs question about  costs  and growth Montfort said in summary her risk 
score of 4 out of 10 meant  she was considered  as having  an attitude to risk of lower 
medium risk. They went on to say this meant she was prepared  to take a moderate amount 
of risk in order to provide higher returns.
As Ive already  set out, I think Montforts recommendations led to Ms C exposing her 
situation and funds to increased  risk, rather than if shed left them invested at they were. I 
dont think Ms C fully appreciated this, nor do I think  that had she been  properly informed  of 
her options  and the risks involved,  she would  have gone on to do what she did. Ive also 
seen the exchanges following Ms Cs risk assessment being completed.  I think  her replies  
made it clear  enough that she was substantially concerned  about  loss and any erosion  or 
exposure of her pension  funds.
I dont think the transfer to a QROPS (based in Guernsey) at the time it happened,  was 
aligned to the degree of risk Ms C had indicated she was willing  to accept. I think it 
exceeded the level she had been  assessed with regards to her attitude to and appetite for 
risk. In my view it presented a materially higher degree of risk.
Ref: DRN051144033I havent seen  anything that makes  me think,  there was a compelling reason for Ms C to be 
advised she should act in a way that exceeded her risk profile at this time. 
Montfort ask me to conclude that Ms Cs position was different to building a portfolio  for a UK 
resident who is staying long term in the UK. I agree it was. But I dont think  this is relevant as 
I am looking at what Montfort did when  approached  by Ms C for advice, given  her 
circumstances.
Montfort say some of the relevant concerns for a person with an attitude to risk of lowest 
medium were:
Lost opportunity  if the FX is up and Ms C wanted  to switch to Australian dollars but 
her portfolio was down.  They  also say it takes time to come  to terms with moving 
from British Sterling  to Australian dollars.
Concerns if a person wants to move  the funds to an Australian scheme within months  
of exiting a UK scheme.
Concerns if a person is initially recommended a sterling portfolio which  then has to 
be moved to Australian dollars.
I agree  these can be relevant concerns; I dont think these were  the most  pressing concerns 
to Ms C at the time of the advice. Nor do they sufficiently summarize what  Ms C did want to 
know and should  reasonably have  had taken into account when her circumstances were 
looked at.
investment
To an extent, because I dont think Ms C should  have been  initially advised to transfer  out of 
her OPS;  my considerations in relation to the failure  to invest within  the QROPS have been 
more limited. Ive seen complaints were made by Ms C about  failures  by Montfort  to invest  
her funds, and that such complaints arent accepted  by Montfort. 
Montfort say they made it perfectly clear  to Ms C what the investment  position  would be as 
regards where the funds  would be held pending  any long term investment recommendation. 
I dont think, based on what Ive seen  thus far, it would have been sufficiently clear to Ms C 
(and recorded as such)  that she knew her funds  would  remain un-invested and what the 
reality of this meant.
Ive seen a number of submissions from Montfort  on this issue and have summarized  those 
that appear to me to have  been those pressed most frequently on this service.
Montfort say its normal  when a person moves overseas  to pause and reflect  instead  of 
rushing into a portfolio of investment as the settling in process takes  priority as a rule over all 
other matters. I agree this can be a sensible approach. But here Montforts overall 
recommendations were  to create  a holding position,  so I think its reasonable to conclude 
they could have also prepared some form of investment recommendation to follow  on from 
the transfer.
Montfort also say, they were involved with Ms C when she was instructing specialist tax 
advice with their assistance and they say she didnt want to look at investing at this point as 
she was going  to let them know when she was ready to deal with it.
Ref: DRN051144034More recently their submissions have  continued to follow the line that Ms C was positively in 
favour of a cash based holding position.
Montfort equally have  also said they continued to discuss investment with Ms C after 27 
October 2010. And say that during  2011 and 2012 when the tax position  was being 
considered, there were  many conversations about the holding being in cash.  They say there 
was also significant discussion about  the Australian  dollar and keeping an eye on when to 
enter the market.
Overall Montfort say the FX rate was improving during the period she was in cash  and she 
gained from this. Theyve also said Ms C clearly wanted to remain  in cash  due to the 
exchange rate.  I havent seen anything  that allows me to conclude  this was substantively 
discussed, said or recorded. I would expect discussions on investment and preferences to 
be recorded and confirmed.
In any event Montfort say Ms C was positioned  so as to monitor  the FX and her phasing  into 
the market was clearly  not going to be into the traditional market  anyway.
I am not sure what Montfort mean by this. It suggests an approach  that is aligned to a higher 
level of speculation  and risk than I think  Ms C would have agreed  to or that her 
circumstances could  reasonably accept. I have  also seen  a reference to unregulated 
(overseas) collective investment, which concerned  me, and I have returned to that below.
Ive seen Montforts submissions to us of 28 April 2016 there  is one overarching  rule with a 
migrant dont ever ever rush them. And they have referred to not pushing Ms C to invest  
when she wasnt ready for formal  investment  advice,  as otherwise they would have lost the 
client. If Montfort decided  to step back from advising  Ms C on what  they thought  ought  to be 
done, simply on the basis they thought  they would lose her as a client  if they provided 
advice, then I think they would have been failing in providing her with the service required.  
Id also expect this to be very carefully documented.
I think the submissions made  to this service about what  Montfort  were  doing in relation to 
investment advice, and what  they had told Ms C are inconsistent. So it is hard for me to fully 
evaluate. But based on what Ive seen  overall,  I dont think Ms C would have  sufficiently 
appreciated her position. Nor do I accept  she failed to act where she ought  to have done.
I am also unclear  on the thrust of Montforts  original advice where they told Ms C that 
because the value of her funds was over £100,000 and because  she was prepared  to take 
a moderate amount of risk in order to provide higher  returns , this gave Montfort the chance  
to use a DFM  and that was the route  they were recommending. 
At the time Montfort  said a DFM  would  set up a portfolio with a wide mix of investments 
within her risk profile and so spread the risk. Im not satisfied that a DFM,  with the overall  
associated costs was required to achieve this result;  nor how this would fit with their other  
commentary on investing and approach to advice.
Montfort have said this would allow for the smoothing out of poor performing areas of the 
market. So the overall return would be very favorable. I find this a somewhat strange 
comment that tends  to suggest  future  performance  can be predicted. And they told Ms C that 
despite the DFM  charging a fee, theyd expect  to still achieve a return  of 10% or more  a year 
growth for her in a lower  medium risk portfolio, when averaged  out over time. Montfort added  
Ref: DRN051144035that this approach should only be considered if the funds would be left in the portfolio for at 
least 3 years and ideally until she took benefits from the QROPS.
I dont accept the basis for these conclusions. In any event elsewhere Montfort have been 
clear the Guernsey QROPS was simply a holding position, not a long term option. I dont 
accept or follow  the logic of this; nor how its said to reflect Ms Cs circumstances.
Having carefully balanced  everything, I dont  think Ms C acted unreasonably. I am not 
persuaded she had sufficient understanding here, nor that any delay in chasing  assistance 
(or any anticipated report)  should be sufficient to limit or remove  responsibility from Montfort.
Ive seen some reference to investments,  for example, on 26 October  2011  Montfort  emailed 
Ms C with an email headed UCIS  Form .  This asked  her to sign the attached form and 
return it to them and they said they would  then get the investment recommendation out to 
you.  So I can understand  why (taken  with similar  assurances) Ms C might have thought  it 
was something Montfort were progressing (even  if I dont accept this position should have 
even been reached).
This email also suggests to me that a recommendation to invest in an unregulated collective 
investment scheme  (UCIS) was being contemplated. I have seen other references which  
tend to support  this; including a named scheme.  This caused  me some concern, as I havent 
seen anything that suggests  to me Ms C met the requirements or exceptions to be a suitable 
candidate for such investments. Nor do I think such  an investment would have been suitable 
or met her risk profile. These are high risk, often long term illiquid  investments, containing 
the risk of loss of capital. I cant see that any conversations  about  such investments or any 
further work  had been done  to come even close to make such an investment potentially  
suitable. 
The regulator has previously said that even for a suitable sophisticated investor, they should  
only form a small  proportion  of an investment portfolio. I cant  see that an investor,  newly 
migrated, potentially unsettled, with limited  pension assets and a number of debts, whose 
profession was in the social  care sphere, and who had no identifiable investment history  or 
experience met the required profile.
It may be the issue of onward investment post- transfer was accidentally  missed and I have 
seen some possible suggestion of this. I can appreciate there might be some  strength in this 
proposition, potentially for all parties, given its clear Montfort lost several members of staff 
who had been  advising Ms C during this time.
But Ive seen that Montfort  have  more forcefully and repeatedly said,  that during the 
handover, they were  given full information and they say Ms C didnt want  to invest  at the 
time and was waiting  for the right time.  As Ive explained, I dont accept that this is what  Ms 
C indicated or intended.  Ive also seen  Montforts reference to an agreed future review 
timetable. Again I dont accept this was understood, agreed or documented.
It isnt entirely clear to me why there was a delay  from when Ms C says her funds remained 
in cash under the service of Montfort, June 2013,  to the apparent time of investment  in 
March 2014, with the assistance of new advisers.
I have considered whether Ms C has mitigated her position once  she became aware to some 
extent that she was unhappy  with her position. I accept she has sought advice and acted 
(apparently in accordance with the approach Montfort had been recommending). Based on 
Ref: DRN051144036what I have seen, I accept  Ms C has acted in way thats reasonable and I dont think she 
would have found herself in this position had it not been for the actions  of Montfort; so I think 
its right that they are responsible for any loss in total, not for it to be capped to a date.
overseas advice
Ive also seen that Montfort made  submissions on the importance of their introduction to an 
Australian adviser. They told us Ms C was less than an hour driving from the advisers  
offices; so they say there was no issue of distance and in their view there  wasnt  an 
appropriate adviser where she was living.
I dont think these submissions are relevant to this complaint  and so I havent made any 
substantive finding. I do think these submissions  are inconsistent with some of Montforts 
other submissions on the issue  of whether  investment advice followed transfer and who was 
to provide it. In addition  Ms C doesnt  suggest  she couldnt get to the adviser.
Ive seen Montfort have provided us with a letter  they sent to Ms C which set out the details 
of their Australian adviser. It said the adviser  would contact Ms C prior to her departure and 
also asks her to keep Montfort informed as well as attaching the advisers letter of 
introduction to be signed. So if theres a problem at the UK end, the Australian adviser would 
tell them  (Montfort) and here they say they were not informed of any problems  here. 
Again I dont think these  submissions are of relevance to this complaint. Ms C didnt see the 
advisers Montfort recommended, so they wouldnt know  if there  were  any problems. And this 
complaint is about  the work  Montfort offered and provided. I can understand, given the 
manner in which Montfort introduce their  adviser, why it might  be perceived the adviser is 
closely associated with Montfort. But this isnt what Im looking at. From what Ive seen 
Montforts relationship  would  have  been  introductory, for which  they were likely  to have 
received a referral  payment.
Ms Cs representatives and current advisers
Ive seen what has been said by Montfort about  Ms Cs duty to mitigate her position;  and 
particularly when she moved to a new firm. I understand why Montfort feel somewhat  
aggrieved towards  those  who now advise Ms C, given her complaint about  advice and 
service provided by Montfort.  
But that doesnt mean the responsibility for the advice given to Ms C has shifted  from 
Montfort. Nor is this a situation where  Montfort  concede that they would have done 
something differently.
I have been required  to consider whether Ms C, here with the benefit  of advice, has done  all 
she ought to have done in mitigating  any loss. Ive previously explained it wasnt clear  to me 
whether the information I have on when Ms C changed advisers and when  she made a 
further investment  is accurate. But I dont think she would have found herself in need  of 
doing any of this, had she received initial suitable advice. And Ive indicated I think  shed 
done all she ought  reasonably to have been  expected to do.
additional areas
I am not summarizing  or commenting on each and every point, question and submission 
made. I think  I have sufficiently highlighted the main thrust of the relevant points made  in this 
Ref: DRN051144037case. In addition I have referred to some submissions that have been  made,  not because I 
have considered them to have been  of particular importance or relevance  to my 
considerations, but because they have been given some weight by a party,  and I think  it 
might assist to acknowledge the point.
I have seen that Montfort told Ms C she might wish to have the availability to draw funds in 
a cash format sourced  from the QROPS. We can point out to you that you will not be able to 
achieve this the way your pension funds are structured  at resent..[so] we need to advise you 
this will require moving your funds into a pension structure which operates within a suitable 
taxation environment.  We will explain this in greater detail later. We understand your pension 
funds are needed to provide you with your lifestyle planning in Australia and provision of 
retirement funds. You have expressed  an interested in the QROPS  route as you would like 
to have the option to withdraw  funds  at an earlier date than is available  from a UK or 
Australian scheme; it is important.. to move your funds to a jurisdiction that offers a suitable 
minimum retirement date, such as 50. Due to the over-riding UK rules during the 5 year 
QROPS period, which will end on 5 April 2016 in your case,  you will not be able to take 
benefits until that point..the QROPS route is also of more interest than a transfer to an 
Australian scheme as you wish to maintain the security  that If you were..  to return  to the UK 
or move onto another  country then you are able to transfer back  out of the QROPS if 
necessary.
Montfort went on to say theyd identified Ms C might want  to be able to draw cash funds from 
the QROPS; and she wouldnt be able to do that from her current  pension  arrangements.
I havent seen  anything that enables  me to conclude with any degree of sufficiency that Ms C 
had identified any need or requirement  (including that for cash) in any way that might be 
inconsistent with benefits offered by her OPS,  let alone any other UK based arrangements.
Montfort say there was a real concern at the time that the UK could restrict transfers out of 
UK registered pension schemes. And they say it would have been even worse  for them  if the 
UK had banned  transfers out of the UK. I dont follow the logic on this submission. I accept 
that Montfort might have  considered it necessary to consider a potential  future  restriction or 
ban as part of their advice process. Id expect this to be documented. It doesnt follow  that 
they were required  to positively recommend a transfer out to guard against this happening,  
in case someone complained they hadnt  considered it. Nor do I accept that any such 
possibility made action particularly urgent here.
Montfort also said that when dealing with a client in a different time zone this means limited 
opportunity to speak . And they also said that once  Ms C arrived in Australia she wasnt the 
easiest person  to make contact with.
To support this Montfort provided copies of an email  trail from 6 July 2011 sent at 7.50 am 
UK time (7 hours difference  then - so just before 3pm in Australia). This queries when they 
can speak about  the pension issue in their updated report. Ms C replied the same day with 
her home number and a suggestion to call around  10am UK time.
Much of Montforts business  is directed  to assisting clients moving  or based  overseas, so I 
dont accept Ms Cs residence in Australia would have presented  unusual  difficulties to 
Montfort. Nor have  I seen  anything that makes  me think Ms C presented  real difficulties  
when it came to contact. Many of the emails  I have seen have shown swift responses from 
Ms C. And the email trail sent by Montfort  tends to support this. I think it demonstrates  Ms C 
responded quickly and gave information  to assist Montfort and herself to progress. As 
Ref: DRN051144038Montfort knew Ms C was working at the time,  it doesnt seem unreasonable to me that she 
couldnt speak  at 3pm (Perth time) but did ask to speak around  5pm (Perth  time) equivalent 
to 10am  UK time. 
Based on the communications provided to this service from the time (mainly email trails), I 
accept Ms C replied promptly and fully as required. Whilst I havent seen enough to enable  
me to conclude Montfort provided full or sufficient answers to queries  raised  by Ms C. This 
pattern was reflected in the correspondence to this service.
I havent seen  anything that makes  me think overall Ms C wasnt co-operative  with the 
advice process. Its said she was dissatisfied  with the accountancy services provided  by 
someone recommended by Montfort, and Ive seen an amount of commentary on this. I 
havent been required to reach any findings  about  this, and I dont think its relevant to the 
main substance of this complaint. 
on charges
Montfort think the issue of the 0.5%  charge and when it was taken  is a major issue in this 
case. I dont agree this is one of the major issues in this case. I think its distinct.
Montfort say Ms C knew of the charging structure  and say there  was no attempt to 
overcharge. They said they didnt intend  to apply further charges when it came  to transfer to 
an Australian QROPS.  Montfort initially provided  a calculation which they said shows  any 
loss to Ms C involving the charge wrongly taken here would have been negligible. 
The arrangement had been  for Montfort to receive  4% as an initial fee and 0.5%  twice  a year 
(totalling 1% per year)  in arrears. I agree this information was provided to Ms C. She hasnt 
complained she wasnt told, her main complaint about this is that it was taken when it 
shouldnt have been and for a service she didnt receive. Both of these things are true. The 
0.5% was paid to Montfort initially rather than in arrears (£680.71) by the QROPS  provider,  
and she wasnt receiving, and she didnt receive a satisfactory or sufficient ongoing service. 
It seemed to me previously Montfort were saying they shouldnt  be asked to refund the 
charge, even if it was wrongly taken at the start, as they would have been entitled  to receive 
the fee after six months. They say there is no reason to suggest they werent in contact 
with Ms C in the six months that followed. And they stress they didnt try to take the fee 
again.
I agree  with the original adjudicators initial view on this. Montfort received commission 
above that which they were entitled to receive. This might have been  an error on the part of 
the QROPS provider and not noticed by Montfort; but they still unreasonably  benefitted  and 
this should be repaid  to Ms C. I think the initial intention  was for further advice to be provided 
on an on-going  basis, and as Ive set out, I dont  think this adequately took place.  So the on-
going commission cant be justified  with hindsight. Ive explained what  Montfort should do 
about this in the redress exercise. 
I have also seen reference to the report from Montfort which  showed  an Establishment Fee 
of £1,000 and an Annual  Trustee  Fee of £1,000. These costs would have been very 
expensive for the remaining funds. 
updated information
Ref: DRN051144039As Ive set out, we have more recently been told Ms C has now returned to the UK. We dont 
know if this is a permanent return or what she intends for the future.
It appears she intends to remain for some time as she is working again within the public 
sector and has re-joined the LGPS.  Id hoped  this might mean there  is the opportunity for 
linked service. But my understanding is this appears  unlikely. I continue to think  that Montfort  
knew enough to reasonably take into account (as I think they accept) this might  happen.  But 
this isnt the only reason why I am upholding this complaint.
I understand Montfort say they factored the possibility  of Ms Cs situation changing into their 
original advice, (for example in their submissions provided on 17 January 2016), but I dont  
think sufficient account was taken of this. As if it had been, I dont think the advice to transfer 
at that time would have followed.  I dont  think it was necessary or suitable  at that time.
Ive seen reference more recently  from Montfort  as to having a contingency  in place, should 
Ms C return  to the UK, despite her telling them she would not (according to Montfort): we 
were sure beyond reasonable doubt  that Ms C was moving permanently and even then we 
had a contingency in place if she did waiver .
I havent seen  anything that suggests  to me there  was any meaningful  contingency plan in 
place, or that this had been  documented and explained to Ms C; nor provided  to this service.
what Montfort must do
So I uphold Ms Cs complaint, and think  that a fair and reasonable outcome is for Montfort  to 
put Ms C, as far as possible,  into the position she would now be in but for the unsuitable 
advice. To compensate Ms C fairly, Montfort  must conduct the loss assessment exercise as 
set out in my provisional decision; save as updated  by my later note on redress.
Had Ms C received suitable  advice I dont think she would have transferred out of her 
pension arrangements in place at the time she was first advised  by Montfort. I do accept she 
would have amalgamated the pension  benefits shed built up whilst working in local 
government in the two LGPS.  Based on what Ive seen, I also see no requirement  for Ms C 
to have transferred  her funds from her PPP. She had not amended  any of the investments 
previously and hadnt expressed any dis-satisfaction with it. 
I understand Ms C still has her QROPS. I think Montfort should look at reinstating  Ms Cs 
position in the LGPS  and put her back into the position I think she should be (as a member  
of her OPS); and her redress is to be based  on this. But this may not be possible.
I previously asked for submissions on Ms Cs current  circumstances and any intention to 
remove her funds from the QROPS arrangement. I accept this second point would be a 
matter for Ms C to review, including how her circumstances have changed from the time she 
was originally advised, her future plans and to now decide upon.  I understand apart  from re-
joining the LGPS she hasn't started any other pension arrangements.
Ms C's OPS transfer
In summary,  as Ive previously set out, Montfort must undertake a redress  calculation in line 
with the regulator's pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct  Authority  
in October 2017.  This calculation should be carried out as at the date of this decision, and 
using the most recent financial assumptions published (at the date of my decision). In 
Ref: DRN051144040accordance with the regulator's expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an 
appropriate provider  promptly following  receipt of notification of Ms C's acceptance of the 
decision.
Montfort may wish to contact the Department  for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Ms Cs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related  Pension Scheme (SERPS  or S2P). These 
details should  then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Ms Cs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
The compensation in respect  of any future loss should if possible be paid into Ms C's 
pension plan if she can't be reinstated  into the LGPS. The payment should  allow  for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief.  The compensation shouldn't be paid into the 
pension arrangement if it would conflict with any existing protection  or allowance. If the past 
or future loss payment  into the pension isn't possible or has protection  or allowance 
implications, it should  be paid directly to Ms C as a lump sum after making a notional 
deduction to allow for future income  tax that would otherwise have been paid.
For example, if Ms C would  have  been yet to take a tax-free  cash  sum from the occupational 
scheme, 25% of the future loss would be tax-free  and 75% would have been taxed 
according to her likely  income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making  a 
notional deduction  of 15% overall from the future  loss adequately reflects this.
My decision  is reached on the basis Ms C wouldnt have  transferred, had she been suitably 
advised. She would  have  remained in her OPS and taken  benefits at her normal  retirement 
age. Appropriate allowance will need to be made for any withdrawal Ms C took following the 
unsuitable transfer of benefits. Indeed  any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the 
investment. I am not aware  of any withdrawals.
The compensation resulting from the loss assessment must where possible be paid to Ms C 
within 90 days of the date Montfort  receives notification of her acceptance of my final 
decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per 
year simple  from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in 
excess of 90 days, that it takes Montfort  to pay Ms C this compensation.
Its possible that data gathering  for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes  beyond  the 90 day period allowed for settlement above   and so any 
period of time where  the only outstanding  item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from the Department of Work and Pensions  may be added to the 90 day period  in which  
interest wont apply.
Account taken of charges and fees in this exercise  should be proportionate to the proportion 
made using  funds derived from her OPS' funds.
Ms C's PPP 
To compensate Ms C fairly,  Montfort  must conduct the loss assessment exercise as set out 
in my provisional decision.  Save  for the amendment  on the date that Ive set out already. 
The date to be used  for the calculation is the date of my final decision. This seems  to me a 
fair approach. The loss exercise should  use the transfer value of the QROPS to ensure all 
relevant charges and fees are taken into account.
Ref: DRN051144041I continue to think it was unsuitable for Ms C to have  started  a QROPS at the time she did 
and had it not been for the advice she received I don't think she would have done; nor would 
she currently find herself with her funds remaining in the QROPS.
I am satisfied that what I have set out below  is fair and reasonable given Ms C's 
circumstances and objectives. To compensate  Ms C fairly, Montfort must:
Obtain the notional value of Ms Cs PPP had she not transferred her funds from the PPP 
as at the date of my final decision.
Confirm the overall  fund value transferred from Ms Cs PPP in 2011.
Identify the relevant  proportion of the QROPS transfer value thats derived from the PPP 
transfer value.
Compare this value  with the notional  value of her PPP to calculate any loss.
If the notional  figure  is lower than the proportionate figure from the QROPS  there  hasnt 
been any loss; and nothing more needs to be done in relation to the PPP.
If the notional  figure  is higher then there has been  a loss, and this will need to be paid to 
Ms C by Montfort.
If a loss figure is identified it will need to be revalued up to the date of settlement with 
interest added  from the date of my final decision.  Interest  to be calculated  using the 
following benchmark.  
Interest
half of the loss figure applying the FTSE UK Private  Investors  Income Total  Return 
Index; and for the other half the average rate from fixed rate bonds
I have chosen  this method of calculating interest because I think it reflects  overall  Ms Cs 
objectives and circumstances most suitably.
Ms C wanted capital growth  with a small risk to her capital.
The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  for someone who 
wanted to achieve  a reasonable  return  without  risk to her capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices  
representing different  asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It would 
be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher 
return.
I consider that Ms C's risk profile  was in between, in the sense that she was prepared  to 
take a small level of risk to attain her investment objectives. So, the 50/50 combination is 
reasonable to fairly approach any loss figure arising  from the transfer of funds from the 
PPP.  
Ref: DRN051144042It does not mean that Ms C would have invested 50% of this money in a fixed  rate bond 
and 50% in some kind of index tracker investment.  Rather,  I consider this a reasonable 
compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return Ms C could have  obtained from 
investments suited to her objective and risk attitude. 
If there is a loss, Montfort should pay such amount as may be required into Ms C's pension  
plan, allowing for any available tax relief and/or costs, to increase the pension  plan value by 
the total amount of the compensation  and any interest.
If Montfort is unable  to pay the total amount into Ms C's pension plan, they should pay that 
amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a 
taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced  to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Ms C's marginal  rate of tax at retirement. 
I have not been asked  to take anything else into account when  it comes  to assessing whats  
fair and what needs to be taken account of at this stage.
Account taken of charges and fees in this exercise  should be proportionate to the proportion 
made using  funds derived from her PPP funds.
Other payments  to be made by Montfort  to Ms C
Montfort need to pay Ms C £500 to represent  the upset and inconvenience the 
unsuitable advice  has caused her.
Montfort received  commission  above  that which they were entitled to receive.  The 
0.5% was paid to Montfort initially rather than in arrears (£680.71) by the QROPS  
provider. 
This sum £680.71  should be repaid to Ms C. Interest at 8% simple a year should be 
added from the date it was taken from Ms C's funds  up to the date of settlement. This 
sum should be paid into Ms C's plan. If Montfort is unable to pay the total amount into 
Ms C's pension plan they should  pay that amount direct to her, with the relevant 
deductions as set out in my decision on taxable  income.
Other matters
I previously asked "should an award be made to cover future QROPS fees".
I don't seem  to have  received  anything of substance on this. But I don't intend to make  an 
award in relation to this. All loss calculations should take account of all charges and fees to 
date. By using the proportionate values  of the QROPS transfer value, should enable  this to 
be achieved.
I have previously indicated my intention on how any interest is to be approached  to any loss 
sums. I havent received any specific representations on this element. I have taken  
everything into account when reaching what I think is a fair approach  in relation to the funds 
and where there were  derived  from.
The question of whether Ms C wants to continue with her current QROPS arrangements and 
her DFM approach (which involves additional  charges)  will be a matter  for her. I can't see 
Ref: DRN051144043that I have  received anything of substance on the issue of the DFM and whether  this was a 
necessary or suitable either. I think my redress exercise takes some account of this up to the 
date of my decision.
Overall I continue to think that if the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation 
exceeds £150,000, I recommend Montfort pays Ms C the balance,  as well as interest.
determination and money award :
I require Montfort to pay Ms C compensation as set out above, up to a maximum of 
£150,000 (which is the maximum I am able to require).
In addition they need to pay Ms C £500  to represent  the upset the unsuitable  advice has 
caused her.
recommendation:
If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation  exceeds  £150,000, I also 
recommend Montfort  pays Ms C the balance. I further recommend interest to be added to 
this balance at the rate of 8% per year simple  for any time, in excess  of 90 days,  that it takes 
Montfort to pay Ms C from the date it receives  notification of her acceptance of the decision, 
as set out above. If Ms C accepts my determination, the money award is binding on 
Montfort. That which is detailed in my recommendation section (above) is not binding on 
Montfort.
Further, its unlikely that Ms C can accept my determination and go to court  to ask for the 
balance of the compensation owing to her after the money award has been  paid.  So Ms C 
may want to consider  getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept 
this decision.
my final decision
So for the reasons given I uphold Ms Cs complaint  against Montfort International Limited.
Montfort are required to complete the loss calculation exercises set out above and make all 
payments that arise  to Ms C form this. They are also required to pay her £500  to represent 
the distress and inconvenience  she will have been  caused.
Under our rules,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or reject  my decision before 
24 July 2019.
Louise Wilson
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0511440