K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  they were mis-sold a life cover policy by Reassure Limited 
(previously Woolwich) because they were told it was condition of the mortgage they wanted 
and didnt provide the cover they needed  anyway.
background
Mr and Mrs M saw an adviser in 1993 as they wanted to take out an interest only mortgage. 
They were  advised  to take out a policy that provided £105,000 of cover  on a decreasing  term 
basis for a premium of around £68 over a term of 20 years. They decided to take out a policy 
in Mr Ms name only and this finished  in 2013. They  complained  to Reassure in 2019.
ReAssure didnt uphold  the complaint. It said whilst many lenders made a condition  of a 
mortgage that life cover  be taken out it wasnt a requirement of Woolwichs  at the time the 
policy was sold. It said it couldnt say what was discussed 25 years  ago but that it is 
considered good practice to have life cover to cover  a mortgage. It also said that 
employment benefits arent usually considered  a suitable alternative  to having a separate life 
policy that covered  the mortgage.
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld.  In 
summary she said the following:
The policy wasnt a PPI policy, as Mr and Mrs M thought, it provided life cover.
The policy was recommended and wasnt a condition of the mortgage  as they had 
complained.
Mr and Mrs M didnt  agree with the adjudicator. In short they said the following:
They understood the policy wasnt PPI but still think it was mis-sold as they were led 
to believe it was necessary to obtain  the mortgage  they needed.
It bound  them to paying a monthly  premium of nearly £68 a month for 20 years.
It was life insurance but described as mortgage  protection assurance and the life 
insurance was only applicable for a few years  and it didnt provide any other  
mortgage protection.
The adjudicator  said they took out the policy voluntarily but it was essential for the 
mortgage and they wouldnt have taken  it out if it wasnt  necessary.
Other protection was well provided by Mr Ms terms of employment.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think it is important to make clear that my findings and decision are made on a balance of 
probabilities  what is more likely than not. So I am not saying what definitely did, or didnt, 
happen only what is more  likely  based  on the information I have been given. It is quite 
possible that something different happened  to what I find.
Ref: DRN03052472One of the main issues Mr and Mrs M have raised is that they were told they had to have  the 
policy to get the mortgage  they wanted.  This issue isnt uncommon in PPI complaints, where  
there was widespread mis-selling of policies. But it isnt something  that generally  arises with 
life policies such as Mr M had.
The only evidence they were told they had to have the policy  is Mr and Mrs Ms recollection 
of what happened  around 25 years  ago. Whilst I accept they have said what they think  
happened, memories,  from so long ago, are unlikely  to be either complete or accurate. The 
limited documentation  that is available also doesnt  provide any support for what they have 
said happened. In the circumstances Im not persuaded that it is more  likely than not they 
were told they had to have the policy.
I have also considered whether the policy was a suitable recommendation based  on their 
needs. The documents record they wanted a mortgage of around £130,000 on an interest 
only basis. This doesnt match the policy which provided £105,000 of cover on a decreasing  
term basis. The amount  of cover I think is explained by an existing endowment  of £25,000 it 
is recorded Mr and Mrs M had which was due to mature in 2007. I think the initial  amount of 
cover was suitable based on this.
 A decreasing term policy for an interest  only mortgage would not usually be considered  a 
suitable recommendation, as Mr and Mrs M have pointed out. But there are circumstances 
where it can be suitable and it is necessary to look at what  the documents from the time of 
sale show to decide if it was or not.
 
It is recorded under mortgage assessment that:
Requires large  amount  on short  term basis then reducing to approx 30k int only basis  for 
105k
And under Any other future plans it states:
Repay new mortgage within 1yr
So although  the term of the mortgage  and policy was 20 years the documents  indicate  that a 
substantial part of the mortgage  was to be paid off after a year.  And the advisers  
recommendations are based on this. It appears  he made some initial recommendations and 
then Mr and Mrs M discussed these further  after considering the advice. I have set out what 
the adviser recommended and underlined the part that was added  later.
Keep existing policies.  Utilise existing endowment  policy to provide life cover for £25,000. 
New mortgage will be reduced to £25,000 in 12 months through  sale (division)  of part of the 
property being  purchased.
And
Endowment not recommended due to age and amount and due to the fact that customer  
will be repaying approx. 100k within 12 months. Life cover should be issued  Mortgage 
Protection Plan 5yr maturity. Joint Life cover. MPP  as capital will be reducing dramatically 
within 5yr term. Customers decided, against advice at interview, to apply for cover  in Mr Ms 
sole name
Ref: DRN03052473And 
Satisfied will come back when they know what they want  to do. Customers  came back  to 
society. Want to cover only Mr M to reduce the expense of the monthly premium since  he is 
the sole earner.
Based on the above Im satisfied that the recommendation  was suitable. The policy  provided  
the cover  they needed for the first year and wouldve paid off that part of the mortgage not 
covered by the existing endowment policy if Mr M had died.
If it took them a bit longer to sell their property than they had intended the policy  was likely to 
provide a significant part of the cover  they needed for the following year. And once they sold 
the property they couldve  simply cancelled the policy.
Significantly, if their plans didnt work out and they didnt end up selling part of their property 
the policy included  a conversion  option.  This allowed Mr M to convert  the policy into an 
endowment policy as long as this option  was exercised before he reached  55  which  
wouldve been over four years after the policy had been taken out. I note Mr M has said he 
wasnt in a position to covert the policy before  he reached 55 but Im not satisfied that is 
something the adviser couldve  known in 1993.
I will briefly comment  on the other points made by Mr and Mrs M. They have said the policy 
wasnt called  life cover  but mortgage protection. I dont think  it matters what it was called, the 
policy provided life cover and I think this will have been apparent at the time of sale.  I dont 
think they were misled into thinking  they had taken  some  other  form of cover out. 
They were  not bound to pay the premium for 20 years, they couldve stopped paying the 
premium at any time if they no longer wanted it.
Mr M has referred to his employment  benefits but such benefits arent normally considered  
as suitable protection for a mortgage because they are dependent on the person remaining 
with that employer and also typically replace such things as loss of earnings and arent  for 
repayment of large debts  such  as mortgages.   I dont think  the adviser did anything wrong in 
recommending life cover where there were employment benefits.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 September 2019.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0305247