K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains Erudio Student Loans  Limited (Erudio) wont  cancel a loan or repay him 
money he says hes overpaid.
background
Mr P complained to Erudio when he found  his bank had been  making  payments,  against his 
wishes, for student loans  taken out between 25 January  1995  and 27 November 1996. Mr P 
said he though  hed stopped his bank making payments when he reached 50 in 2014, as it 
was his understanding the loan was cancelled  at that age. 
Erudio didnt uphold  his complaint. They said theyd taken  over administration  of Mr Ps loan 
in March 2014 but their predecessor had obtained a County Court  Judgement  (CCJ)  on 13 
December 1999.  This was due to the lack of any deferment or payment on the account and 
arrears accruing. Erudio  said under the terms of the loan once a CCJ was issued the 
balance became due in full and the deferment and cancellation rights of the loan no longer 
applied. They said the last payment theyd received was on 19 October 2016. And they 
didnt agree that the contact theyd  had with Mr P since then about payment was either 
excessive or aggressive as Mr P had said. Mr P brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said although the loan did have an option to 
defer payment his understanding  was there was no deferral  agreement  in place so Mr P was 
expected to make payments on the loan. As payments werent  made arrears  accrued and it 
appeared Mr P was unable to cancel or write off the loan due to his age if there  were  
arrears.
Mr P didnt agree. He said his account  was never  in arrears as far as he was aware and 
decisions had been made by Erudios  predecessor with no attempt to contact him. He said 
during that time he was on a very low income and below  the threshold  required to make 
payments. Mr P said once  he made arrangements to pay hes never missed  any, even 
during a lengthy period  of unemployment in 2012.  He said hed stuck  to the terms of the loan 
and had no evidence  of the actions  of Erudios predecessor from Erudio.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the 
conclusion that this isnt a complaint which I can properly uphold.  Ill explain why.
Mr Ps loan was for 60 equal repayments  over a term of five years.  The income threshold 
that triggers repayment is when the person earns  more than 85% of the national average  
full-time salary and is set annually by the government. It's the responsibility of Mr P as 
borrower to make the required payments  each  month to the loan administrator - they aren't 
deducted automatically through salary. Repayments can be deferred while the borrower  is 
earning less than the threshold income. But deferral isn't automatic, and needs to be applied  
for each  year.
If the borrower is earning below the income threshold it's their responsibility make a 
deferment application to the loan administrator, which would mean  they don't have to repay 
Ref: DRN07628302anything for the next 12 months.  And each year the borrower wants to defer, they need to 
complete a new application form and submit it within the required timescale. I dont doubt 
what Mr Ps told us about his employment situation  round  the time of the CCJ. And I think its 
very likely that, had he applied for deferment(s) around that time, he wouldve been 
successful. But theres no evidence Mr P did so.
The term of the loan allowing the remaining balance to be eligible for cancellation when the 
borrower get to 50 applies  only if there have been  no arrears  on the account. But here the 
cancellation wasnt available as the loan was in arrears. And Im satisfied that was the case 
as without evidence  of arrears the court wouldnt have  granted Erudios predecessor the 
CCJ. I know Mr P doesnt think thats correct  and says he has no knowledge if the CCJ. But 
as the investigators  explained we cant go behind that CCJ. And, although I note Mr Ps 
concerns about  the limitation period its not for this service  to say whether or not a debt is 
legally enforceable  only the courts can do that. So I cant  comment  on the technical issue 
of whether Erudio  are entitled to recover payment of the debt from Mr P, or if its now statute 
barred.
Given how strongly Mr P feels about  whats happened he may want  to pursue the matter 
further through other routes.  But my decision brings  to an end what  we  in trying to resolve  
his dispute with Erudio informally  can do for him. Im sorry if this disappoints Mr P.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 April 2019.
Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0762830