K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about an equity release lifetime mortgage that Mrs L and her late husband, 
Mr L1, took out on the advice of Key Retirement Solutions Limited (KRS) in 2003. Mrs L is 
the executor named in Mr L1s will. Mrs Ls son-in-law, Mr L2, is helping Mrs L to bring her 
complaint. 
background
In what follows, I summarise  events in rather less detail that theyve been  presented.  No 
discourtesy is intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide. I focus on 
what I think is material to the outcome of the complaint. 
In 2013, Mr L1 and Mrs L took out a lifetime mortgage of £45,150 following advice from KRS.  
Interest is charged  at a fixed  rate of 6.49% but no monthly payments are required. The 
mortgage is due to be repaid if the property  is sold voluntarily or when the last remaining 
borrower leaves the home for long-term care or dies. 
In 2018, Mr L1 passed away. Mr L2 says that soon  after her husband  died, Mrs L realised 
she couldnt afford to remain  in her home.  Essentially, Mr L2 says that the lifetime mortgage 
wasnt suitable. He says that Mrs L has extremely limited financial options and cant  afford to 
remain in her home or downsize.  Mr L2 says that Mrs L expected  to be able to remain  in her 
home indefinitely,  as promised by KRS.  In the complaint form, Mr L2 asked that Mrs L be 
restored to her original position,  before  she accepted KRS recommendation.
KRS rejected the complaint, so Mr L2 referred  the matter  to us. Our adjudicator didnt think  
that KRS had acted  unfairly. Mr L2 asked that an ombudsman review  the complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L1 and Mrs L were  KRS customers at the time of the events complained of. 
Mr L2 is helping Mrs L to bring  the complaint but that doesnt extend to Mr L2 airing his own 
grievances about KRS,  as hes not the customer; his role is limited to putting  forward the 
complaint for Mrs L. I dont doubt  Mr L2s strength of feeling but as Mr L2 isnt KRS 
customer, this final decision is limited to consideration of the late Mr L1 and Mrs Ls 
complaint about  KRS.
The central issue here is whether KRS made a suitable recommendation. The starting point 
is the point-of-sale  documentation from 2013. Those  documents  are contemporaneous, so 
they should reflect what was said and agreed at the time. Theyre  not fool-proof, of course; 
its always possible that information may be recorded incorrectly or omitted. But its right to 
give some  weight to them.  
Ref: DRN02729662At the time of the recommendation, Mr L1 and Mrs L were  61 and 56 respectively.  I 
understand that Mrs L was 57 when the mortgage  was completed. It seems  that they had 
particular financial objectives, including repaying their existing mortgage to increase their 
monthly disposable income. Their joint income was £2,650  Mr L1s was £1,900  and 
Mrs Ls was £750.  Their total outgoings  were £2,600.  I dont think  that KRS was obliged  to 
conduct a forensic  analysis of Mr L1 and Mrs Ls outgoings or their health, which they said 
was good. 
After repaying their existing mortgage, Mr L1 and Mrs L would have additional disposable  
income of £966.  The documentation refers to them wanting to spend the additional 
disposable income on holidays and further  home  improvements.  They said that they didnt 
want to consider other borrowing  that required monthly repayments.
Mr L1 and Mrs L said that the survivor would manage on their reduced income in the event 
of one of them dying. KRS wasnt able to give advice  about life insurance or pension 
planning and didnt advise Mr L1 and Mrs L to cancel any insurance  they already had in 
place.
Given what Mr L1 and Mrs L told KRS about their circumstances  and preferences, it seems 
to me that a lifetime mortgage was a suitable  recommendation. Other sorts of borrowing 
which required monthly repayments wouldnt have met Mr L1 and Mrs Ls requirement to 
increase their monthly disposable income.  So, I think  that KRS made  a suitable 
recommendation. 
The effect of the compounding of the interest  was demonstrated in the point-of-sale material. 
The illustration is based on 30 years but it explains that the mortgage  could  run for a longer 
or shorter period  and, elsewhere, the lifetime nature of the mortgage is explained. 
Mr L1 and Mrs L were  required  to have  independent  legal advice from a solicitor   not KRS 
solicitor. The solicitor  confirmed that hed explained  the terms of the mortgage  to Mr L1 and 
Mrs L. I think that if the solicitor had any concerns  that Mr L1 and Mrs L didnt  understand 
the nature  and effect of the mortgage and their obligations under it, he would have advised 
them not to proceed. 
Considering everything, I think that KRS made  a suitable recommendation and gave Mr L1 
and Mrs L sufficient information about  what they were entering into. Im sorry to disappoint 
Mrs L but theres no basis on which to direct  KRS to unwind the lifetime mortgage. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 May 2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0272966