K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  Miss S says 
Lloyds Bank  Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold her the PPI.
Lloyds dont know when  the PPI was sold, but it has relied on the start date of the credit 
card when investigating this complaint  which was in 1987. The earliest date for which 
weve seen PPI appearing on one of Miss Ss credit  card statements is 2000. So, when 
investigating this complaint,  we have looked at how Lloyds sold PPI between 1987 and 
2000, on the basis if must have been  sold in that period.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ss case. Ive decided  the policy wasnt mis-sold  
and Ill explain why. 
I think  Lloyds  made it clear  that Miss S didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take 
it out  although I can understand why she cant remember this. Lloyds hasnt been able to 
confirm how the policy was sold but it says it would have made the optional  nature clear. I 
dont have any notes  to show what discussions took place  or copies of the paperwork Miss S 
saw or signed, which isnt surprising considering  the length of time that has passed.
Ive thought carefully about this but I havent seen enough to say that its likely Lloyds didnt 
make it clear  the policy was optional  or that Miss S didnt agree to take it. 
In addition,  the charge for the PPI would have  shown on her credit card statements. If Miss S 
didnt know what this charge was or hadnt agreed  to take out the PPI, I think  she would have 
raised this with Lloyds  sooner than she did.
So, when taking  everything into account,  including what we know about Lloyds sales 
processes from the relevant time period, I think its more likely that Lloyds would have made  
clear to Miss S that the policy  was optional and that she agreed to take it out, knowing she 
could refuse  it if she didnt want it.
Lloyds doesnt  have any details of how the policy was sold but it has considered  the sale 
as though it gave Miss S advice  about the cover. As it puts a greater responsibility on 
Lloyds, rather than Miss S, I have also reviewed the complaint  on the basis  Lloyds 
recommended the PPI. This means it had to check that the PPI was right for her  and 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think  that it was. For example 
she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and she seems  
to have had a need for the cover.
Miss S has said as she was self-employed  when she bought this policy,  she thinks this made 
the policy unsuitable. But I dont think it wouldve been any more difficult for Miss S to make  
an unemployment claim than someone  who was employed. The policy would  cover  10% of 
the outstanding balance  of her account  for up to 12 months if she wasnt able to work. So I 
still think the PPI would have been  useful.
Ref: DRN02046022Its possible the information Lloyds gave Miss S about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for her if something went  wrong.  It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put her off taking out 
the cover. 
This means  Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss S. But Lloyds 
has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss S because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss S about  that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Miss S, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Miss S says there have been other  court cases in relation  to non-disclosure of commission 
where consumers have received everything back.  So she thinks Lloyds should refund all of 
the money paid for the PPI.
One of the things I need to take into account when  deciding what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of Miss Ss complaint is the law. But I also need  to take into account 
relevant regulators  rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and (where  
appropriate) what  I consider to be good  industry practice at the relevant time.
In this case Lloyds  has paid Miss S compensation in relation to the level of commission it 
received that is in-line with the methods set out by the FCA. But Miss S wants Lloyds to do 
something different.  
I have looked  at the particular circumstances of Miss S and her complaint to see if theres  
anything about  her that would mean  the business  should do something different  if the 
remedies set out in the FCAs rules dont lead to fair and reasonable redress for Miss S. But 
there isnt anything about Miss Ss complaint  or circumstances that suggest the redress  paid 
by Lloyds isnt fair or reasonable. 
In this case I think Lloyds  offer that has paid is a fair way to resolve  this case.  
Ref: DRN02046023my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Miss S.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Miss S any commission and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 September 2019.
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0204602