K820x#14complaint
Mr C1 and Mr C2 complain that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading at the time of sale as Halifax) 
mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
Mr C1 and Mr C2 bought a MPPI policy along with life assurance that Halifax called a Total  
Payment Protection  Plan.  The MPPI started  in May 2008 to protect Mr C1 and Mr C2s 
mortgage repayments. The policy was sold during a meeting with Halifax. Both Mr C1 and 
Mr C2 were covered against  accident, sickness and unemployment.
Mr C1 and Mr C2 believe Halifax mis-sold the policy. They  say they were told they wouldnt 
get the mortgage unless  they also took out PPI. Mr C1 and Mr C2 say if they had been given 
the decision, they would have turned the policy down as they were both in good  health and 
both had good, well paid jobs.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. As Mr C1 and Mr C2 dont agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr C1 and Mr C2s case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr C1 and Mr C2s complaint because of the following reasons:
I cant be sure how the policy was presented to Mr C1 and Mr C2 during the meeting. But 
Ive looked at what they said about how the policy was sold  including  that they were 
told they wouldnt get the mortgage unless they took PPI out. I think, after considering  
the documentation provided  and what I know of how Halifax sold policies at that time, I 
am persuaded that they were advised it was a good idea to have the insurance to protect  
their mortgage repayments, and they took it on that advice.
I have come to this conclusion because the sales documentation I have suggests to me 
that the policy was presented as optional.  I have been able to see a confirmation letter 
along with a demands and needs  statement. In the confirmation letter  it does suggest  
Mr C1 and Mr C2 were  given advice to have the PPI policy.  I can also see that, when the 
demands and needs  form was being completed, that some  discussion most likely would 
have been had around the suitability of having  a policy, rather  than it be added  as a 
compulsory requirement.
As I have already  concluded I think Halifax recommended the MPPI to Mr C1 and Mr C2, 
but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable for them  based on what  Ive seen of their 
circumstances at the time. They both say they had reasonable  sick pay (Mr C1 says he 
had 3 months sick pay and Mr C2 6 months).  But they would have both been  able to 
claim for benefit that the policy offered in addition to their sick pay. I still think  they both 
would have found the policy useful  for extended periods that either of them were sick or 
Ref: DRN06825982if they had been made  unemployed. I can also see no other  reasons such  as a 
significant or restrictive  term that would make the policy unsuitable.
I can see from the sales  documentation  provided that Mr C1 and Mr C2 were  more likely 
than not provided  with clear costs associated with the policy. It was reasonably priced 
compared to similar policies available at the time and to the monthly mortgage 
repayment. And Mr C1 and Mr C2 could  have cancelled the PPI if it did become 
unaffordable. Im not persuaded Mr C1 and Mr C2 would have avoided protecting  their 
repayments given  the serious  consequences of defaulting on a debt secured against 
their home.
Its possible Halifax didnt point out the main  things the policy  didnt cover. But its 
unlikely Mr C1 and Mr C2 wouldve been affected by any of these  based  on their 
circumstances at the time.
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr C1 and Mr C2, but in conclusion  I do not 
uphold their complaint  for the reasons  that I have given.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr C1 and Mr C2s complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C1 and Mr C2 
to accept or reject my decision before 17 February 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0682598