K820x#14complaint
Mr L says The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold him a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 2002 at the same time as Mr L applied for a 
credit card. It gave  him accident, sickness and unemployment protection. RBS cant  confirm 
how or where the policy was sold, Mr L recalls the sale took place in one of the banks 
branches.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr L disagreed so the complaint was passed to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete  I have 
based my decision  on the balance  of probabilities   in other  words,  on what I consider is 
most likely given the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Our approach to complaints  about  the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ls complaint. Ill explain  why. 
Mr L says the optionality of the policy wasnt made clear  during the sale.  RBS 
disputes this. Ive thought carefully  about  Mr Ls comment but I also have to take into 
account how long ago the sale was and how this might affect what he recalls. Ive 
also looked at the available paperwork.  The credit card application form that Mr L 
signed shows that he indicated that he wanted to take out PPI by ticking a box. There 
was nothing on the form that I think  could reasonably have led him to think  it was 
mandatory. Overall, I think RBS made it clear the PPI was optional and Mr L agreed 
to take it out.
RBS didnt recommend the PPI to Mr L so it didnt have to check  if it was suitable for 
him. It was up to Mr L to decide whether the policy  was right for him bearing  in mind 
his ability  to make his credit card repayments if he was unable to work or lost his job. 
Its possible  RBS didnt give Mr L all the information about the PPI that he needed 
before he made his decision. But it seems Mr L chose to take out the policy and so 
appears to have  wanted this type of cover.  He wasnt affected by any of the 
exclusions or limitations and the policy was competitively priced  and apparently 
affordable. Mr L says he was entitled to six months full pay and six months half pay 
if he was sick but the PPI would  have paid out in addition to this and for up to 12 
months. So, overall, based  on what I know about his circumstances and the terms of 
the PPI policy, I dont  think Mr L wouldve made  a different decision if better 
information had been provided.  
But RBS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr L because: 
Ref: DRN06280302RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr L about  that. Because  RBS didnt tell Mr L, that was 
unfair. 
To put that right, RBS has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr L.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does  have to pay back to Mr L any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 May 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0628030