K820x#14complaint
Ms H complains  about advice from Lyndhurst Financial Management Limited (Lyndhurst)  of 
the suitability of her pension platform, her Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP)  and its 
investment performance and customer service during the period  Lyndhurst were  responsible 
for her pension arrangement.
background
Ms H had known her adviser since 1993 but only invested on his advice in 2012. At that 
time, her adviser had his own company. This company  has since  been  dissolved. 
Her adviser sold his client  bank  to Lyndhurst in April 2015.  It then became Ms Hs adviser. 
Her original adviser also joined Lyndhurst and formally took on regulated advice 
responsibilities on 18 June 2015. He then became Ms Hs financial adviser under the 
auspices of Lyndhurst. 
Ms H held investments  valued at approximately £445,000 in November 2017. The underlying 
investments across her SIPP and her Cofunds platform were  similar.
Ms H was concerned about the performance of her investments. She raised her concerns 
with Lyndhurst.  Ms H gave notice terminating  Lyndhursts services on 21 February 2018.
She complained to Lyndhurst on 20 June 2018. It responded, not upholding her complaint, 
on the 23 August 2018. As she was disappointed  with their response she forwarded  her 
complaint to this service  to investigate further.
Our adjudicator was satisfied that Lyndhurst gave Ms H services in line with its client  
agreement with her. He was not persuaded that Ms Hs perceived underperformance had 
anything to do with its advice being unsuitable.  
Lyndhurst provided a copy of an risk profile report dated 17 November 2015. It had initially  
assessed her risk level to be high medium. However it determined Ms Hs capacity to take 
risk was lower  due to her intention  to purchase an investment  property, that she was retired 
and not contributing further funds to her pension arrangement.  
Ms H disputes whether  these facts, particularly as she has made  further contributions,  would 
adversely impact her risk profile  score  The adjudicator considered  an email from Ms H dated 
7 December 2016 that showed her concerns over volatility where she queried a drop of 
£17,000 in real terms within her Cofunds  platform between  August and December 2016.  
He concluded  that it was not unreasonable for Lyndhurst to have concluded M Hs risk 
profile should be lower  than recorded on the risk profile report prepared  by Lyndhurst.
 
The adjudicator concluded that a £17K drop represented a 5% price  movement. For a high 
to medium risk investor  he concluded  Ms H could tolerate a volatility  movement of circa 
10.5%  12.5% based on the results  of her original  Risk Profile  Report of 
17 November 2015.
He felt that perceived underperformance  led Ms H to raise complaints over other  areas of 
Lyndhursts services which included a complaint  against why the business did not review  her 
Ref: DRN01044882ongoing platform. He felt Lyndhurst was justified in not doing  so because the costs of 
transferring would have outweighed the small cost benefits.
Ms H rejected our adjudicators findings  but did not, in the adjudicators view,  add any new 
information to warrant a change in her favour. Our adjudicator explained that if Ms H wanted  
to complain about the original advice  given to her in 2012  she would need  to complain 
against the firm responsible for the advice at the time. He reiterated that underperformance 
alone of a regulated investment was generally  not something that this service considered  a 
valid cause  for complaint. He added  that Ms H appeared to have always been involved with 
the investment  recommendations and agreed to her advisers suggestions.
Ms H did not agree.  In summary, she reiterated  that the adjudicator had failed to consider 
those aspects of her complaint  which predated 2015. She was unhappy that the adjudicator  
had failed to consider all of the detailed evidence  she had provided in support of her 
complaint. 
As agreement was not reached the matter has been referred to me.
my findings
I have carefully considered all the available evidence and arguments  in deciding  a fair and 
reasonable outcome to this complaint.
I should say at the outset  that I agree  with our adjudicator that matters  before April 2015 of 
which Ms H complains cannot  be considered here. The evidence I have seen, specifically 
the sale and purchase agreement between  Ms Hs former advisory firm and Lyndhurst, 
specifies that on Lyndhurst  acquiring Ms Hs former advisory firms client  base in 2015, it did 
not take on responsibility for that firms client advice before being acquired by Lyndhurst. I 
am therefore unable  to comment on those aspects of Ms Hs complaint that predate April 
2015.
I understand that Ms Hs former advisory  firm no longer  exists.  Clearly, that leaves her in a 
difficult position in pursuing a complaint  against  it. In these circumstances, I can only 
suggest that Ms H pursues  her complaint with any or all of the Financial Services  
Compensation Scheme,  the Financial Conduct  Authority  or the courts.
Ms H has raised  a number of issues in the course of her complaint. But I trust she will 
understand why I only intend addressing issues I consider relevant to my complaint.
I appreciate the same adviser, at his then advisory firm, was responsible  for advising Ms H 
before 2015  and then after 2015 on becoming employed by Lyndhurst.  But our jurisdiction to 
consider complaints extends only to complaints against a regulated business or firm. 
We cannot consider complaints against  individual advisers. Whilst I understand why Ms H 
will be frustrated  by this, our adjudicator  correctly explained that notwithstanding the adviser 
has been  the same individual  throughout the period, it does not mean we can consider a 
complaint against him rather  than his corporate entity. We can only consider complaints 
against regulated  firms. 
Ms H signed a client agreement on 12 January  2016, at her first annual review. She selected  
the Lyndhurst Wealth service with annual financial reviews and portfolio valuations.
Ref: DRN01044883The first review after April 2015  took place on the 12 January 2016.  A stated objective was 
to maintain funds  and review again in March 2016. There was then a telephone  meeting 
on the 27 April 2016 and another meeting on the 16 August 2016. During this period, there 
were also email exchanges between Lyndhurst and Ms H.
Lyndhurst contacted Ms H in January 2017  to arrange a further annual review.  Ms H 
deferred this meeting  by way of an email  dated 12 January 2017. 
I therefore agree with our adjudicator  and Ms H that the meeting was deferred at Ms Hs 
request although I do not attach any particular  significance to its deferral, other than to note 
that Ms H appears not to have  been unhappy at that point with Lyndhursts service.
The deferred  review  subsequently took place in March 2017. 
At that meeting, Ms H signed  a client agreement maintaining the ongoing review  service. I 
think it not unreasonable to conclude that if, as Ms H now says, she was unhappy  with 
Lyndhursts service then she would not have agreed to continue with it as her adviser  or 
would have recorded her concern. I have not seen  evidence to persuade  me that Ms H did 
then express concern  about the service from Lyndhurst. 
I have though seen documented evidence of the service provided.  I am satisfied it was 
consistent with her client agreement with Lyndhurst.
It follows that I do not agree with Ms H that Lyndhurst failed to provide  her with the service 
she reasonably  expected and in accordance with its client  agreements. In fact, Ms H 
appears from the evidence to have had regular engagement with Lyndhurst  that extended 
beyond the annual reviews as set out in the client agreement.
 
In respect  of Ms Hs complaint that she was not transferred to a cheaper platform, I note that 
the client agreement  says:
A key component  of our on-going review service is continued  intermediation to ensure that 
both the underlying investment strategy and product wrappers continue to be the most 
appropriate   and  cost  effective  in  assisting  you  meet  your  objectives.   [bold and 
underline are my emphasis]
I agree with our adjudicator that although Ms H may have benefitted  from a cheaper platform  
elsewhere the difference  would  have  been  marginal  and  implementing  those  changes  
would more likely  than not have outweighed any cost benefits.  Ms H has not provided me 
with evidence to show otherwise although I appreciate she says that by engaging a new 
adviser, she does now incur lower fees.  But that of itself is not indicative that Lyndhurst  was 
previously negligent  or that its recommended platform  was not appropriate.
But the crux of Ms Hs complaint is about investment performance.  I appreciate  why Ms H is 
unhappy with the performance of her investments.  Ms H has provided copies of emails from 
her to Lyndhurst between  August 2017  and September 2017 in support  of her complaint. It 
appears from the evidence provided  by Ms H that her dissatisfaction with Lyndhurst began  
on or around  August 2017. 
It is clear from her emails  that Ms H was concerned about the investment returns from her 
funds. But in circumstances where an adviser  has provided a service  in accordance with its 
client agreement, regulatory  obligations and apparently in good faith, the failure of that 
Ref: DRN01044884advice to deliver the investment returns Ms H apparently expected  is not a matter for 
complaint that can be considered by this service.
I have not seen  evidence  to show that Lyndhurst guaranteed the investment returns  Ms H 
could expect if she followed its advice. Because advice does not deliver expected returns 
does not of itself make that advice unsuitable. Investment performance is not the defining  
factor. For example, advice which results in substantially above expected returns, may also 
be judged unsuitable.
Nor have I seen evidence to persuade me that Lyndhurst gave Ms H an advisory service in 
conflict with its obligations  as defined in its several  client agreements  with Ms H. Ms H was 
given investment advice, annual reviews  and annual  valuations following Lyndhursts  
appointment by Ms H as her financial adviser  in April 2015. 
I have carefully reviewed the email exchanges between  Ms H and Lyndhurst.  I agree with 
Ms H that on occasion, they indicated some  concern about the investment performance of 
her funds. But I do not agree they also indicated concern by Ms H about the overall  level of 
service that Lyndhurst was providing  her with. Nor am I persuaded that her investments 
and asset allocation were inconsistent with her risk profile which confirmed  that Ms H could 
only afford to incur small or medium losses. 
In the event, Ms H did not lose money  under Lyndhursts advice. Her complaint is that her 
funds should have increased  by more.
As I have already  explained, Ms H may be disappointed that the advice did not result in 
better investment returns. But given Lyndhurst met, in my view,  all its contractual  and 
regulatory obligations to Ms H, I cannot fairly or reasonably  uphold  her complaint  only on 
the basis that she is disappointed with the investment performance of her funds. 
For the reasons set out above, I am not persuaded Lyndhurst should  be held to account for 
Ms Hs complaint.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service  I am obliged to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2020.
Terry Connor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0104488