K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that the advice GRS Financial Consultants  Limited gave  them was 
unsuitable and caused them a financial loss. 
background
Mr and Mrs D met with GRS in October 2017 and received investment advice. This involved 
transferring their cash ISA to a stocks and shares ISA and adding  an additional £20,000 
each. They were also advised to invest £80,000 each into two separate investment  
accounts. 
Within these accounts, GRS constructed individual portfolios for Mr and Mrs D to match their 
assessed attitude to risk. Broadly speaking, the portfolios included a mixture of global fixed  
interest and UK corporate fixed interest securities (about 33%),  almost 15% in UK equities 
and almost 27% in international  equities.  The rest of the portfolios included  an element of 
cash, other money  market instruments and property.  
In October  2018 Mr and Mrs D complained. In short, they said:
The funds chosen were not suitable for their needs and circumstances, and some  of 
the funds were too risky for balanced  investors. 
Their money was invested  in only nine funds, when Mrs D said GRSs  usual 
approach was to invest in at least 20 funds and apply strategic asset allocation. 
If GRS  had dealt with their investments in the way it usually would, Mr and Mrs D 
wouldve seen returns of at least 3%. 
They carried out a review with a different adviser from GRS in October  2018  and he 
had identified a number of issues with the portfolio that had been  constructed for 
them. 
Mr and Mrs D therefore said that GRS  hadnt given them best advice and it should 
compensate them. 
GRS looked into Mr and Mrs Ds concerns, but didnt think  it had done anything  wrong. It 
acknowledged that Mr and Mrs Ds portfolios  hadnt  performed as well as theyd  wanted.  But 
it said that this service wouldnt look into a complaint that was only about performance.  
GRS said that it wasnt sure why Mr and Mrs D referred  to 3% in their letter,  as they 
wouldve been aware at the time of the advice that there was no guarantee over the 
performance of the investments. And it referred to some email  correspondence between  
Mrs D and the adviser in which he explained the timing of investments and issues affecting 
the markets at the time. 
It discussed the portfolios which had been recommended, and said that they werent 
unsuitable. It said it was on the cautious side of the balanced  investor  and this was due to 
the conversations the adviser and Mrs D had around  the timing of investments. It 
summarised the portfolios as:
Equities 41.89%
Fixed  interest (government  and corporate  bonds)  33.21%.
Property 5.14%.
Cash and Money  Markets 9.31%. 
Ref: DRN00702172Other (i.e. commodities or alternative investment strategies) 10.45%.
GRS said that even  though there were some riskier funds within the portfolios,  it didnt  
consider these funds  on their own unbalanced the risk given the conservative percentage 
levels. It said that as a result the portfolios remained suitable for Mr and Mrs D, and the 
variety of funds within the portfolios was used  to diversify them  as was their usual process. 
One of the issues  which  the October  2018  review had identified was that the portfolios were 
in fact underweight in equities.  GRS said that while this could be considered accurate, it was 
based on the previous advisers  perception of the market and the value of equity markets.  It 
said had the portfolios been exposed to an even  greater  equity  content,  it wouldve sustained 
far greater  losses. GRS also said that the new adviser  had maintained at least  70% of the 
portfolio  which it said indicated that whilst  changes  had been made (and it said this was 
common at review and one of the reasons why yearly reviews are recommended), the 
overall portfolio  was not deemed to be unsuitable. 
In any event, GRS concluded  that an investment of this nature needed to be considered for 
the medium to long term  and given  that these investments  were  designed  to also provide 
for Mr and Mrs D retirement, it considered the original advice to have been  suitable for Mr 
and Mrs Ds needs at the time. 
However, GRS acknowledged that there had been some errors in the process that was 
followed at the time advice was provided in October 2017. As a result of these errors, it paid 
Mr and Mrs D £500 as compensation.  
Mr and Mrs D remained unhappy so the complaint was referred  to this service. 
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint,  but didnt consider it should be upheld. In 
short:
She acknowledged there was little paperwork from October  2017 in relation to the 
fact find that was carried out. However, she considered the fact find that was 
completed in August  2018 was likely still an accurate representation of their 
circumstances 10 months earlier as nothing had fundamentally changed. 
She said that on top of the approximately  £260,000 which  Mr and Mrs D invested, 
they also had £30,000 which had been  kept in cash for emergencies. 
She thought  that it was likely Mr and Mrs D were happy to take a certain  amount  of 
risk with their investment, as they were looking for it to provide an income to help with 
their spending  on retirement, which they considered to be imminent. 
She thought  this assessment was appropriate, and the investments which  were 
recommended were in line with this. 
She acknowledged that Mr Ds portfolio was slightly less weighted towards equities, 
making it an arguably lower risk portfolio than Mrs Ds (everything else being broadly 
the same). But she didnt consider this made his portfolio unsuitable   and she 
considered this was likely due to the fact that Mrs D clearly  had more  experience  in 
this field than he did. 
Mr and Mrs D didnt agree. In summary:
Mrs D disputed that her previous experience  meant  that shed understand which 
investments her money ought  to be invested  in, or that shed be capable  of 
Ref: DRN00702173structuring her own investments. She said this money was very important to them  as 
it was supposed  to provide for them during their retirement. 
She disagreed  with the investigator  that the investments which were recommended  
in October 2017 were  suitable for them. Mrs D referred back to the review carried  out 
by another adviser  at GRS in September 2018 which she said shows that there were 
real problems with their investments. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I should start by acknowledging the fact that Mrs D clearly feels  very strongly  about  her 
complaint, and has made detailed submissions to both GRS and this service in support of it. 
I can confirm Ive read her submissions  in their entirety  but I hope she doesnt  take it as a 
discourtesy when I dont  respond to each individual point she has made.  Instead,  the 
purpose of this decision is to focus on the key issue in dispute and explain my reasoning  on 
that. 
In this case, the key issue is whether the portfolios that were recommended to Mr and Mrs D 
were suitable for them based on their circumstances at the time.  Ill refer to one portfolio in 
this decision, because I dont consider the differences between  Mr Ds portfolio and Mrs Ds 
portfolio to be significant  they were,  for all intents and purposes, virtually  the same. 
Its important that I explain that when Im considering whats fair and reasonable in the 
context of investment  advice, its generally  not appropriate to take into account how an 
investment, or in this case a range of investments, has performed. The adviser  has no 
control over the performance of the individual investments they recommend, nor can they 
predict how the market  will be perform. In addition, it wouldnt be possible to assess the 
performance of the portfolio without using  the benefit of hindsight  which isnt something the 
adviser has when  providing  advice. The fact that some advisers may have better skills (or 
luck) at predicting how markets will react doesnt  affect the suitability of the advice they 
provide when its in good  faith  as is the case here.
I acknowledge that Mrs D was concerned  that the portfolio hadnt performed particularly well, 
and appears to have  been  outperformed by the portfolio  of a family member  who was also 
advised by GRS. But I dont consider  thats a relevant consideration either. 
I note in this context there was clearly communication  with the adviser in July 2018 about the 
growth of the portfolio, and Mrs Ds concerns around  her family members  portfolio doing 
better than hers  and I think  the explanations she was provided  for why there might be 
differences in performance were persuasive.  
In any event, what Im required to focus on are the individual  investments which were 
recommended, and how they compared with the overall financial circumstances, objectives 
and attitude to risk which I consider Mr and Mrs D likely had at the time. In that regard the 
absence of any paperwork  from October 2017  isnt helpful. 
Ref: DRN00702174There have been  a number of explanations as to why this paperwork is missing  but I dont 
consider I can resolve these issues nor do I consider it would be within the scope of this 
decision for me to do so. Instead I agree with the investigator that the evidence suggests 
Mr and Mrs Ds circumstances didnt change all that much  between October 2017 and 
August 2018  and so I think the fact find completed  at the review  gives a broadly accurate 
picture of what Mr and Mrs D were looking for in October 2017  when they invested. 
Bearing their circumstances in mind,  as well as their attitude  to risk, I dont agree with Mr 
and Mrs D that the portfolio was unsuitable. I acknowledge the review in August 2018 made 
changes to the portfolio, and highlighted areas where the portfolio was perhaps not in line 
with the asset  split which that particular adviser considered wouldve been suitable for them. 
But I note that this review  highlighted that the portfolio  was in fact under  exposed to equities  
 in other words,  it had less risk than it perhaps shouldve had based  on their attitude  to risk. 
And this was balanced by other  investments which perhaps carried  some additional risk. 
Theres no set or uniform way in which an adviser  ought to construct a portfolio of 
investments  other than, as Ive said above,  ensuring that the overall makeup of the 
portfolio is suitable  for the individual  consumer. So whilst the second adviser they met in 
2018 decided  hed recommend certain  changes (by increasing the equity content and 
recommending some  of the riskier investments be sold), he did keep the vast majority of the 
portfolio the same. 
And by the time this review was carried out, Mr and Mrs D were  clearly already unhappy with 
their portfolios as they had been  constructed. So I dont  think  its that surprising that the 
adviser, when reviewing their investments, recommended some  changes.  
But in looking at both portfolios overall, Im not persuaded  the asset split within them  was 
unsuitable or not in line with what Mr and Mrs D were after at the time of the advice. Almost 
half of the portfolios were invested  in assets  which would be unlikely to lose value, whilst the 
equity content  appeared  to be primarily mainstream  funds.  Im satisfied there was sufficient 
diversification in the portfolio to ensure that their money was split over different asset classes  
and funds, in such a way that they were  not overexposed to one area or particular asset 
class. And Im satisfied  that whilst individually a few of the holdings may have  carried more 
risk than Mr and Mrs D wouldve liked, these holdings needed to be viewed in the context of 
the whole  portfolio. Thats because  its well established that in order to offer a diversified  
portfolio, there may be assets within that which may carry additional risk or be unsuitable 
when viewed in isolation. But the portfolio  will remain suitable as long as the overall  amount  
of risk in the portfolio is still in line with the level of risk the consumer is able and willing  to 
take  which  I consider  is the case here. 
Im satisfied that given  Mr and Mrs Ds objectives  in 2017, as well as their overall  financial 
circumstances and attitude to risk, GRC constructed portfolios which  were  suitable for them. 
Im not persuaded it would be fair to hold GRC responsible for the relatively negative 
performance of the portfolio in under a year,  when  the brief it had been given was clearly  a 
long term one. And Im not persuaded the review in 2018 means  the advice provided in 2017 
was unsuitable   Im of the view that the second  adviser simply tweaked the portfolio but 
made few substantial changes to it. 
For these reasons, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs Ds complaint should be upheld.  I 
understand this will come as a considerable disappointment to Mrs D, who as Ive said has 
put together  persuasive and clearly  very compelling submissions. But I hope she can see the 
Ref: DRN00702175reasons why Ive reached my decision, and that Ive only done so after careful consideration 
of all the facts. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 April 2020.
Alessandro Pulzone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0070217