K820x#14complaint
Mrs B has complained about the actions taken  by Barclays Bank  UK PLC to repossess her 
property, and the difficulties she encountered when  trying to repay the mortgage.  
background
This complaint is about an interest-only  mortgage  taken out in January 1995 by Mrs B and 
her husband, Mr B. (I am sorry to note that Mr B passed away  suddenly  in 2016.) The 
mortgage was over a term of 19 years.  The principal  amount borrowed was £100,000 and 
was secured on Mr and Mrs Bs residential  property. 
The mortgage account matured in March  2014, when the capital balance  became due and 
payable to Barclays. Unfortunately the balance wasnt  repaid and discussions with Barclays 
about redeeming  the mortgage  were unproductive. 
After Barclays had had no contact from Mrs B for some time,  an agent for the bank visited 
the property in November 2017. At this point Barclays realised the property was being used 
as a bed & breakfast,  which was in breach of the mortgage conditions. 
It wasnt until March 2018 that there was further contact from Mrs Bs son. He explained he 
was looking into the sale of properties he owned  to raise money to pay off the mortgage. He 
also asked if Barclays would agree to a repayment plan rather  than paying off the balance in 
full. Barclays asked  for further  information about this, which  was not forthcoming.
Barclays began possession proceedings in June 2018. Mrs B asked for an adjournment 
while she was trying to arrange  an equity release mortgage. Neither Barclays nor the court 
consented to an adjournment and on 23 July 2018 the court  granted  an order  that Mrs B 
must give possession of the property to Barclays by 20 August 2018.
Barclays was hoping  that the mortgage would be redeemed, but this didnt happen and so 
Barclays took possession  of the property  on 21 November  2018. In early  December  2018  
Mrs B broke into the property. Barclays applied for a Warrant of Restitution, which was 
granted by the court. Thereafter Barclays took steps to secure  the property with shuttering.
In December 2018 Mrs B asked Barclays if it would agree to assign its legal charge to a third 
party, a private lender.  This is unusual, because  generally where a mortgage is being  repaid, 
the charge to the existing  lender is redeemed and the new lender  takes  its own charge. But 
Barclays, through its solicitors, considered the request. After doing so, Barclays  decision 
was that it would not agree to assign the legal  charge to a third party.
The mortgage to Barclays has now been repaid and Mrs B is back in the property.
Mrs B contacted her MP to complain about Barclays  actions. In particular, she was unhappy 
that Barclays had taken possession of the property.  Barclays  sent a detailed response  to 
the MP, explaining why it wasnt upholding the complaint. Mrs B brought her complaint to us.
As well as her concerns about  Barclays actions around the repossession, Mrs B was also 
unhappy that, while she was waiting for Barclays to reply to her request to assign the legal 
charge, the bank  applied  to the court  again for an eviction  order. 
Ref: DRN08937222Mrs B also raised concerns about  the additional costs added  to the loan balance which she 
was required to pay.
An investigator considered the complaint, but didnt think it should  be upheld.  She was 
satisfied Barclays had acted reasonably,  in all the circumstances.
Mrs B didnt agree with the investigators findings  and asked for an ombudsman to review 
the complaint.  She has raised  a number of questions, which she would like to be answered 
to her satisfaction. These relate to her concerns over the level of qualification and training of 
staff at Barclays and its solicitors, and about  the grounds on which Barclays refused to 
assign the legal charge to another lender.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I confirm Ive read everything provided  by 
Mrs B and by Barclays and Ive given  careful  through to everything Mrs B has said.  
However, after careful consideration, Im unable to uphold the complaint. These  are my 
reasons.
First, I would like to pass on my condolences over the loss of Mr B, in circumstances which  I 
know have been  very difficult  for the family. I dont underestimate the effect this has had on 
Mrs B. But I have to put aside my natural empathy for her and decide this case without being 
swayed by emotion.  
I will also explain that the Financial Ombudsman Service is independent and impartial;  we 
dont act for consumers, or for financial businesses. Mrs B has a number of questions which 
she would  like answered to her satisfaction.  But we dont  take instructions from either party 
to a complaint;  if we were to do so, it would compromise our independence and impartiality. 
It is up to us to identify the main issues in a complaint and to investigate  those  issues.  So I 
hope Mrs B wont consider it a discourtesy if I do not put her questions  to Barclays for it to 
answer. Thats because  its not my role to represent her interests in this complaint. What I 
have to do is to decide  whether or not Barclays has acted fairly  and reasonably in relation to 
the events Mrs B is complaining about.
The starting point  is that this was an interest-only  mortgage, which  came  to an end in 2014. 
At that point, Mr and Mrs B were required to pay the capital back to Barclays, as theyd 
agreed to do when they entered into the mortgage  contract.  
No further payments were made after the mortgage matured, but it wasnt until four years 
later that Barclays began possession proceedings. Im satisfied Barclays exercised 
reasonable forbearance by allowing Mrs B over four years to repay  the mortgage, given her 
circumstances, and especially the untimely  death  of Mr B. 
The court decided that Barclays was entitled  to possession. The court  also decided that 
Barclays was entitled to a warrant of restitution after Mrs B broke back  into the property. I 
dont have any power to interfere  in matters already decided by a court, so I will make no 
further comment on either the court  proceedings  or the actions of Barclays and its solicitors.  
Mrs B has had the opportunity to raise  all of her concerns about the possession  proceedings 
with the court and so its not open for me to revisit  those matters here.
Ref: DRN08937223Ive seen the photos provided by Mrs B which she claims shows  damage to the property 
caused by Barclays  agents. The photographs show the property  shuttered  and secured, as 
well as the isolation of the boiler and toilet, which is standard procedure for a property taken  
into possession. Whilst I appreciate that seeing  the property boarded up caused  distress to 
Mrs B and her grandchildren, this was a reasonably foreseeable consequence of Mrs B 
breaking back into the property after it was lawfully in Barclays possession.  In the 
circumstances I cant hold Barclays responsible for any upset its actions may have caused 
when it took reasonable steps  to secure  the property against further incursion.
The balance owed  on the mortgage  increased  due to the additional  costs  incurred in relation 
to security measures Barclays had to put in place after the bank regained  possession.  Im 
satisfied that Barclays  actions were proportionate  to the situation and that the costs  have  
been fairly incurred  and are payable by Mrs B.
With regard to the transfer of the legal  charge,  it is correct that the mortgage terms and 
conditions allow the mortgage and legal charge  to be assigned to another  lender. I agree 
that s.114 Law of Property Act 1925  covers transfers of mortgages. But this isnt the only 
consideration here. So whilst I note Mrs Bs contention that Barclays  could have agreed to 
this very quickly, Mrs B is overlooking the regulatory  framework  within  which Barclays is 
legally required to operate.
Barclays mortgage was regulated by the Financial  Conduct Authority (FCA), and so any 
lender taking over the mortgage  would  be required  to comply with the same regulatory 
obligations as Barclays. If Barclays was to transfer  the mortgage  to an unregulated business, 
then that business would  need to ensure that the mortgage contract was administered  by a 
regulated business and to appoint an agent  which is FCA regulated  to handle the account 
administration. This is to ensure that consumers  dont  lose their regulatory  protection if an 
unregulated business buys a regulated lenders  mortgage book. 
Generally, assignment  of a legal charge will take place when a lender transfers all or part of 
its mortgage book  to another lender. That wasnt the case here; Barclays was being asked to 
transfer a single regulated mortgage contract  to a private company which doesnt appear on 
the FCA register. In all the circumstances, I think Barclays was entitled to exercise its 
commercial judgment to decline the request.  
Overall, Im satisfied Barclays acted fairly and reasonably. I appreciate Mrs B is likely  to 
disagree, and I am sorry if my decision adds to her distress. But as an objective reviewer of 
this case, taking into account everything thats  happened, I dont think  Barclays has done 
anything wrong  in its handling  of this mortgage  account.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 January 2020.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0893722