K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains that MBNA Limited (MBNA) has unfairly declined  to offer him a promotional 
balance transfer  rate on his credit card.
background
Mr O has an MBNA credit  card and has made a number of enquiries with it over the last 12 
months to see whether  it is able to offer him a promotional balance  transfer rate  so one 
that charges less interest than the standard rate set out in the terms and conditions.
MBNA said it didnt tell Mr O that he will be offered a promotional rate, but that promotions 
are sometimes advertised and he could apply if he saw one he wanted. Mr O said he isnt 
happy that he hasnt been offered a promotional rate and as a result he is paying more in 
interest than hed like elsewhere. 
Our investigator looked at Mr Os complaint and said he didnt think  MBNA had done 
anything wrong. Its terms and conditions said it may offer promotional rates and it would 
advertise these on the statements for the account   but this was at its discretion and if it had 
decided not to offer one, he didnt think this was unfair.
Mr O didnt agree so the complaint has been  passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint.  
I understand Mr Os frustration that not being offered  a promotional interest rate for a 
balance transfer  means  hes not got the option available to reduce what he is paying in 
interest elsewhere. But I dont think MBNA has done anything wrong when it hasnt offered 
Mr O what he wants.
MBNA is the provider  of the credit and it is ultimately its decision to decide  the terms of this 
lending, including  rates  and credit  limits. It sets these out within the account terms and 
conditions and when  these might vary.
These terms and conditions explain that promotional  rates might be made  available and that 
MBNA will let the customer know via their statement  including all the relevant details for 
the offer at the time.  But it doesnt  say anywhere there is a guarantee of these offers being 
made.
If Mr O wants to transfer a balance from another provider and find a better rate to do so, he 
may wish to shop around and see if a promotional rate is available that suits him and thats 
his choice. But it doesnt mean  MBNA should offer him one when he asks.  Nor t does it 
mean it is being unfair or unreasonable  in not doing so. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont uphold Mr Os complaint against MBNA  
Limited.
Ref: DRN03721442Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 September  2019.
Thomas Brissenden
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0372144