K820x#14complaint
Mr T has complained about CIS General Insurance Limiteds (CIS) handling of a claim on his 
motor insurance policy.
Reference to CIS includes its agents.
background
Mr T was in an accident. He said the other  driver was at fault. Mr T paid his £150 excess and 
CIS settled  his claim. But it eventually decided that Mr T was at fault for the accident. Mr T 
didn't agree. He brought his complaint about  that to us. Our investigator  thought  that CIS 
had handled  the matter  fairly. Mr T didn't agree so his complaint's  been passed to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
In bringing this complaint Mr Ts made a number of points and I've considered everything 
he's said carefully. But in this decision  Im going  to focus on what I see as being  the key 
outstanding issues  following  our investigators  assessment  of the complaint.
Mr T is adamant he wasn't at fault for the accident.  He said that the other  driver  was 
speeding and that he admitted fault and initially offered to pay for the repairs  to the damage 
to Mr Ts car. Mr T provided  witness evidence both from a passer-by and also from the 
mechanic who was going to do the work on the car; who Mr T said could verify that the other 
driver had admitted liability.
I should say at the outset that its not my role to decide whos  at fault for an accident, as 
ultimately thats a matter  for the courts. And, like all motor policies, Mr Ts policy allows  CIS 
to settle claims as it sees fit. That means it doesnt  require Mr Ts consent to decide  how to 
settle a claim and it may make a decision that Mr T doesnt agree with. But Ill look to see 
that its done so reasonably.
When the accident happened both drivers  were  driving in opposite  directions on the same 
road. Mr T turned right to enter a side street; his path took him across  the lane that the other  
driver was coming down.  Mr T says that because the other  driver  was driving too fast he hit 
Mr T's car at the rear. The passer-by  Mr T named as a witness  gave a statement in which he 
said that he didn't  see the accident  but had seen the other  driver earlier and thought he was 
driving too fast. Mr T's mechanic also provided  a statement in which he said he'd spoken 
with the other diver  who had agreed that using second hand parts  to repair  Mr T's car would 
be a good idea. But the mechanic didn't say that the other driver had accepted he was at 
fault for the claim. And the other driver didn't actually pay for the repairs.
I understand Mr T believes the accident  only happened because  the other driver drove too 
fast. And CIS did try to persuade the other  drivers insurers  to accept liability  on that basis. 
But the other drivers  insurer  said that Mr T was to blame for cutting across the other driver's 
path. And it's clear that CIS thought that - if the matter had gone to court  - the court  would 
find in the other drivers favour.
Ref: DRN04525192I can understand why, given the witness evidence, Mr T might disagree with that view.  But 
neither Mr T nor the passer-by can say with any certainty what speed  the other driver was 
traveling at. And the passer-by  didn't see the incident, so he can't possibly know whether or 
not when Mr T turned  it was safe to do so. And I don't think his evidence  would  carry much  
weight. Similarly,  Mr T's mechanics evidence is only that he discussed what work  Mr Ts car 
required. It doesn't say that the other driver  admitted liability. So I don't think that evidence 
would be persuasive  that the other  driver was at fault. Also I know  that the Highway Code 
places the responsibility on the driver  turning right to make sure that there is a safe gap 
before turning. But it appears that there  wasn't a safe gap as otherwise the two cars wouldn't 
have come together. So I can see why CIS was reluctant to take the matter to court.
It might help if I explain that court proceedings always involve an element  of risk for both 
parties. And defending an action in court will inevitably involve additional  costs.  As CIS 
would have to incur the costs of instructing lawyers, on top of the additional administrative 
costs of pursuing or defending such an action.  So if CIS had let the matter go to court it 
could have faced  significantly  higher  costs.  And given it's clear that CIS didn't think  it could 
successfully defend the case in court, I think its decision to minimise its costs and settle the 
claim was reasonable.  And I don't think CIS would  pay a claim where  it didn't think  it had to, 
as it won't be able to recover  its outlay.  It follows that I think its decision to settle the claim as 
it did was reasonable.
That said,  I understand that CIS settled the claim on whats known  as a without prejudice 
basis. That means that while it paid the other  drivers claim, it didn't accept liability.  And that 
means that Mr T could  still pursue a claim for his own losses in court if he wishes  to do so.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0452519