K820x#14complaint
Mr B says Bank of Scotland  plc mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance  (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2001.  The policy was added  to 
Mr Bs credit  card account when he applied for the card by post.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the PPI was mis-sold.  Mr B disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaints been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Bs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
 Ive seen a copy  of Mr Bs application for the credit card. It includes a section about 
PPI. There are brief details of the cover, and theres  a box to sign specifically if the 
applicant wishes to take the cover. Mr B signed  the box, in addition  to signing the 
application overall. I think Bank of Scotland made Mr B aware that the PPI was 
optional and that he chose to take it  although  I can understand why he may no longer 
remember this.
 Bank of Scotland didnt recommend the PPI to Mr B. This means it didnt have  to check 
that it was suitable  for him. But it still had a responsibility to give Mr B clear  enough 
information to enable him to decide whether the cover  was right for him.
 Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt  as clear  
as it should have been. But Mr B chose to take out the policy.  So he appears to have 
wanted this type of cover,  even if hes understandably forgotten that, so many years 
later. 
 Ive borne in mind  that Mr Bs told us hed have been  entitled to six months full pay, 
followed by six months half pay from his employer  at the time if he was off sick. But the 
PPI would have  helped with Mr Bs monthly  credit card repayments for up to 12 months 
per successful  claim for accident,  sickness or unemployment. Thats longer than hed 
have been entitled  to full sick pay for. Whats  more, the PPI would have  paid out in 
addition to any payments  Mr B received  from his employer, allowing him to use those 
to cover other day-to-day expenses. And he wouldnt  have  had to use his savings  to 
meet his credit card repayments. So taking everything into account, I think  the PPI 
could have been useful for Mr B. 
Ref: DRN02727322 Based  on what hes told us about his circumstances at the time, Mr B wasnt  affected 
by any of the main  things the policy didnt cover (for example, unusual employment 
arrangements, or existing medical conditions). The policy was competitively priced and 
apparently affordable. So I think its unlikely that Mr B would have  made a different 
decision even if better information  had been  provided.  On balance I think  hed still have 
taken out the policy.
But Bank of Scotland has agreed to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because:  
It got a high level of commission  and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - 
so it should have told Mr B about that. Because Bank of Scotland  didnt tell Mr B, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Bank of Scotland has agreed  to pay back the amount of commission  
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think thats fair in this 
case.
what Bank  of Scotland needs to do
Bank of Scotland has to pay back to Mr B any commission and profit share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. It should also pay back  to Mr B any extra interest  he 
paid because of that.
If it hasnt  done  so already, Bank  of Scotland should  re-work the credit card account and pay 
back to Mr B the difference between what Mr B owes and what he would have owed if the 
commission and profit share it got hadnt  been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Bank of 
Scotland should also pay Mr B 8%* simple interest if he paid off his credit  card at some  
point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr B can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc doesnt have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr B any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. It should now do this if it has not already  
done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0272732