K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold them a regular premium 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
In 2004 Mr and Mrs M took out a PPI policy with their mortgage. The policy  covered Mr M 
only for accident, sickness and unemployment and would have provided a monthly benefit of 
about £481 plus £3 extra for each  £1000 borrowed, for up to 12 months. It cost £29.40 a 
month.
In 2008 Mr and Mrs M borrowed some more money and bought a second PPI policy.  This 
one covered both Mr and Mrs W. I would have paid a monthly  benefit  of £281 plus the £3 
extra described above, also for 12 months. It cost £17.50 a month.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr and Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ms case.  
Where the evidence is incomplete  or contradictory  as some of it is here  I make my 
decision on the balance  of probabilities, that is, what I consider most likely to have happened 
given the evidence available and the wider circumstances.
The first PPI was sold to Mr and Mrs M during a meeting  with Lloyds when they were  
applying for a mortgage. Mr and Mrs M say they didnt need the PPI as Mr M had generous 
employment benefits and they had some savings. 
I cant know for certain what was discussed between Mr and Mrs M and Lloyds when they 
were discussing  the mortgage  and PPI. But I can see they completed a mortgage  application 
form that asked them  to tick a box to say yes or no to applying for PPI. The yes box is ticked  
and theyve completed separate application  form for the PPI. Theres  no mention of the PPI 
on either of the mortgage offers Ive seen from this date.  Overall, I cant  see anything that 
suggests they had to have the PPI. 
Lloyds has accepted that it recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs M. That means it had to 
check it was suitable  for them. Im satisfied the policy was suitable given Mr and Mrs Ms 
circumstances, because:
 
-Mr M was eligible for the policy given  his circumstances  and the PPI terms and 
conditions. Mrs M earned substantially less than Mr M and wasnt covered. That does 
seem to indicate that some level of discussion took place  before the PPI was set up, and 
that it reflected  Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances.
-Mr M says he would have received some work-related benefits  if he couldnt work  due to 
illness or accident. But the policy would  have paid out in addition to the occupational 
benefits and would do so, it seems, for longer. Having  the policy in place would mean Mr 
and Mrs M could  use their work-related benefits and savings to pay for other expenses.  
Ref: DRN06189352I think Mr and Mrs M would have  had some use for the policy  despite  their existing 
arrangements.
-Mr M wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys  main  benefits, such  as 
those affecting  self-employed  people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. 
As he could have benefited  from the full extent  of the cover  I think  it unlikely Mr and Mrs 
M needed better advice or information  about the policys exclusions and limitation
-I dont  know when Mr and Mrs M were first told the cost of the policy.  But it was relatively  
low cost,  and I think Mr and Mrs M were  aware they had to pay something  for the policy, 
because they signed a direct  debit mandate allowing Lloyds  to collect the premiums. Ive 
seen nothing to suggest it was unaffordable  or that the benefit  was insufficient to neither 
meet their total monthly mortgage  repayments, nor have I seen that Mr and Mrs M 
queried the payment  over the years. Its possible that some  of the information the society  
gave Mr and Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it should have been. But, on 
balance, I think  they chose  to take out the policy and so appear to have wanted  this type 
of cover.  As Ive already  said Mr M wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions or 
limitations and the policy seems  to have been  affordable, I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs M 
would have made a different decision if better information had been provided  overall,  
I think they would still have  taken out the policy. 
-Ive also looked  the circumstances of the sale of the second policy, in 2008. That was 
when Mr and Mrs M were applying  to borrow more money. On the mortgage application 
theres a choice  of boxes to tick  again for yes or not to PPI. Neither box is ticked,  but I 
can see Mr and Mrs M signed a separate PPI application and direct debit mandate.  This 
time Mr and Mrs M were  both covered, so again it seems some  discussion took place. 
The mortgage offer from the time does  mention PPI  but it also says Mr and Mrs M 
werent obliged to take it. It also gave the cost.
Much the same situation existed for both Mr and Mrs M as is described above for Mr Ws 
cover from 2004, so I wont repeat it all, bar saying that it appears appropriate for both Mr 
and Mrs M to have PPI for this part of the mortgage   although Mrs M might have been 
earning less, she was only on one of the policies and they were borrowing more.  So some  
extra cover seems to fit their circumstances. On this occasion Mr and Mrs M knew the cost 
of the policy  some time before  it started, as it was on their mortgage offer.
Ive thought about what Mr and Mrs M told us about their savings, which s that they cant  
show me how much these were. And they say they wanted the cheapest PPI available.  Both 
lots of PPI were relatively low cost,  so this information doesnt affect my decision.
 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
let me know  whether they accept or reject my decision before 23 August 2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0618935