K820x#14complaint
Mr S says National  Westminster Bank  Plc (NatWest) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in November 2000 when Mr S applied for a 
credit card. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
Mr S mainly  says that when he took out the credit  card NatWest didnt tell him about  PPI and 
it wasnt discussed with him at all  he didnt know he had it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ss case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain my reasons. 
NatWest couldnt  confirm how it sold the PPI to Mr S  but he remembers  taking out his 
credit card and the PPI at a NatWest  branch.  So I think thats probably what  happened. 
I think NatWest  made Mr S aware that the PPI was optional and that he chose to take it. 
I say this because  Mr S wouldve been  able to see on the application form he had to 
complete to get his credit  card that it was up to him to say if he wanted PPI. 
So, on balance , I think that Mr S decided he wanted to have the benefits PPI offered him and 
it was added to his account at his request. 
NatWest didnt recommend the PPI to Mr S so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for 
him. But it still had to make sure that it gave  Mr S enough information to make  a proper 
decision about whether PPI was right for him.
The policy wouldve paid out for up to 12 months for accident and sickness. The policy 
wouldve also covered  Mr S if he lost his job unexpectedly and was out of work. As Mr S 
doesnt appear to have  had any significant  other means to rely on if he wasnt able to work 
I think he couldve benefitted from having PPI.
Ref: DRN02691912Its possible  some information NatWest gave  Mr S about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  There were some things the policy didnt cover.  But I dont think  having  
more information  about what the policy didnt cover wouldve made any difference to his 
decision to take it out as this didnt affect Mr S. Although his employment circumstances 
changed, after hed taken out his credit card and the PPI, this didnt happen until some  
months later. And Mr S told us it wasnt something  he was aware hed be doing  when he 
took out the PPI in November 2000. When he took out PPI Mr S was able to take advantage 
of all the policy benefits. And he couldve  cancelled  it without incurring any further cost at 
any time if his circumstances changed or he no longer wanted to pay for the policy.
I dont think NatWest properly explained  what the policy would cost, or what  it might  pay out 
if Mr S made a claim. But he chose to take out the policy when he didnt  have to  so he 
appears to have wanted it. And it seems  to have been affordable for him at the time. 
Looked at overall, given the benefits  PPI offered  him, I think  it unlikely Mr S wouldve made a 
different decision if better information had been provided. On balance I think  hed still have 
taken out the policy.
This means  National Westminster Bank Plc doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the 
PPI to Mr S.
But National  Westminster Bank Plc has paid back  some of the cost of the PPI to Mr S 
because: 
National Westminster Bank Plc got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 
50% of the PPI premium)  - so it should have  told Mr S about that. Because National 
Westminster Bank Plc didnt tell Mr S, that was unfair. 
To put that right, National Westminster Bank  Plc has basically offered to pay back the 
amount of commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think 
that offer is fair in this case.
what the business needs  to do
National Westminster Bank Plc has to pay back to Mr S any commission  and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. National  Westminster Bank Plc should also 
pay back to Mr S any extra interest he paid because of that. 
So National  Westminster Bank Plc should re-work the credit card account  and pay back  to 
Mr S the difference between what Mr S owes and what he wouldve owed if the commission  
and profit share it got hadnt been  over 50% of the cost of the PPI. National Westminster  
Bank Plc should  also pay Mr S 8%* simple interest  if he paid off the credit card at some 
point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr S can claim back  the tax if he 
doesnt pay tax.
Ref: DRN02691913my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so National Westminster Bank Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But National  Westminster Bank Plc does  have to pay back  to Mr S any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 July 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0269191