K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  that Bank of Scotland plc (Halifax) has shared  his personal data with third 
party organisations while pursuing  him for an outstanding debt.
background
Mr M opened his ultimate reward account with Bank of Scotland in September 2012. Halifax  
has said Mr M opened the account via their telephone banking  team.  Therefore, Halifax has 
said he agreed to a summary of the terms and conditions  over the phone.  And the full terms 
and conditions were  sent in the post. But Mr M disputes this.
Mr Ms account first went into arrears in 2017.  Halifax has said that it sent several  notices to 
Mr Ms digital  inbox  (as Mr M had opted to go paperless) advising him he was overdrawn. 
But these  emails were not read. Alongside the standard notices Halifax  has said its 
collections team issued regulatory letters by post,  including a formal  demand notice and 
account closure notice.  Mr Ms account  was defaulted and eventually Halifax passed the 
debt to a third-party  debt recovery  agency. 
Mr M is unhappy  as he says his information should  have never been passed  to a third party  
and he feels he was harassed by Halifax when it was pursuing him for the debt.  He says this 
has had a big impact on his health and has caused  him unnecessary  distress.  So Mr M 
complained to Halifax. 
Halifax explained that when Mr M opened the account, he agreed to its Data Privacy Notice  
(DPN). It says within the notice it outlined  that Mr Ms data could be shared within the Group  
and with third parties in order to provide him with the products and services he required. This 
included the assignment of external  recovery agents  in instances of outstanding balances 
being transferred  to its Recoveries Team.
It says the DPN was not optional, and by opening and using your account with Halifax  Mr M 
agreed to the terms outlined in the Privacy  Statement. So, Halifax  didnt  think it had acted 
unreasonably by-passing  Mr Ms Data on to a third party  to pursue. It also said it didnt think 
it had harassed Mr M, but sent out the regulatory documents it was required to do before  a 
default could be registered. But in its final response  letter if offered to write off the 
outstanding balance of £62.87 and to ensure Mr Ms credit  report was marked  as settled.
Mr M remained unhappy he said Halifax shouldnt  have shared his data with third parties. He 
also said he finds it disrespectful  and degrading that Halifax said as a gesture of goodwill, it 
had written off the outstanding debt and amended  the status  of the default  to satisfied. So, 
he brought his complaint to our service.
 
Our investigator looked into the complaint, but he didnt recommend it be upheld. To 
summarise, he said he didnt think Halifax had harassed Mr M but simply ensured he was 
aware of the status of his account. He also explained that Halifax didnt have to write the 
outstanding balance off, as this was a debt Mr M still owed.
Mr M disagreed with the investigators findings.  He asked for evidence  of the call where  he 
opened the account. But due to the time that had passed, Halifax was unable  to find the call. 
So, the complaint was passed to me to consider. 
my findings
Ref: DRN02685022Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigators findings for broadly the same reasons. I will explain why.
Mr M has disputed  opening the ultimate  reward account via telephone banking. Our 
investigator has asked  Halifax to provide the call recording  which  evidences this. But due to 
the time that has passed Halifax is unable to provide  it which  I dont think is unreasonable. 
So, I have gone  on to consider what is likely  to have occurred.
Halifax has provided a screenshot to demonstrate that the account was opened over the 
phone. Having reviewed this evidence,  I am satisfied that the account was opened via 
telephone. And as a result, Mr M would have had to agree to the summary terms and 
conditions that applied at that time in order for his account to open and for him to proceed in 
using it.
While I cant be certain  the full terms and conditions were sent to Mr M after he opened the 
account, its reasonable to assume  that if Mr M hadnt received them,  he could have 
requested a copy as he had agreed  to operate the account within the terms and conditions  
of the account.  These terms say that the DPN can be reviewed online. Having reviewed the 
DPN, I am satisfied that Halifax has operated within its DPN with the information  it has 
shared with credit reference agencies and other third parties. 
Mr M has said that he feels Halifax  has harassed  him. But having looked  at the 
correspondence Halifax has sent, I dont agree. Halifax  has met its obligations of notifying  Mr 
M that his account  would  be defaulted  if Mr M didnt  operate the account in line with the 
terms and conditions. And if Halifax hadnt notified Mr M of its intentions to default the 
account it wouldnt be acting in line with the terms or banking regulations. And so, with that 
in mind, I cant say that Halifax has acted  unfairly or unreasonably in the correspondence  it 
sent Mr M.
I appreciate Mr Ms strength of feeling  in relation to Halifax saying it has waived Mr Ms 
remaining balance and asked  credit reference agencies to mark the debt as settled.  But the 
outstanding balance was still a debt Mr M owed to Halifax. And therefore, Halifax wasnt  
obliged to waive the outstanding balance or mark his account as settled. I think this 
demonstrates Halifax acting positively and sympathetically to Mr Ms circumstances. 
With the above in mind  I wont be asking Halifax to do anything further. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 January 2020.
Jade Rowe  
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0268502