K821x#15complaint
Miss R is unhappy that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) declined  her claim for
accidental damage,  under  her buildings  insurance policy.
When I refer to RSA Im also referring  to any of its appointed representatives.
background
Miss R noticed a leak from her swimming pool in late December 2017. She called RSA to let
them know  about  it and to make a claim  under  her buildings insurance policy.
RSA sent an expert to Miss Rs house in early January 2018. The expert wasnt able to
conclude what the cause of damage was and recommended a swimming  pool expert should
be appointed.
A second expert attended at the end of January  2018. The cause of the damage to the pool
was again inconclusive.
It was agreed by RSA that a third expert  should  attend, with the right equipment to identify
the cause of the damage. This visit took place towards the end of February  2018.  This
expert concluded that the pool liner was damaged due to its age and the age of the pipe
work. RSA declined the claim  as the damage was caused by wear and tear or gradual
deterioration  which is an exclusion  under Miss Rs policy.
Miss R wasnt  happy with this. She said that the final experts  visit had taken place too long
after the initial damage had been reported.  She said that the pool had been drained and had
been subjected  to severe weather conditions  between  visits, resulting in additional damage.
She was also unhappy  that RSAs experts had caused further damage when inspecting  the
pool.
Our investigator upheld  Miss Rs claim.  He said that the delays had been the significant
reason why the damage was now being  put down  to age. Because  of this he said RSA
should pay to repair Miss Rs pool to a satisfactory standard. He also maintained they should
pay Miss R £200 for the delays.
Miss R accepted our investigators opinion. RSA accepted  they should pay compensation for
the delays but didnt  accept they should repair the pool.
As RSA didnt agree it was passed to me to review.
I issued a provisional decision on 4 September 2019. It said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I intend  to ask RSA to
pay more compensation  to Miss R. But Im not intending to ask them  to do what the
investigator suggested and carry out full repairs to the pool under the policy.  Ill explain why.
Miss Rs insurance policy includes a range of general exclusions that apply to all sections.
One of those exclusions is:
Your policy does not cover claims arising  from wear and tear or gradual deterioration.
Ref: DRN00354882 It is your responsibility to keep your home  in a good condition.
And its this exclusion that RSA have used to decline the claim. What  I need to decide  is
whether RSA have  acted  reasonably in using this exclusion. In this case I think they have.
When Miss R originally  called RSA to notify  them of the leak in the pool she said that she felt
the damage was caused by age and wear and tear. At this point RSAs representative
explained that the claim wouldnt  be covered if that was the cause. Miss Rs partner took
over the call to explain  what he thought  the damage had been caused  by. He told RSAs
staff that hed drained the pool on a couple of occasions previously  as hed had to patch a
couple of leaks.  I think this supports RSAs decision to decline the claim for wear and tear or
gradual deterioration. Miss R originally  thought  the damage was due to wear and tear and
her partner has confirmed  previous patch work  needed to be completed.
The third report submitted by the expert  also confirms that the damage caused is due to the
age of the current liner and pipe work.  I know that Miss R doesnt think this report  is reliable,
as the pool was inspected  two months after the claim had first been notified. She feels that
the pool had been exposed to poor weather during that time, all the while having been left
drained, allowing  the pool liner to become brittle.  She has also provided some  comments
from the expert to confirm  that, if he had been  asked to attend earlier, the leak could have
been patched repaired.
I accept that that is probably right. I have no doubt that the leak could have been repaired
sooner had the appropriate expert been  appointed straight away.  But the question  I need  to
answer is not if the leak could be repaired,  but why it happened  in the first place? And Im
persuaded by the comments of Miss R and her partner, along with the third report,  that the
leak happened as a result  of wear and tear or gradual deterioration, which is excluded under
the policy. So Im satisfied that RSA have acted reasonably in declining the claim.
Miss R also feels  that the pool being  drained  has added  to the problems seen with the pool.
And she said that she wasnt advised what to do with the pool by RSA. However, the second
expert that attended  has confirmed that he told Miss R during his visit that the pool shouldnt
be left drained as more  damage would be caused. If Miss R was unsure what  she should do
with the pool while the damage was being assessed  she could have asked the expert for his
thoughts and recommendations. Im not aware that happened so I cant hold RSA
responsible for the pool remaining drained  for a further month until the final expert attended.
I agree  with the investigator in relation to the delays caused by RSA during the assessment
of the damage. RSA were  aware from the outset that the claim was in relation to a swimming
pool. Miss R is entitled to think that the appropriate expert would be appointed to assess  the
damage from the outset  and I can understand her frustration at two experts visiting  and not
being able to establish the cause of the damage.
As Ive said previously in this provisional decision, Im satisfied that RSAs decision to
decline the claim for wear  and tear or gradual deterioration is fair. But I think  Miss R should
have known this decision earlier  than she did  which is purely  the fault of RSA not
appointing the appropriate expert  initially. Theyve  accepted this and agreed to pay Miss R
£200, which I think is fair here. There was a delay of around six weeks  between  the first
expert visit and the final one in February 2018.
But I also think RSA should pay Miss R some additional compensation. The final expert  that
visited has acknowledged that some additional damage was caused to the pool  one of the
Ref: DRN00354883contractors slipped entering the pool and made  an additional crack in the pool lining. RSA
should acknowledge this as its caused more inconvenience for Miss R.
I think RSA should  be responsible for paying  for this repair but its difficult  to know how much
it would  cost RSA to repair this section of damage  alone. But Im satisfied they should pay
Miss Rs repair  costs  as they have  made  the condition  of the lining worse than it was before.
It would be difficult for RSA to work this out, so I think the fair and reasonable outcome in
this case would be for RSA to pay an additional £200 compensation to Miss R, for Miss R to
put towards the cost of repairing the new crack.
Based on what Ive said above, RSA should pay Miss R a total of £400. But if Miss R is able
to provide an estimate to repair the damage  to the lining  caused by the contractor alone then
I will consider  that.
RSA didnt respond to my provisional decision.
Miss R did respond.  She said that the experts report  thats  been  relied  on should be 
considered unreliable, not factual and untruthful. Shes said this because the expert initially 
said the damage caused to the pool by their contractors was caused by wear  and tear. It 
was only at a later date,  when questioned,  that they admitted  causing  the damage  
themselves. So, Miss R believes the report citing  the cause of the leak should  be ignored.
Miss R has also mentioned shes unhappy that the telephone call between her, her partner 
and RSA have  been considered and used to support my reason for saying that RSA was fair 
in declining the claim. She feels she was told to leave  the pool drained and this caused 
further damage. 
Miss R has provided an estimate to repair the pool. Its in excess of £9,000,  with an 
additional £1,800 to repair the skimmer line and pipework.  She feels RSA are responsible for 
this and should meet these costs.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional decision.
I understand Miss Rs frustration with the work of RSAs experts.  Ive accepted  in my 
provisional decision that RSA hasnt handled Miss Rs claim as well as Id expect it to. And 
its a shame that the final expert  initially tried to mask the additional damage their contractor 
had caused. But I dont think that renders  their whole report unreliable, not factual or 
untruthful. Whilst the damage caused  should have been admitted to in their report, I havent 
seen anything to suggest the reason the report gives for the original leak isnt a valid one. 
Miss R has said that none of the reports determine  the cause of the initial leak. I disagree   
the evidence provided by the final expert confirms the leak as being caused by age of the 
current liner and pipe work. Even if I ignore Miss Rs partners comments that previous patch 
repairs have been  needed, the report and Miss Rs confirmation that the damage has been 
caused by wear and tear means that its reasonable for RSA to decline the claim. 
With regard to the drainage of the pool, Ive covered this in my provisional decision. Miss R 
has referred to the second experts  visit and his comments that the pool needs  to be drained 
so that the pool walls and liner can be checked.  I agree  that the pool would have needed  to 
Ref: DRN00354884be drained to assess the damage to the liner, but the expert has also confirmed that he 
informed Miss R that the pool shouldnt be left drained. Because  of that I dont hold RSA 
responsible for any additional damage  that was caused by leaving the pool drained. 
Miss R has provided an estimate for a total refit of the pool. I dont think its reasonable to 
ask RSA to pay for this. My provisional decision  says that they should be responsible  for the 
additional damage caused  by their expert but this would be difficult  to determine. Based on 
the estimate provided  it still cant be determined, so my initial recommendation of £400 for 
the delays and inconvenience caused during the claims handling is a fair one. I say this 
because RSA is only responsible for contributing towards the damage caused  by them. I 
would only recommend they pay for the entire  pool repair if I felt the claim should be 
accepted. Ive explained why I dont think thats  the case  here.   
my final decision
For the reasons  above I uphold Miss Rs complaint. Im telling Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Plc to:
Pay Miss R £400  for the delays and inconvenience caused during the claims 
handling.1
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 October  2019.
Kevin Parmenter
ombudsman
1 Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc must pay the compensation  within 28 days  of the date 
on which we tell them Miss R accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this they must 
also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at 8% a year simple.
Ref: DRN0035488