K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC (Barclays) made mistakes regarding  his 
address, which  has an impact on his account, and caused him detriment. 
background
Mr Ns complaint goes back to 2011,  when he says he changed his address with Barclays. 
He complained in 2014,  after his account was closed and defaulted. 
Mr N says Barclays made a mistake when he asked  it to change his address in 2011, and 
continued to send mail to the wrong address. Consequently, when he went to live abroad,  he 
wasnt receiving mail pertinent to his account.
As a result, he didnt receive Barclays  letters  regarding the withdrawal of his overdraft, and 
the fact his account was going  to be defaulted. This resulted in a default and closure of Mr 
Ns account, and the consequent detrimental  effect on his credit rating. 
He didnt feel this was fair, so complained to Barclays. It initially  admitted making a mistake  
with Mr Ns change of address. It agreed to remove the default, and paid £200 
compensation.
Mr N didnt feel this was enough for the worrying and stressful  experience hed had, and the 
missed opportunities  brought about by the temporary damage to his credit file. So he 
brought his complaint to our service.
Our Investigator  looked  into matters, and concluded  that Barclays  probably hadnt made a 
mistake, but that in any event it had since put things right with Mr N by removing  the default 
and paying him compensation.
Mr N still didnt agree, and asked for an ombudsmans review.  He wanted a higher amount of 
compensation for the financial and psychological  damage Barclays had caused  him.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think our investigator  was correct not to uphold  the complaint. 
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr N, but I hope I can explain why I think  
this decision is fair to both parties.
Mr N thinks Barclays  made a mistake when he asked in 2011 to change  his address. He 
says that if this hadnt happened,  hed have received its letters about his overdraft, and 
would have avoided  a default. He also says that he spoke with Barclays  specifically about 
his overdraft while he was abroad, and that he was assured that it wouldnt be a problem. 
I can see that one of the great difficulties in this case has been evidential   namely, whether 
or not the address was correctly changed  in 2011. Ive seen various versions of events, and I 
dont blame Mr N for being  dubious about  Barclays position when its changed its mind, and 
made other mistakes.
Ref: DRN01736172Having said that, I dont think its fair to assume that because Barclays  has made mistakes, 
that this means  everything it says is wrong. The evidence isnt conclusive.  I cant say for 
sure whether  the address  was changed  correctly or not. Barclays  initially admitted it made 
an error, and later changed  its mind. Our Investigator  felt that on balance  the evidence  
suggested that no mistake was made.
In any event, I dont think  whether  or not the mistake  made is what I should  be focussing on 
here. On the basis, Barclays initially admitted an error, and has taken  remedial action in 
removing the default, and paying compensation, my role now is to decide whether I think  its 
done enough to resolve the complaint. 
I think it has. The most important issue here is the default, which would  have the greatest 
impact on Mr N. While  I cant determine  whether it should ever have been applied  or not, Mr 
N benefits from Barclays decision to remove it  and that can only be a good thing. 
As to any financial loss Mr N suffered as a result, I havent seen anything documented. Mr 
Ns referred to lost opportunities, but opportunities are speculative  by nature, so I cant  ask 
Barclays to compensate for those. 
On the matter of compensation, Mr N doesnt  think the £200 hes received is enough. 
Calculating how much is fair isnt an exact science, and will differ  in each  case. In this 
complaint, the decision that Barclays didnt make a mistake has been made on a balance  of 
probabilities (that is, whats  most  likely to have happened  on a 51%/49% basis).  This 
means that technically no compensation would be payable, i.e. no fault = no compensation. 
However, this is a gesture that Barclays  has already made.
I must also look at whether Mr N mitigated his situation sufficiently. And I cant confidently 
say he did. Whether or not Barclays failed to update his address in 2011,  he went to live 
abroad with an overdraft on a UK account.  If he wasnt receiving any letters  from Barclays 
about his account for two years, as he says,  I think he should  have  queried  that. Ultimately,  
he owed Barclays money, which he knew, and overdrafts are always repayable  on demand.
I cant make  a finding on whether Barclays did tell Mr N that his overdraft wouldnt be an 
issue. If it did, I think this was bad advice. I say this because of the nature of overdrafts, and 
the fact theyre  repayable on demand. This means  theres always  that possibility that a 
banks circumstances/criteria will change and it will need to be paid back.
Im pleased to see that the defaults been lifted from Mr Ns credit  file. Defaults do have long-
lasting effects. And Im also glad to see hes been compensated for his experience.  Whether 
the address change was a mistake or not, Barclays did make  other  mistakes,  so I think its 
fair it paid him something.
Overall, in the circumstances I dont  have enough evidence to say that Barclays  did 
something wrong. I think its acted fairly and reasonably in the redress its made  to Mr N. 
And I dont  think it would be fair for me to ask it to pay any further compensation.
Ref: DRN01736173my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2020.
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0173617