K820x#14complaint
Miss F has complained Lloyds Bank  plc hasnt refunded cash machine transactions  she 
didnt make.
background
Miss F came to us to complain about numerous  cash machine transactions taken from two 
accounts. One of those  accounts was with Lloyds. Shed opened this account  in May 2016. 
She disputed nine withdrawals at cash  machines  from 28 October 2016 to 20 February 
2017. During that period  thered also been  numerous other cash machine withdrawals which 
she didnt dispute.  Lloyds didnt think there was enough evidence to show she hadnt made 
these transactions  herself. Miss F believed her card was being copied  and that CCTV 
evidence would show it wasnt  her making  the transactions.
Our adjudicator reviewed  the evidence. She believed all the withdrawals were made using 
the genuine card and PIN. No copies  of Miss Fs card had been  involved. Therefore she 
couldnt understand who could have made  these transactions when  Miss F still had her card. 
It was clear Miss F had a number of concerns about the safety of her neighbourhood and 
believed she was a victim of organised crime. But our adjudicator felt this made  no 
difference to the outcome of her complaint about  Lloyds.  She regularly advised Miss F to 
raise her wider concerns with the police or her local Citizens  Advice.
Our adjudicator also tried to see whether any CCTV evidence  was available  for the 
transactions. Unfortunately none  of the cash machine owners keep CCTV evidence for a 
long period so no evidence  was now available.
Miss F was unhappy with this outcome. Shes  asked  an ombudsman to consider  her 
complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done  so, Ive reached  roughly the 
same conclusion as our adjudicator. Ill explain why.
The Payment Services Regulations primarily  require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Certain  other circumstances do apply  specifically 
in this type of case whether the customer was grossly negligent when looking after their card 
and PIN. So when we look at whether a bank has acted fairly  in rejecting someones fraud 
complaint, one of the things we consider is whether the customer  made  the transactions  
themselves or allowed  them to be made.  If they did, then we generally wouldnt ask the bank 
to refund them.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions  
themselves, what we know about  fraud  and whether anybody  else could have used Miss Fs 
card and PIN. 
With our adjudicators assistance, Miss F was able to identify nine withdrawals from her 
Lloyds account  which she says she didnt make. These were  all for different amounts  
ranging from £20 to £250  over a four month period. Lloyds gave us the electronic records 
for these  transactions. I was able to see that in all cases the genuine card  and not a copy  
was used, along with the correct PIN.
Ref: DRN01999222I could also see that in a couple  of instances  (on 2 November and 2 December), Miss F 
disputed withdrawals at a local shops cash machine. Then within  an hour (within  minutes on 
2 December 2016), shed  made withdrawals at her local Lloyds branch cash  machine which  
she regularly used  and which  she doesnt  dispute. Ive mapped out all the cash machines  
involved in the transactions  and theyre all pretty close  together.
Bearing in mind the timing of these transactions,  I cant see its likely that someone else had 
her debit card and was able to use it on those occasions.
Ive also looked  at the pattern of use on Miss Fs Lloyds account. She had regular benefits 
paid into the account. She was regularly checking  the balance  of her account  at cash  
machines before withdrawing cash but generally theres very little other use on her account.  
In this services experience unknown fraudsters empty targeted  accounts as quickly as 
possible. But this is not the case here.  None of the withdrawals took Miss Fs account to a 
particularly low level. The transactions  were spread over four months and at one stage there  
were no disputed transactions  for over two months.  All of the cash  machines used were in 
the same  local area. There also was no disputed spending in shops which  wed generally 
see in frauds. So all this suggests this isnt what normally  happens  in fraud cases.
Miss F says she always knows where  her card is and is very careful with it. I dont doubt this 
as I know she told Lloyds  in June 2017  she was uncomfortable using a card at all. From then 
on she was planning  to come into the branch to withdraw the money she needed using her 
passport as ID. There were occasions  before this that Miss F had had to get replacement  
debit cards and she got five different  PINs in a year.
Ive noted how strongly  Miss F feels about whats  happened. She is adamant that she knows 
nothing about  these transactions. She believes shes been  targeted  and her cards  used by 
other parties. Shes  accused  a number of people, including her local police, of being involved 
in a conspiracy.  Im in no doubt wed consider Miss F as a vulnerable  individual and shes  
told us of her health issues.  So Ive considered whether she has been threatened and made 
to withdraw the money involved in these disputed  transactions.
But this isnt what shes told us. So its difficult  to conclude this.
Miss F has strongly  argued that any CCTV evidence  would show she didnt make these 
transactions. Unfortunately because of the time that has passed since  these transactions,  no 
CCTV evidence is now available. I know Miss F thinks this may be part of the wider 
conspiracy but I dont  believe this is the case at all. Banks are not required to keep CCTV for 
any specific period  of time  although I do agree with her that where transactions  are in 
dispute we would expect the actual bank to retain any evidence. But in this case none of the 
disputed withdrawals happened at Miss Fs Lloyds branch. As has been  explained to Miss F 
already, CCTV evidence often doesnt  provide the clarity that customers  hope it will. So I 
dont think the lack of this evidence has had a major impact on my decision.
Based on all the evidence Ive seen,  including Miss Fs testimony to us, and on balance Ive 
come to the conclusion Miss F made or authorised the disputed cash machine withdrawals 
herself. As Ive decided  she made  these herself,  I dont need  to consider any further  points.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Miss Fs complaint against 
Lloyds Bank  plc.
Ref: DRN01999223Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 November  2019.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0199922