K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains about Fairmead Insurance Limited  declining his claim under his home 
insurance policy to replace patio doors  after an attempted  burglary at his home. Mr Gs 
policy was provided  by Legal and General, but theyve changed their name to Fairmead,  so 
this decision has been issued with them as the business and Ive referred  to Fairmead  
throughout.
background
Mr G had a home and contents  insurance policy with Fairmead Insurance  Limited and made  
a claim after an attempted  burglary.  He reported  the incident to the police, who attended the 
property and gave  him a crime reference  number. Fairmead asked their door specialists, M, 
to visit the property and provide a report on the damage.
M said they couldnt  find signs  of force.  They said the locking mechanism had failed, and a 
screw had been  put into the latch to keep it open.  They also said the door hinges  were 
damaged because the door had swung  open  and hit a wall which caused the door to drop off 
alignment. They said the overall condition  of the doors was poor and concluded the damage  
was as a result of wear  and tear. After looking at the report and photographs  Ms operations  
manager also agreed that the doors were in poor condition and there was no evidence  to 
show forced entry. 
Fairmead relied on this report and declined Mr Gs claim because damage due to wear and 
tear isnt covered by his policy.  So, Mr G complained. He said that when M visited his 
property, they told him the doors  would  be replaced.  He said that even the police officer  
couldnt believe the insurance  company wouldnt replace the doors.
Fairmead didnt uphold his complaint. They told Mr G that if he were  able to provide a report 
and photographs from a suitably qualified contractor to support his claim, they would  
reconsider their position. They  said the police were  unable to provide  any information which 
would change their view.
Mr G wasnt happy, so he brought his complaint  to this service.  He said the police officer 
who visited the property  was happy to talk to Fairmead directly.  He said that Fairmead had 
changed their mind  about replacing  the doors,  and he would like the doors  replaced and the 
excess waived.
Our investigator looked at the case and said that as Mr Gs insurance policy didnt cover  
wear and tear, she wasnt upholding  the complaint. After our investigators view, Mr C 
produced a note from an independent window company which said:
After observing French doors seems they have been damaged beyond economic 
repair due to attempted burglary  handles forced  to breaking point, locks  bust one 
door wont open at all.
The note was sent to Fairmead  for their comment, but they havent  responded, and as Mr G 
has asked for an ombudsmans decision, so I think its appropriate for me to take the report  
into account and issue my decision.  
Ref: DRN06753002my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  and Im not going  to uphold it and Ill 
explain why.
Firstly, this must have been  a very distressing time for Mr G, and I know  that he will be 
disappointed with my decision which must  be based on whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances
My starting point is to look at Mr Gs policy.  Under  the general conditions  and exclusions, the 
policy says 
No cover is provided for wear and tear, maintenance or anything that happens gradually
Im satisfied the policy excludes wear and tear, so Ive considered  whether Fairmead acted 
fairly when  they relied on this exclusion clause. Ive seen  the reports from M, and from Mr 
Gs appointed  expert.  I cant  say that both reports are conflicting because  both reports  say 
the doors are damaged,  but Im more persuaded by Ms report. I say this because Ms report  
describes the state of the locks and the hinges and the photographs show whats likely to 
have happened  for the doors  to be in the poor state generally. And its said that there was no 
evidence that the doors  had been  forced.
I dont think the other report  Mr G has provided  is detailed enough, or conclusive. I say this 
because the other report doesnt challenge  Ms report  or provide an explanation for how the 
damage was caused or give alternative reasons for the poor state of the doors. Mr Gs 
expert hasnt provided his full name  or details of his experience and qualifications.  The 
report says it seems the damage was beyond economic repair  due to attempted  burglary. 
No other  information  is provided, so for these reasons, Ive given more  weight to Ms report; 
it provides an explanation  for why the damage  is most  likely  to be wear  and tear.
I can see that attempts  were made to contact the police  officer  who attended  the property 
after the burglary.  Mr G was hoping the officer could say that the doors  were  broken as a 
result of the attempted  burglary  and not wear  and tear. Ive seen  Fairmeads notes and Im 
satisfied that that they tried to contact  the officer on more than one occasion. The response  
from the police was that they had only limited  information  which was given to them  by Mr G. 
And - as no further  information  has come  from them,  on the evidence Ive seen Im satisfied 
the damage to the door was as a result  of wear and tear. In which  case  I think  the door could 
have been forced quite  easily without  causing  any further damage in an attempted burglary.
Turning to Mr Gs complaint that a representative of M had told him that the doors would be 
replaced when  he inspected the property.  Im not persuaded that this is the case. I say this 
because I havent  seen any compelling  evidence  to suggest this. I appreciate  Mr Gs 
testimony is evidence, but Id expect to see some sort of reference to it in Fairmeads claims 
handling notes  or Ms report. Plus, M have  said their representative  didnt tell Mr M this. And 
 even if the representative did say this, I dont think this in itself would  be a good  reason to 
make Fairmead pay to replace the doors,  as Mr G wouldnt have acted on this statement to 
his detriment. 
In summary,  I think Fairmead is entitled to rely on the wear and tear exclusion in the policy,  
so I dont think its appropriate for me to make  them pay Mr Gs claim. 
Ref: DRN06753003my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 July 2020.
Sejal Karia
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0675300