K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt respond to his loan application.
background
In July 2018 Mr A visited his local branch  to apply for a loan for £15,000 to buy a car. The 
advisor told Mr A she didnt have pre-approved lending limits available  for that amount and 
asked Mr A to provided proof of his income.
Mr A provided his wage  slips by email.  He didnt receive a response so he visited the branch 
again. The first time he was unable to see the advisor because  she was unavailable. The 
second time he was asked to provided wage  slips and when he said hed already done this, 
the bank said it hadnt received them. The third time he was told to contact customer  
services.
Mr A complained. In its final response  Barclays apologised for poor customer service  and 
offered £150 compensation.  Mr A declined the offer. He wanted more  compensation to 
reflect the time hed taken  off work  to visit the branch and the distress caused when the bank 
made him feel that hed lied about sending  in his wage slips. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint and said the compensation of £150 was fair.
Mr A didnt agree so Ive been asked  to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays has explained that when Mr A first visited the branch the advisor told him he 
needed to provide proof of income before he could proceed with the application.
Mr A provided his wage  slips by email.  Initially the bank didnt think hed done this and asked 
him to provide  them again. I appreciate how distressing this mustve been  for Mr A. The 
bank has since apologised for its error.
I understand that Mr A had to make several visits to the branch to chase up his loan 
application. However, whilst I understand that Mr A thinks  he had completed and submitted a 
loan application,  the bank  has said that this wasnt the case.  It has said that the level of 
Mr As repayments would have been discussed  with him based on the amount  he wanted to 
borrow. Its possible that Mr A thought he had made  a loan application during that first 
meeting but Im satisfied this wasnt the case.
That said,  Mr A experienced poor customer service when he went back  into the branch. I 
think its right that the bank has acknowledged this and offered to pay compensation.
I understand that Mr A has since borrowed the money elsewhere. Ive taken  account  of the 
inconvenience caused to Mr A by having  to visit the branch several  times and the frustration 
at not receiving a response to his email  which enclosed  his wage slips. Taking everything 
into account however,  Im satisfied that the offer of compensation is fair and in line with what 
this service would  award. So I wont be asking Barclays to increase the award. 
Ref: DRN08341172my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0834117