K822xcomplaint
Mr K complains about the charges  Volkswagen  Financial Services  (UK) Limited  (VWFS)  
asked him to pay to refurbish a car hed been financing through them.
background 
I issued my provisional decision in January 2020.  I explained why I was planning to uphold  
Mr Ks complaint in part. An extract of that provisional decision is set out below:
Mr K took receipt of a new car in August 2014.  He voluntarily  terminated the agreement in 
September 2017 and returned the car to the dealership.  It wasnt  inspected by VWFSs 
appointed agents until November 2017. The inspection identified scratches to the right hand 
wing; front door and rear door and VWFS therefore  sent Mr K a bill for £397.44 which  they 
said covered the cost of refurbishment.
Mr K complained to them as he said there  was no damage on the car when he left it with the 
dealer. He provided a note from a member  of staff at the dealership who said he could not 
recall there being any damage to the car. Mr K said the damage  must have happened whilst 
the car was in the dealerships possession. He said that regardless of this, the photographic 
evidence of the damage was poor and didnt demonstrate the damage VWFS were claiming 
refurbishment for. 
VWFS didnt  uphold Mr Ks complaint so he referred  it to this service  and our investigator 
provided an opinion.  She thought it was most likely the damage had occurred whilst at the 
dealership. She noted all the damage  was on one side of the car and she thought  it was 
likely the car had been moved around a lot whilst being stored waiting for collection and was 
therefore likely to have  been damaged whilst there  rather than whilst it was in Mr Ks 
possession. 
She therefore thought VWFS should  waive the charges theyd made. But VWFS disagreed. 
They said Mr Ks responsibility for the car didnt end when he left it with the dealership and 
only ended  when it was collected. So they thought  the charges should stand and they 
therefore asked  for a final decision  by an ombudsman.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont currently agree with the investigators view.  I know  that will disappoint Mr K so please 
let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ref: DRN07410982Mr K acquired his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.
The terms of Mr Ks finance agreement allow VWFS  to charge him for refurbishment if the 
car is not returned  in a good condition.
The British  Vehicle Rental and Leasing  Association  (BVRLA) provide the industry  guidelines 
on what is to be considered fair wear and tear when a car is returned at the end of a lease. 
So Ive considered the photographs of the scratches  contained in the independent 
inspectors report and compared them to that standard. The scratches are in excess  of that 
standard and I therefore think it would be reasonable  for VWFS  to make a charge for 
refurbishment.
I understand Mr K says the damage wasnt done when he had the car and that it must have 
happened at some point since he left it with the dealership in September.  
It would be normal for VWFS to have been  told Mr K was planning to return  the car so that 
an inspection could  be arranged  and the car could be collected. And if this had been done  
Mr K could have been present when that inspection was completed  and could have disputed  
any damage charges.
Ive reviewed VWFSs system notes and it appears they werent informed that Mr K was 
returning the car until after it had been  left at the dealership.  So I dont think  its fair to hold 
VWFS responsible for the delay  in the inspection taking  place  they had no notice it would 
be necessary.
I accept that its possible  the car could have been  damaged at the dealership whilst it was 
waiting to be inspected. But it could also have been  damaged in Mr Ks possession.  Mr K 
had the car for a little more than three years and completed over 19,000 miles in it. The car 
was left at the dealership for a couple  of months  and doesnt appear  to have been driven in 
that time.  On the balance of probabilities I think its therefore much more  likely the damage 
to the car happened whilst Mr K was in possession  of the vehicle than in the much shorter  
space of time it was waiting for inspection at the dealership.
Mr K hasnt provided any photographic evidence of the condition of the car when he left it 
with the dealership. Ive considered the evidence provided by the member  of staff who says 
he cant remember there being any damage  to the car when  it was left with him. But I dont 
think this is very persuasive  evidence.  It isnt supported with documentation or photographic 
evidence for instance.
So, on balance, I think its most likely  that the damage Mr K is being charged for was there 
when he returned  the car.
In those circumstances VWFS can make a charge to refurbish  the vehicle. But they dont 
have to refurbish  it and they may, as has been the case here, chose to sell the vehicle and 
accept its condition may mean they wont achieve  the sales  price expected. 
VWFS didnt  repair the car and they made £350  less at auction  than they would have 
expected to make if Mr K had returned  the vehicle in the required condition. In those 
circumstances I think it would be fair for VWFS to charge  Mr K for the loss in value they 
realised (£350) rather than the loss they expected to realise (£397.44).
Ref: DRN07410983my provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  Im expecting to uphold this complaint in part and tell 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  to require Mr K to pay £350  rather than the 
£397.44 they have previously asked  him to pay to refurbish his car on termination of his 
lease.
my findings
VWFS agreed with my provisional decision but Mr K didnt because he said the handover 
process was out of his control  and he still stood by his view that the damage must have been 
incurred whilst the car was at the dealership awaiting inspection.
So Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  but Ive not been persuaded that any new 
evidence has been provided and my provisional  decision  therefore  remains the same.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint in part and tell Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited to require  Mr K to pay £350 rather than the £397.44 they 
have previously asked  him to pay to refurbish his car on termination of his lease.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0741098