K822xcomplaint
Mr T has complained about his home  insurer, Elite Insurance  Company Limited  (has ceased 
writing new business  but continues  to fulfil existing  contracts of insurance). He thinks its 
handled his claim, made following a flood, poorly.
background
Mr Ts home  was damaged by a flash flood in June 2016 when a road drain  near his house 
overflowed. In November  2017 Mr Ts home had still not been  reinstated  and he complained 
to his MP and this service.
Our investigator felt that Elite should  appoint a new loss adjuster to handle  and re-assess  the 
claim going forward. He said Elite should  dry the property again and pay Mr Ts storage 
costs incurred since it stopped paying  for storage several months previously. He said it 
should also pay Mr T £2,000 compensation.
Mr T felt an independent loss adjuster was required  that he wasnt able to trust anyone 
appointed by Elite. Elite said it didnt really  agree with our investigators view but appointed a 
loss adjuster anyway  who contacted Mr T. It said it would  dry the property again  and pay an 
additional two months  storage, but not all of it. Regarding compensation it said it would pay 
£1,000. The complaint was passed to me for a decision to be made.
I issued some provisional findings  and then, after receipt of responses from both parties, 
I issued some revised findings about  what I felt Elite should pay. Both parties have now 
responded to my further findings as well, Ive considered those responses and Im now 
issuing my final decision, which includes copies of my previous findings.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so I think  Elite handled this 
claim particularly  poorly  and that Mr T has likely  been prejudiced  as a result.  Given  the time 
that has passed already  I dont think it would be fair to put Mr T through any further 
re-assessment. I think a pragmatic approach  is reasonable in the circumstances here; Im 
issuing a provisional decision to share  my thoughts  on this with both parties. Ill state  at the 
outset though, that Im not going  to include all the details  relating to the claim. In the interest  
of getting this long overdue claim resolved Im going to keep this short but I have read and 
understood everything thats happened. 
Its good industry practice following water damage to; remove  damaged  contents  and/or any 
that would hinder  drying, get the property stripped and put drying equipment  in place, as 
soon as possible. Here  drying equipment went in early but six weeks later moisture  readings 
were taken showing 100% moisture to all floors. No readings from walls were  taken. 
Contents werent removed, and the property wasnt stripped. Elite failed Mr T in this respect.
Moreover it authorised  Mr T to dispose  of contents and only afterwards told him photos of 
items were needed.
The drying company  ceased drying  as it felt the levels wouldnt decrease further. But they 
had been decreasing week  on week. Theres no sign that Elite told Mr T of this issue  or 
warned him that this likely meant  there was something else going on in his property 
Ref: DRN05048422preventing proper drying. But nor did this account  for the fact that in places the plastic  floor 
tiles covering the concrete  floors  hadnt been removed.
Several months later,  (around nine months after the flood), after Mr T had gone  to the 
trouble of appointing a loss assessor and getting his own surveyors report, Elite agreed  to 
send a further disaster specialist to the property to assess what  was likely happening there. 
That specialist found evidence of salts indicative  of rising damp. It said given the moisture 
readings there was likely a problem  in this respect. But accepted that the flood had affected  
the whole  ground  floor.  The information was shared with Mr Ts loss assessor. Several  leaks 
were also identified  it isnt clear whether the location and nature of these  were  shared with 
Mr T. They also said that drying couldnt continue and would never be successful  with the 
contents in the property   the contents  that Elite hadnt removed  when it had sought to dry 
the property initially.
Shortly after the flood  Elite said it would settle the buildings element of the claim with Mr T at 
a cost of around £3,200,  this increased later to circa £3,400, then £3,900. The scope for this 
was for repair to the lounge/diner, kitchen  and hall. After the disaster  specialist visit referred 
to in my paragraph  above, Elite accepted  that drying  out to the whole ground floor was 
necessary and added this to the scope. It didnt add any reinstatement costs for rooms not 
detailed previous but which were  now included in respect of drying. The new cost was 
around £8,900.  Mr T produced estimates showing the reinstatement  cost to him would be 
around £21,000. It isnt clear what amount, if any, Elite has actually paid to Mr T.
I also note that Elite said it had chosen not to carry out the reinstatement work, although it 
had initially  intended  to. Whilst  how a claim  is settled is its choice, Elite cant  fairly settle 
based on what it would cost it do the work when it has entered into a contract to repair. 
However, in this case, I think it best for both parties that Elite does settle the matter in cash 
to allow Mr T to move forward effectively with the repairs to his home.
Regarding contents,  the retail value, as assessed  by one of Elites specialists, for Mr Ts 
large furniture items, was around £20,000.  It noted damage to all wooden items at low level 
due to the flood  waters. Another of Elites specialists recommended that the kitchen  
appliances were  replaced as they contained  foul water from the flood. And whilst  items were 
left to sit in a damp house they would have continued to deteriorate. Im also satisfied that 
items not initially affected by the flood  would have been damaged  in the months following it 
given the high humidity levels. This is one of the reasons why the industry accepts that 
appropriate clearance and stripping as quickly as possible following water  damage is so 
important. Mr T provided a long list of the other  affected contents items, but I havent seen a 
total replacement  cost for them all. A general overview of the figures suggests at least 
£10,000.
Mr T hasnt been reimbursed for the cost of electricity used to dry the property. I cant 
understand why Elite hasnt made  any offer in this respect  the drying equipment usually 
used records utility  usage, so reimbursement is usually a simple act. I havent  seen evidence 
from either side showing what the usage might  be. Ill consider anything submitted in 
response to this decision otherwise, given there was three months  of drying  going  by the 
moisture readings taken   Ill allot a compensatory sum to this which allows  for the fact that 
some extra usage  has occurred but reflects that fact that it isnt clear how much  £200.
Mr T has also had storage  costs  that Elite hasnt  covered. They  have been  shown to be 
£1.92 a day (including VAT). The last payment  Elite made seems likely to have covered 
costs  only up until 30 October 2016. Arguably the items need to remain  in storage until Mr T 
Ref: DRN05048423has received payment  to allow him to clear, dry and reinstate his home   Im provisionally  
going to suggest  a payment of £2,000 to cover this. Again,  this is somewhat of a pragmatic 
approach allowing time for our process  here to end, payments to be made  and significant  but 
unquantified work (in terms  of time) to be completed  (which, if he hasnt  already  done so, will 
necessarily include Mr T fixing  some  leaks). This may change if I receive quantification of the 
likely period of the work,  see below.
And Mr T is fairly due interest on the sums hes paid out to date for storage. Strictly interest  
which is simple and at a rate of 8%  is applied  to each sum paid from the payment date and 
until settlement is made. But to make things easier here Im going to suggest that a payment 
of £200 should  reasonably account  for interest  owed and that Elite should pay this.
Mr T and his family have  been living in uncomfortable conditions  and without their white 
kitchen goods  which were condemned. Therefore I think they are fairly owed compensation 
in the form of a disturbance  allowance to account for extra spending. Im going to say that 
Elite should  pay £10 per person living in the house  per day from 23 June 2016 (the date of 
the flood) and until they move out of the home  for the repairs  to begin.
For the property to be stripped the family  will have to move out. Elite should pay them  a sum 
to enable  them to obtain reasonably suitable  accommodation for the period of repairs. Given  
the health of at least one family member who has a lung condition its fair to say that the 
house will not be habitable until the final builders  clean  has been completed  following 
reinstatement and decorating work.
In response to this provisional decision then, I need  Mr T to provide details stating how long 
the work  is likely to take; including any likely lead time, time to remove  sufficient contents  to 
adequately strip and dry the property and then reinstate it. I can then consider  this, giving 
Elite a chance to make  comments if it wishes and set an exact period for which  Elite will 
have to pay for the family  to live elsewhere,  in line with the policy wording.
So I propose  that Elite now makes  a series of payments to Mr T  to resolve this claim.  
As I said at the outset, Im taking a pragmatic approach  here with a view to ending  this long 
running issue for Mr T with a fair and reasonable settlement which  is based  on the detail 
I have to hand.  Im not going to require Elite to apply interest to any sums,  apart from 
outstanding storage costs. I also think it should  pay him £2,500 compensation as Im 
satisfied that he has been caused significant distress and inconvenience.
Further, given  how badly I think this claim was handled, I can understand why Mr T felt it 
necessary to involve  his own loss assessor and surveyor.  I havent seen that the loss 
assessor has charged a fee for his involvement.  But the surveyor  charged Mr T £360 which  
was paid on 31 January 2017.  Im going  to require Elite to pay this sum to Mr T along  with 
interest* from 31 January 2017  and until settlement is made.
My further provisional findings
Ive now received  and reviewed further  information  from both parties. Im almost ready to 
issue my final findings, I apologise for any worry or upset Mr T has been caused whilst this 
has progressed but I have been moving  things on as quickly  as possible. There are a few 
changes and updates that I need to make  both sides aware of: 
reinstatement quotes
Ref: DRN05048424Mr Ts loss assessor had said the work  would cost £21,000 and I said Elite should pay this. 
Mr Ts loss assessor has since said that £21,000  was only for one part of the work. The 
three relevant quotes, totalling  £37,638 were sent to Elite (although  it had seen them 
before). Elite said that it feels the work  is over-scoped; in the main  it relates  to work not 
necessary as a result  of the flood. 
Im not persuaded by what Elite has said.  Im still satisfied that the evidence shows  water 
from the flood was trapped under floor tiling that wasnt removed  that stripping the floor 
only consisted of lifting the ply boarding, that old thermo-plastic  tiles underneath were  left in 
place. This likely caused high levels of humidity in the home which  resulted in further 
damage. Ive no reason to think the work detailed in these quotes isnt necessary. Ive seen 
nothing to evidence  the costs in respect  of the work are unreasonable or that Mr T is unlikely 
to incur them and no part of them relates to VAT.  Therefore,  Im satisfied that Elite should 
pay him this sum. 
Elite has shown me that, in respect  of reinstatement  work, it has already paid Mr T 
£3,267.36. Im going to deduct this sum from the cost of the three  quotes,  meaning Elite,  if 
my final decision remains the same, will have to pay Mr T £34,371. 
However, there has currently been  no assessment  of what  it will cost to dry and clear the 
property. If Mr T wants to receive further  settlement to cover the cost of this work hell need 
to submit evidence of costs once  he has it to Elite for consideration. Likewise  there has been 
mention of testing  the electrics  once  costs are received  and if Mr T wants  Elite to pay an 
additional settlement,  hell have to send it the evidence for consideration.
contents
I noted costs of around £20,000 had been assessed  by Elites expert for replacement of 
large furniture items. And a list of smaller  contents  items had been submitted which 
I concluded might reasonably total around  £10,000.  Elite said not all the furniture needed 
replacing, it could  be restored. Mr Ts loss assessor provided a spreadsheet of smaller 
contents items showing costs totalling £29,000.
Elites own experts didnt suggest  that items could be restored. Instead they gave 
replacement prices. Im not minded to change my mind on this now.  
Nor am I minded to increase my suggested  settlement for smaller contents items. It isnt my 
job to assess the claim   and the spreadsheet sent by the loss assessor , which  contains  
various links to show proof of costs,  effectively needs assessing  in order  for the overall cost 
to be verified. And that would also involve assessment  of the damaged items. I note Elite 
was willing  to assess these previously but Mr T wasnt prepared  to allow that. There was 
extensive humidity in the home  but I have no way to know for sure what condition  items were 
in before the leak, and, for that matter, I dont  know in which  rooms  items were or how they 
were kept.  I cant reasonably expect Elite to pay for the whole sum when theres been no 
assessment to take into account all of this. Our investigator suggested further assessment 
but in the circumstances  here I didnt think that was appropriate and Mr T indicated his 
acceptance of my provisional findings,  via his representative, before his loss assessor made  
a further response  requesting further  contents items be paid. So I think Mr T understood and 
accepted the nature  of my suggested  settlement. Im still satisfied that is fair and reasonable.
how to long reinstate?
Ref: DRN05048425The answer to this question has an impact on what I said about  storage and the family 
moving out to live elsewhere. For storage  I suggested Elite pay £2,000  to cover what was 
owed from October 2016 and likely  would be incurred until work was completed   but I said 
that may change if I received detail as to how long the work would likely take. I also said 
Elite should  pay an amount for the family  to live elsewhere but Id only be able to set a 
period for the payment to relate to if proof were provided regarding how long all of the work 
was likely to take.
In response Mr Ts loss assessor said the indications were that the drying  and reinstatement 
would take around  20 weeks with a 4 weeks lead time. Elite said it disagreed all the work on 
the quotes was necessary; it said the work  it believed was necessary as a result  of the flood 
would take only 2  3 weeks. It also suggested that each room should be done individually, 
meaning the family wouldnt need  to move  out at all.
Im not persuaded by what Elite says. Im still satisfied that the evidence  shows  water  from 
the flood was trapped under floor tiling that wasnt removed   that stripping the floor only 
consisted of lifting  the ply boarding, that old thermo-plastic tiles underneath were left in 
place. This likely caused high levels of humidity in the home which  resulted in further 
damage. So Im not persuaded by what Elite say about the extent of the work. Nor do I think 
its reasonable to say each room should  be done one at a time  that would take longer and 
cost more. And whilst  sealing each room being worked on would mitigate some of the dust 
migrating into the rest of the home, it wouldnt prevent that. 
Mr Ts loss assessor hasnt provided  any strong  evidence to support his claim that the work  
will take 24 weeks either. He says this is just what  Mr T has gleaned from talking to the 
contractors that provided quotes. Mr T had used a surveyor previously and it would be more  
normal for a surveyor to decide how long work  will likely take, rather than adding together  
what individual contractors say.
That being  said,  whilst initially being  set as a pragmatic sum the £2,000 I suggested paying 
for storage effectively  equates to payment for storage  facilities  up until the end of 
September 2019. If my final decision is issued this week that will give around 20 weeks for 
the property to be cleared, dried  and reinstated. Given Im not fully persuaded by what  either 
party has said about repair period and as I accept that there is extensive work to be done,  
I think that is a reasonable starting  point.  Mr Ts belongings need to be cleared first, and 
drying companies can usually start with minimal delay anyway. Clearing and drying  then can 
be done during  any lead time required by the reinstatement contractors. Once dry the period 
for reinstatement  can be better gauged.  For the time being Ill say the initial  period to be paid 
for by Elite will mirror  my finding  for storage, ie until the end of September  2019. If, once the 
reinstatement period  is more fully assessed  Mr T feels work will take longer then he can 
send that evidence to Elite for it to consider.  
disturbance allowance
I said that as Mr T had been left without his white goods (damaged during the flood), Elite 
should pay a disturbance  allowance for extra costs likely  incurred. 
Elite has shown me that it made  a payment  to Mr T regarding the white goods  in 
December 2016  between Christmas and New Year.  I think  Mr T could have used these 
funds to provide  reasonable  replacement  items  by 15 January 2017 so Im going  to limit 
Elites payment for disturbance allowance to the period from 23 June 2016 to 
15 January 2017.
Ref: DRN05048426fees
I said provisionally that Id likely make Elite reimburse the surveyors fee and indicated  that 
I might  be minded to make Elite cover the loss assessors fees but I hadnt seen that any 
had been charged. Mr Ts loss assessor confirmed and showed he had an agreement with 
Mr T regarding taking  payment based on a percentage of the settlement received from the 
insurer for reinstatement/replacement costs.  He said it was 9% on any amount above 
£13,392 paid to Mr T.  Elite said charges like this arent covered by the policy.
I accept the policy doesnt offer cover for this. But I also accept that Mr T, in this instance, 
reasonably turned to the services of the loss assessor because  Elite wasnt handling  his 
claim adequately.  In the circumstances I dont think he should be left out of pocket in respect  
of charges reasonably levied by the loss assessor. As there is no flat fee though  I need to 
decide what Elite reasonably has to pay.
The suggestion from the email evidence provided by the loss assessor  is that his percentage 
fee relates to sums paid by the insurer in respect  of reinstatement/replacement costs only  
not to any other sums received, such as payment for alternative accommodation and 
compensation. Tracking the property and contents  reinstatement/replacement sums Ive 
suggested, along with the payments  made  already for property repairs and white  goods 
gives a total reinstatement/replacement settlement of just over £69,000, deducting  the 
payment level amount  set by the loss assessor and applying  the percentage amount gives  a 
fee sum of just over £5,000. Im satisfied that its fair and reasonable to require Elite to pay 
Mr T £5,000  to cover reasonable  costs likely  to be charged by his loss assessor.
And I clarified how my provisionally suggested award  had changed:
Provisionally suggested Revised award
£21,000 to clear, dry, repair  and reinstate the 
home.£34,371 (the total of three reinstatement 
quotes @ £37,638, less whats  already  been 
paid - £3,267.36)
£30,000 to repair or replace contents items Remains the same
£200 as compensation for extra utility  usage. Remains the same
£2,000 as reimbursement and advance 
payment of storage costs.Payment remains to be paid but now applies 
to a specific period  ie until the end of 
September 2019 with an option to request  an 
extension/further payment  at a later date 
once the actual time likely  necessary for 
repairs is determined
£200 as payment of interest owed  on any 
storage costs Mr T has paid and will pay out 
of his own pocket  prior to settlement  being 
made.Remains the same
An amount  equivalent to £10 per person 
living in the house per day from 23 June  
2016 until they move out of their home for 
repairs to begin.The period  for this has changed, so still £10 
per person  per day and from June 2016  but 
now only until 15 January  2017 as this is 
when replacement items could reasonably 
have been purchased and installed by.
An amount  to cover Mr Ts cost for the family 
to live elsewhere while the property is 
stripped, dried  and reinstated.Now has a provisional period set which  
mirrors that for storage, Elite to pay until the 
end of September 2019 but with an option to 
Ref: DRN05048427review once the actual  time likely necessary  
for repairs is determined
£2,500 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience.Remains the same
£360 as reimbursement  of the surveyors 
fee, plus interest*  from 31 January 2017 and 
until settlement is made.Remains the same but there is also now a 
suggestion that Elite should pay an 
additional £5,000 to cover  charges that Mr T 
will likely have  to pay his loss assessor.
responses to my further findings  
Elite sent evidence to support its claim that the flood  water  was only a few inches deep and 
that it subsided  quite quickly. It sent photos  of the property  taken only a month after the 
claim to support its argument  that much  of the work set out in the repair estimates  wasnt  
required as a result of the flood. It provided  comment from a drying specialist and referred  to 
the policy terms and conditions requiring the policyholder to maintain the property and keep 
it in a good state of repair. It said it would pay £30,000 in full and final settlement  of the claim 
plus £3,000 towards  fees but if that wasnt felt to be reasonable it should be allowed to carry 
out further assessments and investigations.
Mr Ts loss assessor said he had concerns about the items I was suggesting should be left 
for later consideration as he was unsure  that Elite would undertake  this consideration in a 
timely manner. Regarding  drying  he felt I could  reasonably use some  estimated hire costs 
that had been provided  and apply those over an estimated period for drying to create a 
nominal award in this respect and that a further  £1,000 should  be paid to allow for electrical 
testing and repairs to be carried  out. Regarding contents items he said his word that items 
were all damaged by the moisture  left in the property following the flood, and his assessment 
as to replacement  costs, should be accepted. The loss assessor also requested that 
I reinstate the original  period set for the disturbance allowance. He said Mr T hadnt  realised 
hed been paid and the family had been living in uncomfortable conditions for a long time.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Elites photos were taken  in July 2016 a month  after the flood  whereas  Mr Ts estimates 
were completed in November 2016. Given what Ive said about damage likely  occurring as a 
result of the property not being  dried properly, Im not persuaded that Elites  photos show  
repair wasnt required as a result  of a lack of drying.   
Elite did attempt to dry the property but the evidence from its drying contractor  was that it 
couldnt reduce  the moisture levels further. Meaning moisture  was left. I know Elite believes 
this was likely the level the property was at before the flood but it hasnt shown me that it 
clearly explained  that to Mr T at that time.  
From what  Ive seen Elites drying  specialist may have  attended  a meeting at the property in 
March 2017. And I referred in my initial findings to salts having been found  around that time 
that were indicative of rising damp. Ive never doubted that there may have been other 
water/damp issues at the property but I remain of the view that Elite didnt handle  the claim 
well at the outset  and this has, effectively, prejudiced its own position such  that Im not 
Ref: DRN05048428persuaded that the state of the house  and other damp issues  likely  mean that Mr Ts repair 
estimates include work not related  to the claim and Elites failures in that respect.
The policy does allow Elite to reduce  or refuse to make claim settlements where a building  
hasnt been maintained. But within that there  is a clear link made between the lack of 
maintenance issue and the damage  or loss which has occurred. Whilst the photos Elite 
provided dated July 2016  show  that the dcor,  including  woodwork, and the kitchen are 
showing signs of wear, their condition didnt allow the flood to occur  or cause claim costs to 
increase in anyway.  They  increased, to include replacement of these items in my view, 
because Elite didnt  handle the claim properly.  Its not reasonable to leave Mr T out of pocket 
because of that.
Elite said it would pay towards the fees Mr T would likely incur although it didnt really feel it 
should have to. It said it had tried to assist Mr T and it had been his choice to get the loss 
assessor involved. I remain of the view that Elites handling of this matter  left Mr T with little 
choice but to seek professional assistance.  And prior to his involvement I note there was 
little meaningful communication from Elite in respect of the claim. But that following his 
involvement greater  assessment was given to some  of the issues,  further meetings  were 
organised and increased settlements were  offered by Elite.  Im not persuaded that any of 
that would  have happened if Mr T hadnt  sought assistance.
I absolutely understand that Mr T wants everything  resolving here and now and, as far as 
Ive felt reasonably  able to do so, Ive made awards  that dont require further assessment to 
take place. But in those respects thereve been  fairly clear quantifications of costs submitted, 
meaning I can be satisfied  as to the costs Mr T will likely incur  in carrying  out that work. And 
I gave the parties  chance to provide more substantial evidence of the costs  and/or time 
periods that were previously unquantified  and/or unknown. Whilst I truly dont want  Mr T to 
suffer any further as a result of this claim I cant reasonably make any additional awards at 
this time. 
The costs  we are talking about arent yet quantified  and Elite hasnt considered  them. 
Therefore, if I give it leave to consider them later, Mr T, if hes unhappy with its response, will 
be able to make a further complaint. I know that is not ideal but where Ive allowed for further 
consideration to occur,  I think its fair and reasonable  in the circumstances  here.
I know Mr Ts loss assessor assessed  the damaged contents items. But it would  be unfair for 
me to take his word alone in this respect.  For me to make  any additional award in respect of 
contents (beyond what Ive already suggested) would require full assessment of the 
damaged items to be allowed.  I remain of the view that isnt a fair, reasonable or workable 
option in the circumstances here  and I note again  that Mr T himself hasnt objected to the 
settlement I suggested regarding  contents.
I felt Elite should pay a disturbance allowance to Mr T as its inspector had condemned his 
white goods but it hadnt paid for them to be replaced. Therefore,  I was satisfied that Mr T 
had likely had to spend more than he would  have if hed been able to replace them.  The 
property being  in a poor state  and Mr T living there  was dealt with by my compensation 
award. 
Whilst I appreciate that Mr T is disappointed by my revision of the disturbance allowance 
period, Elite had placed him in funds to replace the items. I realise that Mr T was having 
difficulty dealing with the claim but the amount paid to him by Elite for these items was not 
an insignificant sum and it was paid entirely in respect of the white goods. If Mr T didnt use 
Ref: DRN05048429the funds to replace the white  goods  at that time,  Im not persuaded that was due to any fault 
on Elites part. And that means I reasonably need  to amend the disturbance  allowance  
period to take account of the payment Elite made and that Mr T could reasonably  have used 
to replace the white goods. So, with regret for any upset this may cause  Mr T, Im not going  
to amend my revised award   Im going to require Elite to pay a disturbance allowance  to 
Mr T of £10 per person living in the house, per day for the period 23 June 2016 until 
15 January 2017.
Neither party has made any objection to my finding that £2,500  compensation should be 
paid. But I note Elite thinks it has tried to assist  Mr T during this claim, that it was always 
going to be a difficult claim due to the amount of Mr Ts belongings and that he and the loss 
assessor havent always assisted it in furthering the claim. Im not persuaded by what Elite 
has said in this respect. I can see that Mr T did become frustrated at times  and, on occasion, 
he clearly wasnt minded to cooperate with Elite. But I remain  satisfied that his reaction 
wasnt unreasonable in the circumstances Elite had left him in. And I note that when he 
explained his reasons  to Elite for being  reluctant to allow  further assessment (before the loss 
assessor became  involved), Elite didnt respond  to those  concerns or provide an explanation  
to Mr T as to why this was necessary. I remain of the view that Mr T has suffered greatly 
because of Elites failure to handle the claim appropriately and that, as a result  £2,500  
compensation is fairly and reasonably due.
my final decision
I uphold  this complaint. I require Elite Insurance Company Limited (has ceased  writing new 
business but continues to fulfil existing contracts  of insurance)  to pay Mr T:
£34,371; being the total of three reinstatement  quotes provided by Mr T (£37,638), less 
the amount already paid for this work (£3,267.36).
£30,000 to repair or replace contents  items.
£200 as compensation for extra utility usage.
£2,000 as reimbursement and advance payment  of storage costs that have been and will 
likely be incurred up until the end of September 2019.
£200 as payment of interest owed on any storage costs Mr T has paid and will pay out of 
his own pocket  prior to settlement being made.
An amount equivalent to £10 per person  living in the house per day from 23 June  2016  
until 15 January 2017.
An amount to cover Mr Ts cost for the family to live elsewhere until the end of 
September 2019, while the property is stripped, dried and reinstated.
£2,500 compensation for distress  and inconvenience.
£360 as reimbursement of the surveyors fee, plus interest* from 31 January 2017 and 
until settlement is made.
£5,000 to cover the likely reasonable fees Mr T will have  to pay the loss assessor.
I also require Elite Insurance Company  Limited (has ceased writing new business  but 
continues to fulfil existing  contracts of insurance), if Mr T asks it to, to consider  any costs he 
wants it to meet regarding:
clearing and drying  the property;
electrical testing and repair; 
storage and living  elsewhere beyond the end of September 2019.
Ref: DRN050484210Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple  per year and paid on the amounts specified  and from/to  the dates stated. If Elite Insurance 
Company Limited (has ceased  writing new business but continues to fulfil existing contracts of insurance) considers that its 
required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from any interest due to Mr T, it should tell him how much its taken 
off. It should also give Mr T a certificate showing  this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs 
if appropriate.
Ref: DRN0504842