K820x#14complaint
Mrs K complains about the service she received when an order  shed  placed  with Shop 
Direct Finance Company  Limited (trading as Very) arrived incomplete.
background
In March 2018 Mrs K opened an account  with Very and entered  into a credit  agreement with 
Shop Direct Finance  Company Limited.
In May 2018  Mrs K placed  an order for a single bed and single mattress. The bed was 
delivered approximately one week later. Mrs K contacted Very to advise that the mattress  
hadnt been delivered.
Very advised Mrs K that the mattress was out of stock and said that she could return the bed 
if she wished. Mrs Ks husband wasnt happy about the incomplete order  and asked Very to 
arrange a collection  of the bed. Very processed  a return.
Mrs Ks husband then asked Very if there  were any other mattresses which  might  be 
suitable. The adviser said there  werent  and told Mr K the mattress  would have to be re-
ordered once  it was back in stock. The adviser then terminated the call without warning.
Mrs Ks husband called back and asked to speak to a manager. The adviser  told him this 
wasnt possible but said a manager  would call him back. This didnt happen.
Mrs Ks husband complained. Very sent a replacement mattress and said it wouldnt charge 
Mrs K for this because  of the poor service shed received. Very applied  an advance  credit to 
Mrs Ks account in respect of the original order in anticipation of receiving the bed back.  A 
courier tried to contact Mrs K to arrange  a collection of the bed but was unable to do so.
Very wrote to Mrs K in June 2018  and advised  her that the original order  had been re-
charged to her account. Mrs Ks husband told Very that no payments would be made until 
the complaint  had been resolved.
Because no payments were made to the account,  Very sent a default notice to Mrs K and 
arranged for the debt to be assigned to a third party debt collection agency. The missed 
payments and the default notice were  reported  to the Credit Reference Agencies.
Mrs K remained unhappy  about the service shed received from Very. Mrs Ks husband 
complained to this service.
Our investigator felt that Very had done enough to resolve the complaint. She said Very had 
offered £70 compensation and had provided a replacement mattress free of charge. It had 
also refunded administration charges on the account and had offered a further £50 
compensation and confirmed  that it would refund the cost of the original mattress (which was 
still showing  on the account). The investigator said she understood Mrs Ks frustration but 
noted that Mrs K had purchased items from Very for which she hadnt paid. The investigator 
said that Very had acted correctly in reporting  the missed payments  and default  notice to the 
Credit Reference Agencies.
Mrs K didnt agree. Through Mr K, she said her credit  file shouldntve been marked until the 
complaint had been fully investigated.  Mr K said he had chased Very for a response  to his 
Ref: DRN01052562complaint but had been ignored. He acknowledged that compensation had been  paid but 
said he hadnt been fully aware  of this because it wasnt clear  to him what  the credits  and 
debits on the account related to. Mr K said he would only pay for the items if the adverse  
entries were  removed from Mrs Ks credit file.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand what a frustrating experience  this has been for Mrs K and her husband.  I can 
see from the information provided that Mrs K has been complaining to Very for a long time 
and in general terms it looks like Very could have handled things better. Ive noted  Mrs Ks 
comments about having to chase very for a response to her complaint and not receiving one. 
From what  Ive seen, Very has responded to the complaint but its clear  that things went 
wrong here.  Very has acknowledged this.
It may be helpful if I explain my role here.  In considering a complaint about  a financial 
services provider, its not my role to punish the business. Where things have gone wrong, Ill 
look at whether the business responded fairly and reasonably and  if I think the business 
needs to do more  Ill explain what that is and why.
In this case, Very has offered a compensation package totalling £263  in monetary terms. 
This comprises £40 for the failure to respond properly to the complaint raised in May 2018, 
£119 (the value of the mattress supplied free of charge), £30 for further failings in relation  to 
responding to the complaint about  the balance of the account and £24 of administration 
charges refunded.
Looking at whats happened, I think the compensation is fair. I can see that Very failed to 
respond properly  to the initial complaint. It also failed to address the fact that Mrs Ks 
account was still showing the mattress as per the original order even though this had never 
been delivered. Very has recently said that it will refund the cost of the mattress  to the 
account  this should have happened  much sooner.
Ive taken into account the fact that Mrs K has had the use of the bed throughout. I cant  see 
that shes ever made any payments towards  it. I appreciate that Mrs Ks husband  didnt want 
to make any payments  until the complaint was resolved. I understand why he adopted this 
position. However, Im of the view that there are two separate  issues here. The first is the 
supply of goods for which payment should  have been made.  The second is the customer  
service issue.  I dont  think it was reasonable for Mrs K to pay nothing  on her account whilst 
the complaint  was being investigated.  I can see that there were other items on the account 
which are not the subject  of this complaint in respect of which Mrs K didnt make any 
payments, not just the bed.
Taking everything into account,  I think the compensation offered by Very (taking  account  of 
the further £50 recently offered) is fair and reasonable. So I wont  be asking  it to pay further 
compensation.
I understand that Mrs K is concerned about  the entries on her credit file. Ive looked at the 
account and I can see that there have been  missed payments and a default  notice. As Ive 
said above, I appreciate  why payments  werent  made to the account  but I dont think  this 
was reasonable  conduct. 
Ref: DRN01052563Mrs K has said that her account should  have been  put on hold whilst the complaint was 
being investigated. Ive looked  into this. Theres no obligation on a business  to put an 
account on hold.  But its generally the case that once a complaint is received by this service, 
the business will place  a hold on collections activity. In this case,  I can see that Mr K 
complained to this service  in November 2018. However, it is Mrs K (as the account holder) 
who has to bring the complaint, and it wasnt until October 2019 that Mrs K signed  the 
complaint form. By that time, the default notice had already been issued and the credit file 
marked. 
Ive thought about whether Very has made  an error in reporting the missed payments and 
default notice  to the Credit Reference Agencies. Ultimately,  Very is under an obligation  to 
report relevant conduct on customer accounts. Theres no dispute that Mrs K hasnt made 
payments to the account. So I cant say that Very has made an error in reporting  this on her 
credit file.
Based on what Ive seen,  and for the reasons Ive given, Im unable  to uphold the complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0105256