K822xcomplaint
Mrs W complains that Clydesdale  Bank Plc (trading as Yorkshire Bank)  didnt keep  her 
properly informed about her bank accounts  when she got into financial difficulties.
 
background 
Mrs W says Yorkshire  Bank didnt tell her that closing her accounts would have an impact on 
her credit file. Shes had numerous issues about  the way its handled her accounts since 
then. Sometimes it told her the balance on them is zero and then it told her she owed it 
money. And it didnt  phone her when it said it was going to. It then sold her accounts to a 
debt recovery agent and didnt tell her.
Yorkshire Bank explained that Mrs W had three  accounts. One had been cleared and the 
other two were sold on. It agreed itd given her a poor service. It said itd given her confusing 
and incorrect information, it didnt call her back and it sent her duplicate  letters. But it didnt 
agree it hadnt  told her about the effect on her credit file when it closed her accounts. It also 
said it explained to her on the telephone  that the outstanding debt had been sold on. But its 
letter explaining  that had been delayed. It offered her £250 to compensate  her for the 
distress and inconvenience this had caused her.
From the record of Yorkshire Banks phone calls with Mrs W our investigator  was satisfied 
the bank had made Mrs W aware of the effect on her credit record when it closed  her 
accounts. He spoke to the debt recovery agent  on Mrs Ws behalf and it said it was in the 
process of setting up her accounts and would get in touch with her shortly.  He clarified for 
Mrs W how this would  show up on her credit  file. And he didnt think Yorkshire Bank had 
done anything  wrong by selling these accounts on. But he thought  the bank should increase 
its offer of compensation to £300  because of the impact its mistakes  had on Mrs W due to 
her personal  circumstances and the difficulty she has in organising her finances.
Mrs W said she wasnt happy with the amount of compensation.  She said it wasnt sufficient 
for all the stress she has suffered. And she still hasnt heard  from the debt recovery  agent. 
So she doesnt  have  any chance of controlling  her finances despite raising this complaint 
over six months ago.
Yorkshire Bank eventually  agreed to the increase in compensation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mrs W will be disappointed with my decision but Ive come to the same conclusion  as 
our investigator for very similar  reasons.  For the reasons he gave I think  Yorkshire Bank 
made Mrs W aware of the effect  on her credit  record when it decided to close her accounts. 
But it gave  her a very poor service thereafter  causing her much  stress and inconvenience. It 
sent her conflicting  and duplicate information. And there was a delay in sending  out the 
information about her debt being sold.
So I think £300 compensation  for the impact the banks errors has had on Mrs W, particularly 
in light of her difficulties in dealing with her finances, is fair and reasonable.  
Ref: DRN06387862Mrs W says she is finding  it very difficult to sort out her finances because she hasnt had any 
information from the debt recovery agent.  Thats not something I can comment on as this 
complaint is about  Yorkshire Bank.  But if Mrs W is still waiting  to hear about  these accounts 
from the agent she can speak to the investigator who will try and help her.
 
my final decision
My decision  is that to put matters right Clydesdale Bank Plc must pay Mrs W £300 if it hasnt 
already done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2019.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0638786