K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that Watford Insurance  Company  Europe Limited  declined  his claim and 
cancelled his motor  insurance policy from the start (voided it) because of misrepresentation. 
He wants the claim paid.
background
The named  driver on Mr Cs policy was in a car accident and his car was deemed to be 
beyond economical  repair. Watford Insurance then found that Mr C had obtained  his car as 
part of a leasing agreement and the registered  keeper was a finance  company. But Mr C had 
told Watford  Insurance that he was the cars registered keeper and legal owner. Watford 
Insurance said this was misrepresentation  and so it voided the policy, declined  the claim, 
and retained Mr Cs premiums.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld  in part. He thought 
Watford Insurance had asked clear  questions about the cars owner  and keeper. The finance 
company was recorded on the registration  document  as the cars registered keeper. He 
thought Watford  Insurance  wouldnt have provided cover if it had known this. And so he 
thought it had fairly voided the policy and declined the claim. But he thought  Mr Cs error had 
been careless rather than deliberate. And so he thought Watford  Insurance  should refund  his 
premiums. 
Watford Insurance replied  that it thought Mr C had recklessly misrepresented  his 
information. It said it should also retain  the premiums as it had paid out other drivers claims. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator has already explained our approach to complaints  related to 
misrepresentation and the relevant law. In short, where a complaint arises from 
misrepresentation of information important to an insurer, we look to see that it asked a clear 
question when the policy was taken out. We check that the information given would affect  
whether a policy was offered. And we check whether the informant has acted carelessly, 
deliberately or recklessly  in making the misrepresentation. 
Mr C bought his policy through  a comparison site. Ive looked at the on-line journey and the 
questions he was asked.  I think he was asked a clear question  about whether he was the 
cars registered keeper and legal owner. He was provided with guidance about where to find 
this information.  But Mr C answered incorrectly that he was the cars keeper and owner, 
when the finance company is listed as the registered keeper on the registration document. 
Watford Insurance has provided  us with evidence from its underwriting guidelines showing 
that it wouldnt have  offered  cover if it had known the correct information. So I think Watford  
Insurance was entitled to void the policy and decline the claim under the relevant legislation. 
What remains for me to decide is whether Mr C acted carelessly, deliberately or recklessly 
when he provided  the incorrect information. 
Ref: DRN00483642From what  I can see, Mr C thought  he was the cars owner and keeper. He told us that he 
thought he was the owner on the log book, that is, the V5 registration document. But I think  if 
hed checked,  then hed have seen  that the lease company was in fact recorded  as the 
registered keeper.  So I think Mr C didnt take reasonable  care not to make a 
misrepresentation.
I dont think Watford Insurance has shown that Mr C acted recklessly or deliberately  in 
misrepresenting this information.  I think  Mr C acted carelessly. So I think its fair and 
reasonable that, under the relevant legislation, Watford  Insurance  should return his premium  
that I can see he paid in full for the year. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Watford Insurance  Company 
Europe Limited to refund  Mr C the premium  he paid for his voided policy. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0048364