K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Capital One (Europe) plc approved his credit card application  which 
was unaffordable for him.
background
Mr M opened a Capital One credit card account in 2016 and says he struggled to meet 
repayments on it and later went into a repayment  plan.  He says he then applied for a second 
Capital One credit card in 2018 which shouldnt have been approved as he was still in 
financial difficulties. Mr M would  like the interest cancelled on this account and interest that 
hes paid refunded to him.
Capital One says there were some repayment  problems  with the first credit  card but these 
were sorted out. It says Mr M applied for the second card in July 2018 and told it he was 
earning just under £30,000 a year and it carried out checks with the Credit Reference 
Agencies (CRAs). Capital One says it approved the application with a credit limit of £750  
and Mr M made appropriate repayments until November  2018 which  shows the card was 
affordable at the time.
Mr M brought his complaint to us but our investigator didnt uphold  it. He thought there  were  
problems on the first credit card but by February  2018 these were sorted out. The 
investigator thought  all appropriate checks were  carried out and on the face of it the account 
appeared affordable.
Mr M doesnt accept that view and says in December 2017 he received a large pension 
payment which  he used to clear  some of his debts.  But he was still in financial  difficulties.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall conclusions  as the investigator  for largely  the same reasons.  I realise that Mr M will 
be disappointed  by my decision.
Ive looked at Capital Ones records and can see that Mr M entered into a repayment  plan on 
the first credit card account. But I can also see that by early 2018 it appears his account was 
running normally. I appreciate Mr M says that he received  a pension payment lump  sum in 
December 2017  but I dont think Capital  One couldve known about that. So I dont think 
Capital One made a mistake by approving Mr Ms second application in July 2018.  Im 
satisfied that he told Capital One he was in employment earning just under  £30,000  a  year 
and that Capital One carried out all reasonable affordability checks. 
I can see that Mr M made the appropriate  monthly repayments on the second card until 
about November  2018 when he entered into a repayment plan. I think  that also shows that at 
the time the lending was approved that it was affordable. I appreciate  Mr Ms position may 
well have changed towards the end of 2018 and in those circumstances I wouldve expected 
Capital One to treat Mr Ms position  positively  and sympathetically. And Im satisfied its done 
so here by agreeing the repayment plan and stopping any interest  and charges on the 
account. I can also see that Capital One has given Mr M a list of organisations that could 
help him.
Ref: DRN05586912Overall Im satisfied Capital One carried out all reasonable affordability checks  before 
deciding to lend and set what I think was a relatively  low credit limit. Im also satisfied that its 
tried to help Mr M and dealt with him in an appropriate way. For those reasons I cant  fairly 
order it to refund any interest he may have  paid.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0558691