K820x#14complaint
Mr O is a director of a business that Ill refer to as N. Hes complained on Ns behalf, about 
the problems he experienced when he tried to open  a business bank account with     
Barclays Bank UK PLC. 
background
Mr O has held a personal  bank account with Barclays for a number of years. He made an 
appointment in early  January 2019 at one of its branches to apply for an account for N, a 
new business he was setting up. Mr O said the personal banker he met with was dismissive 
and told him it was unlikely the account would be approved. Mr O said he didnt  hear 
anything for a while and after a few weeks contacted  Barclays  to find out what was 
happening. 
Another of Barclays  personal bankers contacted Mr O to progress his application. Mr O said 
Barclays asked a number  of questions repetitively and he had to pay for documents it 
requested. Mr O was unhappy  with how long things were taking and complained. He thought 
Barclays had discriminated against  him.
Barclays agreed their first personal banker hadnt  provided the service  it would expect. It 
said the personal banker should have  referred  the application to a different team  rather  than 
letting Mr O know the likely outcome. It apologised and offered him £100 compensation for 
this. However, Barclays was satisfied its second personal banker had followed the correct 
process and said the application would be assessed.
Mr O didnt think this was good enough and brought his complaint to us. He said N had lost 
earnings due to how Barclays had dealt with the application. He asked  for Barclays  to pay N 
around £40,000 for this loss of profit. He said he wanted  to know why N hadnt met Barclays 
acceptance criteria.  
Our investigator didnt  think Mr Os complaint should be upheld.  He didnt think Barclays had 
caused unreasonable delays after the application had been passed to the second  personal 
banker. And he was satisfied Barclays had treated N as it would any other  business.  He 
thought the £100  compensation Barclays offered was enough  to put thigs  right. 
Mr O remained  unhappy and asked  for an ombudsmans decision,  as he wanted  to know 
why his application had been  turned  down.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Barclays has accepted  the first personal  banker didnt deal with Ns application  properly, so I 
dont need to make a finding on that. It then took around three  weeks  for a second  personal 
banker to deal with the application. There  isnt a set timeframe for Barclays to open  an 
account, but it seems  that there was an avoidable  delay here as the application wasnt 
progressed. 
Barclays explained in its final response  letter that its process is to refer the application to 
another team. I can see the second personal banker  did this. Once shed referred the 
Ref: DRN04613662application she needed to ask further  questions. I can understand that Mr O was frustrated 
by this, but Ive looked at the information  Barclays asked for and I dont think the questions it 
asked, or the time it took in doing  this were unreasonable. 
Barclays is entitled to decide who it offers a business account to. However,  Ive looked to 
see that its treated  N fairly and as it would other  customers in the same circumstances. I 
appreciate Mr O would  like to know the reason for Ns account being  declined but Im unable 
to share  that with him. Id like to reassure him however  that Im satisfied Barclays  made a fair 
and reasonable decision,  and I dont think its treated  N any differently than it would have 
treated another business in the same  circumstances. 
Barclays has offered £100 compensation for what went  wrong.  I understand Mr O would like 
more than this because he feels N has suffered a financial loss as a result of delays. Hes 
provided a letter from his accountant  setting  out the earnings he feels Ns lost. However, 
given that N wasnt  yet trading, I dont think that letter is enough to persuade me its most 
likely N lost this income  during the short period before the application was passed to the 
second personal banker. I say this because  when Mr O came  to us at the end of March 2019 
he provided information about  the number of employees N intended to have once  it started 
trading. So, this suggests the three week delay in January didnt  have an impact on how 
soon N was able to start trading. 
In summary,  Im satisfied  that apart from the initial poor service and delay its recognised,  
Barclays has acted fairly  and reasonably. And the £100 its offered is enough to compensate 
N for what happened. 
my final decision
I understand Barclays Bank UK PLC has offered  N £100 compensation for what went  wrong.  
I conclude thats  fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. So, my final decision is that 
Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay N £100 if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O on behalf of 
N to accept or reject my decision before 12 March 2020.
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0461366