K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about  changes  to the way Lloyds Bank PLC provides business 
banking services. They ask that Lloyds refunds charges.
background
Mr and Mrs H say Lloyds stopped direct debits and other payments from their business  
account for several  weeks.  Theyd  gone  over the overdraft  limit, but they didnt know  this. 
They say their local business manager  used  to contact them about the overdraft. But their 
local branch closed and they no longer have a local business manager.
Mr and Mrs H say they were unable to contact  Lloyds using its business banking  helpline. 
They say the helpline  isnt fit for purpose. They couldnt answer the security  questions.  Their  
nearest branch is some miles away and they dont have a computer to access the account 
online. When they did get in contact with a manager, it took more than two weeks  for the 
overdraft to be agreed.
Mr H says he feels humiliated  that payments were stopped  this hadnt happened in 54 
years of banking. He says its unfair that Lloyds  charged them for unauthorised borrowing. 
Mr H is also unhappy about the mobile  banking service provided  to replace his local branch. 
He has to queue in the rain to use the service. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld, saying:
Mr H called Lloyds several times  in August  2018. He wasnt always able to pass  security.  
His first request for an overdraft was declined.  But his second request  was approved  in 
early September 2018. This wasnt  an unreasonable amount of time.
It wasnt wrong for Lloyds to ask security questions to identify their customers. Lloyds 
offered Mr H an alternative phone service.  Its for Mr H to decide  whether to try this.
Lloyds wrote to Mr H about the changes to the way it provides business banking  
services. Lloyds  is entitled to make  a commercial decision to provide its services  this 
way. 
Its not reasonable to expect Lloyds to contact Mr H when he reaches his overdraft  limit. 
Its not Lloyds  fault that Mr H isnt aware of all the transactions on the account. Lloyds 
applied charges in accordance with the terms of the account and we cant  require it to 
refund the charges.
Mr and Mrs H didnt agree.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds made  changes to the way it provides business banking services.  Mr and Mrs H are 
unhappy about the changes. In summary, their nearest  branch is some  distance away;  they 
dont have a local business manager; they have to queue  outside to use the mobile banking  
Ref: DRN00042652facility; they cant use online  banking and there are problems with the security questions 
when they use telephone  banking. 
Mr and Mrs H didnt know theyd reached  their overdraft limit. Payments were stopped, 
which they found embarrassing. And when they found out there was a problem  they had 
difficulty contacting  Lloyds to sort it out. It took longer for their overdraft  request  to be 
approved than theyd expected. During  this time,  charges  were  applied to their account.
I sympathise with Mr and Mrs H. Theyve  found  the changes made  by Lloyds inconvenient 
and unwelcome.  But Lloyds is entitled to make a commercial decision about  how it provides 
business banking  services. I cant reasonably say that its done anything  wrong.
Mr H says he used to contact his local manager about renewing his overdraft and Lloyds 
didnt tell him this had changed. I think Lloyds wrote  to Mr and Mrs H about the way it would 
provide business  banking  services. When Mr H did manage to contact Lloyds it processed 
his overdraft request.  The request was approved 16 days later. I know  Mr H wanted a 
decision sooner,  but I dont think the time taken by Lloyds to approve the request was 
unreasonable.
Lloyds suggested  Mr and Mrs H try another phone service: this uses a different method of 
identifying the caller which they might  find easier.  It said in its response to their complaint 
that if they want to try this they should  contact it and it would send a registration  pack.  Ill 
leave it to Mr and Mrs H to decide whether to try this.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs H feel the charges  applied by Lloyds  are unfair.  But Lloyds 
applied the charges in accordance with the account  terms.  Customers are responsible for 
managing their accounts and checking  funds  are available for payments. In the 
circumstances, I cant  reasonably require Lloyds to refund the charges.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 June 2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0004265