K821x#15complaint
Mrs H has complained about U K Insurance Limiteds (UKI) handling of her car insurance 
policy.
Reference to UKI includes their agents.
background
Mrs H was driving on the evening of 29 November  2017. As she was pulling  out of a junction 
she was hit by a police car which she estimated to be travelling around 100mph on a 60mph 
road. The police car was on its way to an incident  but didnt have its warning lights  or siren 
activated at the time. Mrs H said the accident  wasnt her fault.
Although Mrs H had fully comprehensive  insurance  with UKI she said she didnt want  to 
make a claim on her policy. Thats because she was in the process of getting another car 
anyway and she didnt  want  a claim to affect her premiums going forward. Mrs H was initially 
told by the police they wouldnt  claim against  her.
But soon after the police  did claim against  Mrs Hs policy saying  she was at fault for the 
accident. UKI admitted liability on Mrs Hs behalf  and settled the polices claim. UKI didnt tell 
Mrs H they had done that and she only found  out when her policy came to renew.
Mrs H was unhappy and she complained.  She was also unhappy that UKI had told her 
before that if they did settle the claim they would only do son on a split liability basis of 
60/40, meaning she was 60% to blame for the accident whereas the other driver was 40% to 
blame. And if she decided  to claim for her own car, UKI would only charge  her 60% of the 
£600 policy excess. But UKI went  ahead  and settled on the basis that Mrs H was 100%  
responsible. Mrs Hs husband, a professional mechanic, repaired her car. And while Mrs H 
didnt claim for her damage on her policy, UKI still sent an engineer to assess her car who 
deemed it a total loss. UKI said the cars  pre-accident market value was £915.  After 
deducting the full £600 policy  excess UKI sent Mrs H a cheque  for £315 which  she didnt 
accept.
UKI offered Mrs H £200  compensation for the impact of failings in their service,  in particular 
for not telling  her they had accepted liability on her behalf. But they said they were correct in 
accepting liability and in settling the other drivers claim. Thats  because  there was a 
previous similar accident that was decided by the Court of Appeal  which  UKI felt meant     
Mrs H would have been found responsible for the accident had the matter  gone to court.
Mrs H brought her complaint to our service. One of our investigators looked into it. He felt 
that while UKIs investigation could have been  better, their decision to settle was reasonable. 
But he said UKI should have kept to their promise by only charging Mrs H 60% of the 
excess, so he suggested  they refund £240.  As Mrs H didnt agree with our investigator,  the 
complaint was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision was issued on 5 June  2020.  I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im intending to 
uphold it. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN06611082Under the policy UKI have the discretion to settle claims as they feel is appropriate.  
They dont have  to get Mrs Hs agreement or permission  before doing so. But we 
expect them to use their discretion  and to treat Mrs H in a fair and reasonable way.
And in cases like this where liability is in issue,  we expect  insurers  to settle claims on 
what is known as a without prejudice (WOP) basis. The significance of settling a 
claim on a WOP basis is that while the other  drivers claim is settled, liability  for the 
accident isnt admitted.  That would mean  the policyholder could, if they so wished, 
take legal  action against the other driver  themselves.  But in this case UKI didnt settle 
on a WOP  basis.  They admitted liability on Mrs Hs behalf which  means she cant  
take her own action against  the other driver  if she wanted to.
Turning to the accident and UKIs  investigation. Where liability  is disputed we expect 
insurers to carry out a reasonable investigation before reaching a decision.  Mrs H 
was adamant  that the police car was at fault for the accident. She said it was 
speeding excessively;  it didnt have its warning lights or siren on; and there was no 
way she could have  avoided the accident in the circumstances. For the following 
reasons, I dont think UKI investigated the accident  reasonably:
The accident happened on 29 November 2017  and Mrs H reported it to UKI the 
following day. UKI wrote  to the police cars insurer on 27 December 2017 and 
admitted liability and said they would  pay the claim. It was very clear from 
Mrs Hs description  of the accident that there was a lot of vital evidence  that had 
to be obtained  and considered. But I don't  think UKI obtained  or considered all of 
that evidence.  So, UKI made, in my view, a premature decision before carrying  
out a full investigation.
UKI mentioned that there was no evidence to support Mrs Hs contention  that the 
police car was speeding. But I would  expect UKI to know  that given the accident 
involved a police  car on its way to an incident,  there would likely be a full police  
investigation into the circumstances of the accident;  the police car might have 
had CCTV/dash cam footage and a gps/satellite tracker.  So, I think  UKI should 
have known that it might have  been possible to establish the speed  of the police 
car. 
It was confirmed by the police that the police car did in fact have a dash cam. But 
Ive seen no reference in UKIs contact notes that they asked for that footage.  Ive 
seen that Mrs H has done a lot of work  in corresponding with the police to obtain 
that. The police said at one stage the footage had been misplaced. But in 
October 2019 they told Mrs H that it had been  found and handed to their insurer. 
And our investigator informed UKI of the same. But Ive seen no evidence  that 
having been made aware that the potentially crucial footage was now in the 
possession of their counterparts,  that UKI made  any effort  to obtain it. As the 
police car was approaching Mrs Hs car I think the footage, in addition to the 
speed the police car was travelling at, could have  provided  vital evidence to help 
establish liability.
On Mrs Hs description of the incident,  the accident was serious. The police car 
was a high powered  performance car; travelling  at excessive speed;  a number of 
the police  cars wheels  became detached;  and it took the police car almost 100 
metres to come to a halt. Being a police car en route to an incident and given it 
was involved in an accident with a civilian vehicle, I would have expected  UKI to 
know that the police would have  investigated  the circumstances of the accident in 
detail. And that the information  about  the speed;  driving tactics  deployed;  and 
whether or not the warning lights and sirens were  activated would have been 
Ref: DRN06611083documented. But Ive seen  no evidence  that UKI asked for that information.  UKIs 
contact notes say the following:
i believe  we've not fully investigated the claim as when a police car is 
involved in an rta [road traffic accident] with a member of the public there 
would be full report which may have included details  of the distance  phve  
[policyholder vehicle] was pushed. It is my understanding if the police  driver  
was trained in high speed driving  as per customer comments  then he is more 
focused on the road in front and any potential hazards so should  have slowed  
down approaching a road with junctions on either side. Also we failed to 
investigate if the police  car had an onboard camera  which may have 
supported our customer actions
When assessing liability  I think a court  would have  taken  into consideration the 
fact that the police  car driver was a professional driver with specialist training. 
And because they were on their way to an emergency incident and driving  at 
speed on a public road there would have  been  a duty of care to other  road users 
such as Mrs H. This is something which I think UKI noted in the quote  Ive 
reproduced above. But I cant see that it was a point that was acted upon by UKI 
in their contact with the polices  insurer before admitting liability.
The fact that Mrs H was coming  out of a minor road to cross a junction doesnt 
automatically mean she was solely to blame  for the accident.  And I think UKI 
acknowledged that in their contact  notes under the heading liability review. UKI 
said:
On the face of it, PH [policyholder] has pulled out into the path of a correctly 
proceeding vehicle. TP [third party] rep's  [representatives]  allegation that PH 
[policyholder] pulled  from the centre refuge are clearly incorrect as there  is no 
central refuge.  The unanswered  questions  are: Should  PH [policyholder] have 
clearly been able to see TPV [third party vehicle]? The accident  location is 
given as [post code] and if this is the precise  location it would have been 
extremely difficult for PH [policyholder] to have seen a speeding  vehicle 
approaching from the right. Should  the police have  used sirens as well as 
blue lights? Almost  certainly yes! [The underlined text is my emphasis]
A further  acknowledgement within UKIs contact notes that a reasonable investigation 
didnt take place can be seen in their following comment:
What happened the customer  was involved in an accident with a speeding 
police car, the customer did make  us aware  of the distance her car was 
pushed following the impact but we failed to act on this information and 
accepted fault for the accident when we could  have most likely settled on a 
split due to previous case law.
I think this again  demonstrates that had the accident  been  investigated  and all the 
relevant evidence obtained,  UKI could have  built a strong enough defence  on 
Mrs Hs behalf to resist the claim that she was responsible  for the accident.  But I 
dont think that happened.
UKI seem to have relied heavily on a Court  of Appeal ruling in justifying their decision  
to settle the claim  and admit liability. The case in question is: Armsden v Kent Police,  
Court of Appeal (Civil Division) [2009] EWCA Civ 631. The circumstances  of the 
Ref: DRN06611084accident in the case quoted by UKI were similar  but not identical. In that case  like 
Mrs H the civilian driver  was intending to turn onto a junction from a minor road and it 
was at night. In the quoted case the police car was found to have been driving at just 
under 100mph described by the judge as being  an excessive speed. A key 
difference was that in the quoted case the police car had its flashing lights  activated  
but not its siren. Crucially,  the judge in that case felt that because the police car had 
its flashing lights on, had the civilian driver  looked right just before turning its likely 
they would  have seen the police car. The judge also commented that the fact that 
the siren,  which  would have given greater  and earlier warning  of the police  cars  
approach, was not in use exacerbated the danger.
In Mrs Hs case her evidence  is that the police car was travelling at 100mph  and 
neither its warning lights nor its siren  were activated.  And on UKIs own assessment 
of the location it would  have been extremely  difficult for PH [policyholder] to have  
seen a speeding vehicle approaching from the right. Should the police have used 
sirens as well as blue lights? Almost certainly yes!
While past case law is of course  important and we have a system of legal  precedent, 
courts look at each  case on their own facts. And courts can distinguish  cases on that 
basis. But I think that the existence  of a previous court judgement  relating to an 
accident that has similarities to the accident involving Mrs H isnt a justifiable  reason 
to not investigate the circumstances of Mrs Hs accident reasonably. UKI should have 
carried out a reasonable  investigation  but I dont think they did. I think  had a 
reasonable investigation been carried out and the relevant evidence gathered, its 
possible UKI could  have successfully defended the claim made  by the polices  
insurer. Failing that, had UKI settled the claim on a WOP basis,  its possible that 
Mrs H could have successfully defended the claim.  As the matter  never  went  to court 
no one can say with certainty what would have  happened. But given the absence  of a 
reasonable investigation Im giving the benefit  of the doubt to Mrs H. Im therefore 
intending to uphold this complaint.
I intend to require UKI to amend all internal and external  records, including the 
Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE), to show that the accident was a non-fault 
claim. UKI should  also award Mrs H a no claims bonus (NCB)  year for the policy  year 
in which  the accident happened, provided  there  were no other fault claims that year. 
UKI should also give Mrs H a letter confirming this has been done. She mentioned 
her premiums following  this incident  increased  substantially. I understand she 
insured a different car with a different insurer. Mrs H can ask her subsequent 
insurer(s) to retrospectively recalculate her premium(s) to see if she is entitled to a 
refund.
In relation to Mrs Hs car, its not clear  to me why UKI issued a total loss settlement 
payment when Mrs H said she didnt want to claim on her policy. I dont know  if 
Mrs H still has the car. But if she does and if she wants to claim on her policy,  UKI 
should deal with that under the terms of her policy. In light of my intended decision 
regarding changing  the status  of the claim to non-fault, if Mrs H does want to claim 
for her car UKI shouldnt  charge her the excess. Thats because if the matter went to 
court and Mrs H won, she would have got her excess back.
Finally, given this matter has been  ongoing  for over two and a half years  and it has 
been a source  of distress and inconvenience for Mrs H, I intend to require UKI to pay 
her compensation to address the impact of that. UKI have already offered her £200  
Ref: DRN06611085compensation which Mrs H rejected. I dont think that goes far enough, so I intend to 
require UKI to increase that by a further  £200 to take the total to £400.
The parties were invited to comment on my findings. Mrs H accepted  my provisional 
decision. UKI made the following comments:
UKIs investigation was inadequate  and it prejudiced Mrs Hs position. UKI said: this 
claim was clearly  not investigated properly and we were too quick  to accept liability 
and we also prejudiced the customer's  position by not settling it on a without 
prejudice basis. 
We agree  we totally prejudiced her having the opportunity to [succeed in her own 
action] and there does  appear  to be multiple errors.
Its unusual for an ombudsman to comment on liability decision as their normal  
stance is that it's for the courts to decide and not a lay person and UKI don't feel 
the Ombudsman should be commenting or basing  their decision on the liability  
aspect I feel it should  be solely on how our actions or the lack of them  prejudiced her 
having the opportunity to take the matter to court. 
UKI did refer the matter to a litigation  expert.
The claim should not be recorded  as non-fault  on CUE nor should Mrs Hs NCB be 
reinstated.
UKIs litigation  expert and the police were of the view the accident would likely go 
down as a 50/50  split liability and its unlikely Mrs H would have ever got a non-fault  
outcome at court.
UKI agree if Mrs H wants  to pursue  a claim for her own car then she should be 
entitled to do so and the excess UKI should apply would be 50%.
UKI agree with the increase in compensation from £200 to £400.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my decision remains  
unchanged. But, even though most  of UKIs  further comments  have  already  been addressed  
in my provisional decision,  Id like to respond as follows:
UKI have  said they consulted a litigation expert before  making  their decision. That 
may be the case but it doesnt change the fact that, on their own admission, this 
claim was clearly  not investigated properly and we were too quick  to accept liability; 
we also prejudiced  the customer's position by not settling it on a without prejudice 
basis;  and we agree we totally prejudiced her having the opportunity to [succeed  in 
her own action] and there does appear  to be multiple errors. Given the admitted 
failings I dont think consulting a litigation expert  absolves UKI from the failings. 
Ultimately, even  where UKI get legal advice  it is their decision to accept that advice 
or to reject  it.
I as an ombudsman havent made  a decision on liability.  As UKI correctly have said 
that is only a decision  that could have  been  made by a court.  I have solely looked at 
UKIs actions and omissions  which led to their decision  to admit liability  on Mrs Hs 
behalf. And I have  concluded, in light of the evidence and UKIs accepted failings, 
that their actions werent fair or reasonable.
UKI believe  that this claim  could  have resulted in a 50/50 split liability.  And they had 
told Mrs H they were  likely to settle  on a 60/40  split liability. Yet they accepted  fault 
on Mrs Hs behalf  on a 100%  basis. Its not clear to me why UKI changed that to 
100% liability  against  Mrs H. I dont think that was reasonable.
Ref: DRN06611086As accepted by UKI, only a court  could  have determined whether or not Mrs H could 
have achieved a full, non-fault outcome. UKI accept  that the failings in their 
investigation and their failure  to settle on a WOP basis deprived Mrs H of the 
opportunity to be able to take the matter to court. And I don't think  thats  fair. Its for 
that reason Ive given her the benefit  of the doubt and decided the claim on CUE 
should be amended to non-fault  and her NCB reinstated.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint and require U K Insurance  Limited to:
Amend all internal  and external records, including the Claims and Underwriting 
Exchange (CUE), to show that the accident was a non-fault  claim.
Award Mrs H a NCB year for the policy year in which the accident  happened, 
provided there were  no other fault claims that year.  UKI should also give Mrs H a 
letter confirming this has been  done.
Pay Mrs H a total of £400 compensation for the distress and inconvenience she 
experienced. This should be paid within 28 days of us telling them that Mrs H has 
accepted my final decision. If they pay later than this they must also pay interest on 
that amount  from the date of my final decision to the date of payment  at a rate of 8% 
a year simple.1
If Mrs H wants to claim for the damage  to her own car, UKI should deal with that 
claim under the policy. But they shouldnt charge her the excess.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept
or reject my decision before 25 July 2020.
Mehmet Osman  
ombudsman 
1 If UKI consider that they are required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, they should tell Mrs H how much they have taken off. They  should  also give her a certificate 
showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.  
Ref: DRN0661108