K820x#14complaint
Mr K complained that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company  Limited didnt cover all his cars 
repairs after he claimed under his motor  insurance  policy
background 
Mr Ks car was damaged in an incident in 2015 and LV arranged  for their approved garage 
to repair  it. But he complained in 2015 that they hadnt fixed his car properly. LV authorised 
some rectification then.  But Mr K complained again  in 2018. He said that he was still having 
issues with his car. 
LV agreed to inspect his car again and to repair some of the issues as a gesture of goodwill. 
But they wouldnt pay to fix the issue with his Supplemental Restraint System light or sensor 
(SRS light or sensor), an airbag warning light. They said it wasnt related either to the 
accident or their garages repairs.
The investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should  be upheld.  He thought that LV 
had acted fairly on the available  evidence.
 
Mr K didnt agree and so the case has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont assess whether or how damage  to a car would be caused as this is a matter for the 
experts in these situations, the insurance companies  and engineers. Our role in these 
complaints is to determine whether  an insurance  company has considered all the available  
evidence and whether it can justify its decision  to not pay for additional repairs
After LVs first repairs in 2015  Mr K complained about six issues  he said that LVs garage 
hadnt repaired properly.  These didnt include any issue with the SRS light or sensor.
LV had an independent engineer  inspect his car in 2015. The engineer  reported  that five of 
the six issues werent related to the incident  or the repairs in 2015,  but instead  to previous 
poor repairs that had been done  on the car, in particular to the passenger door.  It appeared 
that Mr Ks car had been  written off in 2010 and hed kept the car as salvage and repaired it. 
However LV agreed to cover the cost of the repairs to the other issue as they couldnt  say for 
sure that it wasnt related  to the incident or repair. 
In 2018 Mr K said he still had issues with his car. These related  to the near side passenger 
door trim and fitting and he said that the SRS light kept coming on unless someone was 
sitting in the front passenger seat.  Mr K felt these still related to the incident or LVs garages 
2015 repairs. He wanted LV to fix them. 
LV had their engineer inspect the car. He said that none of those issues  were related to the 
incident from 2015 or the repairs or rectification work carried out then. 
Ref: DRN06815812However as a gesture of goodwill LV agreed  to fix the two issues with the near side 
passenger door. But as regards the SRS fault they said (This is due to a Passenger 
Occupancy Seat Sensor  failure)  this is not in any way related to the claim and is just down to 
a common fault on that type of car. They felt this was commonly due to wear  and tear as the 
car was about 16 years  old.
So LV wouldnt  pay to fix that SRS fault issue as there was no evidence  that it was due to 
the incident in 2015 or the repairs carried out then.  But they said theyd reconsider their 
decision if Mr K could  show  them a report from a main dealer confirming that it was. And, if 
so, they would fix the SRS fault issue and reimburse him the report  cost.
Mr K didnt get such a report .He did send some photos of what he says is a replacement  
bolt on the passenger  seat. He thinks that LV have  tampered with the passenger  seat and 
that could have caused the SRS light or sensor  issue. LV referred those photos and 
comments to their engineer who inspected  the car. He said that the garage wouldnt have 
removed the passenger  seat to carry out the repair work. But even if they had, the relevant 
sensor was located  within  the seat base  between the foam so it wouldnt get damaged by 
removing the seat. He still concluded  that it was a wear and tear issue. 
And though  Mr K says that LV did at one point agree to pay to fix the SRS light or sensor  
issue, Ive not seen anything to support that. The 2018 engineer  report  says that Mr K was 
present at the inspection and the engineer  told him then that they wouldnt cover it. In any 
event its clear that LV dont agree to fix it.
I realise that Mr K feels that LV are at fault.  But he hasnt provided  any expert evidence to 
support his view.  And so theres  no persuasive  evidence that the fault with the SRS light or 
sensor was caused  by the 2015  incident or repairs. LV have provided expert evidence which 
supports their view.  That evidence is reasoned  and clear  and LV are entitled  to rely on that 
professional opinion. So I dont think theyve been unreasonable  to decide that the SRS light 
or sensor  problem wasnt due to the incident  or their repairs.  Theyve  been  open to look at 
any report Mr K might  get to support  his view, and have offered to reimburse him and act on 
it if it were to show them to be at fault.  I think thats fair of them and that theyve done 
enough. And so I dont  ask them to do anything else.
my final decision 
For the reasons  Ive discussed above,  its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 October  2019.
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0681581