K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  about the way Santander  UK Plc handled  a chargeback  claim.
background
In July 2018 Mrs S purchased items from a retailer using her PayPal account which  was 
linked to her Santander credit card.  The price  of the goods  totalled  £512.20.
Mrs S returned the items using the online returns form. The retailer  subsequently went into 
administration and she didnt receive  a refund.
Mrs S contacted Santander. Initially she tried to raise a section 75 claim but Santander 
advised her that because  the individual items were less than £100 she should  raise a 
chargeback dispute  instead. Santander initially refunded the full amount but subsequently 
reversed it. Santander  told Mrs S it had closed the dispute because the disclaimer  form 
hadnt been returned to them.
Mrs S complained to this service. She wants the full amount refunded.
Our investigator didnt  refund the complaint and said it wouldnt have been possible to raise  
a claim under section  75 because there  was no debtor  creditor - supplier  relationship. He 
also said it was unlikely  that the chargeback claim wouldve  succeeded because  there  was 
no issue with the transaction  between Santander and PayPal. The investigator said that 
Santander had provided incorrect information  to Mrs S but that the compensation already 
offered was fair and reasonable. 
Mrs S didnt agree. She said Santander had initially refunded the money  and hadnt told her 
that the claim wouldnt be successful or made  her aware that she should contact PayPal. 
She said she was now out of time to recover the money via PayPal.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mrs S initially tried to claim  under  section 75. Section  75 says that if a 
consumer pays for something costing  between £100  and £30,000 on a credit card, the card 
company is jointly  liable with the retailer. It only applies, however, where there  is a direct 
relationship between the debtor, the creditor and the supplier. Where, as in this case, PayPal 
is used, the bank is paying PayPal  and PayPal is paying the retailer.  This means the debtor-
creditorsupplier link is broken and section 75 doesnt apply.
I can see that in this case Santander initially credited  Mrs Ss account in October 2018. It 
debited the account in January 2019. Its usual for the sum which is the subject of a 
chargeback claim to be credited whilst the claim is investigated. Depending on the outcome, 
the sum either  remains  credited  or is debited back again. Based on the information available 
Santander closed  the chargeback claim because it didnt receive the disclaimer form back 
from Mrs S. I appreciate that Mrs S feels that Santander should have chased for the 
disclaimer form. However, I cant fairly  hold Santander responsible  for the form not being 
returned, or going missing in the post. And I dont think its fair to expect  Santander to follow  
Ref: DRN07955652up missing items in every chargeback claim it receives as this would place an unfair 
administrative burden on it.
Its clear that Santander provided Mrs S with incorrect information about re-opening the 
chargeback claim when she contacted them in March 2019 and April 2019. Santander has 
acknowledged that the information was incorrect and that it should have told Mrs S that the 
timeframe for making a chargeback claim had elapsed and that the chargeback  could no 
longer be pursued.
I understand that Mrs S feels that Santander  should have advised her to contact  PayPal 
sooner. But I think this stems from a misunderstanding of why Santander closed the claim.  
Its not necessarily the case that the chargeback wouldnt have succeeded had Santander  
received the disclaimer form.  It would  depend on whether the credit  card was used to put 
money into the PayPal  account and then that money  was used to make the purchase.  I cant 
second guess  what the outcome would have been.  But in the circumstances, and because 
Santander was waiting for the disclaimer form rather than closing the claim on the merits, I 
dont think there was any reason for it to advise Mrs S to contact PayPal.
I appreciate that by the time Santander  closed the chargeback claim Mrs S was out of time 
to dispute the transaction with PayPal. I understand this wouldve been  frustrating for Mrs S 
but I cant fairly hold Santander responsible for this. Mrs S has made  the point that if 
Santander had advised her promptly that her chargeback  claim had not been successful she 
mightve had time to dispute the transaction with PayPal. I cant be certain of whether there 
would have been time or not. But given that Mrs S has acknowledged that she didnt know at 
the time that she could have raised  a dispute  with PayPal,  I dont  think she would have done  
this in any event.
Taking everything into account,  and whilst I can see that Santander has made  an error by 
providing incorrect information about  the status of Mrs Ss chargeback claim, I think  the 
compensation already offered is fair and reasonable and I wont be asking Santander to do 
anything further.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 July 2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0795565