K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S say Lloyds Bank  Plc mis-sold them payment protection insurance (PPI).
background
Mr and Mrs S took out a PPI policy at the same time as they applied for a mortgage in 1997.  
The sale took place  in one of the banks branches. The policy  was in Mrs Ss sole name  and 
gave her accident, sickness and unemployment  cover. They paid a monthly amount for it.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  Mr and Mrs S 
disagreed so the complaint was passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general  approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive followed
it here.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs Ss representative says at no point  was it made  clear  to Mr and Mrs S that PPI 
was optional. I cant know what was said in the meeting  but Ive looked at the available  
paperwork. On their mortgage application form Mr and Mrs S indicated  that they wanted PPI, 
and the option to decline it was set out with equal  prominence. The cost of the PPI was set 
out separately on their mortgage offer.
 
Overall, I think Lloyds  made it clear that the PPI was optional and Mr and Mrs S chose
to take it out. I can understand  they might not remember this given how long ago the sale 
was.
Lloyds recommended the PPI for Mrs S to Mr and Mrs S so it had to check that the PPI was 
right for her  and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think  that it 
was. Mrs S says she was entitled  to six months full pay and six months  half pay if she was 
sick, but the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to her work benefits and for up to 12 months 
for each  successful accident and sickness claim.  It also gave her up to 12 months 
redundancy cover. 
Mr and Mrs S were  borrowing  a large sum over a long period, secured on their home.  So the 
effects of not keeping  up the repayments could have been serious for them.  Overall,  I think  
the PPI would have been useful for Mr and Mrs S if Mrs S was sick, had an accident or lost 
her job.
Its possible Lloyds didnt  give Mr and Mrs S all the information they needed  before deciding  
to buy PPI. The cost was made clear in their mortgage  offer and the cover was apparently 
affordable. But I dont know that the bank pointed out the main things the PPI didnt cover. 
But Mrs S doesnt appear to have been  affected  by any of the main exclusions. So I dont 
think better information about  the PPI wouldve changed their mind about  buying it.
This means  Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S because:
Ref: DRN06425502Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs S about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs S, that was unfair.
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S.
But Lloyds Bank plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs S any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 August 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0642550