K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold them  payment protection insurance 
(PPI) in connection  with their mortgage.
background
In 1998 Mr and Mrs R took out PPI during a meeting at one of Lloyds branches to cover  
each of their incomes.  The PPI provided  80% of their mortgage payments in the event Mr R 
couldnt work through accident or sickness or lost his job, or 20% if Mrs R couldnt work 
through accident or sickness or lost her job. The policy provided 100% of their mortgage 
payments if both couldnt work.
The policy cost £20.25 a month and it provided  a 100% benefit to match Mr and Mrs Rs 
monthly mortgage payment of £264.83 plus their monthly home  insurance  policy  premium  
and it provided £3 a month for every  £1000 they had borrowed.
Upon a successful  claim the policy would have  paid out for both accident/sickness and 
unemployment for up to 12 months per claim. 
Mr and Mrs Rs PPI policy ended in 2003.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. The adjudicator  said the evidence 
showed that Mr and Mrs R chose to take out the PPI and there was nothing to indicate 
theyd lost out as a result.
Mr and Mrs R disagree so the complaint comes to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to handling  
complaints about  PPI on our website, and Ive taken account of whats  relevant here in 
considering this complaint.
Lloyds says this was an advised sale. This means Lloyds not only had to provide Mr and Mrs 
R with good enough information  about the policy so they could make  an informed decision 
about it. It also had to ensure the policy was right or suitable for them  based on their needs  
and circumstances  at the time. Ive taken this into account in my consideration of the case.
did Lloyds make it clear  to Mr and Mrs R that they had a choice about PPI?
The PPI policy was sold in October  1998.  Mr and Mrs R say they didnt want PPI with their 
mortgage and were unaware  theyd been given it. I think their memory of the sale is 
mistaken, which is understandable as the sale was twenty years ago. I say this for the 
following reasons.
Lloyds has provided  a copy of Mr and Mrs Rs application form for the PPI. Although difficult  
to follow  as its been copied in several separate parts, it appears to show  that theyve made  
choices about  the benefit level for each  of them, and they have both signed the application 
form. Theyve also both signed  a separate direct debit form to ask their bank to make the 
monthly payments.  
Ref: DRN09531332Lloyds has sent us a copy of the welcome letter  they say Mr and Mrs R would have received 
telling them about the PPI in 1998.  And Lloyds has sent us a copy  of the letter  Mr B sent 
cancelling the PPI about four years  later in 2003,  where it seems  apparent  hes aware  of the 
PPI and tells Lloyds that he is cancelling  the policy because he has taken out another PPI 
policy with them.
So I think it is more likely  than not Lloyds presented the policy to Mr and Mrs R as optional 
and they chose to take it out. 
did things  happen  as they should have done  were Mr and Mrs R properly advised 
and informed?
if not  have Mr and Mrs R lost out?
I dont know what Lloyds  said or did when it recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs R. I also 
dont know what information Mr and Mrs R were  given  about PPI. I can see that the cost of 
the policy is shown  separately on the PPI application form. But beyond  that I dont know  
whether the policys  benefits were explained to them or if they were told about  the significant  
exclusions and limitations of cover. I find it unlikely Mr and Mrs R agreed to take the cover 
out knowing very little about it, but I dont  know if they received  everything they needed to 
know to allow them to make an informed decision.
So I accept  its possible that things did not happen as they should  have done  when Lloyds  
recommended to Mr and Mrs R that they take out PPI. I accept Mr and Mrs R may not have 
been treated fairly and reasonably.
But for the reasons Ive set out below, I dont think Mr and Mrs R have lost out as a result. I 
say this because, given  Mr and Mrs Rs circumstances  and needs at the time, I think  the 
policy cover  was suitable for them. And I find it unlikely that Mr and Mrs R would have acted 
differently and not gone ahead with the cover if Lloyds had provided better information. My 
reasons are as follows:
Mr and Mrs R were eligible for their cover and all its benefits.
Mr and Mrs R were employed  and in good health  at the time, so it doesnt appear  
they would  have been affected by any of the key exclusions  / limitations of their cover 
such as existing medical condition exclusions or unusual  employment terms.
The mortgage provided for the first home Mr and Mrs R owned together.  They both 
had income and some sick pay and redundancy pay entitlements which could have  
helped them make the mortgage  payments if either was off work ill or lost their job. 
But they had no savings and the policy would have paid out within 60 days in addition  
to any sick pay or redundancy pay and for up to 12 months  for each claim. So I think  
Mr and Mrs R had a need for their cover and that it would have been useful to them if 
either had found themselves unable to work.  It could have helped them financially at 
what would be a difficult time - it could  have helped them protect  their home.
The cost of the PPI was shown on the PPI application form. But even  if theyd missed  
this, I find it unlikely  Mr and Mrs R would have  agreed to something  without having  
some understanding of the cost. And I think its unlikely they would have declined it 
solely on the basis of its cost had it been made  clearer  to them.  Ive already said they 
had a need for it and at just over £20 per month it appears to have been affordable. 
And as they were  paying for the PPI monthly,  they could cancel it without further cost 
if at any stage their situation  changed or they no longer wanted it.
Ref: DRN09531333So overall, while I accept  there may have been  failings  in the way the policy  was sold and Mr 
and Mrs R may not have  been treated fairly  and reasonably by Lloyds in its dealings with 
them, I find theyve not lost out. This is because, on balance,  for the reasons Ive detailed 
above, I think Mr and Mrs R chose to take out the PPI and they would have been in the 
same position if Lloyds had done  more and properly advised and informed them  - I think they 
would have still taken  out the PPI.
This means  Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs R.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs R have said. But these  points dont change  my 
decision.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs R because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs R about that. Because Lloyds  didnt tell Mr 
and Mrs R, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs R.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs R any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 April 2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0953133