K820x#14complaint
Ms W complains that she was mis-sold a credit card payment protection insurance, (PPI),  
policy.
background
Ms W took out the policy during a phone conversation in 2003.  Although Halifax Insurance 
Ireland Limited  sold this policy, St Andrews Insurance Plc, (St Andrews),  has accepted  
responsibility for the sale. Because of this, St Andrews has also agreed it is responsible for 
the complaint.  To make things easier Ive referred to St Andrews  throughout my decision.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  As Ms W disagreed 
the matter has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. Ive 
followed this in deciding  Ms Ws compliant.
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Ws complaint.  I explain why below.
I think that Ms W knew that the policy was optional and that she chose to take it. I say this 
because Ms W took out her credit card in 1993, but the insurance  was only added to her 
account some nine years later. So she would have  known that getting the credit wasnt  
dependent on her taking  out the policy.
St Andrews  says that it recommended the PPI to Ms W. This means that it needed to take 
reasonable steps to ensure that it was suitable  for her needs. Knowing  what  I do about 
Ms Ws circumstances  at the time and the terms and conditions  of the policy,  I think that it 
was suitable. I say this because:
Ms W was eligible  for the PPI;
Ms W wasnt adversely affected  by any of the policys main limitations and restrictions  
such as those affecting someone with a pre-existing medical condition;
Ms W has told us that she wasnt entitled to any sick pay from her employment and that 
she had no savings  or other insurance to help her make her credit card payments had 
she been unable  to work.  However,  the PPI would have  paid 10% of her credit card 
balance a month had she been off work because of accident, sickness or involuntary  
unemployment. These payments would have been made for up to 12 months. So I think 
that the insurance could have been useful to Ms W;
The PPI was reasonably priced  by reference to other policies available  in the market at 
the time and had a reasonable benefit;
Because it was paid for monthly,  Ms W could have cancelled the policy  at any time had 
she felt that she didnt want it or it was unaffordable for her.
Ref: DRN04406092Its possible that St Andrews didnt  tell Ms W everything that it ought  to have about the 
policy so that she could make a fully informed decision whether she wanted to take it or not. 
But from what Ive concluded above  I dont think that clearer  information would have 
changed Ms Ws mind and stopped her buying  the PPI. So she hasnt lost out because of 
anything that may have  been wrong with the sales process St Andrews followed. So theres 
nothing I require it to put right.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 November  2019.
Ros Barnett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0440609