K822xcomplaint
Mr S complains about the changes IPS Pensions  Limited (IPS) made to the charges that 
were applied to his self-invested  personal pension (SIPP). He says the additional charges 
werent fair because they didnt form part of the original contract and he says IPS never 
made him aware of the changes to the terms and conditions  (T&Cs).  He wants  the charges 
to be refunded to the SIPP so that he can now close  it. 
In addition, Mr S says IPS has now stopped the use of non panel  solicitors for property 
transactions within the SIPP,  which  he says is unfair.
background 
On 15 January 2007 Mr S set up an IPS Pension builder SIPP.  In addition to the 
supplementary deed that was signed  by both parties  (as joint trustees), IPS issued a fee 
agreement  signed by Mr S  which included the following  statement:
After the establishment fees, on-going  fees will be charged annually  in arrears in 
accordance with the schedule below.Additional fees are chargeable on either a fixed fee 
or time cost basis for non-standard  services i.e. those which are not listed  below. 
A list of the standard services was then sent out.
In 2011 Mr S placed a commercial property, valued  at around £40,000, into the SIPP.  
James Hay then took over the management of the SIPP but for the sake of clarity  Ill 
continue to refer to the business in this complaint  as IPS.
On 17 September  2014, IPS wrote to Mr S explaining that, with effect from 31 October  2014, 
changes would be made to the SIPP T&Cs. 
IPS explained  that it wanted to create a consistent approach  to different types of accounts 
and meet new legal  and regulatory requirements.  It said that there were  increasing levels  of 
work it needed to do around SIPPs especially where property was contained  within them  
and it wanted  to make it clear for which aspects of this work  it would charge additional  fees. 
One of the new fees was the introduction  of a £480 annual property charge.
In the letter  IPS said: If you are unhappy with any material change  to your SIPP product 
Terms and Conditions, you may transfer  your SIPP to another pension  provider and we will 
waive our transfer out fee provided  you give us your instructions to transfer out within  90 
days of the change coming  into effect.
On 22 March 2017, IPS wrote to Mr S confirming further changes to the SIPP account 
charges.
In July 2017 Mr S wrote  to IPS with a number of queries he had about  his SIPP.  Notably the 
management charges,  any misunderstanding  which caused IPS to think he had two 
properties within his plan, and the lack of information about the charges and transactions 
throughout the time hed held the SIPP. Mr S said he wanted to wind up the SIPP and 
distribute the assets within it. He asked for guidance  on the process  involved.  But he didnt  
receive a satisfactory  response so he complained to IPS making the following points.
He didnt think the changes and new charges were fair and hadnt received any 
correspondence from IPS regarding  any changes to the original T&Cs.
Ref: DRN00262512IPS hadnt answered his queries  from July 2017, about the charges.
Before July 2017 all charges were  deducted from a group SIPP Mr S was part of. So 
he was concerned that charges  hadnt  been levied  against his SIPP when they ought 
to have been.
IPS had continued to raise  further  charges even though Mr S says his concerns 
hadnt been addressed. He said hed lost confidence in any future contributions  being  
allocated correctly.
IPS didnt uphold  the complaint. In response it said:
It had sent a copy of the changes to SIPP terms and conditions to the address it 
held for Mr S in September  2014 and it couldnt be held responsible  if Mr S didnt 
receive it. 
It believed it had good reason to introduce additional charges because  of the 
changing complexity of the administrative tasks it had to undergo particularly with 
regards to commercial property within SIPPs. And it felt it had communicated  the 
changes in advance.
It offered  the opportunity of transferring  the SIPP to a new provider without charging 
a fee. Mr S hadnt expressed any interest  in taking up this option.
Further changes that were made in 2017  were  also communicated to Mr S in the 
same way with the same options  to transfer  without fees.  
It had answered Mr S queries from 2017   although Mr S remained unsatisfied  with 
the answers that didnt mean  it hadnt responded.
All fees had been charged  as they should  have been. This included the new ongoing  
fees which IPS noted  were still outstanding  from January  2014  onwards. 
IPS noted that it hadnt provided information that was requested by Mr S when he 
was considering accessing  his benefits. Therefore it offered to waive the fees for 
2018 if Mr S agreed to withdraw  his funds and close the plan - although it would 
require the other outstanding fees to be paid.
IPS subsequently issued a letter in November 2018, which  stated that only a solicitor from its 
panel could be used for property transactions within its SIPPs.
The most recent annual  review pack showed the total value of the SIPP to be £40,272.29.
As Mr S didnt accept  IPS offer, or its response to his queries, he brought  his complaint to 
us and one of our adjudicators looked  into it. He said he thought  IPS offer was a fair and 
reasonable resolution to the complaint. He also said that:
the original fee agreement  gave  sufficient flexibility for additional charges to be 
introduced and for changes to be made.
The manner in which the charges were implemented seemed reasonable but overall  
was a commercial matter for IPS to decide  upon.
There was no evidence that charges for the joint SIPP were applied to Mr S sole 
SIPP.
The more recent terms and conditions provided for IPS to make further changes  such 
as introducing a panel of solicitors.
Mr S disagreed. He said the terms and conditions were unfair  and disagreed that it was 
permissible for the yearly property charges to be introduced.  He said he still hadnt received 
answers to the questions  he raised  about  the fees that had been applied to the joint SIPP  
Ref: DRN00262513but not the sole SIPP, and reiterated  his desire  to close the plan and for the fees post 2017  
to be credited to the SIPP and for any unacceptable  (to him) additional  charges  to be 
removed.
Unable to find a resolution the complaints  been  passed to me for a final decision.  
Im aware that Mr S has made  another  complaint  with the joint trustee of another SIPP.  So to 
be clear what  Im looking at here is Mr S complaint about the SIPP he holds in his name 
only. The other complaint  will be considered  separately.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I find I agree with the 
adjudicators assessment  and for broadly the same reasons.
Two documents were issued to Mr S when he took out the SIPP  which constituted  the 
original contract. The IPS pension  builder booklet gave an outline  of what could be 
invested into the SIPP and how the plan worked. It included the SIPPs features  and 
benefits. The fee agreement document set out the initial and ongoing  SIPP fees that 
Mr S would be charged. It noted that additional fees are chargeable on either a fixed  fee or 
time cost basis for non-standard services  i.e. those which are not listed below.
 
Ive carefully considered  the list of services  that the agreement said would  be covered by the 
fees. It generally included providing statements, other administration  tasks and liaising with 
the Inland Revenue  examples of which  included:
dealing with regular correspondence with the Inland Revenue  and issuing  of annual 
PCC certificate
Dealing with day to day general correspondence and telephone enquiries
Dealing with changes  in Inland  Revenue  practice e.g. revision of the trust deed or 
rules where necessary
maintenance of records  including correspondence and account  statements.
The fee agreement  went on to say that; additional fees will be chargeable for any of the 
services set out below,  which are not covered by the fees indicated on the previous page. 
Fees for some additional services depend upon the level of involvement and time spent and 
as a consequence some  can be a fixed fee while others can only be estimated.
The section that included fees for items to be charged on a time cost basis  included any 
matters that are considered non-routine and not part of the normal  administration and 
trusteeship duties.
And I think that sentence  within the fee agreement - gave IPS an authority to make  future  
changes to its charging structure  for additional  work  that wasnt  included  in the services on 
the list. So, based on the fee agreement Im satisfied  that IPS did have the right to introduce 
additional fees in some circumstances.
I note that James Hay  having taken over IPS  issued updated T&Cs in 2014 when it 
introduced the new additional property charge. I know Mr S says he didnt receive  that 
information but I can see that a copy was sent to the address that was held at the time for 
him. So, I cant safely say IPS failed to issue a copy of the revised terms and conditions. 
Ref: DRN00262514In an accompanying  letter  IPS explained  that due to the additional requirements placed  on it 
as joint trustee  where a client held self-managed properties,  it thought it needed to 
introduce an additional annual property fee of £480 per property.  And it also decided to 
increase the annual administration  charge  in line with a new benchmark index. 
As Ive already  explained, I think IPS original  documentation  allowed  it to make changes  to 
its fees. So I think the changes it made in 2014  were legitimate commercial decisions it was 
free to make  and we wouldnt normally interfere in such decisions.  But I would expect IPS 
to have made Mr S aware of any forthcoming  changes and to have given him an alternative 
option. 
And I think IPS did that by sending the letter six weeks  before it planned to make the 
changes and with the additional confirmation  that If you are unhappy with any material 
change to your SIPP  product  Terms and Conditions, you may transfer  your SIPP  to another  
pension provider and we will waive our transfer out fee provided  you give us your 
instructions to transfer out within 90 days of the change coming into effect. If you have any 
questions about  these changes, please  contact the IPS Pension  Builder Team.
And Ive also seen the letter that IPS sent in March 2017 which  clearly set out the changes  it 
was planning  to make to its charges  from 28 April 2017. The letter  also explained that Mr S 
could switch to another  IPS SIPP, transfer  to another  provider   with transfer charges 
waived  or remain within the existing SIPP. 
So based  on the evidence Ive seen  I cant say that IPS didnt make Mr S aware  of the 
changes it was planning and I think it also offered a penalty free alternative for him to 
consider as I would  have  expected it to.
Ive then gone onto consider whether the additional work that IPS says it had to do was 
outside of the standard services that were  listed in the original fee agreement. Ive looked  at 
the tasks that IPS said it would need to undertake  in return  for the introduction  of the annual  
property charge. And in its letter outlining the change it explained:  
What does  the annual  property charge cover? The charge covers the provision  of the 
following services.
 Reviewing bank account transactions to ensure compliance with the regulations
 Necessary enquires into the property to ensure that it can be held within  a pension  
environment without incurring tax charges
 Periodic  regulatory reporting
 Ad-hoc  guidance on property issues and queries as far as they impact property such as 
works and insurance  requirements
 Administering expenses,  fees and third party invoices as well as allocating  rental  income
I think these were tasks that IPS didnt have to carry out when it first set up Mr S SIPP and  I 
think its unlikely that IPS would have been  able to foresee how much  extra  work and 
reporting it would have needed to carry out in relation  to SIPPs  when it compiled its original 
T&Cs. So I dont think its unreasonable that those original T&Cs allowed IPS to introduce 
additional charges for the work and I think IPS has acted reasonably by taking a commercial  
decision to introduce  the additional property fee.
Mr S has also complained that all the charges relating to the SIPP were taken from a group  
SIPP he is involved in  and therefore hes concerned that fees havent been correctly 
applied to his SIPP. And he says he wants a full breakdown of the previous charges and 
Ref: DRN00262515transactions so that he can agree a resolution  to the matter  and close  the SIPP  and 
redistribute its assets.
Ive looked at the annual  statements  that have been provided by IPS over the last few years 
and theres no evidence to show that the fees havent been applied  according to the fee 
schedules that were issued. 
And IPS has accepted  that it sent Mr S an invoice for the wrong  SIPP which I think   in 
addition to his belief that he been  double charged for two of the last six years  - would have 
given Mr S some concerns about  the charges involved. But while I accept  Mr S frustration 
about receiving  incorrect  information I havent seen anything to show  that this was anything 
other than an error and I havent seen any suggestion of incorrect  charging.    
Mr S has subsequently complained about  IPS decision not to allow  the use of non-panel 
solicitors for commercial property  transactions  within the SIPP. He says that denying  his 
right to appoint his own legal advisor  might be a breach of his personal  rights and could 
even lay him open to legal question marks in his position as trustee. I accept this could be 
restrictive for him. But Ive seen the letter that IPS sent on 16 November 2018 which  
explained its position and why it was making  the change   in line with its revised T&Cs  
from February 2019. 
I think IPS was entitled to make this variation and I think it gave Mr S sufficient warning  of 
the change and allowed him to transfer  to another provider if he wasnt  happy with the new 
terms. As Ive previously confirmed we wouldnt normally interfere with such a commercial  
decision made by a business, as long as it was in-line  with its T&Cs. And I can see the 
revised T&Cs  a copy of which was included with the letter   said we may change our 
terms and conditions from time to time. We will give you 30 days  notice of any material  
change to the terms and conditions  
But there is evidence  to show that IPS didnt provide Mr S with the necessary paperwork to 
close the SIPP when  he first approached it in 2017. And I think  this has undoubtedly caused 
Mr S some degree  of distress and inconvenience  which I think  has impacted on his 
retirement plans to some degree.  IPS has acknowledged this error and accepted that it may 
have caused a delay in Mr S ability to close the SIPP. So its offered to waive its fees for 
2018 in recognition of the fact that Mr S wouldnt  have paid those fees if hed closed  the 
SIPP.
IPS wants Mr S to close his SIPP and make  up any outstanding costs as part of the process 
in accepting its offer. As Im satisfied  that IPS was allowed to vary the original contract it 
issued, I think this offer is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr S complaint.
my final decision
IPS Pensions Limited has offered to waive  fees to the value  of £1,201.20 as long as Mr S 
closes his SIPP by paying any other  outstanding fees. I think thats  a fair offer in the 
circumstances.
I shall leave it to Mr S to liaise with IPS if he wishes to accept  the offer and resolve  matters.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 August 2019. 
Ref: DRN00262516Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0026251