K821x#15complaint
Mrs E complains that MYJAR  Limited  (Myjar)  acted irresponsibly  when  it gave her 
unaffordable loans.
background
This complaint is about five loans Myjar provided to Mrs E between  May 2015 and March 
2016. 
Mrs E took out loans  that were  due to be paid by way of 2, 3, or 6 monthly instalments. 
Except for loan 5, she repaid  the loans early   but she hasnt yet repaid the last loan she 
took out. 
Heres a table setting out details of those loans:
LoanDate
TakenDate
RepaidInstalments Amount Highest Repayment
116/05/2015 08/06/2015 3 £475.00 £274.55
207/07/2015 13/08/2015 2 £200.00 £140.68
314/08/2015 31/12/2015 6 £1,000.00 £309.18
431/12/2015 06/02/2016 3 £825.00 £408.61
531/03/2016 outstanding 6 £925.00 £276.94
Mrs E said that she took out loans to pay back other  loans and she was in a never  ending  
cycle of debt. 
Our adjudicator partly upheld the complaint. He thought that Myjar shouldnt  have approved 
loan 4 or loan 5 and he recommended steps  that Myjar should take to put things right for 
Mrs E. 
Myjar disagreed with our adjudicator and said its checks were proportionate and it wasnt 
certain that our adjudicator had looked  at everything before coming to his view.
Myjar asked for a review  so this complaint comes to me to make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Myjar needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mrs E could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
Ref: DRN05725832But certain factors might  point to the fact that Myjar should fairly  and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Myjar was required to establish whether Mrs E could sustainably repay her loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were  affordable on a strict pounds  and pence calculation. 
Loan payments  being affordable on this basis might be an indication that a borrower could 
sustainably make the repayments.  But it doesnt  automatically follow  this is the case. This is 
because the  relevant  regulations define sustainable as being  without  undue  difficulties and 
in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while  meeting other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without having  to borrow  to meet  the repayments. And 
it follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Es complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicator that it wasnt wrong  for Myjar to give Mrs E loans 1 to 3 on the 
basis of the information it had recorded about  her income and outgoings. It was early  in the 
lending relationship and so I think the checks were enough for Myjar to agree to lend. 
As Mrs E hasnt  raised any objection to the adjudicators recommendation in relation to 
loans 1 - 3, I dont think that I need to say more about them.
But I dont think Myjars lending decision on loan 4 was fair. I agree with our adjudicator  that 
by now, Myjar shouldve  realised that she was struggling to manage  her debt. 
When Mrs E repaid loan 3 just 4 months into the six month loan term, this was the third time 
in a row that shed arranged a loan to be repaid over a number of months and then paid it 
back early.  And each time shed then taken out a new loan shortly afterwards - there was 
less than a month between her paying  loan 1 and taking out loan 2, and she took out loan 3 
the day after paying loan 2. 
Ref: DRN05725833This pattern continued when Mrs E took out loan 4 the same  day that she paid loan 3. 
Although loan 4 mightve looked affordable on the figures Mrs E gave, her history  with Myjar 
suggested this wasnt the case and her borrowing track record was clearly  at odds with what 
Mrs E had told Myjar about her financial situation. 
Ive taken into account that loan 4 wasnt for as much money as loan 3  but it was still a 
substantial amount, and an increase on the loan amounts shed taken when she started out 
borrowing from Myjar.
I think it shouldve been apparent to Myjar that it didnt look like Mrs E was using these loans 
for their intended purpose as a short  term fix for cash flow problems or to cover  a one off or 
emergency expense.
And I think her borrowing history suggested  that Mrs E couldnt afford to pay back  what  she 
had borrowed without  borrowing again, and Myjar could see that her indebtedness was 
generally increasing unsustainably . 
For these reasons, I dont  think  it was reasonable for Myjar to think that it was likely Mrs E 
would be able sustainably  to repay  loan 4  so it shouldnt have provided this loan.
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Myjars lending history with Mrs E, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Myjar should reasonably  have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable,  or otherwise harmful. And so Myjar  should have realised that it shouldnt  
have provided  any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Mrs Es case, I think  that this point  was reached by 
loan 5 and Myjar  should have realised  that there was a significant  risk Mrs E wouldve been  
unable to sustainably  meet her monthly repayments for loan 5.
 My reasons  for saying this are:
Mrs E had taken out five loans over ten months   without any significant breaks in 
lending 
whilst  the loan amounts had gone up and down, by loan 5 it was evident  that Mrs E 
wasnt making any real inroads into the amount she owed. So a pattern of 
dependency was apparent in respect  of her borrowing
at this point, Myjar ought to have known that Mrs E was not likely borrowing to meet 
a temporary shortfall in income but to meet an ongoing need
and that Mrs Es indebtedness  was increasing  unsustainably
this is borne out by the fact that Mrs E has a balance outstanding on loan 5.
I think that Mrs E lost out when Myjar provided  loan 5 because:
this loan had the effect  of unfairly  prolonging Mrs Es indebtedness  by allowing her to 
take expensive  credit intended  for short-term use over an extended period of time.  
Ref: DRN05725834the length of time over which Mrs E borrowed  these loans was likely  to have negative 
implications on her ability  to access mainstream credit and so kept Mrs E in the 
market for high-cost  loans. And any further  borrowing was likely to be detrimental to 
her credit  rating. 
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans 4 and 5 and Myjar should put things right.
putting things right  what Myjar needs to do
If Myjar has sold the outstanding debt it should buy this back if are able to do so and then 
take the following steps. Otherwise, Myjar should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve  
the results outlined below.
A.Add together the total of the repayments made by Mrs E towards  interest, fees and 
charges on all upheld  loans without an outstanding balance  (loan 4), not including  
anything it has already refunded.
B.Calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments  made by Mrs E which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mrs E originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C.Remove all interest, fees and charges  from the balance on any upheld  outstanding 
loans (loan 5) and treat any repayments  made  by Mrs E as though they had been 
repayments of the principal. If this results in Mrs E having made  overpayments  then 
these should be refunded  with 8% simple interest* calculated  on the overpayments,  
from the date the overpayments would  have arisen, to the date the complaint is 
settled. Myjar should then refund the amounts calculated in "A" and "B" and move to 
step "E".
D.If there  is still an outstanding  balance then the amounts calculated in "A" and "B" 
should be used  to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results 
in a surplus then the surplus should be paid to Mrs E. However if there is still an 
outstanding balance then Myjar should  try to agree  an affordable repayment plan 
with Mrs E.
E.Remove all adverse entries  from Mrs Es credit file for loan 4. The number of loans 
taken from the point of loan 5 means any information recorded about this loan is 
adverse. So all entries about  loan 5 should  be removed from Mrs Es credit  file.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Myjar to take off tax from this interest. Myjar must give 
Mrs E a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN05725835my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mrs Es complaint about  loans  4 and 5. MYJAR 
Limited (Myjar) should pay Mrs E as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2020.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0572583