K820x#14complaint
Mr W says Canada Square  Operations  Limited  mis-sold him a payment protection insurance
(PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out online in 2000. The policy  was taken  out at the
same time as Mr W applied for an Egg credit card. It gave him accident, sickness and
unemployment cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr W disagreed so the complaint was passed  to
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to complaints  about  the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain  why.
When Mr W applied  for the Egg credit  card online  he ticked a box on the screen
indicating he wanted to take out PPI, agreeing with the statement that by ticking the
box he was confirming hed read and agreed to the terms and conditions of the PPI.
And the options  to select or decline PPI were set out with equal prominence  on the
screen. So, I think Canada Square  Operations made it clear to Mr W the PPI was
optional and he agreed to take it out.
Canada Square  Operations didnt recommend the PPI to Mr W, so it didnt have to
check if it was suitable  for him. It was up to Mr W to decide whether the policy was
right for him, bearing in mind his ability to make  his credit card repayments  if he was
sick or lost his job.
Its possible Canada Square  Operations didnt give Mr W all the information about the
PPI that he needed before he made his decision.  But Mr W chose to take out the
policy and so appears to have  wanted  this type of cover. He wasnt  affected  by any of
the exclusions or limitations.  
Mr Ws representative argues that as Mr W had savings and good sick pay its clear 
he would  have declined  the policy if the cost versus benefit was pointed out to him. 
But I disagree. This policy was fairly priced in the market and offered a competitive 
benefit level. If Mr W was sick the PPI wouldve paid out for up to 12 months,  in 
addition to his work  benefits of six months  full pay and six months half pay. The 
cover would have  allowed  him to use his savings to cover other living  costs  whilst not 
working, or to keep  them intact for his future needs. And Ive seen no evidence  it was 
unaffordable. 
I know Mr W had other  work benefits (critical illness cover and a death-in-service 
benefit) but these  cover different events and wouldnt help with his monthly  credit  
Ref: DRN09823322card repayments in the same way as PPI. Overall, I think it unlikely Mr W wouldve 
made a different decision if better  information had been provided.
It follows that I dont think Mr W has lost out because of any problems with this sale.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or
reject my decision  before 28 July 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0982332