K821x#15Complaint
Mr J complains National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) has debited  a cheque from his 
savings account  a year after it was paid in.  
Background
Mr J received an international cheque,  which he believed to be winnings from a competition.   
He says he attended a branch of NatWest  to pay the cheque in to his account  and was told it 
would be safe to use the money after 12 weeks. The funds  from the cheque  credited his 
account on 31 October 2017. 
NatWest then received  information to say the cheque paid into Mr Js account was 
fraudulent. About a year later, NatWest debited  the amount  from Mr Js account, which left 
him overdrawn by more than £4,000. 
Mr J complained to NatWest about its decision  to debit  the money, saying hed only spent 
the money after the timescale it had given  him had passed. And because  hed spent  it, he no 
longer had it and couldnt  afford to pay it back to the bank. 
NatWest said in its final response that foreign  cheques can be returned  unpaid  up to seven 
years after theyve been cleared, if theyre fraudulent.  So, although it was sorry for the upset 
this had caused Mr J, it didnt think it had made a mistake by debiting  the amount from the 
account. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened, and recommended the complaint was 
upheld. He said, in summary, he didnt think it was fair of NatWest to debit the value of the 
cheque so long after it had been  cleared into Mr Js account. And he thought Mr J had kept it 
for the 12 weeks before spending it, based on NatWests advice. 
NatWest didnt agree with the investigators  findings, so the complaint was passed to me. 
I issued a provisional decision on 3 June 2020.  An extract  of that decision is set about 
below.
My Provisional Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the initial call Mr J made  to us in November 2018, when he first referred the 
complaint to our service. Ive also listened  to the call where  he spoke to our investigator.  
When Mr J first spoke  to the investigator, he said he enters competitions regularly and 
received this cheque  as winnings.  He said he was surprised to receive such  a large amount. 
So surprised, that when he took the cheque the branch to pay it in, he said he asked a 
member of branch  staff whether they thought it was genuine. Mr J says that the staff 
member agreed it looked dodgy and suggested  they ring the credit  union it was drawn on. 
Which Mr J says the member of staff did, it rang but no one answered.  
NatWest has provided a copy of the cheque, it appears to have been drawn on the credit  
unions account rather than an individuals account. And NatWest has provided  evidence of 
the information it later received that the cheque was drawn fraudulently. Mr J hasnt  said he 
doesnt agree that the cheque was fraudulent  so it seems both parties accept that it was. 
Ref: DRN04339672Mr J says he was told in the branch that the cheque could be returned unpaid  for 12 weeks  
after its paid in. Mr J says because of this, he withdrew the money in cash and kept it at 
home until the 12 weeks had passed. Then  he spent  the money on a holiday. We asked Mr J 
why he removed the money from his account and kept it in cash  at home,  rather  than leaving 
it in the account  he paid it into. But he responded to say he didnt want  to provide any further 
information, and that we should make a decision  based on the information we already  had. 
NatWest says its guidance makes it clear  that international cheques can be returned  up to 
seven years after being presented. And its provided  a copy of the guidance,  which does say 
this. NatWest says it thinks Mr J wouldve  been  told this when he paid the cheque  in. Mr J 
says he wasnt. And because of the time thats  now passed theres no information available 
from the branch  about what happened when Mr J went in to pay the cheque in. But even if I 
accept that the branch did tell Mr J the cheque could be returned  unpaid for up to 12 weeks 
and that after that, it would  be safe to use  I dont think  this makes a difference  to Mr Js 
overall complaint.  Ill explain why. 
Mr J says he didnt spend any of the money until after the deadline had passed.  So Ive 
thought about what I think Mr J wouldve done with the money had he been told that the 
cheque could be returned unpaid for up to seven years. 
Having looked  at the statements of Mr Js accounts,  I can see that some  of the money   
about £2,400 - was transferred out to another account of Mr Js and a further £1,900 was 
transferred to an account outside NatWest. Mr J says he moved some of the money to his 
wifes account and withdrew it in cash and did the same with the money he moved  to the 
other of his accounts.  Again, its not clear why Mr J needed to transfer the money in two 
parts before withdrawing it in cash. But I can see that some  of the £2,400  was spent from 
Mr Js account; transactions  to an online retailer  and credit card providers were  made  
totalling about £500 of the £2,400. 
So even though Mr J says he kept it for the time NatWest told him to, the statements show 
he didnt keep all the money for that period of time.  So, I think even if NatWest  had said that 
it could be returned  up to seven years later, I think its unlikely that Mr J wouldve kept it for 
that time before spending it. And as the cheque was in fact fraudulent  which both parties 
seem to accept that it was  I think its likely Mr J wouldve  always  ended up spending it and 
then finding himself owing the bank the value  of the cheque when it was returned.  
NatWests records show it received notification the cheque was fraudulent on 9 November 
2017. But it didnt  debit the amount from Mr Js account until 21 September 2018. NatWest 
says the reason it took about ten months  for the amount to be debited  from Mr Js account  
because they had a back log. While that might  be the case, I dont  think  its reasonable that it 
took so long for them to do this and notify  Mr J there  was a problem with the cheque.  
Im mindful of what Mr J has told us about  his circumstances, and in particular the effect this 
has had on his health. Im sure it has been  stressful to be asked to repay this amount of 
money. Ive explained  already why I think its fair that Mr J repays the value of the cheque,  
but I think he has been caused distress  and inconvenience by being asked to repay such a 
large amount such a long time after it credited his account. In recognition of this, NatWest 
should pay Mr J £200. 
I understand that Mr J says he wasnt aware  the cheque  was fraudulent when  he received it, 
but I think  based  on what hes told us in telephone  calls  he did at least suspect it might 
Ref: DRN04339673not have been genuine. Ive thought carefully  about  whats fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. I dont  think  its fair that Mr J benefits from money that was never intended  
for him, but he shouldnt be forced into financial  difficulty  repaying  it. And I also dont think it 
would be fair for NatWest  to profit from the debt.  
NatWest told Mr J in its final response  letter that charges and interest werent  being  applied. 
I think this is fair  as it means Mr J has to repay the money hes already had, but NatWest  
dont add any further charges which could end up penalising Mr J. He should get in touch 
with NatWest to complete  an income  and expenditure,  discuss  and agree a repayment plan 
 and NatWest should  bear in mind its obligations when doing so. 
Responses to my provisional findings
NatWest responded  to say it agreed  with my findings but wanted  to offset the compensation 
I said I intended to order it to pay Mr J against the debt he owes the bank. 
Mr J responded to say he didnt agree  with my provisional decision.  He made a number of 
points which  Ive summarised:
Mr J believed the cheque to be genuine, took the banks advice to keep the funds for 
12 weeks before spending it and hasnt  done anything wrong. 
He says he transferred some  of the money  to his wife so he could withdraw the total 
amount in cash on the same day. Otherwise he wouldve had to wait because  it was 
above the amount the bank would allow in a single day. 
Mr J is already struggling financially  and hes also got serious health conditions 
being made worse  by this situation  - so its not fair that hes asked to repay this 
money. 
My Findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr Js said throughout the case  and in response to my 
provisional decision. 
I understand that he says he did what the bank  told him to do and so he shouldnt be held 
responsible for the money. Hes explained why he transferred some of it to his wife, but its 
still not clear to me why Mr J needed  to keep  it in cash at home, if he didnt intend to spend it 
for 12 weeks. Nor why he wouldve needed to have withdrawn it all in one day, again  if he 
had no intention of spending it. 
Mr J says NatWest  didnt  tell him the cheque could be returned  unpaid because of fraud for 
up to seven years. NatWest says it did. But even if it didnt, on its own, that doesnt mean 
Mr J shouldnt have to pay it back.  I have to consider what  NatWest  should have done and 
what difference that wouldve made.  
So, Ive thought about what  Mr J would have  done if NatWest had told him. And having 
reconsidered this point, I still dont think Mr J wouldve waited seven years to spend it. So 
even if NatWest wasnt as clear as it couldve been when it told Mr J about the 12 weeks   I 
dont think this makes a difference to Mr Js overall  position. 
Ref: DRN04339674The cheque was fraudulent, so it would  always have been returned unpaid.  And I dont think  
Mr J on balance wouldve kept the money, at home  in his safe or otherwise, for seven years 
before spending  it if NatWest had told him that it could be returned unpaid  for that long.  So, I 
find its most likely, he would  always  have  found himself owing the bank this money.
I understand that Mr Js circumstances are already difficult. I accept that the stress and 
worry this situation  has caused wont have helped  Mr Js health problems. I also accept  what  
Mr J has said about his financial  situation  and that having to repay the cheque  back will 
make things worse. But I still find that it wouldnt be fair for Mr J to essentially be allowed to 
keep money that he was never entitled to. And that NatWest has had to return to its rightful  
owner. 
So, my finding  remains  that Mr J should repay the amount of the cheque. He should  contact 
NatWest directly to discuss and agree a repayment plan. NatWest should  bear in mind its 
obligations when  doing so. 
NatWest want to offset the compensation I planned  to order  it pay Mr J from the debt he 
owes them.  I dont think this fair in the circumstances. Mr Js been inconvenienced and 
caused a significant amount of worry by finding out that this cheque wasnt  genuine and 
being asked to repay it. Thats not NatWests fault,  but NatWest  has compounded this by 
taking so long to debit the amount of the cheque  from Mr Js account.  So, it should pay Mr J 
£200 directly and make arrangements  for recovery of the outstanding debt separately. 
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. 
National Westminster Bank Plc should  pay Mr J £200, directly, in resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  by 9 August 2020. 
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0433967