K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains about end of contract  charges  when  his agreement with Ald Automotive 
Limited (AA)  ended.
background
In 2016 Mr R was supplied with a car and entered into a hire agreement with AA. At the end 
of the agreement the car was inspected. Damage was found and AA asked Mr R to pay 
charges of around £400.
Mr R disputed the charges. He said hed had the car professionally buffed and polished  to 
remove scratches. He said the charges didnt reflect the cost of repairs  and he believed that 
the damage had been present before  he took possession of the car.
In its final response AA said the damage went beyond acceptable wear and tear. It said the 
charges werent  intended to re-charge the costs  of repair but were used to compensate for 
the loss suffered by selling the car in its current  condition.
Mr R wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He looked at the damage  identified  in the 
inspection report and felt that the charges were fair. He said he didnt think  it was likely  that 
the car had damage at the point of supply.
Mr R didnt agree. He felt that AA needed to prove  that the car was damaged whilst in his 
possession.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions  of the agreement say that Mr R must return  the car in good 
condition and that any damage which exceeds  fair wear and tear is the customers  
responsibility.
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been  issued by the BVLRA  and these are accepted  as an 
industry standard in determining whether damage  exceeds fair wear and tear.
Ive looked at the inspection report. This identifies  chargeable damage  to the front bumper, 
front wheels and rear bumper. The damage  to these areas  is clearly  visible  and Im satisfied 
that it goes beyond acceptable wear  and tear in accordance with the relevant guidelines. 
Because of this, I dont think AA has acted unfairly in charging  for the damage.  
Ive noted Mr Rs concerns about  the charges not reflecting the cost of repairs. However, this 
isnt the basis  of the charges. The charges are to reflect the loss in value suffered by the 
finance provider  when it sells the car with damage  present. I havent seen any evidence  to  
suggest that the level of charges are unfair.
Ref: DRN02901372Ive thought about whether the damage  couldve been present at the point of supply. There  
are several reasons  why I dont think this is likely.  Firstly, the car was supplied  new, so its 
less likely to have scuffs  and scratches  than, for instance, a used car. Secondly,  if there had 
been damage present at the point of supply I wouldve expected  Mr R to have raised this 
with either  AA or the manufacturer at the time. Theres  no evidence  to suggest that Mr R 
raised any concerns  about damage at the point of supply or at any point during the time the 
car has been in his possession. Finally, and even  if I was persuaded that the car had some 
damage at the point  of supply (which Im not), I wouldnt expect the damage to be so 
widespread as it is on Mr Rs car. 
On balance, I dont  think its likely  that there was damage at the point of supply.
Based on what Ive seen,  Im unable to say that AA has acted unfairly.  I wont  be asking it to 
remove the charges.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 May 2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0290137