K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains about the discretionary management of his portfolio by Citibank, N.A. He 
says that Citibank exposed him to too much risk and didnt stick to the agreed mandate.
background
Mr H met with Citibank in May 2017 to discuss his portfolio of around USD3 million.  At the 
time, he had a portfolio of bonds  with another bank, most of which  were  sub- investment 
grade.
Over the next few months,  Citibank discussed several possible versions  of a new 
discretionary managed  portfolio  with Mr H. Mr Hs objectives were to preserve his capital,  
while achieving a minimum  income of USD10,000 a month.
After many emails and phone calls,  Mr H accepted one of Citibanks proposals: a portfolio 
comprising 90% investment grade  bonds, 5% high yield bonds (via mutual funds) and 5% 
emerging market bonds (again via funds). Part of this recommendation was to borrow a 
further USD4.35  million,  thereby  creating  a USD7.25  million, 60% leveraged  portfolio.  This 
was put in place in August  2017.
Within a few months,  Mr Hs portfolio began to show mark-to-market  losses  and he became 
concerned. These concerns increased  as interest  rates rose and his loan became more 
expensive.
In June 2018, Mr H complained to Citibank. By September 2018, Mr H had chosen  to 
liquidate his portfolio. He says he made  a loss of over USD200,000 on liquidation.
Citibank didnt uphold  Mr Hs complaint. They said that Mr H was an experienced investor 
and theyd properly  assessed his experience, attitude to risk and investment objectives.  
They said the portfolio theyd set up was in line with his objectives and was suitable for him.
Mr H referred  his complaint to our service and I issued  a provisional decision on 15 April.  I 
didnt uphold  Mr Hs complaint. I made the following provisional findings: 
I considered Citibank had gathered enough information on Mr H to make a suitable  
recommendation to him. 
I also thought  theyd given him enough information, given his level of understanding  
and experience, to understand what they were proposing.
Mr H was a retired  finance professional  with extensive experience of bonds,  going 
back for many years. I thought Mr H understood the risks of investing in bonds  using  
leverage, in view of his past experience.  
I also thought  that if Mr H wasnt happy  with anything, or didnt like or understand 
what Citibank was proposing, he would have  been able to say so. 
And I thought that, as a retired finance  professional, he would have  understood the 
importance of reading  and understanding all the information he was sent.  
Mr H initially  wanted to achieve a higher income target and it was clear  to me that 
income was his primary objective.  I also thought  it was clear  that the risk-free 
portfolio Mr H wanted wasnt possible  he either needed to accept less income,  
leverage or to choose a substantially higher risk portfolio. 
Ref: DRN04877372Citibanks proposals included varying  amounts of leverage and sub-investment  grade 
bonds. I didnt  think theyd told Mr H he had to leverage. And I thought their 
proposals were suitable for him. 
I didnt think that Citibanks documentation  had made it entirely clear that some of the 
investment grade  bonds in Mr Hs portfolio would be issued by emerging market  
corporates. It was evident that Mr H hadnt  understood this would be the case, 
although it was shown in the illustrations Citibank had provided in advance. 
Mr H would, however, have seen the composition of his portfolio in every statement. 
But he didnt mention the emerging market  corporates until he complained.
I didnt think Mr H would have invested differently if Citibank had explained more 
clearly in advance  that the 90% investment grade portion  of his portfolio would 
include emerging market corporates.  So I didnt  think  it made  any difference. 
I also thought  that Citibank  had invested slightly too high a proportion  of Mr Hs 
portfolio in high yield and emerging market  funds (7% in each rather than 5% in 
each). 
But as none  of the bonds had defaulted, I didnt think  Mr H had lost out because  of 
this split. 
I saw no evidence that Citibank had failed  to act on any instructions  from Mr H. 
Neither did I think theyd misled him over the sale of six bonds. 
Citibank acknowledged  my provisional  decision and made no additional comments. 
Mr H replied to say that he disagreed with my findings  and felt Id ignored his points. He said:
Hed lost money when hed made it clear to Citibank that he needed to preserve his 
capital. 
Citibank gave him no option but to accept  leverage to achieve  his income target. 
Citibank reassured  him by phone that interest  rates wouldnt be a problem, even 
though they knew that bond prices  would fall. 
Citibank changed  relationship managers  four times in twelve  months and this created 
confusion and differences of opinion.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im sorry to disappoint 
Mr H but I havent changed  my provisional  view. So Im not upholding this complaint. 
I was disappointed to read that Mr H felt Id ignored his points in my provisional  decision. Ive 
reviewed all his earlier communications, together with Citibanks, before making this final 
decision. Mr H has made  a number of points in bringing his complaint. Ive taken all of them 
into account when  making my decision.  So if I dont mention any particular point or piece of 
evidence, it isnt because  I havent  seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need 
to reference it to explain my decision. I hope  Mr H doesnt take this as a discourtesy; its just 
a reflection of the informal nature of our service.
I consider one of Mr Hs main points  in his earlier correspondence was about the amount of 
his portfolio that was invested in emerging  market corporates. He felt that this was not the 
mandate hed agreed. Mr H therefore  thought  it showed Citibank  was in breach of their 
agreement and had taken more risk with his money  than they should  have  done.  I addressed  
this in my provisional decision (as summarised above) but Ill cover it again here. 
Ref: DRN04877373Briefly, when Citibank  agreed to a portfolio that was 90% investment grade, that meant just 
tha: It didnt  mean that the 90% investment grade bonds would all be issued by developed 
market corporates,  it just meant theyd be investment grade. In contrast, the 5% in emerging 
markets was all invested via funds that bought  emerging market bonds  rather  than direct  
into corporate bonds. This was shown in the presentation  packs  that Citibank sent to Mr H to 
accompany each portfolio  they proposed. So I dont think Citibank did anything wrong, 
because some of the investment grade bonds  were issued by emerging market companies   
although I do still think Citibank could have explained this more clearly. I also dont think  that 
Mr H lost out because  of these bonds.  I say this because none of them defaulted and they 
generally paid higher  coupons than the developed  market bonds. 
I accept that Mr H told Citibank more than once that preserving  his capital was important. 
Thats why he ended  up with a portfolio that was much more conservative than his risk 
questionnaire had suggested. But I dont  agree  that this means Citibank did anything wrong. 
They were  asked to present  him with options to achieve the income level he wanted and 
they did that. 
I dont agree that Citibank gave Mr H no option but to leverage. I addressed this point in my 
provisional decision, where I explained that Citibank gave  Mr H a variety of different 
proposals. Not all these  proposals required the same amount of leverage   and indeed 
Citibank made it clear that they didnt recommend maximum  leverage.  
In my view, Mr H made it clear that the one thing that wasnt flexible was his income level. 
To achieve this meant a choice of accepting more leverage or a higher risk portfolio. Mr H 
didnt want either - but that simply wasnt going to deliver enough income. Im satisfied  that 
Citibank didnt mislead him about this. And I think he could have said no if he didnt want  to 
proceed. I see no evidence that Citibank pressurised  him at any point.
I havent listened to Mr Hs telephone conversations  with Citibank, which  he mentioned  in his 
response to my provisional  decision. This is because  I dont think  this would change  my view 
of his complaint.  Its possible that Citibanks analysts may have  taken a view on the likely 
movement in interest rates that turned  out to be wrong. But this wouldnt mean  that Citibank 
had managed Mr Hs portfolio wrong. Citibank didnt  know for sure what  would happen to 
interest rates. Their responsibility was to make sure that Mr H understood the risk interest 
rate movements posed to his portfolio  and I think they did that. 
Mr H seems to be suggesting that Citibank  deliberately proposed  a portfolio that they knew  
would fail  Ive seen no evidence that this was the case. And I dont think  this would have 
been in their best interests. It must also be borne in mind that Mr H surrendered  his portfolio 
after about a year. But this wasnt his original plan. Such portfolios are designed to be held 
for five years  or more, by which time its performance  could have been very different. 
Finally, Ive looked at Mr Hs point about the changes in relationship  manager.  I see no 
evidence that there  were  as many changes as Mr H has said. Even if there were, then that 
wouldnt necessarily indicate Citibank had done anything  wrong,  as long as the change was 
clearly communicated.  But in fact, although there do seem to have been several different 
Citibank staff involved in servicing Mr Hs account  in various  countries, most  of them as far 
as I can see were there throughout. There was one change  in private banker, due to 
someone leaving the firm. I havent seen any evidence that Citibank didnt respond promptly 
to Mr Hs emails  and phone calls. So Im not persuaded that Citibank provided a poor service 
to him. 
Ref: DRN04877374For all the reasons set out in the summary  of my provisional decision in the background 
section and in the comments above,  I dont consider that Mr H has lost out because of 
anything Citibank did wrong. So Im not going to direct them  to compensate  him. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this decision. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 June 2019.
Louise Bardell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0487737