K820x#14Complaint
Mr T complains that Lloyds Bank PLC turned down a chargeback claim and failed to 
consider a Section 75 claim that he made  following a dispute  with a merchant about  car hire.
Background
Mr T hired  a car, from a company Ill refer to as E, in July 2018. He paid for the car hire via 
a third party website  using his Lloyds credit  card.
E charged  Mr T an extra  £575 when he returned the car, saying it had been damaged  and 
returned late. Mr T says he paid this under duress.  He said Es representative told him it was 
holding a charge of £1,250 on his credit  card, so he paid the lesser amount  of £575 instead.
Mr T raised  a chargeback with Lloyds, which was ultimately turned down. So, Mr T referred 
his complaint to our service.
Mr T said it was unreasonable for Lloyds to turn down his chargeback claim as he didnt  
think E had challenged it within the relevant time period. He said hed also asked Lloyds to 
consider his claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, which  it hadnt  looked 
into.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She thought Lloyds decision to turn down the 
chargeback claim was reasonable and she didnt  think there  were  grounds for it to consider 
a Section 75 claim.
Mr T remained unhappy and so the complaint  was passed to me to make a final decision on 
the matter.
Mr T informed us that hes since been  refunded  £215 by E after pursuing a complaint 
through the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA). He believes this 
demonstrates that it was unfair for Lloyds to turn down his claim.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T asked  Lloyds  to consider his claim on two grounds, the first was by way of a 
chargeback, the second by way of a claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974.
Lloyds processed  two chargebacks. The first was on 26 October 2018. Under  the rules,  E 
had until 10 December 2018 (45 days) to make representations disputing the chargeback.  
As Lloyds  heard back from E before 10 December 2018, it re-debited his account.  However,  
it processed a further chargeback on Mr Ts behalf on 8 January 2019. On this occasion E 
had until 22 February  2019 to dispute  it. It responded  before  this date again, providing 
evidence in support  of the charge, so Lloyds ultimately re-debited the sum from Mr Ts 
account and said it couldnt help further.
Ref: DRN01324072Mr T believes that E didnt  dispute  the first chargeback in time, so Lloyds  shouldnt  have re-
debited his account. In his view,  the money  ought to have remained his following the first 
chargeback.
I asked for further information from Lloyds to explain what happened here. It advised that E 
first got in touch with it on 8 December 2018 (43 days after the first chargeback).  It didnt  
provide documentary evidence, it just entered  comments into the member  message text 
field on Lloyds system disputing the charge. I asked  to see a copy of the message Lloyds 
received but unfortunately  because  of the time thats passed, this could no longer be viewed.
Prior to issuing my final decision I shared this information with Mr T, explaining that I didnt 
think it was unreasonable for Lloyds to ultimately  turn his chargeback claim down. I said E 
didnt provide evidence on 8 December  2018  to support its position, but it didnt need to 
provide evidence to stop the clock   it simply needed to make  representations that it was 
disputing the chargeback.  I said I was satisfied E had made  representations within 45 days 
of each chargeback.
In response Mr T said it wasnt reasonable for Lloyds to have taken around 155 days to re-
debit the sum from his account. And he said he hadnt seen the evidence E had sent Lloyds, 
so he didnt have  the opportunity to challenge it. But the only rule that is relevant here is the 
45 day limit that E has to challenge  a chargeback claim. There  arent any specific rules that 
mean it was unfair for Lloyds to take 155 days overall to re-debit the amount in dispute. And 
based on what Ive seen, Lloyds sent Mr T a copy of the evidence by email  on 21 February  
2019. So, I think he was given an opportunity to comment at the time.
Based on the evidence  Lloyds received, I dont think it was unreasonable  for it to reject  the 
chargeback. The evidence provided by E showed  that Mr T had agreed to pay charges and 
signed documents agreeing that there  had been damage caused to the car. So, I dont think 
there were sufficient grounds for Lloyds  to challenge  this any further.
Regarding the Section 75 claim, it wasnt clear to me whether Lloyds considered this at the 
time. So, I asked for its position on this issue. Lloyds said:
I can confirm the claim was passed to our Section  75 team when we originally thought we 
couldnt assist  under the Disputes process. However, it became clear we could  in fact 
complete a chargeback. We, therefore,  followed the disputes process.
It was clear after the disputes process that there  was in fact no breach of contract or 
misrepresentation from the merchant involved and therefore, a Section 75 claim wouldnt 
have been successful.
Having considered the matter myself  I also dont  think  a section 75 claim wouldve been  
successful. This is because there has to be an unbroken debtor-creditor-supplier relationship 
in order for a Section 75 claim to be successful. Here, Mr T is the debtor, Lloyds is the 
creditor and E is the supplier. Mr T is disputing charges that flow from the car hire contract  
with E. However, the contract  he entered to hire the car was made  via a third party website. 
So, the charges  Mr T paid to E with his Lloyds credit card dont  flow from a direct contract 
with the supplier (E). For this reason, there  are no grounds for a Section 75 claim to be 
considered. 
Ref: DRN01324073Mr T feels that the fact he has received a partial refund from E following an investigation into 
the complaint  by the BVRLA  demonstrates  that a fraud occurred and that Lloyds  should  
accept his claim.
But my role isnt to decide whether  or not Mr Ts chargeback claim should succeed. Rather, 
my role is to consider whether or not Lloyds considered the claim fairly and reached a fair 
decision based on the information available to it at the time. So, I cant take into account any 
new evidence, which includes the partial refund that has since been provided. If Mr T wishes 
to present this evidence  to Lloyds to reconsider he may do so.
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 September  2020.
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0132407