K820x#14complaint
Ms L has complained  that Vitality Life Limited  (Vitality Life) has not paid her the correct  
benefit under her serious illness policy. Shes also unhappy with how the claim was handled.  
background
Ms L took out a joint mortgage decreasing life or earlier critical  illness policy with Vitality Life. 
The sum assured  was £170,000. Ms L was diagnosed with breast cancer and in
April 2018 she made a claim under the policy. 
In October  2018 Vitality  agreed to pay 25% of the claim  based on its assessment of the 
severity of Ms Ls condition.  Ms L appealed Vitality Lifes decision.  She said it confirmed 
during a phone  call in November 2018  that it would  pay another  25%, but then confirmed in 
writing that her appeal  had been turned down. 
Ms L complained to Vitality Life. She said it hadnt  properly  considered  the medical evidence 
provided. She also complained about  Vitality  Lifes handling of the claim, in particular that 
she was told over the phone that her payment would be increased  when this wasnt  what 
happened.  
Vitality Life accepted that it had taken longer than necessary to assess the claim. It also 
agreed that during a phone conversation with Ms L it misled her into thinking her payment 
would be increased.  Vitality Life paid Ms L £500 to put right its mistakes. But it didnt accept 
that its decision on the claim was wrong. It said the decision had been  based  on the 
information received  and on the terms of Ms Ls policy.  
Unhappy with Vitality  Lifes response to her complaint, Ms L referred her complaint to us. 
She maintained that Vitality Life hadnt properly considered all the evidence provided in 
making its decision. She also told us she was unhappy with how the claim had been  handled 
and the time it had taken. Ms L wanted Vitality Life to pay the additional 25% it agreed to pay 
during the November 2018 phone call. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it. He found  that the call made by 
Vitality Life in November  2018  was misleading and Ms Ls claim couldve been handled 
better. He thought the £500 already paid by Vitality  Life was a fair refection of the trouble 
and upset caused to Ms L.     
In terms of the claim, our investigator was satisfied that Vitality  Life was aware of Ms Ls full 
diagnosis and had considered all the available evidence.  He concluded that Vitality  Lifes 
decision to pay 25% of the claim was reasonable and in line with the terms and conditions of 
Ms Ls policy.
Ms L didnt  agree and so her case  has been passed  to me to decide. She maintained that 
Vitality Life hadnt properly considered the claim based on the evidence available  to them. 
She made particular reference to information contained in her medical  notes where the 
overall size of her tumour is recorded  as being 59mm  and categorised as a grade 3.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it. 
Ref: DRN04910872Firstly I want to acknowledge what a difficult time this must  be for Ms L. I can fully appreciate 
how Vitality Lifes handling of her claim, and its decision on what  amount to award, wouldve 
only added  to her distress and worry.
Looking first at the handling of Ms Ls claim,  Im pleased to see that Vitality Life accepts  this 
wasnt of the standard she had a right to expect. In terms of the phone call in 
November 2018,  I agree this was misleading and gave Ms L false  hope that her award 
amount would increase. But I dont agree that the misleading call means Vitality Life should 
pay 50% of the claim. That decision is based  on the severity of Ms Ls cancer at the time of 
diagnosis, and the terms of the policy. 
Vitality Life has paid Ms L £500  to reflect the impact  its errors had on her. Given the 
circumstances of the case and the length  of time which  passed  in assessing the claim, 
I consider £500  a fair level of compensation. So I wont be asking Vitality  Life to pay Ms L 
any more. 
Ms Ls critical  illness policy  provided  her with cover for serious  illness. The amount  awarded 
under the policy  depends  on the severity  of the serious illness  which prompts the claim. 
Vitality Life measures the severity of cancer by the stage it is at the time of diagnosis.  It 
categorised Ms Ls cancer as stage  1. This is classified as a severity level D illness  which 
attracts a payment amounting to 25% of the sum assured.  
In considering Ms Ls claim, Vitality  Life had a report from Ms Ls oncologist.  It also had a 
report from her GP, as well as histopathology reports. Im satisfied that Vitality  Life had 
access to all this evidence  when  it first considered Ms Ls claim and as part of her appeal. It 
chose to rely on the evidence provided  by Ms Ls oncologist and the histopathology reports. 
The information contained in this information  showed Ms Ls cancer to be stage 1, which  is a 
severity level D illness  under the terms of her policy. 
Ive looked carefully  at the available medical  evidence  paying  particular attention  to the 
points made  by Ms L about the size and grading  of the tumour.  Ive also asked Vitality  Life 
for some more information on how they assessed the claim. 
From the histopathology report  I can see that the whole tumour size is recorded as being  
19mm. This is consistent with the information provided to Vitality Life by the oncologist. 
There is reference in the histopathology report to a measurement of 59mm  which  may 
account for the information contained in Ms Ls medical report.  But Im satisfied  that Vitality  
Lifes assessment of the size of the tumour is based on accurate  information.
I understand that Ms L wants  to provide  Vitality  Life with some more  medical  evidence.  
I cant consider that evidence as part of my review,  as Im looking at the reasonableness of 
Vitality Lifes decision  based on the information  available to it at the time. But if Ms L 
maintains that Vitality  Life has based  its decision on the size of the tumour on inaccurate 
information, she may wish to include any supporting evidence in the further information shes 
planning to send to Vitality  Life. 
From looking  at the oncologist report and the histopathology report  from 11 June 2018, I can 
see that theres reference to the 19mm  tumour having a histological grade 3 (T3 P3 M3). 
The oncologist also refers  to Ms L having  grade  3 breast cancer. 
Ref: DRN04910873Vitality Life explained  in its letter of 20 November 2018 to Ms L that the size of the tumour  
(less than 2cm) was what gave it the T1 rating. And it seems from the histopathology  report 
that a rating of pT1c pNO (sn) pMx is given  to the Intra-mammary lymph node. This is all in 
keeping with Vitality  Lifes  view that Ms L was diagnosed with stage 1 breast cancer.  
I asked Vitality Life to explain what the reference  to grade 3 (T3 P3 M3) related to and 
whether this was considered as part of its decision  that Ms Ls cancer  at the time of 
diagnosis was stage  1.
Vitality Life explained  to me that the grading of a cancer is different to the staging.  Its told 
me that the grading indicates what the cells look like and gives  an idea of how quickly the 
cancer may grow and spread. Whereas  staging is used to assess  the size of a tumour,  
whether it has spread  and how far it has spread.
Vitality Life doesnt dispute  that Ms L has grade 3 breast cancer. But this isnt something it 
takes account of when  considering a claim.  This is in keeping with the Vitality Essentials 
Plan provisions which set out that, The severity  of a cancer is measured by staging at 
diagnosis. 
So taking this into account, Im satisfied that Vitality Lifes decision about the stage of 
Ms Ls cancer is consistent with the evidence  its been provided with. And so the amount it 
paid out under the claim is correct.
I know this decision will be very disappointing  for Ms L. But I hope Ive been  able to reassure 
her that Vitality Life took full account  of the available evidence when assessing her claim.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 July 2019.  
Anna Jackson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0491087