K820x#14complaint
Ms G complains that the service she received from the National Westminster Bank Plc 
(NatWest) with regard  to the number of fraud  prevention blocks  it carried  out on her account, 
was excessive and caused her inconvenience, stress, and worry.
background
In September  2018 Ms G complained to NatWest  that her card had been  blocked on 15 
occasions for security  checks  throughout the year.
NatWest confirmed that the number of blocks did appear to be high and also recognised the 
inconvenience and frustration this caused.  They  explained that blocks had however been  
applied in accordance with the Terms and Conditions  (T and Cs) applicable to the account. 
Those T and Cs provided that if NatWest  had reasonable grounds to suspect the account 
was being subject to fraud, they could  cancel, withdraw, or restrict the use of the card. 
NatWest also confirmed  that they would look into seeing if it would be possible to reduce the 
number of blocks. 
Ms G was unhappy with NatWests response and so an adjudicator  from this service looked 
into the complaint  but found  NatWest  hadnt done anything  wrong.
Ms G disagreed with our adjudicators view and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will not repeat our adjudicators background summary since it is accurate and full. My own 
background summary has been necessarily brief to avoid repetition.  So if I havent  
mentioned something  it is not that Ive ignored it, rather that I think  its not relevant. This 
approach allows me to concentrate upon  the determinative issues and avoiding  becoming 
distracted by those  which are peripheral.
Quite obviously banks  are under a duty to try to prevent fraud  being  committed  to their 
customers through the abuse of their accounts. They  do this by a variety of means  some  of 
which are necessarily automated. For security reasons banks legitimately do not disclose 
their methods for fear of tipping, off or educating, fraudsters who would then no doubt adapt 
their activities in order to circumvent those protective measures.
It is common knowledge that the automated fraud protection systems  look to see patterns of 
activity which are in line with or fit known similar patterns  of fraudulent  activity  elsewhere. 
When a close match is identified in any particular  transaction,  it is stopped  pending 
confirmation from the customer that it is genuine. In Ms Gs case NatWest have confirmed 
that all the blocks  were made in good faith and in an attempt to prevent fraud.
Our adjudicator looked at the T and Cs which apply to Ms Gs account  and in particular at 
paragraph 5.3. That provides that NatWest  can;
Ref: DRN07282552.. suspend, restrict or stop access to your account or to certain services (such  as 
your debit card or online banking) if: we reasonably suspect that your security details 
or your debit card have been used fraudulently or without your permission
In my view, given that the automated systems were flagging up potential fraudulent activity, I 
do think it was reasonable to apply the bocks for Ms Gs protection. I also consider that in so 
doing they have acted  in accordance with the agreed T and Cs. So I cant  say that NatWest 
has done anything  wrong.
I know Ms G will be disappointed with my decision but as Im satisfied that NatWest have not 
treated her unfairly, Im not going to ask it to do anything further.
So Im not upholding Ms Gs complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold the complaint against National Westminster 
Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2019.
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0728255