K820x#14complaint
Mr D says Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2004  on the phone. The policy 
was taken out at the same time as Mr D applied for the credit card. It gave him accident, 
sickness and unemployment cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr D disagreed so the complaint was passed to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to complaints  about  the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ds complaint, Ill explain why.
Mr D says PPI wasnt mentioned on the call and he didnt know  he had it. Barclays  
disputes this. There  is no call recording available but thats not unreasonable given how 
long ago the sale was. The bank has provided  the sales script it says the adviser would 
have followed.  This describes PPI as an optional feature and asks if the customer would 
like to apply. It gave  the adviser  wording to use depending on whether the customer  said 
yes or no. And Ive found no evidence to suggest the standard  script  wasnt followed 
here. So, I think Barclays made  it clear the PPI was optional and Mr D agreed to take it 
out. I can understand he might  not remember this given how long ago the sale was. 
Barclays recommended the PPI to Mr D so it had to check  if it was suitable for him. I 
think it was based on what Ive seen about  his circumstances at the time. Mr D was 
entitled to some  sick pay but the PPI would  have paid out in addition  to his work benefits  
and for up to 12 months. He told us family and friends would have helped but thats not 
suitable alternative protection. Its not guaranteed and peoples circumstances can 
change. Overall I think the PPI would have been  useful  for Mr D if he was sick, or lost his 
job.
Its possible  the information Barclays  gave  Mr D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have  been.  But Mr D chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted  
this type of cover. He wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations and the 
policy was competitively priced  and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr D 
wouldve made a different decision if better  information had been provided.  On balance 
I think he would still have taken  out the policy.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr D because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr D about that. Because  Barclays  didnt  tell Mr D, that 
was unfair. 
Ref: DRN01132682To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr D.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mr D any commission  and profit share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0113268