K820x#14complaint
Mrs Cs complaint is about the charges  that Lloyds Bank PLC has refunded as part of the 
compensation due for mis-sold PPI policies associated with her credit.  She is also unhappy 
with Lloyds' complaint handling  and what  has happened historically  when considering her 
credit card accounts.
background
In 2011 Mrs C complained to Lloyds that she had been  mis-sold PPI with two credit card 
accounts. There were a several cards associated with each account. The account with card 
ending 4339  also included  cards ending 2761  and 4450. Account with card ending 6441 also 
included cards ending  0507 and 4417.  In 2012 Lloyds said it had no evidence that there was 
PPI associated with these credit card accounts. Mrs C brought her complaint to this service 
and in 2014 we said based  on the evidence presented by both parties there was nothing to 
show there was any PPI on either of the accounts.
In 2018 Mrs C raised complaints again  with Lloyds about these cards.  At this time Lloyds 
had access to some older records and said there  was PPI on the credit  card accounts and 
offered to pay Mrs C compensation to settle  the complaint.  
There were two PPI policies, one associated with each card account.  The compensation 
offered for the mis-sold  PPI on both cards  ending 4339 and 6441 was just over £9,900.00 in 
total.
Lloyds sent its offer to Mrs C in December 2018  and the payment was made  a short  time 
later. Mrs C brought  her complaint to this service  because  she said she was unhappy with 
the charges that had been included in the compensation calculation.  But she also 
complained about the way Lloyds had dealt  with her complaint  in 2011, its complaints 
handling processes and asked for clarification  on how Lloyds had complied  with directions 
from the Financial Conduct Authority  (FCA).  For all these concerns she was seeking  an 
additional £1,000.00 for the way Lloyds had dealt with her since  2011. 
Our adjudicator said the charges refunded and compensation paid for both accounts was 
fair. But that we couldnt look at her issues about general complaints handling as this was 
not within our jurisdiction.
Mrs C wasnt happy with this and asked for an ombudsman to look at her complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint was brought to this service  in 2019 on the basis  Mrs C was unhappy  with the 
charges Lloyds had included  in its refund of the PPI compensation. Also Mrs C felt she 
should receive additional compensation for the way Lloyds has treated  her and for the stress 
and upset she has been caused  over a period of years.
Lloyds offer letter dated 11 December  2018 related to two credit card accounts,  both of 
which had a number  of cards associated with each account. The offer letter said it upheld  
the complaint  the PPI was mis-sold and made compensation offers of £5983.54 for card 
Ref: DRN07697192ending 4339  (including card 2761and 4450) and £3,954.49 for card ending 6441  (including 
card 0507  and 4417). So the total compensation was £9,938.03. 
As Lloyds  has now upheld the complaint that the PPI was mis-sold, Im not looking at how 
this came to be sold to Mrs C. In this decision I am looking at whether  the offers made  by 
Lloyds to settle the mis-sale complaint on the two credit card accounts  are fair. 
I cannot look at issues  about the administration or regulation of Lloyds as that is the 
responsibility of the FCA. I am here to see the dispute resolved fairly not to penalise  the 
business. This service  does not have jurisdiction  to look at general  complaint handling by a 
business or its processes. In this case  our jurisdiction stems from the mis-sold PPI and what  
is fair compensation to refund all the PPI costs  plus some compensatory  interest for any time 
Mrs C was out of pocket. 
I note Mrs C has referred to another decision issued in 2015 by an ombudsman about  
another complaint she brought to this service. But each case we look at has to be 
considered on its own merits  and I am looking at what happened relating to the complaint for 
the mis-sold PPI and compensation for the two specified credit cards.
Mrs C originally complained to Lloyds in 2011 about  the PPI on her two credit card accounts, 
4339 and 6441. At that time Lloyds said it could not trace anything to show  that PPI had 
been sold alongside these cards. Mrs C then brought her complaint to this service and in 
2014 we looked at the facts and information  at that time. 
Lloyds said it had no data to show there  was any PPI on the credit card accounts  and Mrs C 
could provide no evidence either of any PPI. So at that time we said Lloyds  had done  
nothing wrong  as there was no evidence to show any PPI had been sold with the cards. 
Since then more information is now accessible and Lloyds  is able to access  information  
going back further than it could in 2014. This has shown  there  was PPI on the credit  card 
accounts and so Lloyds has now offered and paid compensation to settle  Mrs Cs complaint. 
I cant say that Lloyds did anything wrong in 2014 as we considered  the facts at that time 
and were satisfied that based on the evidence available there was nothing  to show Mrs C 
had PPI on these  two credit cards. The fact that the complaint wasnt  upheld in 2014 means 
Mrs C has received more compensatory compensation as this has been  worked out until 
December 2018  when the compensation was paid. So she has been compensated for the 
extra time she has been out of pocket. 
When Mrs C went back to Lloyds in 2018 and complained again, Lloyds looked at all the 
information it was now able to access, which was from different computer systems and 
records. And it found there had been  PPI on the accounts, upheld  the complaint the PPI as 
mis-sold and offered compensation. 
Looking at how Lloyds  has worked  out the compensation for the two credit cards  with the 
mis-sold PPI, it has done what I would  expect.
The calculations provided reflect the original credit  card balances, PPI charges, interest and 
any other charges  incurred. And also included a reconstruction  of the account, providing the 
same details, but showing how the account  would have looked  without  PPI. The calculations  
also show that 8% simple interest is worked out for any time Mrs C was out of pocket  for the 
Ref: DRN07697193PPI costs. This 8% compensatory  interest  is worked out to the date of final payment, so 
covers the whole period Mrs C was out of pocket.
Both cards are indicated  as opening in 1996,  one in June and the other in September.  
Lloyds does not have full data for the account before 2000 so it has made some 
assumptions about how the account may have been  used and the costs of the PPI for the 
period before 2000. These assumptions  are in line with what I would expect and are 
reasonable. 
In both the calculations for each account  I can see that charges  of £12.00 each  month were 
added to Mrs Cs account between March 2008  and July 2008 (inclusive). These  charges  
were applied at the time as Mrs C was over her credit card limits. But when the account is 
reconstructed, removing the PPI costs, Mrs C wouldnt have been over her credit  limit so 
wouldnt have been charged these over limit fees. So Lloyds is refunding  them for both 
cards. 
I also note these charges  were made  in months  when Mrs C was making no repayment and 
I understand this may have been  because she was in some  financial difficulties. The same 
situation applies to both card accounts and I hope  that explains to Mrs C why the charges 
being refunded  are identical for both accounts.  
If there had been no PPI in the balances  Mrs C wouldnt have gone over the credit limit on 
each account  even though she was making  no payment. So the charge added  in each 
month, on each account, was a direct result  of the PPI being added  to the cards. These  
charges have been refunded with interest and compensatory  interest as appropriate. I 
cannot see there are any other charges caused  by the PPI, so there are no more charges to 
be refunded.
Mrs C has complained about how Lloyds has handled her complaint and also how it dealt 
with her, referring  her credit cards  to debt collection agencies. As Ive already explained in 
2014 we looked at the facts and found  Lloyds had done nothing wrong at that point in time. 
So I dont  think any additional  compensation is due for the historic matters.  
The fact that Mrs C didnt  get paid her compensation in earlier years also means she has 
been compensated for being  out of pocket  for longer, again as I have  already  set out. I also 
dont think Lloyds has done anything wrong when dealing  with the compensation 
calculations and offer following Mrs Cs complaint in 2018. So I am not awarding any 
additional compensation for the way Lloyds dealt with this complaint.
As I have already  said, I cannot look into the complaint handling processes that Lloyds uses  
or look at complaints solely  about administration. 
Mrs C has also raised issues about how Lloyds treated her when referring debts  she had on 
the credit  cards to third party debt collectors. I can see from the records that Mrs C did 
default on payments  to her card. 
I also note from the reconstruction of both the credit card accounts that when the PPI costs 
are removed from the cards Mrs C still owed over £3,000.00 on one card and over £4,000.00 
on the other. This was for money she had spent  using  the card for her own purpose. So as 
she still owed a substantial amount  for her own spending I cant see the PPI costs  being part 
of the card debt, was the direct  cause of any issues about the debt being chased. That 
would have happened even if there hadnt been any PPI on the cards.
Ref: DRN07697194Overall I think  what Lloyds has offered in compensation is fair. It refunds all the costs  Mrs C 
paid for the PPI on both credit card accounts  and also compensates  her for any time she 
was out of pocket  until the compensation was paid in December 2018.
I can understand Mrs C is unhappy with the fact the compensation wasnt  paid in 2014 and 
also with a number  of issues about  Lloyds  procedures  and how it dealt with her account. But 
I dont think it did anything  wrong in dealing with her complaint in 2018 and working out and 
paying the compensation. So Im not making any additional award of compensation in this 
particular case.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above I think that what Lloyds Bank  PLC has offered and paid 
to Mrs C for the mis-sold PPI with her two credit cards is fair and Im not asking it to pay 
anything more. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 June  2019.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0769719