K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that Legal & General Insurance Limited (L&G) wont  pay him the full cost of
replacing a watch  that was stolen. He claimed for the watch under his home contents policy.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in November. A copy of this is attached and 
forms part of this final decision.
I said in November I wasnt  intending to uphold Mr Ts complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
L&G accepted my provisional decision,  but asked why I hadnt  considered  the fact that Mr T 
received two similar payments for the watch  from two different insurers. I explained  that was 
because it wasnt part of Mr Ts complaint  he simply told us hed repaid the other sum he 
received. If L&G wants to seek a contribution towards the payment it made, as it says its 
entitled to, that is a separate matter it should take up with Mr T and the other insurer.
Mr T says if hed been told by L&G it wouldnt replace his watch  with the exact model no 
matter what the price might have  changed to, hed have bought cover elsewhere. He goes 
on to say he was told that as long as the value was updated L&G would provide an exact 
replacement. Mr T says he did update  the value of the watch when renewing the policy and 
sent me details of a watch that sold in 2017 for about £9,495, which is close  to the amount of 
cover Mr T bought. He also says the cost of watches like his in 2017 was between £8,500 
and £11,000 plus, depending upon condition  and slight variances.
I said in my provisional decision that the average  value  of this watch  was about £11,000 by 
mid 2017. I used that date because thats when Mr T renewed  his policy.  The average value 
was based that on information provided  by Mr T, which hed got from the same retailer that 
sold the watch to Mr Ts wife in 2015.  So I think its a good comparison of prices. On the list 
he sent me the price range from the start of 2017 to the point where Mr T renewed his 
insurance is between  £10,500 and £13,000. I think that if Mr T had seen  even the lowest  of 
these hed have  realised his watch had increased  in value.
I accept Mr T has now found one sale record that fairly closely  matches the amount of cover 
he bought for the watch  but hes said himself that prices are affected  by condition, etc. Im 
not persuaded this should affect my decision. One (undated  bar for the year) relatively cheap 
sale of a watch like this isnt enough  to say thats what  Mr T would have seen when  he 
checked values  in mid-2017, when  all of the other information hes provided  doesnt support 
this.
Mr T says hes now bought cover that would replace the watch  no matter  how much it cost.  
Hes sent us some details of this. I said in my provisional decision that how L&G described 
like for like cover  hadnt affected Mr Ts decision to buy the L&G policy  and then renew it. I 
said this was because  the condition that an insurer would  only pay up to the amount insured 
on specified items is common. I also thought Mr T wouldnt have been easily able to buy 
cover without that limitation  for a similar price. Mr T has paid about eight times as much for 
Ref: DRN03459362his current insurance. Its for contents  and valuables only, when the L&G policy  covered his 
house too. I accept  there more valuables listed on the new policy  than the old, which may 
account for some of the extra cost. But there are also requirements for professional 
valuations if Mr T wanted to claim the market value of listed  items, which isnt much  different 
from L&Gs requirements. 
I dont think these are comparable policies at similar  prices, so Im not going  to change my 
provisional thoughts on this point.  
Mr T also queried why we initially thought hed only been insured for about six months 
(rather than eighteen months) before making  a claim. That was a mistake we made, 
although our investigator had corrected this before I issued my provisional decision.  So my 
decision is based on the correct timescales.  
Overall, Im not persuaded I should change my provisional decision.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 January 2020.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN03459363Copy of provisional  decision  November 2019
complaint
Mr T complains that Legal  & General Insurance Limited  (L&G) wont pay him the full cost of
replacing a watch that was stolen. He claimed for the watch  under his home contents policy.
background
Mr T was given a watch as a wedding gift in 2015. It cost about £8,500.  Mr Ts watch  was
stolen whilst he was abroad in early 2018. He contacted L&G about this and it accepted his
claim. Mr Ts watch was a specified item on his policy, with a value of £9,300.
L&G has paid Mr T this amount (minus  the excess his policy required).  Mr T says its cost
him £12,300  to replace  the watch as its production is discontinued and the value has
increased substantially. Mr T says hed done all he should when he bought  the policy  to
verify the value of the watch, and has been told he was covered on a like for like basis.  He
wants L&G to pay the difference  between  the insured value and the replacement  cost.
L&G says Mr Ts policy  schedule asked him to check that the value was correct and he
should have reviewed  the value of the watch,  and increased the amount of cover if
appropriate. It says it also told Mr T that he should  check the figures in a phone call.
Our investigator thought L&G should  pay Mr T the £3,000 difference. She had two reasons
for this. She asked L&G if it would have insured  the watch if it had known the true value and
it said it probably would have, albeit for an increased  premium.  She also thought  there was
no immediate reason  why Mr T should have known  the watch had been discontinued  and
the value changed  so much  between him taking out the policy and the theft,  as it was a short
period of time. Our investigator initially  thought Mr T only insured the watch about six months
before it was stolen, but she later discovered  the policy had been running  for about 18
months.
L&G are unhappy about this as it says its paid out up to the policy limit, and Mr T should
have checked the value of the watch and insured it in line with this.
Ive been asked  to decide this complaint.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T has sent us some  information from a specialist  retailer of pre-owned watches like his. It
gives sale prices for his particular watch over a number of years and the average price
trends. Ive used that information when  reaching  my provisional decision.
The thrust of Mr Ts complaint is about the amount  of money  hes been given, rather  than
how his claim  has been handled.
Mr Ts made  two key points   firstly  that hed been  told he was insured  on a like for like
basis, and secondly that hed checked the value  of the watch when buying  and renewing
cover.
Ive given  some thought  to the fact that Mr T was told he was insured on a like for like basis.
I dont think this affects my provisional decision.
Mr Ts policy says it will either  replace an item as new or pay Mr T the cost (to L&G) of
replacement. It goes  on to say the maximum  it will pay is the amount  insured  in this case
Ref: DRN03459364£9,300. L&G offered to replace the watch with the latest model, which cost about £9,000.
When Mr T said he wanted  the model  he originally had, L&G didnt dispute  that  it simply
gave Mr T the maximum amount available  on the policy,  which was £9,300.
I think  thats a reasonable  approach, as its not always possible to find exact replacements
for items. I dont know if L&G explained this in detail to Mr T when he discussed like for like
cover, which Mr T says happened several  times. So Ive also thought  about whether this
would have affected Mr Ts decision to buy or renew  the cover when he did. I dont think it
would have. Its a common condition throughout  the insurance industry, and its unlikely Mr T
could have found a policy that provided  unlimited cover for a similar cost. Were the condition
not to apply  as written, insurers would have no means of assessing their liability for insured
items.
I currently think L&G paid Mr Ts claim  in line with the terms  and conditions  of his policy.
The crux of the complaint is whether Mr T bought enough cover for his watch.
I appreciate that Mr T thinks he should get an exact replacement (ie like for like)  for his
stolen watch. I dont  think  that over-rides the fact that there is a limit on how much he will
receive, which is the amount of cover  he specified  and paid for.
I must first explain that our investigator  initially thought  Mr T had first insured his watch in
2017, about six months before it was stolen. However, L&G sent us information that shows
Mr T first insured  his watch as a specified item no later than mid-2016. At that point the
watch was valued  at £9,000. Thats in line with the values  the watch  retailer  has provided.
However, this is a year earlier than our investigator first thought.
This is an important piece of information, as it means Mr T had been  through  a renewal
process for his policy, in mid-2017. Part of that process was the re-issuing of Mr Ts
insurance schedule,  which  gives the various limits  including a revised value for the watch
of £9,300, as L&G had applied a standard increase.
The renewal  paperwork sent to Mr T in 2017  asked him to check the schedule  was correct,
including the limits on various categories. I think it was a reasonable request, especially
given the initial value of the watch and the volatility of retail  prices for items like this. Mr T
told us recently that he checked the value  of the watch when he first insured it in 2016 and at
renewal. He says he did that by checking the price of the watch with several sources.
I dont doubt Mr Ts recollections. But I can see that the information from the specialist
retailer shows the value  of the watch had increased  to about £11,000 by mid-2017. Thats
the average sale price  on the information  the specialist provided, and likely to be much the
same across  the market.  I think  its a large  enough increase for Mr T to realise he might  be
under-insured. And by this time the watch had been discontinued for over a year  so Mr T
had a considerable period  of time to acquaint himself with the fact that the watch had been
discontinued and increased  in value.
If Mr T had told L&G about the increased  value, it may well have continued  to insure the
watch, albeit at a higher cost. But he doesnt appear  to have done this, and so I think  it fair
for L&G to limit its payment to the amount of cover he had.
I understand Mr T registered  a claim for this watch with two insurers  L&G and his
companys insurance.  Both accepted the claim, and both paid out a similar amount. Mr T
says he repaid the money he got from the company insurance so he could  pursue  his claim
with L&G.  L&G said it was reviewing  this, but hasnt  said anything else. Ive not considered
this point further, as it isnt part of Mr Ts complaint.
Ref: DRN03459365my provisional  decision
Im not intending to uphold this complaint.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0345936