K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy with how Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas)  has handled their 
buildings insurance  claim.  They say Ageas caused delays, failed to keep them updated,  and 
didnt give enough  consideration to Mrs Bs health.  
background 
Mr and Mrs B are joint policy  holders  of a buildings and contents insurance policy which  is 
underwritten by Ageas.  
In early March 2018, Mr and Mrs Bs property was damaged following a burst  water  pipe. A 
significant amount  of work needed  to be completed in order to repair the property. The claim 
was accepted in June  2018 but Mr and Mrs B feel Ageas caused unnecessary delays, failed 
to keep them regularly  updated, and have said the claim  experience exacerbated Mrs Bs 
health concerns.
Two weeks after the claim was logged,  a claims handler visited  Mr and Mrs Bs property. An 
inspection report was shared with Ageas a few days later. In mid-April, Mrs B contacted 
Ageas to say she was upset the stripping out hadnt  started. It began  the next day and later 
that week drying equipment was installed. The property was certified dry a month later.
During the drying period,  a loss adjuster was appointed to progress the claim as conflicting 
instructions had been given to Ageas as to who was dealing  with the claim. Mr B said it was 
him, Mrs B said it was her. 
In mid-May the loss adjuster visited Mr and Mrs Bs property  the second  time was to obtain 
further information. The claim was subsequently put on hold and referred to the underwriters 
as there  were concerns about  the validity of the policy.  The underwriting  enquiries were 
concluded two weeks later and Ageas advised Mr B that it could now move  towards  a 
settlement. Ageas  also asked its contactors to treat the claim as a priority. 
A week later, Ageas told Mrs B that it was waiting to hear from the loss adjuster and that 
weekly updates  wouldnt be happening going  forwards as the case had been  passed to a 
different adviser.  The claim  was accepted  a week later.
Our investigator looked at the complaint and said Ageas  should  pay Mrs B £150 
compensation. She said it took Ageas contractors approximately a month  to visit the 
property and start stripping out the affected areas.  She thought things couldve progressed 
more quickly, and that Mr and Mrs B had been further inconvenienced.  
She accepted that Ageas  had offered to provide weekly updates but she didnt think this was 
intended to last the entire duration of the claim. She acknowledged thered  been confusion 
as to whom Ageas should speak to about the complaint  Mr or Mrs B. She noted  that where 
Mrs B had spoken with Ageas a few times  a week, there wasnt  a need for an additional 
update call. 
From listening to calls, our investigator thought  it was clear Mrs B hadnt  understood the 
claims process. And as Ageas were  aware of Mrs Bs poor mental  health,  it shouldve 
communicated in writing,  setting out what  was needed from her.
Ref: DRN05056622She thought  Ageas had appointed a loss adjuster  in a timely manner when it was apparent 
the claim might not progress as quickly without one. She said the time it took to dry the 
property was outside of Ageas control.  And so was having to refer the claim to the 
underwriter for further enquiries.  
Although Mrs B had said to us the property  wasnt liveable, she also explained in previous 
calls with the business that she had cooking and washing facilities. As Mrs B hadnt  provided 
evidence to show her and Mr B had incurred additional reasonable costs, our investigator 
didnt think Ageas needed to consider any further costs. 
In conclusion, she thought £150 reflected  the inconvenience Mr and Mrs B had experienced  
as a result  of the delays. She said Ageas had dealt with her claim as a matter of urgency 
once it was aware of the problems experienced by Mrs B. 
Ageas agreed  with the investigators  opinion but Mrs B strongly  disagreed. She said shed 
spent money on therapy  as her mental  wellbeing had deteriorated as a result  of the claim. 
She feels passionately that the investigator  didnt appreciate the impact the situation had 
had on her.
Our investigator considered what Mrs B said and increased the compensation to £300 on the 
basis that Ageas should have dealt with Mrs B more sympathetically. Ageas agreed to pay 
£300, but Mrs B still feels it doesnt  reflect the difficulties shes  experienced. And so the 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook  (ICOBS) says an insurer must handle 
claims promptly and fairly.  Whats prompt will depend on the circumstances and so there 
isnt a defined  period  of time.  But where theres  a lot of damage and remedial works, things 
will obviously take longer.
Mr and Mrs B have  said Ageas caused five weeks of delays at the start of their claim. This 
was the time between  the claim being  registered and contractors stripping out the affected  
areas in order to start the drying process.  
So I first need to consider how long it shouldve taken for work to begin,  and compare that to 
how long it actually took. Its not clear  when the claims handler first visited  Mr and Mrs Bs 
house to inspect the damage,  but I can see the inspection  report is dated 23 March 2018,  so 
I know it was prior to this. 
From what  Ive seen theres  a period of approximately  three  to five weeks  between  the 
inspection report and works starting.   Ageas  doesnt dispute that stripping out shouldve 
started earlier so Im satisfied there has been a delay. So I need to consider the reasons for 
this and the impact  this had on Mr and Mrs B. 
Im satisfied the works wouldve been further  delayed had Mrs B not contacted  Ageas in  
mid-April and raised concerns about the lack of progress. While  Ageas did act quickly  to 
resolve the matter,  it accepted that communication couldve been better between its 
contractors and Mrs B. 
Ref: DRN05056623Ive kept in mind  that at the time of Mr and Mrs Bs claim, insurance companies were  dealing  
with an increasing  demand due to claims arising  following  severe weather at the time. Ageas 
explained that its contractors were  extremely  busy and so it was taking longer for works to 
commence.  
With regards to the rest of their experience with the claim  there  were  other  factors  which  
contributed to the time it took to resolve  the buildings side of the claim.  As Mr and Mrs Bs 
claim was for damage caused by the escape  of water, its not easy  to say with certainty  how 
long it shouldve taken  to complete the repairs. Thats  because  the affected areas needed  to 
be dried first. And as is the case with Mr and Mrs Bs claim, further damage came  to light 
later which extended  how long it took.
Second, after visiting Mr and Mrs Bs property,  the loss adjuster raised concerns about the 
validity of the policy.  And so it needed to be referred  to the underwriter. This is a reasonable 
course of action and not one which could be avoided. It took about two weeks  for the matter 
to be resolved which Im satisfied is a reasonable amount of time in the circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs B have  said there were delays  with the settlement but Ive not seen any delays 
in respect of this  other  than it taking the loss adjuster an extra day to send the report  to 
Ageas. And I dont  think thats unreasonable. I noted  that during this time, Ageas had been 
chasing the loss adjuster for the report and asked  that it treat Mr and Mrs Bs claim as a 
priority. So I think it did enough  here.
communication
Its apparent there was some confusion as to who Ageas should speak to about the claim - 
Mr B said it was him, and Mrs B said it was her. In any event, I dont think  its fair to hold 
Ageas accountable for any miscommunication during this time. It was entitled to speak to 
either Mr or Mrs B about the claim as theyre  both policy holders. 
Mrs B has shown  from her phone records that she was in frequent  contact with Ageas  
sometimes more than once per day. Ageas  had offered to update Mrs B weekly,  so when 
Mrs B had been called,  Im not persuaded that Ageas had to be in touch on more than the 
weekly basis it said it would. So I dont agree that Ageas treated Mrs B unfairly  by keeping to 
that schedule.
Mr and Mrs B said they were made to feel like fraudsters  when  being  asked questions about 
their property and circumstances. Following the loss adjusters initial visit, concerns were 
raised about the use of the premises and outstanding county court  judgments.  Because  
these concerns couldve impacted the claim, Ageas needed to satisfy  itself that the policy 
was still valid before progressing it. Its reasonable for insurers  to ask further questions in 
order to validate  whats been said by policy holders. So Im satisfied Ageas acted reasonably  
when it asked Mr and Mrs B for further information  in respect  of this.  
compensation
I now turn to the issue of compensation and whether £300 is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. Mrs B has shared  with us that she suffers with poor mental health. And shes  
told us it worsened during  the claim. I appreciate it cant be easy to share  personal  
information like this so Im grateful to her for doing so.  
Ref: DRN05056624Ive kept in mind  Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances  and in particular, how the situation affected 
Mrs B. Im aware  that immediately before and during the claim she experienced upsetting 
personal circumstances which  Ive no doubt had an emotional impact  on her. Ive listened to 
the calls she had with Ageas  and its clear Mrs B was distressed by the situation.  
Unfortunately, when an incident  such as this arises, consumers are inevitably going to be 
inconvenienced  but I appreciate the situation  exacerbated  Mrs Bs health concerns,  and 
that she found it a difficult  situation to cope with. 
I do sympathise with Mr and Mrs Bs experience, and I dont underestimate  how it impacted 
Mrs B in particular. What Im concerned  with is whether Ageas actions caused  further  
inconvenience which couldve been avoided. And its for this Ill be deciding  whether 
compensation is fair.
Overall, Im satisfied there were unnecessary delays at the start of the claim, and that 
communication couldve been  better. Im persuaded that this had an impact on Mr and Mrs B 
unnecessarily causing  them inconvenience. While Mr and Mrs B have suggested a far higher  
award than the investigator recommended, Im satisfied £300 fairly reflects  the upset  that 
was caused by Ageas.
my final decision
My final decision is that Ageas Insurance Limited  must pay Mr and Mrs B £300  
compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 February  2019.
Nicola Beakhust
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0505662