K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs O say Lloyds Bank PLC, trading as Cheltenham & Gloucester at the time 
(Lloyds), mis-sold them a payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
Mr and Mrs O took out a PPI policy when  they took a further  advance  on their joint mortgage 
in February 2001.  The policy was increased in June 2001 and again  in November 2003 
when Mr and Mrs O applied for more further  advances. 
Mr and Mrs O paid a monthly amount of £9.80 for the policy  when it was initially taken. The 
monthly cost increased to £11.38 and then £16.38 when  the further advances were  taken. 
The PPI covered Mr O only and would have paid a monthly benefit of £141.06 initially, on top 
of this amount,  it would have added £3 per £1,000 of the original  loan amount. This would  
have been paid for up to 12 months  per claim if Mr O was too ill to work or made involuntarily 
redundant. The monthly benefit increased  to £163.17 and then £227.17  when the further 
advances were taken. Everything else about  the benefit remained the same. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs O disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Os case. Having done so, I wont  be 
upholding Mr and Mrs Os complaint and Ill explain why.
Lloyds had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs O that the policy  was optional, and it had to get 
their consent  before  it added PPI to their account.  It had to do this when the policy was 
originally taken and again, each time the policy  was amended. Lloyds says it would have 
done this. But Mr and Mrs O say the policy was discussed but they werent given any 
paperwork or printed  information about the PPI.
Lloyds says Mr and Mrs O completed  an application form during each sale and chose to take 
the PPI. It says they also chose to increase the policy  with two of their further  advances   its 
provided a copy of Mr and Mrs Os application  forms for me to consider. 
The application forms for each sale are identical.  There is a section about  PPI with a box to 
tick yes for the policy. The yes box has been  ticked on each  of the forms and Mr and 
Mrs O have signed the application  forms, confirming  that they agreed with the selections on 
them. Mr and Mrs O then had to complete and sign a separate  application form for the PPI 
on each occasion.  So, I think  Mr and Mrs O were  aware they had a choice about buying the 
PPI during all three sales, and that they chose to take it each time.
Ref: DRN02610752Mr and Mrs O havent  said whether they received  any advice. But Lloyds has treated all of 
the sales as though advice was given. This puts more responsibility on Lloyds  it means  it 
had to check the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs O during each sale. And based on what 
Ive seen, the policy appears  to have been  right for them  in all sales. Ill explain why, 
although, Ive mainly focused on Mr Os circumstances as he was the one covered by the 
PPI.
Mr O was eligible for the policy when it was sold and remained eligible each time it 
increased. Mr O told us he had a pre-existing medical condition,  but it occurred several 
years before the policy was originally sold and Mr O hasnt said anything  to make me think it 
recurred closer to when  the policy was first sold or later amended.  So, as Mr O hadnt 
experienced the condition  around  the time of sale, and it doesnt appear  to have been 
ongoing  I dont think it was wrong  for Lloyds  to recommend the policy  to him or to adjust  it 
when additional  further advances were  taken. And Mr O doesnt  seem to have been affected  
by any other  terms that might have made it harder for him to claim, such  as having unusual  
employment circumstances.
Mr O says he was entitled  to at least six months sick pay and redundancy pay from his 
employer  his employer remained the same  for each sale.  But he didnt have any other  way 
of making their repayments  if he lost his job or was too unwell to work.
Ive thought about what Mr Os told us, but I dont think  his employee benefits mean the 
policy wasnt right for them. The policy would have paid out in addition to Mr Os sick pay 
and potentially for longer. The policy would have allowed  Mr O to use his redundancy pay for 
any other commitments at what could be a difficult time. And Mr O could have made repeat 
claims subject  to a requalification period. So, I think the policy could have been useful to 
Mr and Mrs O, particularly as Mr O was the main earner.
I havent seen  anything to suggest the policy was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs O at the time 
it was taken or when  it was amended.  And it could have been cancelled at any time without  
penalty. Taking everything into account, I dont think Lloyds was wrong  to recommend the 
PPI to Mr and Mrs O.
Its possible Lloyds didnt  give Mr and Mrs O all of the other  information  they needed  I dont  
know if the PPI cost and benefits were made clear. But Mr and Mrs O chose to take out the 
cover when they didnt  have  to, so they seem to have wanted it.
The further advances  they took on top of their mortgage were  long-term  commitments,  and 
the repercussions of not keeping up with repayments could have been serious. So, I think  
the policy could  have been  useful  to Mr and Mrs O and I dont  think  they lost out because of 
anything Lloyds did wrong. This means  I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
Mr and Mrs Os representative has raised a number of what  I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says applies to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that we are not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance for handling PPI 
complaints; these policies represented  poor value because of the number of significant 
exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty of utmost  
good faith meant Lloyds should have disclosed the poor value and explained the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances  of making 
a claim.
Ref: DRN02610753But Mr and Mrs Os representative has not said how these points apply  to the specific facts 
and circumstances  of Mr and Mrs Os individual  complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Os particular 
case. But these  points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Os complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 August 2021.
Hanna Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0261075