K821x#15complaint
Mr A has complained that when Reassure Limited  transferred  his pension to a different 
pension provider, it was responsible for a delay  that meant he suffered a loss. 
ReAssure Limited acquired the pension and annuity business of HSBC Life UK Limited on 1 
September 2015. For simplicity  I will refer to the business as ReAssure  throughout the rest 
of this decision.
Reassure agrees with Mr A that it was responsible for a delay.  The complaint that has been  
brought is about how long a delay it caused  and what fair compensation should be. 
background
On 24 August 2015 ReAssure transferred three  of Mr As pensions to his new pension 
provider. . Two of the pension transfers  were  accepted and one was rejected  on 25 August 
2015. 
ReAssure has acknowledged  it failed to take action after this happened, and the remaining 
pension was not transferred successfully until 27 October 2015. The transferred fund bought 
fewer units  than would have been bought had the transfer been successful in August. 
ReAssure thought it only became aware that one pension had not been  received 
successfully on 28 August 2015. It believes  that it should have actioned  the resubmission 
within 10 working days. So it thinks that it should  reimburse Mr A but only to the date of 8th 
September 2015. 
Our investigator thought that ReAssure  knew the pension had not been accepted on 
25 August 2015  and should have resent the funds  the same day. I issued my provisional 
decision in respect  of this complaint on 22 June 2018. In my provisional  decision I suggested  
that ReAssure  should  have resent the funds the next day and I set out what I considered  
would be fair compensation. I asked the parties to the complaint to let me have any further 
representations that they wished me to consider by 6 July 2018.  
Both parties  responded and were  disappointed with the decision. ReAssure said that its 
normal service  standard was 10 working days but agreed that it should have moved more 
quickly than that and suggested 5 working days would be a fair amount of time to resend the 
failed pension. Mr A said ReAssure was responsible for the failed pension  transfer  and 
should be asked  to give him the number of units  he would have had if the transfer had 
happened on the original day it should have been  transferred.  
I reconsidered the entire file and issued a second provisional decision on 5 October 2018. In 
it I said there was merit in the points that had been  raised. I thought that in view of the 
checks that needed to be done to make sure the resent transfer  would be successful; it 
seemed fair that the pension should  have been  transferred within  5 working  days. I asked 
the parties to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they wished me 
to consider by 19 October 2018.
Mr A didnt agree with my provisional decision.  In summary he wasnt  satisfied there was 
sufficient evidence to show that the proceeds of transfer left ReAssure and were returned  to 
it. In particular he wanted to see bank statements that supported  this. And he didnt agree 
with the way the transaction  would be corrected.
Ref: DRN04711972ReAssure maintained that it didnt think it could be held responsible for the proceeds  of 
transfer not crediting the new pension  providers  account. It was of a view that a 10 working 
day turnaround time was acceptable.
my findings
Ive considered afresh all the available evidence and arguments  to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence  is incomplete (as 
some of it is here),  I have based  my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other  words,  
on what I consider is most likely given the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
I need to decide to what extent Reassure is responsible for the delay and what  it shouldve 
done when it became  aware that one of Mr As pensions hadnt been  transferred. 
Was ReAssure at fault for the failed pension  transfer?
Ive thought carefully about the points Mr A made in response to my provisional 
decisions. I have  seen a letter from ReAssure to the new pension  provider  telling them  
that the money for the pension had been  credited to the account together  with the 
other pension funds. And I have noted that all three  pensions have been transferred on 
one form using the same banking  details.  And Ive seen a memo  stating that the credit  
for one pension had been  rejected.  So although ReAssure havent provided statements   
Im satisfied from the information  I have seen that the pension fund was sent by 
ReAssure and rejected  by Mr As new pension provider. . 
Having considered all the submissions made in this case, its not clear  from the 
information Ive seen why one of the proceeds of transfer wasnt  received by the new 
pension provider or was rejected by it.. But overall,  I havent seen sufficient evidence to 
think that ReAssure  were responsible for the failed pension transfer.   
when did ReAssure know the pension had not been successfully transferred?
In amongst all the evidence provided in this case,  it seems that there are two pieces of 
evidence that relate  to this question most closely. The first is what ReAssure  said to Mr A in 
its final response letter dated 6 October  2017. It said,
In August 2015, Mr A applied to transfer three HSBC pension policies to (his new pension  
provider). Transfer payments were  sent to the bank details provided  by the receiving  scheme 
on 24 August 2017. However, the next day, HSBC  was notified that the largest  payment  
(£178,555.19 in respect of the above numbered policy) had been rejected and returned to 
them.
ReAssure seem to be saying that they knew on 25 August 2015 that one of the pension 
transfers had not gone  ahead.  And in responding to our first assessment ReAssure provided 
us with a copy  of an internal memo which says: 
TIME: 12.48 DATE:  28/08/2015 STATUS: CALL BACK PHONE:
Hi, we have recvd a Direct Credit Rejection 25/8/15 into
the a81000 lbp payments a/c for 178,555.19.
Whilst the date of memo  is 28th August  2015,  the content refers to ReAssure having 
received notification of the rejected transfer  on 25 August 2015.  So it seems  that both of 
Ref: DRN04711973these pieces of evidence point to ReAssure  being aware of the failed transfer  on 25 August  
2015. So I remain of the opinion that 25 August 2015 is the date that ReAssure knew it had 
to take action to put things right. 
what would  have been a reasonable timescale  for putting matters right and resubmitting the 
pension?
ReAssure has told us its normal service  standard is 10 working days. But not all bits of 
administration should need to take 10 working  days. In this particular case the transfer of the 
funds hadnt occurred for reasons that are unclear. But the transfer  process had already 
been completed. So it seems to me that the only action that Reassure needed to do was to 
resend the funds to Aegon. And as the funds  had been returned  to Reassure, I would have 
expected it to do all it could to mitigate  any further delay to Mr A. I think in this case  this 
meant it should have  speeded up sending the proceeds of transfer to Aegon.  And for these 
reasons I dont think that the 10 day processing time it has suggested is appropriate  in this 
particular case.  So, I dont think it reasonable for the Reassure  to rely on a general service  
standard in the way it has here, based  on the specifics of this particular case. 
In my first provisional decision  I thought  that ReAssure  should  have resent  the monies within  
24 hours of finding  out that the transfer of funds hadnt happened. In response to that 
decision ReAssure thought that 5 working  days would have been a more  appropriate  service  
standard to apply  in this case. ReAssure explained that the information  that a payment had 
been rejected  needed  to be routed to the Customer Services Payments department, which  
takes time.  They then needed to investigate why the payment had been rejected. This would 
entail conversations with the receiving scheme and, if necessary, the customer. Once  it was 
clear that the payment could  be resubmitted  with confidence of a favourable outcome, the 
payment would then be raised and the funds transferred. 
I thought very carefully about what it said. I was persuaded that further checks might well 
have been appropriate in the circumstances of Mr As case, before the proceeds of transfer 
were transferred again. And I accept  that it might not have been feasible to send the monies 
again in the 24 hour time frame I suggested in my provisional decision.  Its possible that a 
hasty resubmission may not have led to a successful transfer  and could have caused further 
delays. Its also reasonable that further checks and investigations may have been needed to 
be carried out as to why the original transfer didnt happen. 
What the correct length of time that should  be allowed is less clear.  I accept  that its possible 
the proceeds of transfer could have been sent sooner than the five working days suggested 
at that time by ReAssure. But having  considered everything afresh, I thought  that a five day 
turnaround time was not unreasonable given the particular circumstances of this case  and 
the issues Ive summarised  above.  I explained  in my second provisional decision that I 
intended to issue  a final decision that uses the 5 working days  as the timeframe  that should  
be used for the transfer to have been  received by Aegon. 
 
In response to this second provisional decision ReAssure had a change of heart.  It said it 
now felt that they should be held to their service standard of 10 working days  but provided  
no new reasoning  for that finding. 
ReAssure was a party to a failed transfer  and it should have taken  urgent  steps  to ensure its 
customer suffered as little detriment  as possible. ReAssure has not presented persuasive 
reasoning for why it now feels that it should be held instead to a general service standard,  so 
I see no reason to alter my findings on this issue.  So, I still dont think it reasonable for the 
Ref: DRN04711974Reassure to rely on a general service  standard in the way it has here,  based on the specifics  
of this particular  case. And I think the transfer should have been resent within 5 working 
days of ReAssure being told it had been  unsuccessfully transferred for the reasons Ive set 
out above. 
Mr A still believes that ReAssure was responsible for the failed transfer. So he still believes 
the correct redress  is for him to be put in the position he would have been  in had the transfer  
happened at the same time as the other two pensions. I have thought about what Mr A has 
said but for the reasons  given above,  its still not clear to me that ReAssure were responsible 
for the failed  transfer. So Im not persuaded that Mr As suggested outcome is fair in the 
particular circumstances  of this case.   
So I conclude that ReAssure knew the transfer  had failed on 25th August 2015, a Tuesday.  
And for the reasons given above I am persuaded that in this case the re-transfer  ought to 
have been completed within 5 working days.  That would normally  have meant  it should  have  
been completed by the following Tuesday, but as the Monday was a bank holiday,  the funds 
ought to have been transferred on Wednesday 2nd September 2015. That means the funds 
would have been invested by the next working day, Thursday  3rd September  2015.
Fair compensation - how should Reassure put things right?
1.Take the value  of the proceeds that were delayed being transferred from Mr As 
pension with Reassure that are currently invested with with his new pension  provider  
at the date of this decision (Figure  1);
2.Determine what the value (as at the date of this decision) of the proceeds from 
Mr As pension  that should have been  transferred and those funds had been invested  
in the same funds  as in (1) had they been invested from 3 September 2015 
(Figure 2).
3.Compare Figure 1 with Figure 2 to determine  if Mr A has suffered a loss.
4.Mr A should provide  Reassure with the relevant authorisation  (if he hasnt already 
done so) in order  that Reassure can obtain the information it needs to carry out the 
calculations.
5.If this shows  that redress is due, then this should  be paid to Mr As pension.  The 
payment should  allow  for the effect  of charges and any available tax relief. The 
compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict  with any 
existing protection  or allowance.
6.If the payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance  
implications, the redress should  be paid directly  to Mr A as a lump sum after making 
a deduction of 15% (30% if Mr A is a higher rate tax payer)  if it cant be paid into his 
pension. The payment would otherwise have been used to provide  pension benefits, 
25% of which  would be tax free and the rest would  have  been taxed according to his 
likely tax paying status in retirement   presumed to be 20%. And so the 15% 
deduction adequately reflects this. 
7.Add and pay 8% simple per year from date of decision to date of settlement (if 
compensation is not paid within 28 days of ReAssure being  notified of acceptance).
Ref: DRN04711975Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If ReAssure deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr A how much has been taken  off. ReAssure should give Mr A a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
I note that ReAssure has also offered Mr A £250  to reflect the trouble and upset he has been 
put to in bringing this complaint. ReAssure has said that this offer is still open to Mr A. I feel 
that this is a fair offer. I say this because In this case I havent seen sufficient evidence that 
the error  during the delayed transfer caused trouble  and upset that requires ReAssure to 
make a greater payment  than the one its already  offered to make.  And Ive seen insufficient 
evidence of subsequent delay or trouble above  that which any complainant would expect in 
bringing a complaint to a business  and then through our service.  So ReAssure should also 
pay Mr A £250 for the trouble and upset he has been caused by this matter. And whilst Mr A 
now considers this inadequate, for the reasons given above,  I feel that this is a fair offer.
my final decision
My decision  is I uphold  this complaint against ReAssure Limited, who must now calculate 
and pay Mr A fair compensation as described above and using 3 September  2015 as the 
date the funds should have been invested.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0471197