K821x#15complaint
Mr N complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to 
him alongside a loan in 2000. 
background
Our adjudicator thought this complaint should be upheld because Mr N had a pre-existing 
medical condition  when he took the cover out. Barclays disagreed  with that view and so the 
matter has been  passed to me to make  a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case.  
This was a very finely  balanced decision.  But I agree with our adjudicator that the complaint 
should be upheld.  Ill explain  why below. 
Barclays advised Mr N to buy this cover. So it had to make sure it was suitable for his needs. 
To help me decide whether it was suitable, Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the 
cover. And Ive also thought about what Mr N told us about his personal circumstances at 
the time.  
I can see that when  he bought the PPI, Mr N had a pre-existing medical condition. We 
havent got a lot of information  from Mr N about the impact that this condition  had on his day 
to day life. However, I understand that this type of diagnosis  has flares and there may have 
been periods when  Mr N was more affected by the condition than others. 
The policy allowed Mr N to make a claim under the policy after hed been off work for 14 
days. But the terms of the policy excluded his pre-existing medical condition.  And the 
evidence Ive seen  doesnt suggest Barclays told him about  that. 
Given the enduring  and potentially unpredictable  nature  of his medical condition, I think its 
likely that Mr N could have thought hed be off work  for more than 14 days. So I dont think 
hed have thought the policy  was good  value  for money if hed known he couldnt  claim for 
the diagnosis  he already  had. I dont think hed have bought  the PPI. 
With that in mind, Ive upheld the complaint. Barclays needs to take action to put things right 
for Mr N. 
putting things right 
Mr N borrowed  extra to pay for the PPI, so his loan was bigger than it should  have  been  and 
he paid more than he should have each  month. So Mr N needs to get back the extra  he paid. 
So, Barclays  should:
Work out and pay Mr N the difference between what he paid each month on the loan 
and what he wouldve paid each month without PPI.
Ref: DRN09121572Add simple interest to the extra  amount Mr N paid each month from when he paid it until 
he gets it back. The rate of interest  is 8% a year from then  
If Mr N made a successful claim under the PPI policy,  Barclays can take off what he got 
for the claim from the amount it owes him. 
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest.  Barclays  must 
give Mr N a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
Ive upheld the complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC. I require it to comply with the above 
putting things  right section. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019. 
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0912157