K820x#14complaint
Mr F says Novaloans  Ltd (trading as cash4unow)  irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about three instalment  loans  cash4unow provided to Mr F between 
September 2013 and October  2014.  Mr Fs lending history is as follows:
Loan 1 September 2013  for £200 to be repaid  in 6 instalments  with the largest  
amount being  £63.33.
Loan 2 April 2014 for £500 to be repaid in 6 instalments with the largest amount 
being £158.33.
Loan 3 October  2014 for £300 to be repaid in 6 instalments with the largest amount 
being £95.00. 
None of the loans overlapped, but there  were  only days  between their repayment  and Mr F 
borrowing again. All the loans were repaid early or on time. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Fs complaint. She didnt think  the loans shouldnt  have 
been given. Mr F disagreed and the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
cash4unow needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt  lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr F 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that cash4unow should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ref: DRN02414922There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that its important for me to start by saying that cash4unow was required to establish 
whether Mr F could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Fs complaint.
cash4unow asked  Mr F for his monthly  income, which he said was £1,800. It asked  him for 
his monthly expenditure, which he said was between £1,112.50  and £865.  It also carried out 
credit checks before  each  loan.  I cant see anything in the results  of these that should have 
raised concerns  or prompted further checks.  
Mr F said he was borrowing to repay  other loans. But I cant see that cash4unow was made 
aware of his financial difficulties at the time or had reason to suspect them. 
Given the loan amounts,  what  was apparent about Mr Fs circumstances at the time and his 
history with cash4unow, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate to ask him for the 
amount of information  needed to show the lending was unsustainable. There wasnt  anything  
in the information Mr F provided or the information cash4unow shouldve been  aware  of, 
which meant it wouldve  been proportionate  to start verifying what  Mr F was saying. 
So I think cash4unows checks  went far enough and from them  it looked  like Mr F could 
sustainably repay  his loans. So I cant say it was wrong for cash4unow to provide them. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 June  2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0241492