K821x#15complaint
Miss T says MYJAR Limited (MYJAR)  irresponsibly  lent to her.
background
This complaint is about six loans provided  to Miss T between May 2016 and August 2018.  A 
summary of Miss Ts borrowing  history is as follows:
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments AmountHighest 
Repayment
Amount
1 20/05/2016 01/07/2016 1 £100.00 £133.60
2 01/07/2016 05/08/2016 1 £100.00 £128.00
3 31/01/2018 20/02/2018 3 £100.00 £50.64
4 06/03/2018 05/06/2018 3 £100.00 £49.36
5 10/06/2018 09/08/2018 6 £375.00 £111.67
6 09/08/2018 12 £500.00 £75.29
Our adjudicator looked at this matter  and said that he hadnt seen enough to say it was 
unfair to provide loans one  five. But he said that MYJAR shouldnt  have  lent Miss T the 
sixth loan.
He said that by the time MYJAR provided  Miss T with the sixth loan Miss T was showing 
signs that she was struggling to repay  some of her previous loans  with MYJAR. And he said 
he thought it was likely there was a significant  risk Miss T wouldve been unable  to 
sustainably meet her loan repayment  amount for this loan. 
MYJAR disagreed with this view. It asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman  for 
a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss T 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that MYJAR should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
Ref: DRN05989302the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Miss T could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ts complaint.  After  having done this, Ive decided 
that MYJAR  shouldnt have provided  Miss T with her sixth loan. I will explain why.
In its business  file MYJAR told us that it conducted  various checks before lending to Miss T, 
including looking at her income, expenditure and carrying out a credit  check.  And after 
carrying out these  checks MYJAR said the affordability checks it undertook  determined  that 
Miss T wouldnt  have difficulty in repaying  the loan and it had no reason to suspect that its 
products might not be suitable for her and her financial position.
Looking at everything and on balance, I dont  think I can safely say that MYJAR failed to do 
enough when  it was making its assessment about the first five loans. 
I think the checks MYJAR did were proportionate for the first five loans and the information 
Miss T provided  indicated  that the loans were affordable. These  were  Miss Ts first few loans 
with MYJAR and there was a substantial break of around 18 months in lending  between 
loans 2 and 3. The repayments  were  low in relation  to Miss Ts income. So, I think MYJAR 
was entitled to rely on the information  Miss T provided about her income and expenses.  
But when MYJAR provided Miss T with her sixth loan I think  it likely knew that further lending  
was unsustainable.
I think by the time MYJAR lent Miss T loan 6 it would have known that Miss T had increased  
the amount she was borrowing. This was Miss Ts fourth consecutive loan in seven months 
with short  gaps between  each loan which were getting smaller. Coupled  with this, loan 6 was 
for significantly more than she originally borrowed. This loan was taken  out on the same  date 
as the previous loan had been repaid  so, it was more likely  that it was taken out to fill a gap 
Ref: DRN05989303that the previous repayment of loan 5 had left in Miss Ts finances. In the seven months 
since loan 3 Miss T had been indebted  to MYJAR for all but 19 days. 
Ive explained  above that although a loan may appear affordable  on a pounds  and pence  
basis it doesnt necessarily mean  that a consumer can afford to repay the loan in a 
sustainable manner.
The regulations in place at the time provided guidance about what  sustainable meant - the 
payments could be made without undue difficulties, on time, while meeting other  reasonable 
commitments and without having  to borrow  to meet the repayments, over the life of the 
agreement, and out of income  or savings. 
In these circumstances I'm not persuaded that MYJAR acted responsibly when it provided 
loan 6 to Miss T. And so MYJAR should have  realised  that it shouldnt  have provided any 
further loans.  
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loan six and MYJAR should  put things right.
putting things right  what MYJAR needs to do
MYJAR shouldnt have given Miss T loan 6.
If MYJAR  has sold the outstanding debt it should buy this back  if it is able to do so and then 
take the following steps. If MYJAR  is not able to buy back  the debt, then it should liaise with 
the new debt owner  to achieve the results outlined below.
A)MYJAR should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance  on loan 6, and 
treat any repayments made by Miss T as though they had been repayments of the 
principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Miss T having  made  overpayments 
then MYJAR should refund these overpayments  with 8% simple  interest* calculated 
on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments  would have  arisen, to the date 
the complaint  is settled.  
B)If there  is still an outstanding balance, then MYJAR should try to agree an affordable  
repayment plan with Miss T. MYJAR  shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up 
of principal it has already written-off.
C)MYJAR should remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ts credit  file in 
relation to loan 6.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must 
give Miss T a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Miss Ts complaint. MYJAR Limited 
should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2020.
Ref: DRN05989304Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0598930