K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains about end of contract  charges when he voluntary terminated his agreement 
with Startline Motor  Finance  Limited  (SMF).
background
In February 2016  Mr W was supplied with a used car and entered  into a hire purchase 
agreement with SMF.
Mr W voluntary  terminated the agreement  in August 2018. The car was collected and 
inspected in early  September 2018. SMF  advised Mr W that there was damage to the car 
and asked him to pay damage charges.
Mr W disputed  the charges. He said that the damage identified was to be expected  in a car 
which was 7 years old.
SMF reviewed the charges and agreed  that most of them  fell within  fair wear  and tear. But it 
said the charges  for a broken key and damaged  front grille  were still payable.
Mr W wasnt happy with the response  and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She thought the damage was outside fair wear 
and tear and that the charges had been fairly applied.
Mr W didnt agree. He acknowledged that the key was in a poor state  and said he was happy 
to pay for it. But he didnt think it was fair that hed been asked to pay £200 for the grille 
which he said only had a small  crack in it. He said hed found a replacement  grille online for 
half the cost.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions  of the agreement say that Mr W must return the car in good 
condition and that any damage which exceeds  fair wear and tear is the customers  
responsibility.
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been  issued by the BVLRA  and these are accepted  as an 
industry standard in determining whether damage  exceeds fair wear and tear.
Ive looked at the inspection report. I can see that the front grille is cracked and I think the 
remote key is damaged beyond fair wear and tear. Based on what  Ive seen and taking into 
account the relevant guidelines I think the charges have been fairly  applied.
I appreciate that Mr W feels that the charge for the grille is unfair because hes found one 
cheaper online. This service cant comment on whether the charges are reasonable, only on 
whether theyve been fairly applied. That said, Mr W would have been aware from the terms 
and conditions that he had to return the car in good condition. So he couldve arranged  to 
have the grille repaired or obtained his own grille  and replaced it before returning  the car.
Ref: DRN04630672Mr W has suggested that the grille was cracked  when he was supplied  with the car. I havent 
seen any evidence to show  this, so I cant safely conclude that the damage  was present at 
the point of supply.
Based on what Ive seen,  Im satisfied that the damage exceeds fair wear  and tear and that 
the charges have been applied fairly. So I wont be asking SMF to waive them.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 July 2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0463067