K821x#15Complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the response of Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation), following 
his claim against it under  section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act (CCA)  1974.
Background
Mr B was contacted by a company, Ill refer to as G, that supplied  and installed solar panel 
systems. Following a meeting, Mr B agreed  to enter into a contract with G for it to supply and 
install a solar panel system costing around £7,500. To pay for this, Mr B also agreed to enter  
into a 10 year fixed sum loan agreement  with Creation.
Mr B, via his representative,  made a claim under section 75 (s75) of the CCA. The 
representative said that G had told Mr B that the solar panels would be self-funded  and that 
the monthly loan repayments would be covered by any electricity savings and feed-in-tariff 
(FIT) income from the solar panels.  But that hadnt happened.  Instead,  the monthly loan 
repayments had been much higher.
In its final response letter,  Creation said it didnt think  the benefits  of the solar panels had 
been misrepresented  to Mr B and his solar  panel system was performing  in line with the 
contract he had signed with G. Unhappy with this response,  Mr B referred the complaint to 
our service.
One of our investigators  looked into what had happened. She said that G had 
misrepresented the benefits of the solar panels  to Mr B so thought  his complaint should be 
upheld. To put things  rights she said that Creation should calculate the potential income and 
savings to Mr B over the term of the loan. She asked Creation to then restructure the loan so 
that he wouldnt pay any more than this over the 10 year term. As this would mean that Mr B 
may have  overpaid  each  month, she thought Creation should give him the following options 
as to how hed like any overpayments to be used:
a.any overpayments to be used  to reduce the outstanding balance of his loan and Mr B 
would continue to make his current monthly  loan payment meaning his loan would 
finish early,
b.any overpayments to be used  to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and Mr B 
pays a new, lower  monthly loan amount until the end of the current  loan term,
c.any overpayments are returned  to Mr B and he continues to make his currently  
monthly loan repayment meaning his loan would finish  early, or;
d.any overpayments are returned  to Mr B and he pays  a new,  lower  monthly amount 
until the end of the loan term.
She also recommended Creation pay Mr B £100  to recognise the trouble and upset caused. 
Mr B accepted the recommendation from the investigator. Creation didnt agree, so the 
matter has been  passed to me to review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN05284882When considering  whats fair and reasonable, Im required  to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules,  guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I would consider to have been good  industry  practice at the 
relevant time.
In this case the relevant law includes  Section 56 (s56) and s75 of the CCA,  which  provided 
protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. S75 states:
If the debtor  under  a debtor-creditor-supplier  agreement falling within  section 12(b)  or (c) 
has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier in 
the respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against 
the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly  be jointly and severally  liable to the 
debtor.
As Mr B paid for the solar  panels  with a fixed sum loan, Creation agrees that s75 applies to 
this transaction.  This means  that Mr B could claim against Creation  the creditor   for any 
misrepresentation or breach of contract  by G in the same way he could have claimed  against  
G, the supplier.  So, Ive taken s75 into account when deciding what is fair in the 
circumstances of this case.
S56 is also relevant.  This is because it says that any negotiations  between Mr B and G, as 
the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted  by G as an agent of Creation.
Mr B says that he was contacted by G and during a sales meeting told that the installation 
would be entirely  self-financing.  Mr B wasnt looking to buy a solar  panel system until he was 
approached by G. I think he would have been  relying on the salesperson to fully explain the 
benefits and any associated costs to him before they were installed.
There is limited  information available from the time of sale. Ive been provided with a copy  of 
the sales presentation that G says it wouldve gone  through with Mr B, a copy  of Mr Bs 
signed credit  agreement,  a customer satisfaction  note signed  by Mr B, a personalised 
illustration showing a review of the expected  benefits from the solar  panel system, a copy of 
a compliance script G says it would have gone through with Mr G as well as a table to show 
that G had actually underestimated  the performance  of Mr Bs solar panel system.
Ive considered each  of these documents carefully.  Having reviewed the sales presentation 
that G says it went through with Mr B, I can see no reference to the solar panel  system being 
self-funding. And this is the same  for the satisfaction note Mr B has signed.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being  borrowed, the term of the loan,  the interest 
rate being  charged,  the amount of interest being  added, Mr Bs monthly payments and the 
total amount payable.  Im satisfied that this is clear, and Mr B doesnt dispute  that he was 
aware of what his monthly loan repayments would  be but that he was led to believe  that they 
would be covered by the benefits from his solar panels.
Ill now turn to the personalised illustration that was given to Mr B at the time he agreed to 
the solar panel  installation  as well as the finance  through Creation. This shows that the total 
first year benefit Mr B should expect to receive  from his solar panels was £777. But it doesnt 
compare this figure to his annual loan repayments.  So, whilst I accept that it is clear what  the 
expected first year benefits of the solar panels  would  be as it doesnt  compare it to the 
associated finance  cost, I dont think its clear that the panels wouldnt  be self-funding. 
Therefore, Im of the view that Mr B wouldve relied  on the representation made by the 
salesperson for G that the panels  would be self-funding.
Ref: DRN05284883The personal illustration  also shows a payback  time of nine years with a 1st year tax free 
return of 9.1%. But, as explained  above  these figures dont include the associated finance. 
Creation has said it shouldve been clear  to Mr B that the payback time and tax-free return 
was based on the cost price of the panels only. I dont agree. The document refers  to the 
Cost of Full Investment which I find misleading.
There are also some  handwritten figures on the illustration. They show  that the overall 
lifetime benefit of the solar panel  system divided by 240, the lifetime of the panels in months,  
would give Mr B a monthly  income of £170.  Im of the view that this supports Mr Bs 
testimony that he was told the solar panels would be self-funding  as his monthly loan 
repayments were around £108. 
The final document Ive considered is the compliance script  G says would have been used 
with Mr B prior to the installation of the solar panels.  The first part of the script refers to when 
the installers will be arriving  at the property. The next part of the script relates to the finance 
for the solar panel system. The questions that G says it asked were:
I would just like to confirm you have chosen  one of the finance options as way of payment (-
confirm the payment terms.)
Has the sales  representative gone  through the finance details with you
Do you full understand by choosing a finance  option there may be interest on your balance 
making the total amount  payable significantly more than a one off payment
Was you offered all payment options of bnpl 3 yr & 5 yr interest free 120 months and one off 
payment in full
Did the sales rep explain the estimated returns and benefits from the system and show you a 
personalised report ?
Was a copy of the estimated returns , order form and finance left with you
Ive considered each  of the questions and whether any of them wouldve meant Mr B should  
have understood  that this solar panels  wouldnt be self-funding. Im satisfied  that none of the 
questions wouldve made it clear that the panels wouldnt be self-funding  and support that Mr 
B was reliant on the information he was given by the salesperson  for G.
Taking everything that I have explained,  I believe it is more  likely than not that the 
salesperson for G led Mr B to believe that the solar panels would  be self-funding and the 
benefits would be sufficient to cover  the repayments required under the loan agreement. 
Ive considered whether the solar  panels  were  self-funding. Im of view that for the solar  
panels to be self-funding and come at no additional  cost to Mr B, the savings and income  he 
would receive should  have been sufficient to cover  the repayments  due under  the loan 
agreement.
Based on the figures provided  by G at the time of sale,  the total expected return to Mr B from 
the benefits from his solar  panels wouldve come to £777 whereas the loan repayments were 
about £1,300 a year. Creation has said Mr Bs solar panels have outperformed  the estimate  
and his first year return was £813.
Ref: DRN05284884Taking the figure provided by Creation  into account,  Mr B was likely to have been out of 
pocket by around £487 in the first year. And that would  broadly been the same during the 
term of the loan. This means that the solar  panels arent self-funding.  Im satisfied that G 
misrepresented the benefits to Mr B.  
Mr B didnt have any prior experience  of the solar panel systems and was cold called  by G. 
Im satisfied that Mr B decided to go ahead with the purchase of the solar  panel system 
based on the representation  made  by G that the system would be self-funding.
For the reasons  I have  explained above,  I find that Mr B has suffered a loss as a result of the 
misrepresentation made by G. The system  wasnt self-funding and Mr B has ended up 
paying a significant amount over the savings. And as Creation has equal liability  for the 
misrepresentation made by G, I find that it is responsible for Mr Bs loss.
Fair compensation
The role of this service is to help settle disputes between  consumers and businesses  
providing financial services fairly  and reasonably  with minimum formality. My role here is to 
arrive at a fair and reasonable outcome taking into account of the particular circumstances.
My view of Mr Bs complaint  is that it isnt so much about the solar panels  themselves but 
that he was led to believe that they would be self-funding. And based on this I dont think  it 
would be fair or reasonable to require the removal of the solar  panels from his home. And it 
is also accepted  that it would  cost Creation a significant sum to remove them.  So, I dont 
think it would  be fair or reasonable  to ask it to do that. Rather,  I think  the fair outcome here is 
to put Mr B in a position where  the panels  are self-funding over the original term of the loan.  
By allowing Mr B to keep  the panels,  he will likely  benefit from lower electricity  bills or FIT 
payments going  forward.
By making  the panels  self-funding, Mr Bs monthly loan repayments will likely reduce, 
meaning that he wouldve previously been  paying more each month, resulting in an 
overpayment. And as he will have been deprived  of the monthly overpayment, I expect 
Creation to add 8% simple interest  a year from the date the overpayment was made  until the 
date of settlement.  Like our investigator, I think the fairest  resolution  would be to allow Mr B 
to decide how hed like any overpayments to be used from the following options:
(a)any overpayments and associated  interest are used to reduce  the outstanding 
balance of his loan and he continues to make his current  monthly loan repayment 
resulting in his loan finishing early,
(b)any overpayments and associated  interest are used to reduce  the outstanding loan 
balance and Mr B pays a new, lower monthly  loan payment until the original loan 
term,
(c)any overpayments and associated  interest are returned  to Mr B and he continues to 
make his current monthly loan repayment resulting in his loan finishing early, or;
(d)any overpayments and associated  interest are returned  to Mr B and he pays a new, 
lower monthly loan payment until the original  loan term.
My understanding is that Mr B had previously said hed like option a, and if he accepts my 
decision, he should indicate  on the acceptance  form his preferred option.
Ref: DRN05284885Im satisfied that there was sufficient information  available at the time that Mr B first 
contacted Creation that means that his claim should  have been  upheld. The fact that this 
didnt happen  undoubtedly caused  him trouble and upset and consequently Ill make  an 
award of £100  to cover this.
My final decision
My final decision is that Mr Bs complaint should  be upheld. In full and final settlement of it, 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must:
allow Mr B to keep the solar  panels,
estimate the potential  savings and income  to Mr B form the panels  over the 10 year 
term of the loan and rework it so he pays no more than this,
add 8% simple interest* a year to any overpayment from the date the overpayment 
was made to the date of settlement,
allow Mr B to decide how hed like any overpayments and associated  interest  to be 
used, using the four options  described  above, and;
pay Mr B £100 for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 January 2020.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
*If Creation Consumer  Finance  Ltd considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to take off income tax form that interest, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It should  
also give Mr B a certificate showing this, if he asks for one, so he can claim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs.
Ref: DRN0528488