K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  with a mortgage. 
Mr and Mrs H say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them the PPI.
background
The background to this complaint, and my provisional findings,  can be found in my 
provisional decision which Ive attached  below  and which forms part of this final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Neither party  have given any new 
information for me to consider. Because of this I see no reason to change my provisional 
decision.
what the business needs  to do
Mrs Hs part of the PPI policy  (which ran between  2001  and 2003)
Nationwide Building  Society should  put Mrs H in the position shed be in now if she hadnt 
taken out PPI. The policy should  be cancelled,  if it hasnt been cancelled  already, and 
Nationwide Building  Society should:
Pay Mrs H the amount she paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mrs H made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Nationwide  Building Society 
can take off what she got for the claim  from the amount it owes  her.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Nationwide Building  Society to take off tax from this interest.  
Nationwide Building Society must give Mrs H a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she 
asks for one.
my final decision
I currently dont think Mr Hs part of the PPI was mis-sold. Nationwide has offered refund the 
premiums Mrs H paid toward the PPI between 2001  and 2003. I think  this is fair and dont 
think Nationwide needs to do anymore.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 July 2019.
Gemma Farrell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN09306372copy of provisional decision
Mr and Mrs H complain that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a monthly  mortgage premium 
payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  in 2001.
background
The PPI taken  out in 2001 covered  both Mr and Mrs H. The policy  covered them for accident and 
sickness only.  In 2003 an amendment was made to the PPI to increase the monthly benefit  and cover 
Mr H only.  In 2006 the policy  was amended to reduce  the benefit.
Nationwide said Mrs H was not eligible for cover. So Nationwide offered to pay back  Mrs Hs PPI 
premiums plus interest in accordance with our approach.
Ref: DRN09306373However, Nationwide also said Mr Hs part of the PPI policy was not mis-sold  because  he could still 
have made  a successful  claim on the policy for accident  or sickness cover.  Mr and Mrs H are not 
happy with this and so this case has come to me for a decision. I have considered  both Nationwide  
and Mr and Mrs Hs arguments very carefully.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Hs case. Nationwide said it would  not uphold Mr Hs half of 
the PPI complaint, but has offered to refund Mrs Hs part of the policy. I intend to say this is a fair offer 
to Mr and Mrs H. I know this will disappoint  them,  so I will explain why.
Mr and Mrs H say they thought they had to have  the PPI to get their mortgage.  Ive seen  a copy  of Mr 
and Mrs Hs PPI application.  The box opting for the PPI has been ticked, and the box declining the 
cover has been left blank. Both Mr and Mrs H have signed this form so I think its likely to reflect  what 
they wanted. Theres  also nothing on the paperwork to suggest  the PPI was compulsory  or a 
requirement of the lending. On balance I think Nationwide  made  it clear that Mr and Mrs H didnt have 
to take out the PPI and they chose to take it out  although I can understand why they cant 
remember this.
Ive also seen  a copy of the PPI application form for the PPI amendment  that took place in 2003.  On 
this Mr and Mrs Hs details have been entered, along with their new benefit split (100% cover for Mr 
H) and the monthly cost and monthly benefit  of the PPI. Again, theres  nothing  on this paperwork to 
suggest the PPI was compulsory. Mr and Mrs H have both signed this form so Im satisfied they 
chose to take the PPI.
Nationwide recommended the PPI to Mr H and Mrs H, so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
them. Nationwide has agreed that it should not have recommended the PPI to Mrs H in 2001, and has 
offered to pay back Mrs Hs premiums in line with our approach. So Ive only looked  at whether the 
PPI was right for Mr H, and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time,  I think that it 
was. For example he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover and he 
seems to have had a need for the cover.  Mr H was self-employed when he took the policy. But the 
policy covered him for accident and sickness only. So the fact that he was self-employed didnt make  
the policy  unsuitable for him.
Mr H says he had an existing accident and sickness policy, and has sent us paperwork  in relation to 
this. I see that this wouldve provided  cover  for 26 weeks  in the event of a successful claim  for 
temporary total disablement.  But the PPI wouldve  paid out in addition  to this, and for longer. The PPI 
wouldve paid out for up to 12 months and wouldve  protected Mr and Mrs H against the risk of Mr H 
being unable to make  his mortgage repayments  the consequences of which could be serious. 
Having the PPI wouldve allowed him to use any other form of income he and Mrs H had at the time to 
cover other  necessary expenses  at what couldve been a difficult time.  So I still think  they couldve 
found the policy useful.
Its possible the information Nationwide  gave Mr and Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted this type of cover. And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for them if something went wrong.  It also looks like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put them off taking out the 
cover.
Ive also thought  about  the commission Mr and Mrs H paid on their PPI  and whether Nationwide  
treated them unfairly.
Ref: DRN09306374Nationwide has told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs Hs PPI was less than half of what  they 
paid for each premium.  Weve looked at how Nationwide has been working this out and based on 
what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs Hs commission was less than half the cost of the 
PPI. As thats  the case,  I dont think it needed to tell them about the commission  so I dont think  
Nationwide treated them  unfairly. This means it doesnt need to pay Mr and Mrs H back  any of the 
commission they paid for the PPI.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs H said - but these  points do not - at this provisional  stage  - 
change my decision.
what the business needs to do
Mrs Hs part of the PPI policy (which ran between 2001 and 2003)
Nationwide Building Society should put Mrs H in the position  shed be in now if she hadnt taken  out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Nationwide Building 
Society should:
Pay Mrs H the amount  she paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple  interest to each payment from when  she paid it until she gets it back. The rate of 
interest is 8% a year.
If Mrs H made  a successful claim  under the PPI policy,  Nationwide Building Society can take 
off what  she got for the claim from the amount  it owes her.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Nationwide Building  Society to take off tax from this interest.  
Nationwide Building Society must give Mrs H a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she 
asks for one.
my provisional  decision
I currently dont think Mr Hs part of the PPI was mis-sold. Nationwide  has offered refund the 
premiums Mrs H paid toward the PPI between 2001 and 2003. I think this is fair and dont think 
Nationwide needs to do anymore.
I now invite  Mr and Mrs H and Nationwide Building Society  to make  any other comments or introduce 
any new evidence  they think I should see  but have not already seen  before I make my final 
decision.
Ref: DRN0930637