K820x#14complaint
Ms S is unhappy that Link Financial Outsourcing Limited has recorded a debt as satisfied 
on her credit  file.
Ms S was originally represented in this matter  by Mr J.
background
Ms Ss account with another provider was defaulted in 2015. It was then sold to Link 
Financial in June  2016 with an outstanding balance of £660.71. Link Financial said it would 
honour the existing  arrangement for Ms S to pay back £1.67 per month.
In August  2016,  Link Financial spoke to both Ms S and Mr J. And a further  repayment  
arrangement was agreed at £0.10 per month  starting in September 2016.
Mr J called Link Financial in July 2018 to pay off the debt in full and says that was told the 
settlement would be reflected on the credit  file immediately but this wasn't  done . Whilst it 
shows a £0 balance, he says it isn't showing  as settled.  The account is now paid so Ms S 
doesnt owe any further money.  But she thinks the record  on her credit  file is incorrect. She 
says this is affecting her ability to get a mortgage,  not the default but the fact that it says it is 
satisfied. A complaint was made about  this to Link Financial.
Link Financial said that as the account was originally defaulted, the entry  on the credit file 
will reflect a satisfactory status 8 default entry which is a fair reflection of the status  of the 
account. So it didnt  agree to make any changes to Ms Ss credit file.
Our investigator considered this complaint. She didnt think it should be upheld.  She 
explained that Link Financial recorded the debt as 'satisfied' because  the account had 
originally been  defaulted. However,  if no defaults  were added then an account would be 
recorded as 'settled' by credit reference agencies. And this might  explain the difference in 
the way the settlement of the accounts  had been  recorded. Having taken  everything  into 
account, she felt unable to ask Link Financial  to amend Ms Ss credit file as the account has 
been accurately  recorded as 'satisfied'  based  on the account being defaulted prior to 
settlement.
But Mr J disagrees. He says other  accounts in the same  situation  where a default has 
been issued  have been marked as settled now that the debt has been paid in full. And he 
says that when he spoke to Link Financial  before making payment, they said theyd do 
exactly the same and mark the account  as settled.  He says the solicitor  involved with the 
remortgage has stated it is not the defaults  that are stopping Ms S obtaining a mortgage but 
the fact that it only says satisfied on her credit file with no information about  the fact that it 
has been paid in full or an end date. He feels Link Financial lied to him during the phone call 
and wouldnt  have  paid it off if hed know this would happen.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where theres a dispute about  what 
happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks more likely to have happened  in light of 
the evidence.
Ref: DRN05046092Although a number  of issues  have been raised,  this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Having done so, I have to tell Ms S that I think the investigator has reached the right 
outcome here. So I dont  uphold his complaint in this matter. Ill explain why.
An account  marked as settled is one that the consumer has made all the necessary 
payments to and has been closed. When an account  which  has previously been defaulted 
- is paid in full, this should be recorded as showing  the Current Balance as satisfied with a 
satisfaction date.
Having looked  at Ms Ss credit report,  I can see that it says the debt has been recorded by 
Link Financial as satisfied.
I appreciate that Mr J says other companies have recorded other, previously defaulted 
accounts, as having  been settled but this isnt something that Im bound  to follow here.  The 
issue Im considering in this complaint  is whether Link Financial was entitled to record  this 
particular account  as having been satisfied. And I think it was.
Ive listened to the call between Mr J and Link Financial on 16 July 2018 where Mr J says he 
was told that the debt would be marked as settled. I note that in the call Mr J explains to the 
advisor hes looking to pay the debt in full and asks the advisor  you actually put on the credit 
file [word difficult to hear but sounds  like that] its settled.
The advisor replies to say, 
Yes if youre  paying the balance off, it will show as satisfied so that means you 
havent received  a discount, that youve paid the full balance off. However, it will still 
have an indicator showing that a default is still in place and running. But they will 
know that youve  paid the full balance off and it will show as satisfied with a zero 
balance.
Having taken this into account, I think it was made clear to Mr J that the debt would be 
marked as satisfied.
Mr J has also said that what added to the situation with Link Financial is that it made  it 
extremely difficult to complain and failed to make  reasonable  adjustments  for his disabilities. 
But I dont see things  quite the same. I havent seen anything  to lead me to say that Link 
Financials service fell below what Id expect.  In my view, the phone advisors handled  
matters professionally in what were  often quite tense and challenging circumstances. I can 
also see it offered alternative  ways  for Mr J  who was Ms S representative  to 
communicate with it instead of on the phone. It also says it asked for Mr Js consent to 
record his circumstances  which he refused to give. 
Finally, I note that Mr J says the original account owner  recorded  a default and then, around 
6 months later,  Link Financial also recorded a default. I cant  see that this has been raised 
with Link Financial and so this would need  to be raised with the business  in the first instance  
to give it the opportunity to look into this for Ms S.
I know Ms S will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision brings to an end what 
we  in trying to informally resolve her dispute  with Link Financial   can do for her.
Ref: DRN05046093my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold Ms Ss case against Link Financial  Outsourcing 
Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019.
Rebecca Ellis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0504609