K820x#14Complaint
Mr L complains  that FirstRand Bank  Limited,  trading as MotoNovo Finance (MotoNovo) 
refused to allow him to withdraw from a finance agreement
Background
Mr L took receipt of a used car in March 2019. He financed the deal through a hire purchase 
agreement but he wanted to withdraw from the agreement. He was disappointed MotoNovo  
didnt let him do so without having  to pay the balance  on the account which was in excess of 
£5,000.
He complained to MotoNovo that the agreement hadnt been set up properly. He was 
disappointed that the wrong date of birth had been recorded for him and that the business 
hadnt provided him with a copy of the finance  agreement. When  he asked for that 
agreement the copy sent didnt include all of the pages.
He complained to this service and our investigator  provided her opinion. She didnt think the 
fact the business  had recorded his date of birth incorrectly was a reason to suggest the 
agreement had been mis-sold. She understood that Mr L would have been frustrated by not 
being supplied  a complete  copy of the agreement. She noted this service had initially been  
supplied with the same but she explained that a full copy had now been  supplied. She 
thought that the business should compensate Mr L for the inconvenience hed experienced 
whilst trying to obtain a proper copy of the agreement and she suggested a reasonable 
amount of compensation would be £100. But she didnt think their failure to supply the 
agreement suggested  it had been  mis-sold to Mr L and she didnt think  it would be fair to ask 
them to take any further action.
Mr L disagreed with the investigators view. He said the agreement had clearly  not been  set 
up correctly and in those circumstances he should  be put back in the position he would have 
been in if the agreement  hadnt commenced.  He therefore asked for a final decision by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view. I know that will disappoint Mr L so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr L acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement.  The hire purchase  agreement is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
Ref: DRN02608642Im not persuaded that the problems Mr L has described have resulted in any detriment to 
him or that they could  be seen as mis-selling. Although Im aware Mr L has not raised the 
issue of mis-selling its something  I think is fair to consider in this complaint alongside  the 
concerns he has raised. 
I dont think theres evidence that the date of birth being entered  incorrectly is a reason to 
suggest theres been a misrepresentation or that theres sufficient evidence that this mistake 
caused any problems  for Mr L. I think it would  be a disproportionate response  to ask 
MotoNovo to refund the balance he had to pay on the account when subsequently  ending  
the agreement  as a result of what appears  to be a minor administrative error. 
I understand that Mr L was concerned that a full copy  of the agreement hadnt been  provided 
to him. Im persuaded,  for the same reasons the investigator was, that its likely a full copy  
wasnt provided. In those circumstances I think MotoNovo  should  compensate  Mr L for the 
distress and inconvenience they caused  by not providing what Mr L wanted   it limited his 
ability to understand  his rights of withdrawal. I would  agree with the investigator that 
compensation of £100 would be reasonable in the circumstances.
But Im not persuaded the failure  to deliver  the full agreement is a reason  to ask MotoNovo 
to provide any further compensation.  I dont think it suggests the agreement was mis-sold 
and I dont think it suggests the agreement  wasnt active. Ive now received a copy  of the 
agreement and can see that it was signed  by Mr L on 9 March 2019.  So I think it was fair for 
MotoNovo to hold him to the terms of that contract  and I dont think  theres  sufficient 
evidence to suggest any additional  redress to that Im suggesting below.
my final decision
For these reasons I uphold this complaint  in part and tell FirstRand  Bank  Limited to pay Mr L 
£100 to compensate him for the distress  and inconvenience hes experienced.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 July 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0260864