K820x#14complaint
Mrs L is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK Plc trading as Barclaycard didnt offer her the 
chance to use its eligibility  checker  before applying for her credit card.
background
In May 2018  Mrs L applied for a credit  card with Barclays. This was done online, and her 
application was turned down. 
Mrs L is unhappy that Barclays didnt offer her the chance to put her personal details through  
its eligibility checker before making a credit card application. She says if it had she mightve 
known before making the application that it was unlikely to succeed. And if so, she wouldnt 
have applied  and her credit file wouldve  been  unaffected.
Barclays accepts that if Mrs L had followed the website address on the marketing material  
sent to her, she wouldnt have been  directed to its eligibility  checker. But Barclays says its 
not obliged to offer the eligibility checker before  someone makes  a credit  card application, 
and so it hasnt  done anything wrong.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mrs Ls complaint.  Mrs L disagrees so her complaint has been  
passed to me to look at everything  afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  it.
I know Mrs L is unhappy that Barclays didnt signpost her to its eligibility checker before 
applying for a credit card. But I dont think it had to. Its a service  that Barclays offers  but it 
hasnt done anything wrong  by not telling her about the eligibility  checker before she made  
her application.
After the application was denied, Mrs L was given information by Barclays  about things she 
could do to improve her credit rating. She was also told about the eligibility  checker as a way 
of seeing whether an application may be successful without  affecting  her credit rating, in 
future. I can see why Mrs L says it wouldve been more helpful  for her to have received that 
information before she applied  for the credit card, rather  than afterwards. But as Ive said 
above I dont think Barclays has acted unfairly  or unreasonably by not telling her about the 
eligibility checker before the application was made.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Ls complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.
Ref: DRN04579342David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0457934