K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC has failed  to provide him with online access to 
one of his investment accounts.
background
Mr S has previously  complained that Barclays hadnt  migrated all of his accounts across  to 
its new Smart Investor platform in 2017.  An ombudsman issued a final decision in that 
complaint which  didnt uphold the complaint  as the ombudsman was satisfied that all 
accounts had been transferred.
This complaint follows on from the final decision in the previous complaint. Mr S said that 
Barclays hadnt given  him access to its Barclays  One platform  so that he could see his 
investments.
One of our investigators  considered the complaint and in short made the following points:
Mr S wasnt a Barclays Wealth customer so he couldnt access its Barclays  One 
platform.
To get access to his investments  he needed  to contact its Smart Investor team.
Mr S had been unable to access his account through  Smart  Investor because  his 
account was given a new account  number when it was migrated to the Smart 
Investor platform.
Barclays had said that the reason why an account was showing as account  balance 
not currently available was because the one holding  in the account has been  
delisted so the account has no value.
She didnt think Barclays had made a mistake 
Mr S didnt agree with the investigator. He said the matter of who owned which investment 
was settled by the final decision in his previous  complaint and he accepted that decision. He 
said that it is critically important that Barclays give him immediate access  to his very 
significant MiFID II Restricted Investment Account as this would resolve matters.
There were further emails between Mr S and the investigator and further information 
provided by Mr S regarding ongoing  contact between him and Barclays which I have not set 
out as in the main these make the same points  already made by Mr S and provide no new 
information in support  of his complaint.
In one email to the investigator Barclays set out the accounts held by Mr S with Barclays  
Stockbrokers and which of those  were closed before migration to Barclays Smart Investor 
and which  were migrated.  It also explained that a duplicate profile had been created for the 
joint investment account so that this account  had two account references. It said one of 
these was closed  down in February 2019  so this was rectified.
As Mr S didnt agree  with the investigator  the matter has been referred to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN08920352I think it is important to make clear that my findings and decision are made on a balance of 
probabilities  what is more likely than not  based  on the evidence and information I have 
been given. I have made this clear because although I can see Mr S has a strong belief that 
he has an account with Barclays  which he isnt able to view online he has provided very little 
or no evidence to support his complaint.
The information that Barclays has provided shows that he currently  has three  accounts;  an 
investment account  in his sole name;  a joint investment account  and an ISA account  which  
were migrated from Barclays Stockbrokers  to Barclays  Smart Investor platform in 2017.  He 
also has an Investment Saver account.  
From the information Barclays  has provided the only accounts  that have any value are the 
joint investment account and investment  saver  account. I have seen no evidence which 
indicates that the account values are wrong, and Mr S hasnt suggested that they are. The 
investment account  that is in his sole name, and his ISA account, are both shown with no 
value.
From the information I have seen I think this is because those accounts held one holding for 
a company that went into liquidation. Having checked the available  information  on the 
company in question  I note it went into liquidation at the end of 2016 and was dissolved at 
the beginning of 2017. So I think those  accounts  also show  the correct  current value.
Mr S complained he didnt  have  access to the accounts online through its Barclays  One 
platform. But from what I have seen he wasnt entitled to use that service  as he didnt meet  
the criteria as he wasnt a Barclays Wealth customer. 
But there is no reason  he couldnt access information about  his accounts online through the 
Smart Investor  platform. And having  considered the evidence I am satisfied that he did have 
access to those accounts online through the Smart  Investor platform. Mr S has actually 
provided evidence  himself which shows he can access  those  accounts  online.
But he is suggesting that what he can see online isnt all his accounts. He seems  to suggest 
that his previous complaint set out what accounts Barclays  held and that this isnt in question  
and that both he and Barclays are bound by that. But neither the investigators view nor the 
ombudsman decision in that complaint identified any other  accounts  - in addition to the three 
accounts I have  referred  to - which should be available online but arent.
Mr S has referred to having  access online to his very significant MiFID II restricted  
investment account.  I note in one telephone call with Barclays  Mr S suggested the account 
had a value between £30 million to £40 million. But he has never identified what 
investment/s he thinks is in this investment account or provided  any evidence  to support his 
claim that there is another  account with investment/s in it.
And I have  seen no evidence that he has any other  account with Barclays other than those it 
has identified. 
In the circumstances, based  on the information I have been given, I dont think  Barclays  has 
prevented online access to some other account which  it has failed to mention. I think  it is 
more likely than not that the accounts that can be seen  online in Mr Ss name  through Smart 
Investor are all the accounts that Barclays has for him and he has online access  to those 
accounts.
Ref: DRN08920353my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 December  2019.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0892035