K820x#14complaint
Mr W is complaining  that Santander  UK Plc (Santander) paid the compensation it offered 
for the mis-selling of a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy,  attached to a loan, to his 
insolvency practitioner (IP). 
background
In March 2018, Santander upheld  Mr Ws PPI complaint and made  Mr W an offer of 
compensation.
Santander has said that as Mr W had entered into an individual voluntary arrangement 
(IVA) and Mr Ws IP confirmed they had an interest  in the compensation  it paid the 
compensation to the IP. 
Mr W says his IVA had been terminated  so the compensation should be paid to him.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint and thought  that it was fair for Santander to pay 
Mr Ws PPI compensation to Mr Ws IP.
Mr W remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsman to review  the case  and make a final 
decision.
Because this matter  hasnt been  resolved, its been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander has agreed to uphold  the complaint that the PPI was mis-sold so in this decision 
Im not looking at how the PPI came to be mis-sold. I am considering whether it was fair for 
Santander to pay the compensation to the IP. 
Having done so, I think Santander has acted  fairly  and I wont  be upholding Mr Ws 
complaint. I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr W, so I would like to take this 
opportunity to explain why.
Mr W entered into an IVA in February 2018.  An IVA is a legal agreement.  And the IP 
administering the IVA has a legal obligation to work out how Mr Ws income and assets 
should have been used  to reduce  his debts. So when the IP received money it was for them  
to determine whether,  under the IVA, the money  needed to be paid to Mr Ws creditors  or 
possibly to Mr W.
So when the IP informed  Santander that they had an interest in Mr Ws PPI compensation I 
dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for Santander to pay the compensation to the IP.
If Mr W has any concerns  that his IP has acted unfairly regarding his IVA and the terms of 
the IVA because he terminated  it in May 2018  then that is for him to take up with his IP. A 
dispute between  Mr W and his IP is not something  that this service  can consider. But I am to 
the understanding that Mr W has said that he has raised his concerns to his IP.
Ref: DRN02922272my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I think it was fair for Santander UK Plc to pay the PPI 
compensation to Mr Ws insolvency practitioner. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0292227