K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Santander UK Plc wont accept a cheque.
background
Earlier this year, Mr M went into branch  to deposit  a cheque.  It was addressed  to Mr Ms 
brother  who had signed the cheque over to Mr M. Santander refused the cheque on the 
grounds it was around ten years old, so it said it had expired. 
Unhappy with this, Mr M got in touch with our service. Our investigator concluded that 
Santander hadnt done anything wrong.  She felt Santander had acted in line with the terms 
of Mr Ms account, which specify that cheques  expire after six months. Mr M didnt accept 
this. He said he was the owner  of a legally  valid cheque,  and Santander had a regulatory  
duty to act in its customers  interest and treat them fairly. And that our service has to 
consider whats fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances, rather than solely relying  on the 
terms. 
Our investigator explained that taking  into account  all the circumstances includes 
considering the law, regulatory rules, industry guidance and good industry practice.  And she 
was satisfied that Santander had followed industry  guidance set by the company which  
manages the cheque and credit clearing system. This says that most banks will reject 
cheques that are over six months old. 
Mr M then asked  for his complaint to be referred  to an ombudsman.  So its come  to me for a 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While it may come as a disappointment  to Mr B, I dont  uphold this complaint - Ill explain 
why.
Ive considered whether Santander has acted  fairly  by rejecting the cheque.  My starting point 
for this was to consider the terms and conditions of the account.  Ultimately, both Mr M and 
Santander have  agreed to be bound  by these. 
Section 5 relates to paying in cheques.  And term 5.1 says:
Only cheques made payable to you can be paid into your account.  Cheques are out of date 
after six months...
Its not in dispute  that the cheque was over six months old. So Im satisfied  that Santander 
acted within  the terms and conditions of Mr Ms account  when it refused the cheque.
Mr M feels this in unfair in the circumstances. He considers the cheque to be legally valid.  As 
an alternative to the courts,  its not for our service to determine the legal status of the 
cheque. 
Ref: DRN05329612Mr M is correct to say that we will consider whats fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. But as hes acknowledged,  the terms will form a significant part of deciding 
whats fair and reasonable. Although Mr M didnt write the terms, he did agree  to be bound  
by them.  I consider the term relating  to expired  cheques  to be clear and in line with good 
industry practice. As our investigator has explained,  most banks wont  accept cheques which 
ae more than six months old. With this in mind, I dont consider that Santander treated Mr M 
unfairly or unreasonably by refusing the cheque.  
 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 July 2019  
Melanie Roberts
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0532961