K822xcomplaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1998. Mrs F says National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest)  mis-sold  her the PPI.
background 
The background to this complaint, and my provisional findings,  can be found in my 
provisional decision which Ive attached  below  and which forms part of this final decision.
In summary,  I didnt think NatWest mis-sold the PPI to Mrs F for the following reasons:
I think NatWest  made Mrs F aware  she had a choice in taking PPI, and she 
subsequently chose to take it.
I dont think NatWest  recommended  the PPI to Mrs F. So it needed to make sure it gave  
her enough information  about  the PPI so she could make an informed choice.
I thought it was possible that the information NatWest gave Mrs F about  the PPI might 
not have been as clear as it should have. But I didnt  think clearer  information wouldve 
stopped Mrs F from buying  the PPI, given her circumstances  at the time.
Which means NatWest doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs F.
But NatWest  has paid back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mrs F because:  
NatWest got a high level of commission  and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs F about  that. Because NatWest didnt tell Mrs F, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, NatWest has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
NatWest responded  to my provisional decision to say it didnt  have anything  further  to add.
Mrs F responded to the provisional decision  with the following main points:
The provisional decision referred  a lot to what was more likely  and there arent any 
documents to say either way. Mrs F feels the sample document  NatWest provided  
was randomly plucked out. 
Mrs F reiterates that she didnt know she had PPI and she feels  as though she is 
being seen as the dishonest party.
The PPI wasnt affordable to her at the time  given her situation.
Mrs F would like to understand why it took for investigations into high commission  for 
NatWest to refund her premiums that were over 50% of the total PPI premium.
Other claims Mrs F made have been paid out with the same lender. 
Ref: DRN09523482my findings
I have again considered all the available evidence and arguments  to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint.  And Ill refer to the points Mrs F has raised in more detail. But before I 
do this, Id like to thank  Mrs F for taking the time to respond to me, and I appreciate that this 
decision will come as a disappointment to her, but I hope my explanation gives  more  detail 
to why I cant fairly uphold  this complaint.
Neither party has been able to give me much information to show  me what  happened when 
the PPI was sold - but I dont find this surprising  or unusual given how long ago this PPI 
policy was sold. Where  the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive,  as some of it is here,  I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what  I consider is most likely to 
have happened, in light of the evidence that is available and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. And so because I cant know exactly what  happened, I say what  I think  is 
more likely.
As Ive already  explained in my provisional decision, NatWest  has given me a copy  of a 
sample application form that it says was in use around the same time it sold PPI to Mrs F. I 
cant say for sure if the sample application  Ive seen was identical to the one Mrs F would 
have completed,  but I cant agree that its a random document NatWest has given us. I say 
this because the sample application is dated  from around the same  time Mrs F applied  for 
her credit card so I think its more  likely  that this document was either the same or very 
similar to the one Mrs F would have seen. 
In the absence of the actual application  form and based on the sample  document  provided, I 
think its likely Mrs F signed  to say she wanted PPI. Ive taken  on board Mrs Fs comments in 
that she didnt  know she had a PPI policy and I agree its possible she may not have 
remembered buying the cover, but based  on what Ive said both above  and in my provisional 
decision I think it likely she agreed  to buy it at the time (including the PPI on her statements).
Mrs F says the PPI wasnt affordable to her and Ive taken on board her comments about  her 
personal life at the time. But I havent  seen anything in particular that makes me think  she 
had a need to keep  costs  down, or that she was in financial difficulty when the PPI was 
taken out. Everyone has a desire  to keep  outgoings  to a minimum, but this is different to not 
being able to afford the cover. Mrs F has said that she became unemployed for a couple of 
weeks, and so its possible that she experienced some financial difficulties in this time, but 
this happened  after the PPI was taken out. So I cant  fairly  say that she couldnt afford the 
cover when she bought it. The PPI was on Mrs Fs monthly statements, so had her 
circumstances changed, or she no longer wanted the cover, she could have cancelled it at 
any time. 
Mrs F has again  referred to other PPI policies  she had that have now been upheld. Ive 
explained in my provisional decision  that we look at each complaint on its individual merits, 
so I wont be looking at why her complaints about other policies  were  upheld. But based on 
what Ive seen, I dont  think NatWest has to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs F for 
this particular policy. 
NatWest got a high level of commission  and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  and it should have let Mrs F know about this. But it has already paid back to 
Mrs F any premiums she paid that were over 50% of the PPI premium.  So I think  this is fair 
in that case. And because it has done  this, I dont think I need  to look into this point further.
Ref: DRN09523483my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so National Westminster Bank Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs F.
But National  Westminster Bank Plc does  have to pay back  to Mrs F any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs F to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 February  2019.
Sophie Wilkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN09523484copy of provisional decision
complaint
This complaint is about  a credit card payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy taken  out in 1998. Mrs 
F says National Westminster  Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold her the PPI.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mrs Fs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mrs F says she wasnt aware  PPI had been added to her credit card. NatWest say it would have 
made it clear the PPI was optional and it would have got her consent before adding  the cover. 
Where theres a dispute about what happened, I have to base  my decision on what I think is most  
likely to have happened  taking into account all the evidence thats available.
NatWest has given me some  information to show that this PPI policy was taken out with a postal  
application. It says its representative is likely to have filled in part of the application  this would 
then be sent to Mrs F in the post for her to complete  the rest and return.
Neither party  has any of the original documents from the sale. But NatWest  has been able to give 
me a sample  of a document it says Mrs F is likely to have completed. Based on what I know 
about how NatWest sold PPI around this time,  I think the document is likely to be very similar,  if 
not the same as the one Mrs F would  have seen. This document shows that a signature was 
required to either buy PPI or decline it.
So based on everything Ive read and been told, I think it more likely that NatWest gave Mrs F a 
choice in buying PPI  and I think she chose to take it out. 
In addition to this, the PPI would have been on Mrs Fs monthly statements  so if she hadnt 
agreed to buy it, or didnt want it Id have expected her to questions this with NatWest at the time 
she saw the premiums on her statement.
NatWest didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs F so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But it 
did have to make sure Mrs F got the information  she needed  to decide if it was right for her. 
Its possible  the information NatWest gave  Mrs F about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. Based on 
what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was affected by any of the 
exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been useful for her if something went  
wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better  information about the PPI 
would have  put her off taking out the cover. 
Which means  NatWest doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs F.
But NatWest has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs F because: 
NatWest got a high level of commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium)  - so 
it should  have told Mrs F about  that. Because NatWest didnt  tell Mrs F, that was unfair. 
To put that right, NatWest has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN09523485Mrs F has referred to other PPI policies she says she had with different products  and that these 
complaints were upheld by the business  she says this shows that she didnt want  this policy either. 
But we look at each  complaint on its individual merits. And just because  one policy might have  been 
mis-sold, it doesnt necessarily mean this one was too. And having reviewed all of the information  
available, I still dont think this complaint should be upheld.
Mrs F has also said that she became unemployed and didnt claim on the PPI policy because  it didnt 
occur to her that the PPI would cover her for this. Ive thought  about  this point, but I still dont think  this 
means NatWest  did anything  wrong  when  it sold Mrs F the PPI. Based everything  Ive seen so far, I 
think it more likely that NatWest made it clear Mrs F didnt  have to buy cover.  And from looking at the 
application form that was likely to have  been  completed by Mrs F, I can see that it says the policy 
would cover involuntary unemployment (amongst other things)   so I think  shed have  known what  the 
cover was for at the time.
Mrs F has raised a number of points that she says shows this policy  was mis-sold.  Id like to reassure 
her that Ive thought about everything she has said carefully but these points  dont currently change  
my decision.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont currently think the PPI policy  wasnt mis-sold  so National 
Westminster Bank  Plc does not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs F.
But National  Westminster Bank Plc does have to pay back to Mrs F any commission and profit  share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already  done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
I now invite  Mrs F and National Westminster Bank Plc to give me any further information  they want 
me to consider before I make my final decision.  This must  be provided to us by 24 November  2018.
Ref: DRN0952348