K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs Y complain  that The Co-operative Bank Plc (trading as Britannia) mis-sold them 
a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a mortgage PPI policy taken out in Mr Ys sole name in 2001.  The 
policy was taken out during a meeting when Mr and Mrs Y were  applying for a mortgage. 
The policy provided  Mr Y with cover for accident,  sickness and unemployment.  The monthly 
cost of the policy was £20.30 and the monthly  benefit was £338. This would have been paid 
for up to 12 months for each claim.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint should  be upheld. Britannia  disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ys case.  I have also taken account of the 
law and good industry practice  at the time the PPI policy was sold. 
Where the evidence is incomplete  or contradictory  as some of it is here  I make my 
decision on the balance  of probabilities, that is, what I consider most likely to have happened 
given the evidence available and the wider circumstances.
The main  questions I need to consider are:
-If Britannia gave  any advice or recommendation, did it make  sure the product it 
recommended was suitable  for Mr and Mrs Ys needs?
-Did Britannia give Mr and Mrs Y the information  they needed to decide whether  to take 
out the policy?
If there was a problem  with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider  whether 
Mr and Mrs Y are worse off as a result. That is, would they have done something different  
such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
I have decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Ys complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr and Mrs Y say Britannia made them believe  that the PPI was something  they had to have 
in order to get the mortgage they wanted. They also say it wasnt  suitable for Mr Y because  
he had a pre-existing medical condition that meant  hed be unlikely to be able to claim if he 
was ill.
I dont need to make a finding about  whether  or not Britannia presented the policy as 
optional, because I have  another reason for upholding  Mr and Mrs Ys complaint.
Ref: DRN02510742Britannia says it didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs Y. Instead  it collected some basic  
information from Mr and Mrs Y and provided  enough  information  for Mr and Mrs Y to decide 
if the PPI suited them. And it says Mr Y didnt declare  his illness  when he was completing 
the application for the PPI.
Ive looked the PPI application. Theres a tick in a box that asks the question  are you in 
good health that refers to Mr Y. I dont think I can give this tick much  weight for a couple of 
reasons. Theres a similar tick for Mrs Y  and she wasnt going to be covered under the 
policy. And the question  is very broad Mr Y might  have been in good health at the time  
but it doesnt mean he didnt have a pre-existing condition that would  have made it very 
difficult to claim  if he was ill.
I dont think Britannia  can have drawn the terms and conditions  to Mr Ys attention, in 
particular the one about pre-existing conditions.  Mr Ys illness was chronic and required 
ongoing medication. It had been diagnosed  about  ten years  earlier   and Mr Y sent us some  
evidence to prove this.
The exclusion in the policy  says, in summary, that ongoing illnesses (or any illness 
associated with them)  wont  be covered.  I think  if Britannia had made Mr and Mrs Y aware of 
this they most likely wouldnt have taken the policy.
In summary,  I do not consider the PPI was suitable  for Mr and Mrs Y because  of Mr Ys pre-
existing medical condition, which would have limited  his ability to make a successful claim 
for sickness. 
what the business should  do to put things right
Britannia should put Mr and Mrs Y in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Britannia 
should:
Pay Mr and Mrs Y the amount they paid each  month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they gets it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr and Mrs Y made a successful claim under  the PPI policy,  Britannia can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Britannia  to take off tax from this interest. Britannia must  
give Mr and Mrs Y a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
Ref: DRN02510743my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ys complaint. 
I require The Co-operative Bank Plc to pay Mr and Mrs Y compensation in accordance with 
the calculation  of redress set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs Y to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 July 2019.
Susan Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0251074