K821x#15complaint
Mr K complains that a car he has been financing through an agreement with N.I.I.B.  Group  
Limited, trading  as Northridge Finance  (Northridge) has not been of satisfactory  quality.
background
Mr K took receipt of a used car in September 2017. He financed  the deal through  a hire 
purchase agreement  with Northridge.  The car was first registered in 2007 and had 65,000 
delivery miles on the clock.
But Mr K has had problems with the car and he now wants to reject it. The problems hes 
experienced are as follows:
September 2017
Garage notes car pulling to one side during braking and that there  are gearbox and steering 
issues. They  say warning  lights are illuminated  on dashboard and tell Mr K to return it to the 
dealership he got it from. Mr K immediately returns car to the dealership but they cant 
identify any problems. Wheels re-aligned and a drop link replaced  but Mr K says brakes are 
still pulling  to one side
December 2017   March 2018
Car in body shop  having accident repair work done.
8 March 2018 
Mr K asks to reject the vehicle
3 April 2018  
Car still pulling to one side on braking; same gearbox warning light that was on in September 
is illuminated; glow plug relay fault;  solenoid P-lock function signal too low; wheel sensors  
have mechanical  errors;  acceleration signal outside permitted range; differential pump faulty 
signal and an issue with the hydraulic pressure.  Vehicle speed has become limited. 
27 April  
Additional faults  with the automatic gearbox not staying in gear and a wheel hub bearing 
needing replacement
The car hasnt  been  driveable since May 2018.
Northridge offered to swap the car and settle  the outstanding  finance;  returning £798 to 
Mr K. But he didnt  accept  their offer. He referred  his complaint to this service instead.
Our adjudicator provided her view earlier this year. She thought  there was evidence  that the 
car hadnt been of satisfactory quality  when it was supplied to Mr K. She noted that he 
couldve rejected  the car in September 2017 as it seemed the vehicle had developed faults 
with its braking and there was a warning  light displaying that suggested a gearbox  problem. 
She explained that the same faults Mr K was complaining of in September 2017 appeared to 
still be present in May 2018 and, as it was clear that Northridge hadnt been  able to rectify 
the faults, she thought it was fair for them to allow  him to reject  it now.  She didnt think the 
offer Northridge had made was sufficient and she suggested that they accept the car back; 
terminate the agreement;  refund Mr Ks deposit;  refund  all instalments paid towards  his 
Ref: DRN01746572agreement since May 2018  - the point at which the car had been un-driveable and pay him 
£200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience hed experienced.
But Northridge didnt agree with the adjudicators  view. They  said the car was ten years old 
and had a high mileage and they noted that Mr K had managed to complete about  8,000  
miles in it. They said the dealership hadnt been  able to recreate  the faults Mr K complained  
to them  about  in September 2017  and as the car had passed  its MOT  it was evidently 
roadworthy at the time. They questioned  whether the accident that the car had in December 
had been the cause  of the issues that they said hadnt been evidenced until much  later.  So 
overall, they thought there was insufficient  proof that the car was of unsatisfactory quality at 
the point of supply and they therefore asked  for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Northridge so please  let me 
explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr K acquired his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then Northridge, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this, which involves a car, the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Mr K. The car here 
was around ten years  old and had travelled about  65,000 miles when Mr K took receipt of it. 
So I wouldnt  expect it to be fault free but I dont  think a reasonable person would expect it to 
have significant  faults that impacted on the cars safety or driveability.
I take account of relevant law when deciding what is fair and reasonable. On this basis  if I 
thought the car was faulty when supplied and this fault made the car not of satisfactory  
quality, Id think it fair and reasonable to ask Northridge to put this right. 
But Northridges  responsibility for the car is not unlimited. Whilst they are responsible  for its 
condition at the point of supply they are not responsible for faults that develop afterwards 
such as those relating  to wear and tear.  
Ref: DRN01746573Mr K returned his car to the dealership  within the first month. The dealership  werent able to 
identify any faults  with the car but Im persuaded something was wrong  with the brakes and 
the gearbox at that time. I say that because  another dealership identified the faults and they 
were the same faults that arose later and dont  appear to have been rectified to this day. 
Ive thought about whether the accident  the car experienced in December 2017 couldve 
created the problems  that Mr K is now experiencing. I think  it unusual  that some  of the 
problems listed now are the same as those that were being complained about in September, 
shortly after Mr K took receipt of the car. I think its therefore most likely theyre the same 
issues and it wouldnt be fair to suggest theres  evidence they were caused by the accident.  
And irrespective of that I can see that the car is no longer driveable and I dont think a 
reasonable person would accept that, even a ten year old car that had covered a reasonably  
high mileage, could be considered of acceptable quality if, within the first eight months it had 
developed faults that meant it couldnt  be driven. I dont think  theyd consider the car to have 
been suitably  durable and durability  is something  that legislation asks me to consider  when  
Im thinking  about  whether goods  have been of acceptable quality when supplied.
So in those  circumstances  I think Mr K should  be allowed to reject  his car. But I agree with 
the adjudicator  that Northridges current offer to settle this matter is inadequate.  It doesnt 
take account of the period  in which Mr K has been  unable to drive  his car or the deposit  he 
contributed to the deal that I think would  be fair to refund so that hes able to use it against a 
new vehicle. Neither  does it compensate Mr K for the inconvenience  hes experienced.
I think, in the circumstances,  the settlement suggested by the adjudicator is fair and 
reasonable and Im asking Northridge to provide that.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell N.I.I.B.  Group Limited  to:
end the finance agreement and collect the car at no further cost to Mr K
refund  the deposit and add 8% simple interest per annum from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement
refund  any instalments paid from, and including, May 2018 and add 8% simple  
interest from the date of payment  to the date of settlement
pay Mr K £200 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Ks credit  file in relation to 
this issue
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 September  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0174657