K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Mr T holds with Santander UK Plc. Hes unhappy that 
Santander didnt  do enough to help him when he was in arrears due to financial difficulties. 
Mr T is represented  by Mrs T, who has brought the complaint on her husbands behalf.
background
Mr T took the mortgage out in 2009.  On the advice of a third party  broker, he borrowed just 
under £239,000 (including fees) on a capital repayment basis,  over a 22-year term. The 
initial rate was 5.99% fixed until August 2012. In 2011,  Mr T started to struggle with the 
repayments, and arrears began to accumulate. He asked for the mortgage term to be 
extended, and it was, to 32 years. This reduced the monthly payment by a little under  £300 a 
month, to around £1,340. 
In August  2012,  the mortgage  reverted to Santanders standard  variable rate (SVR) and the 
payments fell again, to a little under £1,170. Mr T remained in arrears  for a long time and by 
2017, theyd reached about £37,000.  He then brought the account up to date by payment of 
a lump sum.  Hed wanted a new rate but Santander  had said hed need to stay out of arrears 
for a year. 
Mrs T spoke  to Santander in March  2018,  during which a number of fixed  or tracker  options 
were discussed, some  of which offered a potential reduction in the monthly instalment of 
more than £100. During that call, Mrs T said Santander had been very co-operative in its 
dealing with Mr T whilst hed been  in arrears.  
Subsequently, however, Mrs T complained that Santander hadnt done enough to help Mr T 
during the years hed been  in financial difficulty.  Santander rejected the complaint, and it was 
referred to us. Our investigator didnt  recommend  it be upheld,  and Mrs T asked for the 
complaint to be reviewed  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ill start with some  general  observations. Were  not the regulator  of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal  processes  or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct  Authority. We deal with individual  disputes between businesses  and their 
customers. In doing  that, we dont replicate the work  of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either  sides instructions on how we investigate  a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations  and reach our conclusions  without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have  to work  within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules  give us.
In asking for an ombudsman to review her husbands complaint, Mrs T hasnt given  any 
reasons why they disagree with the investigators findings. I have taken that to mean they 
wish me to determine the complaint on the basis of the evidence that weve  already received  
and looked at.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  If I dont comment  on any specific point 
its not because  Ive failed to consider it but because I dont think I need  to comment on it in 
Ref: DRN00269072order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an 
overview and decide  whats fair in the round.
Amongst the steps Mrs T has said Santander  could have taken are:
writing off some of the debt;
freezing interest;
agreeing a payment plan; 
accepting nominal  payments temporarily;;
switching the mortgage to interest-only  temporarily;
agreeing a lower  rate; 
capitalising the arrears; and
extending the term.
Its a common misconception  that the rules of mortgage regulation require  lenders  to provide 
forbearance. What  they actually  require  lenders  to do is consider each set of individual 
circumstances fairly  to decide  if forbearance  can and/or should be provided; the two things 
arent the same. 
Wed expect a lender  to consider offering help to consumers going  through a temporary 
problem, especially in situations where  it can be seen their situation is likely to improve.  The 
difficulty here is that Mr Ts apparent difficulty with is mortgage payments wasnt  temporary;  
it lasted for about six years.
Writing off part of a debt isnt something  Id regard as a step that a lender should  be 
expected to consider, just because the security property has fallen in value;  nor is the 
freezing of interest altogether.  The other options are steps  a lender might reasonably 
consider, but none are steps a lender must  do. Ill explain  why.
An affordable payment  plan is something  a lender  might reasonably be expected to 
consider, subject to a full disclosure of the borrowers financial situation. The historic contact 
records suggest that this was attempted from time to time but without success. That an 
acceptable plan couldnt be agreed  on doesnt  mean Santander was unwilling or unable to 
help.  
Accepting nominal  payments might  sound an easy solution, but its anything but. It still 
means the borrower is falling behind with their payments schedule  and storing  up more 
trouble for the future. The same applies, to a lesser  degree,  to switching to interest-only. 
Mrs T says it could  have been done temporarily, but as Ive said,  Mr Ts problems werent 
temporary. So it seems to me a switch to interest-only would not have helped him.
As far as a lower rate is concerned, its worth pointing out that no borrower is entitled to a 
lower rate; lenders have  to consider  context  and individual circumstances  in all cases. Most 
lenders, when asked  to provide a new rate to a borrower with an arrears history, require the 
arrears to be cleared  in full and then the mortgage kept up to date and arrears -free for a 
minimum period (a year is not untypical) before theyll consider offering a new rate. 
Thats because most rate deals come with an early  repayment charge (ERC) if the mortgage 
ends during the term of the deal.  If a borrower still couldnt afford the payment  under a new 
deal, they might still be at risk of the property being taken into possession  and then sold. If 
that happened, then the ERC clause would be activated resulting in an extra  amount being  
added to the closing balance on sale. 
Ref: DRN00269073So lenders  typically  guard against  that risk by insisting on an arrears-free period before 
considering a new rate deal. Thats what Santander did in 2017, and when Mrs T contacted 
it a year later in 2018, Santander did offer new rate options for Mr T to consider. In that 
context, Santander  did what  Id expect to do  and what the regulator  requires  it to do.
Capitalisation of arrears is a concession, and an onerous one at that. It permanently 
increases the mortgage balance by the amount of the arrears, and commits the borrower  to 
repaying that higher balance over the mortgage term, with all the extra interest  that goes 
with it. For that reason,  lenders  tend to have strict  qualifying  criteria; as an example, its not 
untypical for borrowers to be required to pay the full contractual  payment in full and on time 
for a minimum of twelve consecutive months.  Even if that is achieved, it doesnt  guarantee 
capitalisation will be approved; its merely  a pre-condition before lenders will even consider 
it.
All that leaves is a term extension; that helps in the short-term, because it makes  the 
monthly payment  lower  and theoretically more affordable. But the trade-off for that is that the 
loan is repaid more  slowly, and attracts more interest as a result,  meaning  the lifetime  cost of 
the mortgage is substantially higher. So lenders tend not to agree term extensions  lightly,  
and they are extremely reluctant to agree them twice. Santander did grant Mr T a term 
extension in 2011; I cant fairly say that not granting him a second  one (or indeed  not 
granting any of the other concessions Mrs T has listed) meant it treated him unfairly.
It seems  Mrs T didnt  think Santander had treated Mr T unfairly during his time in arrears 
when she spoke to it in March 2018  and described the business as having been  very 
co-operative. Its not clear what changed her mind after that; not least  because she hasnt 
told us. Everything  has a context, and the fact that Mr Ts mortgage was in arrears for six 
years without his lender  enforcing its security  is an indication that it showed him 
considerable patience and forbearance.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint. My final 
decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be 
engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T (or Mrs T on 
his behalf) to accept  or reject  my decision before 21 December  2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0026907