K822xcomplaint
Mr B complains about the quality of a car he acquired under a finance agreement with 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited.
background 
Mr B entered into a hire purchase  agreement with Volkswagen to acquire a new car in 
August 2017. Mr B experienced problems with the car and he returned the ar to the 
dealership in October  2017.  The car seat was raised on 11 October  2017 and a problem was 
found with the heat mat being fitted  incorrectly.  This was replaced and rebuilt.  Mr B also 
raised an issue  regarding a scratch on the wheel arch.  The dealership  offered to repair  it as 
a goodwill gesture. Mr B also said there were problems with the fuse box being fitted  
incorrectly, damage to the steering wheel, a rattling noise in the car, a burning smell and an 
invisible dent to the car body.
Volkswagen said it had investigated  the burning  smell and it could not find a fault. It would 
look at the car again. Volkswagen asked Mr B to return  the car to the dealership  for further  
investigation. 
Mr B is unhappy that the car still has problems even after repairs have  been  carried  out. He 
brought a complaint to us to consider. 
Volkswagen offered to conduct  an independent inspection of the car and this was carried out 
on 8 March 2019 by an independent company. The report concluded that:  
The burning smell, wheel arch damage and steering wheel damage are no longer  
issues.  
The invisible dent is present  on the offside rear pillar but it is not reasonable to be 
able to presume when  this dent/crease  occurred.   
A rattle in the boot is present and would need further investigation to determine the 
source.  
The fuse box on the right edge of the dashboard panel is distorted or incorrectly fitted 
and requires rectification. 
The passenger seat base cover  appears to be wrinkled/creased in that it appears to 
have stretched and is loose. 
The engineer suggested replacement and further inspection. 
The investigator noted that Mr B complained about the car soon after he acquired it. 
Attempts to solve the problems with the car had not been successful. 
The conclusions  of the recent independent inspection indicate that some issues have been 
resolved and others may not have been  present at the time of sale. The seat and fuse 
issues remain. Repairs to the seat have been  unsuccessful. 
Ref: DRN05447712The investigator noted that the car was new when Mr B acquired  it. She considered Mr B 
should be allowed to reject the car as attempts  to repair it had been unsuccessful. 
Alternatively, Mr B should be offered a like for like exchange as this is something Mr B has 
said he will consider. 
The investigator recommended that if the car is rejected, Volkswagen should  collect  it at no 
cost to Mr B and end the finance  agreement. Any deposit should be refunded  with interest. 
If a like for like exchange  happens, the finance  agreement should continue with any 
reasonable adjustments made for differences between the cars. 
The investigator  considered Volkswagen should  pay Mr B £100 for distress  and 
inconvenience. She did not recommend that Mr B should receive a refund of his monthly 
payments as Mr B has had use of the car. 
Volkswagen responded to say that as the car is 18 months old, it would be difficult to find a 
like for like replacement. It is happy for Mr B to reject the car. 
Mr B was not happy to accept the investigators recommendation. He said,  in summary, 
that he would like to exchange the car for a different one. Mr B should receive a refund of 
the sums  he has paid as the car has had problems in the time he has had it. 
The investigator responded to say that a rejection  should put Mr B back in the position he 
would have been if he had not entered  into the agreement. Mr Bs car had not been off the 
road for a substantial period of time so a refund of monthly payments was not 
recommended. 
Mr B said he had not had full use of the car and had only driven it for 5,000  miles in 18 
months. He would  like a full or partial refund of the payments he made under the 
agreement. Mr B would  like Volkswagen to upgrade the car if it is replaced. 
The investigator  asked  Volkswagen if it would  refund 20% of the monthly payments as Mr 
B has not driven  the car much in 18 months. 
Volkswagen said the issues  have  not prevented Mr B using the car. It offered 5% refund of 
the monthly  payments. Mr B is not happy  to accept  this. He says the dealership  did not 
treat him fairly due to his ethnicity.  Mr B points out he experienced problems with the car 
shortly after acquiring it.  
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 11 July 2019. In it I said:
The relevant legislation here is the Consumer Rights  Act, 2015. In summary, this says that
an item should be of satisfactory quality  when  supplied. And that is defined as being what  a 
reasonable person would think was satisfactory. This includes  being  free from minor 
defects  and having durability. I note Mr B acquired  a new car for approximately  £36,000.
Ref: DRN05447713The position  with unsatisfactory  'new'  goods is normally to allow the supplier an option to try 
and repair the problem  initially.  If that doesn't fix the issue,  then rejection of the goods 
should  be considered. The final option would usually be rejection.
It is not in dispute that the car had problems  shortly  after Mr B acquired it. The car has 
been  repaired on at least  two occasions but there were still problems with it. I find the car 
did have  problems  at the point  of supply. It was not of satisfactory quality when  it was 
supplied to Mr B.
Volkswagen has said it is happy for Mr B to reject the car. It has said it will be difficult  
to replace it for a like for like model as the car is over 18 months old.
Mr B would like to have  the car replaced  with a better model.  Volkswagen will not agree  
to this. I consider it would not be a fair option for Mr B to receive  a better model of car. 
Mr B should be placed  in the position  he would have been if the car had not had faults. 
This means  it would not be fair for him to be provided with a better car.
I'm aware more than one option has been discussed previously by the investigator. An 
ombudsman's  final decision has to be one that can be implemented by Volkswagen. So 
it's important I set out clearly, what I think the right outcome is- that's fair and reasonable 
to both parties.
I note Volkswagen has said replacement  will be very difficult  given the age of the car. I 
find the only fair option is that Mr B to be allowed to reject the car. Mr B should be 
refunded any deposit  he has paid and the car should  be collected  at no cost to him. 
Interest should be paid at 8% simple  on any deposit since the date of payment to the date 
the car is collected.
Mr B would also like to receive  a refund of the payments he has made  under the 
agreement.  He says he has only been  able to drive the car for approximately  5,500 miles 
since acquiring  it. Volkswagen says the car's problems did not mean that Mr B could not 
drive it. It will
refund 5% of the payments Mr B has made under  the hire purchase agreement.
Mr B may have chosen not to drive the car, but I find it could  have  been driven with the 
remaining faults. They  did not make the car unroadworthy, or unsafe to drive. I find that it 
is fair for Volkswagen to refund Mr B 5% of the payments he has made  under  the 
agreement.
I am very sorry to hear that Mr B feels he has not been treated fairly by the dealership.  
Complaints about the service received by the dealership,  as the investigator has 
explained,  are not financially  regulated  activities. Mr B should complain directly to the 
dealership but if he's still dissatisfied he can refer his complaint to the Motor Ombudsman.
responses to my provisional  decision
Volkswagen said it agreed with my suggested  outcome. It asked if I could  note that any 
appropriate excess mileage can be charged,  as well as any refurbishment costs in line with 
BVRLA guidelines. Such matters  do not fall within  the complaint I have considered so I 
cannot make any findings on whether such issues arise or not. I have seen a photo of the 
cars mileage which Mr B sent to us in May 2019 which indicated the car had a low mileage 
of just over 5,000 miles at that time. Any charges which  arise from damage or excess 
mileage are not affected by the outcome of my decision. 
Ref: DRN05447714Mr B replied  to say he would like a refund of more than 5% of the sums  he has paid under 
the agreement.  I do not however consider  any additional sums should be refunded for the 
reasons I have  set out above. The car was not unroadworthy  despite  the outstanding issues, 
and it could be driven safely.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I find no reason  to depart from the 
findings set out in my provisional decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im upholding the complaint.
Im ordering  Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited to:
1. End the agreement  with nothing further  for Mr B to pay. 
2. Arrange for the collection  of the vehicle at no cost to Mr B.
3. Refund any deposit paid.
4. Refund 5% of monthly payments made  by Mr B since  he entered into the agreement to 
date of termination - to reflect  impaired use.
6. Subject to the payment of all sums  and charges  due, to make arrangements  to have all 
details of the agreement removed from Mr Bs credit file.
Simple interest at the rate of 8% per year should  be added to items 3 and 4 above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 October  2019.
Rosemary Lloyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0544771