K820x#14complaint
F, a limited company, complains about  the way TSB Bank plc dealt with its business  
account. F is represented by its director, who Ill call Mr W. 
background
F has a business account with TSB with an overdraft  facility. Mr W says TSB pressured him 
into agreeing to reduce the overdraft  and having  six monthly reviews of the overdraft. He 
says the overdraft should remain at the current level and be reviewed after 12 months. Mr W 
is also unhappy that Fs account is with a branch 400 miles away and he has to contact  TSB 
by telephone. Hed like to be assigned a manager at a local branch. Mr W says he feels TSB 
is working against him and not with him. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld, saying:
TSB is entitled to decide whether to offer lending facilities  to a customer.  It made a 
commercial decision to reduce its lending to F. 
TSB is entitled to decide how it provides services to its customers. We cant require it to 
offer face to face services.
TSB used its commercial discretion when making decisions about its lending  to F. It 
hadnt treated  F differently  to other  customers. And its service hadnt fallen below what 
wed expect to see.
F didnt agree. Mr W said just because a business follows its own terms and conditions, this 
doesnt absolve it from behaving  badly.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
the overdraft facility
Mr W says Fs overdraft  facility used to be reviewed annually. He says hes been forced to 
accept more frequent reviews and a reduction  in the overdraft limit. He says TSB didnt take 
into account his cash flow projections  when  deciding to reduce the overdraft.
Overdrafts are repayable  on demand   and the terms  and conditions  of Fs account make 
this clear. TSB is entitled  to make commercial  decisions about lending  to customers. It made 
a decision about  the amount of the overdraft facility it will offer F and how often this will be 
reviewed. TSBs notes  suggest it reviewed the financial information Mr W provided and 
discussed the situation with him. I appreciate that Mr W doesnt  agree with TSBs decision,  
but I cant reasonably  require  it to offer an overdraft facility to F on different terms.
Ref: DRN09828022telephone based services
Mr W says a telephone  based service  is incompatible with business banking. Hed prefer  a 
manager at his local branch who he can contact or visit and who understands Fs business.  
I understand Mr Ws concerns. But TSB is entitled  to decide how it provides services  to its 
customers. I cant reasonably require it to offer a branch based service  to F. 
TSBs service
Mr W is unhappy with the way TSB offers its services.  He says its not enough for TSB to 
comply with its own terms and conditions. He feels TSB isnt working with him.
I know that Mr W will be disappointed. But I cant reasonably require TSB to change  the way 
it offers banking services  to its customers.  Mr W doesnt agree with the decisions TSB made. 
But I cant see that TSB made an error  when making  these decisions.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0982802