K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains about the customer service he received from AWP Assistance UK Ltd 
(AWP) when he enquired  about an extended warranty  for his car. He said he hadnt received 
a written response to his complaint as promised by AWP, or policy  documents.
background
AWP said it offers different levels of extended warranty  cover  and these  werent properly 
explained to Mr H during his call and he wasnt offered  an email. AWP said it sent a final 
response to Mr Hs complaint and is sorry this wasnt received. AWP offered Mr H a total of 
£100 compensation for the poor service  he received.
Mr H said this wasnt fair as AWP hadnt dealt  with his many  concerns and communicated 
with him inappropriately and inaccurately . Mr H said AWP hasnt trained its staff properly and 
should take disciplinary action against them. He said he doesnt have the required warranty  
cover for his car because of AWPs actions  and it didnt respond  to his Subject  Access 
Request (SAR).
The investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  She said Mr H will have to raise  
his complaint about his SAR with Information Commissioners Office. The investigator said 
our service  cant  recommend AWP take disciplinary actions against their employees;  this is 
something theyd need  to consider for themselves.
The investigator said Mr Hs call to AWP could have  gone better and this was acknowledged 
by AWP. She said AWPs offer of £100  compensation  was in line with what our service  
would recommend for this type of complaint. She said AWP also allowed a grace period for 
Mr H to buy the cover back-dated to start on 31 January 2019.
Mr H rejected the investigators  findings saying his complaint remained unresolved and 
should be passed to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I have looked  carefully  at the customer service AWP provided to Mr H to see if it has treated 
him fairly and reasonably, and if not what it should  do to put matters right.
Mr H called AWP on 14 January 2019 to enquire  about renewing his extended warranty.  Its 
clear that this call could have been  better  handled by AWP and Mr H wasnt given all of the 
information he needed to decide on whether  or not to extend his motor warranty.
Im pleased that AWP has apologised to Mr H for its poor service  and offered  him £100 
compensation. And that it offered a grace period in which Mr H could extend his warranty.
I have seen a copy of AWPs response to Mr Hs complaint of 17 January 2019  and 
evidence that it was sent. Its disappointing  that this wasnt received by Mr H but we have to 
be guided by evidence  of dispatch  as we could never be certain if a letter was received or 
not. AWP has sent Mr H all of the material it held about  him at his request  in response to his 
Ref: DRN01564402SAR. If Mr H remains unhappy  about  this he should  contact  the Information  Commissioners 
Office.
Our role is not to punish  a business  as that is the role of the financial regulator, the Financial 
Conduct Authority.  We seek  to put things right if a business has made an error.  Having 
looked at what  has happened, I think AWP have done enough to put things right in terms of 
the customer service Mr H received.  I recommend that Mr H accepts the compensation of 
£100 offered by AWP.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given it is my final decision that the complaint  is not upheld.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 September  2019.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0156440