K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain Clydesdale Bank Plc didnt  give them  proper notice their mortgage  
term was coming to an end or ask them how theyd repay what  theyd  borrowed.
background
Mr and Mrs H took out an interest only mortgage  with a term of 12 years  with Clydesdale in 
around September 2006. It was due to come to an end in September 2018.  Mr and Mrs H 
werent able to repay the mortgage  when the term ended. But Clydesdale  agreed to extend  
the term by a year to give them  time to sell their house.
Mr and Mrs H complained  to Clydesdale that it hadnt given  them proper notice that the term 
of their mortgage was coming to an end. They say if theyd  given  them notice sooner, theyd 
have put the house  on the market  then and got a higher price  for it than theyre  able to get 
now.
Clydesdale didnt uphold  Mr and Mrs Hs complaint so they brought it to this service.  Our 
investigator didnt  think  Clydesdale had done anything  wrong  so the matters  been referred 
to me to review afresh. For reasons Ill explain,  I agree  with our investigator.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs H argue its unreasonable  to expect them to remember  the term of their 
mortgage. They say it wasnt  clear from the information theyve been sent and other lenders  
set things out more  clearly. They  dont think Clydesdales followed Financial Conduct 
Authority guidance  about making  information clear and treating customers fairly.
A lender must take reasonable steps to communicate information to its customers  in a way 
thats clear,  fair and not misleading. 
Mr and Mrs H took out their mortgage with Clydesdale via a broker. I would expect the 
broker to have explained the terms of the mortgage  to Mr and Mrs H. But even if it didnt,  I 
think Mr and Mrs H wouldve  known from the mortgage offer when the mortgage would end 
and what theyd need to repay when it did.
The mortgage offer stated  clearly the mortgage  was interest only and for a term of 12 years. 
It set out Mr and Mrs H would owe around £800,000 at the end of the term and theyd need 
to make separate arrangements  to repay  that amount. The offer said Mr and Mrs H should  
check the performance of any investments they intended to use for this. And the offer noted  
Mr and Mrs H intended to use pension  plans to repay the capital. So I think  theyd thought  
about how they would repay when the term ended.  And it was their responsibility, not 
Clydesdales, to make  sure they could repay  the mortgage at the end of the term.
During the mortgage term Clydesdale sent regular annual statements to Mr and Mrs H. From 
at least 2011 onwards  the statements set out amongst other things,
the mortgage was interest only
the balance  outstanding
Ref: DRN03591062the years  and months left before the amount outstanding would be due to be repaid
it was important to check regularly that any repayment vehicle  was on track  to repay 
the mortgage at the end of the term 
I think the statements  were clear about what Mr and Mrs H would have to repay at the end of 
the term and when the term would come to an end even if, as theyve said,  the 2017 
statement didnt reach them.  And they were reminded to make  sure they had the means to 
repay the mortgage at the end of the term.
Clydesdale says it wrote  to Mr and Mrs H around six months before their mortgage term 
ended. Its good practice  for lenders to send earlier and more regular reminders than that, in 
addition to sending  statements. So I would  expect Clydesdale to have written  to 
Mr and Mrs H more often and sooner to remind to Mr and Mrs H when theyd need to repay 
the loan.
One balance though  I think  Mr and Mrs H were given information that was clear, fair and not 
misleading about when their mortgage term ended. 
 
When Mr and Mrs H werent able to repay  the mortgage at the end of the term, Clydesdale 
agreed to extend  the term of the mortgage by a year to give them  time to sell the house. 
Theres no contractual right to a term extension so I think Clydesdale treated Mr and Mrs H 
fairly by agreeing  to this. Its unfortunate Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage came  to an end and they 
had to sell at a time when  theres been a downturn in the property market. But Clydesdale 
isnt responsible for this or any loss of value Mr and Mrs H may suffer on the sale of the 
house as a result.
Bearing all the circumstances in mind I dont  uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. 
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 April 2019.
Julia Wilkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0359106