K820x#14complaint
Mr T has complained about Admiral  Insurance Company Limiteds  handling of a claim he 
made under his car insurance policy. 
background
Mr T made a claim to his insurer,  Admiral on 6 August 2018. It passed  Mr T to a non fault 
service provider  also known as a Credit  Hire Company (CHC). It intended to deal with 
Mr Ts claim instead  of him having  to claim under his policy with Admiral.  
On 26 September  2018 the CHC passed  Mr Ts case back to Admiral  to deal with the claim 
under his policy. Mr T didnt want to deal with the CHC. 
In October  2018 Admiral  paid Mr T a total loss valuation for his car as it wasnt economical  to 
repair it. Mr T made a number of complaints. He was unhappy with the length of time it took 
to settle his claim. He said staff had been rude and unprofessional. He didnt believe the 
valuation Admiral paid was fair. Mr T said Admiral didnt take into account modifications and 
extras included. 
In November 2018 Admiral didnt uphold  Mr Ts complaint. 
Mr T told us that Admiral intended to deduct a salvage fee from the total loss settlement as 
he wanted to arrange salvage  himself. He was unhappy that his car hire costs  hadnt been 
reimbursed.
Mr T wanted Admiral to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience  it had caused 
him. He wanted it to pay a fair settlement  and to release his car to him. He said he hadnt 
been able to collect items hed left in his car.
Our investigator didnt  recommend Mr Ts complaint should be upheld. He thought Admiral 
had paid a fair market  value in line with the policy and our approach. He didnt think it had 
caused undue delay and there was no evidence of poor customer  service or that staff had 
been rude or unprofessional. The investigator thought it was reasonable for Admiral  to 
deduct a salvage fee - and the policy explained  that it didnt include modifications when 
deciding a valuation.  
Mr T didnt  agree. He said we havent addressed his complaint that he hasnt been 
reimbursed for car hire costs. Mr T said the fact is the CHC offered a higher valuation  for his 
car  so his complaint is that Admiral didnt honour  this valuation. He doesnt agree that the 
extras on his car should  be classed as modifications. Mr T would like a copy  of the policy 
wording where Admiral explains how it decides a salvage fee. Mr T said he wasnt  given the 
opportunity to collect his personal items  from his car. We hadnt addressed his complaint 
about the service  he received from the CHC.
In September  2019 the investigator issued a follow up view to Mr T. He explained  that this 
service is unable to look at Mr Ts complaint about the CHC and his claim for uninsured 
losses. We can only look at his complaint about how his insurer,  Admiral dealt with the claim 
when it became involved. He explained  that Mr T can make a separate  complaint to the CHC 
involved. 
Mr T hasnt  provided any further comments.  So the case has been passed to me to decide.
Ref: DRN03088692my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why.
Mr Ts complaint is partly about the actions  of the insurer  Admiral  and a CHC. Admiral has 
provided recordings of the key calls. When Mr T reported the incident to Admiral, it offered 
him the service of a CHC as an alternative to claiming under his own insurance policy which  
Mr T accepted. 
There are benefits to using a CHC such  as being provided with a hire car  normally  like for 
like  and/or  repairs  to their car which is paid for usually  under  a separate finance  
agreement. The cost isnt normally met by the consumer.  Instead the CHC recovers  the cost 
from the at fault party.  The consumer doesnt need to pay their excess  as they arent 
claiming on their car insurance policy. 
Admiral explained  to Mr T that he could either  claim  under his policy or use the non fault 
service (CHC) whereby he wouldnt need to pay his excess. Mr T chose the non fault 
service. I think Admiral  gave Mr T enough  information to make an informed choice at this 
stage.
I understand Mr T didnt  want to deal with the CHC from 26 September 2018. So any 
complaint Mr T has about the service he received from the CHC up until this date hell need 
to raise with them as a separate business to Admiral. 
Ive found no evidence of delay or poor service by the staff of Admiral when dealing  with 
Mr Ts claim.  When  Admiral took over the claim under his policy,  it provided a valuation for 
his car as requested. Mr T didnt agree with it. As Admiral paid the total loss settlement 
within three weeks of dealing with the claim,  I think this was a reasonable timeframe. 
I cant comment on the valuation Mr T says he was given by the CHC of £15,000. Ive 
considered whether Admiral reached  its valuation reasonably and in line with the policy.  
Mr Ts policy says the most Admiral will pay in the event of a claim is the market  value for his 
car. It defines market  value as the cost of replacing the car with one of a similar  make, 
model, year, mileage  and condition based  on market prices at the time of the loss. 
We have a long standing approach to valuation complaints. We dont decide a valuation  
but we find the main  motor trade  guides are a reliable  to way to reach  a fair value. They  
provide retail  valuations  based on likely  selling  prices for the month of loss. 
Admiral applied the same approach and from the guides it looked  at, the highest one came 
to £14,250. Where an insurer has paid within the range of the guides,  we usually find this is 
reasonable. Admiral  paid the highest of the guides  in this case. 
Mr T said his car had a dog cage, side steps and updated SATNAV software. He therefore 
doesnt agree that these items should  be classed as modifications. Mr T said they should 
have been taken into consideration in Admirals valuation. Admirals policy defines 
modifications as any changes to the standard specification including accessories and 
additional parts. 
Ref: DRN03088693The policy specifically excludes  cover  in the following circumstances: 
If you make  a claim for loss or damage to your car, provided it is economical to do 
so, we will only pay the cost of replacing  parts needed for your car to meet  the 
manufacturers specification along with any optional  extras and/or disability 
adaptations you declared.
I think Admiral  decided  its valuation in a fair way.
Admiral hasnt set out under the policy that it will deduct a salvage fee in the event that a 
consumer wishes to retain his car. We dont think the absence  of this is necessarily wrong  
as the purpose  of the policy is to provide insurance  cover. As Admiral  has met its obligations 
under the policy  by paying the market value for the total loss of the car, the property (the car) 
would usually become theirs. So if a customer wants to retain  the car  as well as receiving  
a total loss sum for it  we think its reasonable for an insurer  to deduct what  it would 
otherwise have received when arranging disposal of the salvage. Otherwise a customer has 
received a total loss settlement and also kept their car. 
I understand Mr T made  his own arrangements for his car to be salvaged.  He told us he 
could get a better deal from a third party. This was after Admiral replied to his complaint in 
November 2018.  In January 2019 Admiral  wrote to Mr T to confirm the total loss settlement 
of £14,250. It said as Mr T wanted  to retain  his car; hed need to pay the appropriate salvage 
fee to the salvage agent on release. I dont think Admirals approach  here was 
unreasonable. 
Mr T is unhappy  that he hasnt been  reimbursed for car hire costs  and that he wasnt given 
the opportunity  to collect items in his car. These arent issues  covered under the complaint 
Admiral dealt with in November 2018. Its not clear  to me if these are issues  that Mr T may 
need to raise with the CHC or Admiral   or if hes provided either business with receipts for 
their consideration. Mr T can raise these issues either with the CHC  or ask Admiral to 
respond to these complaints. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 November  2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0308869