K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Bank  of Scotland plc (Halifax) is holding him liable for the outstanding 
debt on a joint account that he asked  it to close nearly 15 years ago.
background
Mr K says he asked Halifax to close his joint bank account in 2005,  but he recently found out 
that the account remained open until 2011 and hes now being held liable for the outstanding 
debt on the joint account.
Mr K told us:
Halifax contacted  him in November 2018 to tell him hed been given a refund in 
relation to a joint bank  account  that he thought  had been  closed in 2005. The letter  
also confirmed that the account had an outstanding debt of just over £1,100  and that 
he was liable for it.
He contacted the bank and they acknowledged  the poor service hed been  given.  He 
says the bank accepted that I had contacted them in 2005 and can only apologise 
that they didnt  do what  they said they would do at the time and close  the account as 
per my telephone conversation with them.  And it offered him £250 for the poor 
service hed experienced in 2005.
Its not right that the bank can make  a mistake like this and accept responsibility for it 
on the one hand,  but then, on the other  hand, hold him responsible for the debt that 
has accrued since. He says the bank made the mistake,  but he has to pay for it.
Halifax rejected this complaint. It says the account  was opened in January 2003 and it 
wasnt closed until November 2011. It says that because  more than six years have elapsed 
since the account was closed; it doesnt have all the paperwork or documentation about  the 
account. It says it has no record of any conversation with Mr K asking for the account to be 
closed or for his name  to be removed from it. And because the account was a joint account,  
and because Mr K was one of the account  holders  at the time the account closed, it can hold 
him liable for the outstanding debt. Halifax confirmed that it hadnt assigned  the debt to an 
external recover agent; so it wasnt pursuing him for payment  of the balance.  But it reserves 
the right to do so in the future. The bank also said that the £250  payment it had made to 
Mr K was for more  recent poor service issues, and not for the events  that Mr K said 
happened in 2005.
Our adjudicator looked as this complaint and said she didnt think  it should be upheld. She 
explained that the £250 compensation given by the bank was for the poor service  hed 
received recently;  the bank hadnt  admitted  any wrongdoing or mistake  in 2005. And she 
thought this was fair and reasonable. She told Mr K that without the other  account  holders 
permission, she wasnt able to examine  the account  statements  to understand how the 
balance had accrued. But, in any event,  as the account was held in joint names, either party  
could be pursued  for the outstanding debt.
Mr K disagreed so the complaint comes to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I have to tell Mr K that 
I think the adjudicator  has reached  the right outcome here.
Ref: DRN01812282I hope that Mr K wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed his complaint  in the way 
that I have.  Ours is an informal dispute resolution  service, and Ive concentrated on what  
I consider to be the crux of the complaint. Our rules allow me to do that. Mr K should note, 
however, that although I may not address each individual point that hes raised, I have given 
careful consideration to all of his submissions before arriving at my decision.
Neither Mr K nor Halifax  has been able to provide detailed evidence to confirm what  
happened. This isnt surprising given the account was opened nearly 17 years  ago; the 
events that Mr K speaks  of took place nearly 15 years ago; and Halifax closed the account 
eight years ago. But it does mean that I have to base my decision on what  I think  is more  
likely to have happened based on the information  and documentation  that I do have.
Mr K says he asked the bank to close the account in 2005.  Halifax  disagrees; it says it has 
no record of any such contact from Mr K. It says the account continued to operate  until it 
received a request to close the account  from the other account holder in 2011 and during 
this time it generated regular bank statements which it sent to Mr K as the first named 
account holder  at the registered  address  it had on file.
I accept Mr K may have  discussed closing the account with someone  at Halifax  he says 
the bank told him the account  would  need  to stay open until the names  on the mortgage had 
been changed  but I dont think, on balance,  that he formally asked to close  the account. I 
say this because  theres  no evidence of this and the bank continued to produce regular 
statements and sent these to the registered address - where either  Mr K or the other account 
hold were living. And if the account  shouldve been closed, I think its more likely that either  
Mr K or the other account holder wouldve notified the bank each time an account  statement 
was received.
Ive also considered whether Mr K mightve instead  asked to have  his name removed  from 
the joint account, but having considered this carefully, I dont think he did. Halifaxs terms 
and conditions say that if we open an account  for you jointly and you later wish to take 
someone offyou must all apply to do so. This suggests that Mr K and the other account 
holder wouldve both needed to contact the bank,  maybe even complete some  paperwork, 
and it would need to be agreed by the bank. Again, if such an application had been made 
and agreed by the bank, I think it unlikely Halifax wouldve continued to send regular account 
statements. And I think it likely that the other account holder wouldve complained to Halifax 
if Mr K remained a named  account  holder on an account that they thought he was no longer 
entitled to have access to.
So taking into account everything Ive seen  and read, Im satisfied that Mr K remained  a 
named party  on this joint account  until it closed  in November 2011.
Halifax says that at the time the account was closed,  there was an outstanding debt on the 
account of just over £1,100. Its terms and conditions  from this time confirm that Each  of you 
is separately responsiblewe can take action to recover the whole of any joint account debt 
from any one or more of you, even if you did not know about the debt. So Im satisfied that 
as a named party on the joint account,  Halifax is allowed to hold Mr K liable for the 
outstanding debt at the point the account was closed. He should note however, that the bank 
did say it wasnt currently pursuing him for repayment of the debt.
Ref: DRN01812283For the reasons  given,  I am not upholding this complaint. I know that Mr K will be 
disappointed with the outcome of his complaint  to this Service, but I hope  he understand why 
I have reached this conclusion.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 December  2019.
Andrew Macnamara
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0181228