K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain  that MedDen Financial Services LLP gave them unsuitable  advice to 
surrender their investment bonds causing them a financial loss.
background
I issued a provisional decision on 15 May 2020. I include this below.
provisional decision 
background
Mr and Mrs K were  existing customers of MedDen and met in December 2018 to discuss 
their existing bonds with company A and company W. MedDen advised them to surrender 
these bonds because of their low performance. To get a better return  on their investment, 
they recommended Mr and Mrs K invest £410,000  in Fixed Income Bonds with company 
C.
Mr and Mrs K say they followed MedDens advice  and surrendered their existing bonds. 
But they say MedDen didnt provide any written information on company C, so they 
decided not to proceed with investing  in the Fixed Income Bonds. They  later chose to 
reinvest in the same  bonds they had previously surrendered in companies A and W.
Mr and Mrs K say they followed MedDens advice  to surrender their existing investments 
only to receive a notification of chargeable events. They say MedDen didnt  check  their 
tax liabilities and incorrectly advised that there would be no chargeable event following 
the surrender  of their investments. They say theyve had to stop drawing down monthly 
income from other investments to reduce their tax liabilities for a period of twelve  months. 
They complained to MedDen, but a final response  letter was never issued so they brought  
their complaint to this service.
Mr and Mrs K also later contacted this service to say theyd received a payment demand 
from company C for the Overdue Subscription Amount of £410,000  in August 2019.
MedDen submitted a subscription agreement  to company C which  according to its terms 
constituted a legally binding agreement  to purchase  the Fixed Income Bonds. Mr and Mrs K 
say company C has issued legal proceedings against Mrs K as she in breach of her 
payment obligations specified in the subscription  agreement.
MedDen say they didnt give any advice on the investment  in company C and that Mr and 
Mrs K agreed to register an interest in the Fixed Income Bond at their meeting in December 
2018. They  proceeded to register  the interest in company C and say they didnt  expect this 
to lead to legal proceedings being issued  after Mr and Mrs K decided not to proceed with 
the investment.
Our investigator thought MedDen did give Mr and Mrs K advice in the December 2018  
meeting and that the advice was unsuitable.  She upheld  the complaint and directed 
MedDen to indemnify Mr and Mrs K against any legal  action  taken by company C.
MedDen didnt respond to the investigators  view so this has come to me for a final decision.
my provisional findings
Ref: DRN00524282Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, and based on what  
Ive seen so far, Im thinking of coming to a different conclusion to our investigator. Ill 
explain why.
did MedDen provide advice?
MedDen say they didnt provide any advice to Mr and Mrs K. They say an introductory 
meeting was set up in which  a discussion about a Fixed Income  Bond in company C was 
mentioned. Im not persuaded that this is correct. The evidence  Ive seen confirms that 
MedDen did provide a recommendation and this is confirmed in writing to Mr and Mrs K 
in January 2019. The email says I write in respect of our meeting of 11 December 2018 
and my recommendation of the (Company  C) Fixed Income Bond paying an annual  
return of 5.5%. I made this recommendation due to the poor return you had been 
experiencing on your current  bonds.
The recommendation made in the December 2018  meeting is what  constitutes regulated 
advice. It is clear from the meeting notes that Mr and Mrs K made and the later emails 
between both parties, that MedDen  did give advice  to surrender the existing bonds 
because of poor performance. It also gave advice  in relation to investing in company C so 
that the funds  from the surrendered bonds could be used for this investment.
An application to register an interest  in company C was also made following  this meeting 
in December 2018 so its clear the recommendation did take place. Mr and Mrs K decided  
not to proceed  with making the investment in company C, but that doesnt mean MedDen 
didnt give any advice.  Im satisfied with everything Ive seen that MedDen did give Mr and 
Mrs K advice on surrendering their existing bonds  and investing in company C.
suitability of advice
MedDen have confirmed that no suitability assessment was done  when they advised  
Mr and Mrs K to surrender their existing bonds. So, Ive looked at what information  
was available  about them to consider whether surrender of the existing bonds and 
advice to invest in company  C was suitable including  their attitude to risk, what their 
investment objectives  were and their knowledge  and understanding  of the investment.
Mr and Mrs K were  existing clients of MedDen so the history of their investments should 
have been available to them. MedDen should have  been able to establish  the level of 
experience theyve had in investments, their existing holdings and current  financial 
situation. It should also have known the level of risk they were prepared  to take, but no fact 
find or risk assessment appears to have been  done  before the advice to surrender the 
existing bonds  or reinvestment was given.
From what  Ive seen of Mr and Mrs Ks previous investments  and everything  theyve  said, 
they are cautious  investors who wanted a regular income. On the face of it, the bond 
recommended by MedDen in company C offers similar benefits and protection. But the 
bond is an unregulated product in a company  domiciled in Bermuda with interests in mining  
and agricultural investments in South Africa. It doesnt have the same regulatory protection  
as products based in the UK. Their previous investments were low risk investments based 
in the UK that were  spread across two different bonds, so the investments were much less 
exposed to risk.
Ref: DRN00524283MedDen advised  Mr and Mrs K to surrender their existing bonds  in company A and W and 
to invest all their money into one bond  in company C because  this investment came with a 
better rate of interest than their existing investments. The lack of diversification would itself 
have increased  the risk of the investment. I feel this exposed them to a greater risk and Im 
not persuaded this was in line with their attitude  to risk.
It was necessary to establish Mr and Mrs Ks investment  objectives  to understand whether 
the advice given was suitable. They say their objective was to achieve  a mixture of 
monthly income and capital growth and this is consistent with the investments they 
already held.
Whilst the investment  in company C did also provide for fixed  interest at a higher rate 
and monthly income,  the increased  level of risk it was exposed  to wasnt consistent with 
protecting their capital  investment.
I think MedDen didnt explain this increased risk of investing in an unregulated  overseas 
product. It is clear from the email communications between MedDen and Mr and Mrs K; 
that they didnt  understand  the risk involved. They initially accepted the advice and 
surrendered their existing  bonds but they repeatedly asked for further information about  
the new investment  which MedDen failed to provide.  They say they were not happy with 
the lack of information theyd received so made  the decision not to invest in company C.
Having reviewed everything thats  been said, the investment wasnt in line with their low 
attitude to risk and didnt  meet their objectives  to protect their capital investment. They  
didnt have experience with these  kinds of bonds and continued  to ask MedDen for more  
information. Its clear they didnt  understand the risks the investment  presented  and 
shouldnt have surrendered their existing bonds.  For these reasons, I think the advice  
Mr and Mrs K received to surrender their existing funds to invest  in company C was 
unsuitable.
tax implications
Mr and Mrs K say they wanted  to limit their tax liability; this was one of their objectives  and 
they specifically  asked MedDen about this. I have seen two emails  from MedDen in which 
they confirm that there has been  no chargeable event as a result  of the surrender of their 
existing investments. This was incorrect and as a result of surrendering the existing 
investments they did receive a chargeable event notice and have incurred additional tax 
liabilities.
They say they also had to stop drawing down monthly income  from other investments to 
reduce their tax liabilities for a period of twelve months. Theyve  also had to instruct an 
accountant to manage  this situation adding to the losses theyd already incurred as a 
result of the unsuitable  advice. This has all resulted in significant  distress and 
inconvenience to Mr and Mrs K. Their objective  clearly wasnt met, and I think  if theyd 
been given the correct  information, they wouldnt have surrendered their existing 
investments especially seeing as theyve  now reinvested in them.
Subscription Agreement  with company  C
In this provisional decision,  I have looked  at the unsuitable advice to invest  in company  C 
and the circumstances surrounding  it because  it did form part of the initial  advice given in 
Ref: DRN00524284December 2018.  But I want to be clear that I havent  considered the act of registering  of the 
subscription agreement  in company C and any subsequent losses as part of this complaint. 
I think this is separate  to the initial complaint brought to us about the unsuitable advice to 
surrender the existing  investments and the losses incurred as a result.
I dont think it is appropriate at this stage for me to make any determination in relation to 
the subscription agreement because the outcome of the court  proceedings is still 
uncertain.
Mr and Mrs K may want to complain  to MedDen once  the outcome and effects of the 
subscription agreement  are more certain. At that point, if that complaint cannot be 
resolved by MedDen then it does remain open for them to bring the complaint to us to 
consider, should  they decide  to do this.
what should MedDen do?
Aside from the financial loss theyve suffered,  Mr and Mrs K are unhappy with the way 
MedDen have handled their complaint. I can see that theyve experienced considerable 
distress and inconvenience since the initial advice  given in December 2018.  Theyve  
surrendered their existing  funds and then months later re-invested these and had to deal 
with a period of uncertainty.  Theyve  had to instruct an accountant  to deal with their 
additional tax liabilities  causing them stress  and worry as theyve had to make  changes to 
the funds they draw  down monthly.  This impacted on their lifestyle  for at least  period of 
twelve months. So, I feel in recognising the difficult situation they were  put in, it would be 
fair and reasonable for MedDen to pay Mr and Mrs K £750 for the distress and 
inconvenience theyve  suffered.
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr and Mrs K as close to 
the position they would probably be in now if they hadnt been  given  unsuitable advice. I 
dont think theyd have  surrendered the existing investments  but for the unsuitable advice 
MedDen had given them.  Additionally, they wouldnt have incurred expenses in re-investing 
their money or had to pay an accountant  to deal with their tax liability.
So, to put things right MedDen should pay Mr and Mrs K the following:-
a)The costs of reinvesting the funds after surrender of existing bonds - £9,091
b)Mr Ks tax liability in respect of the chargeable events associated with the 
investment in company A - £3,222.40
c)Mrs Ks tax liability in respect of the chargeable events associated with 
the investment  in company A- £3,222.40
d)Mr and Mrs Ks tax liability in respect  of the chargeable events associated  with 
the investment  in company W - £4,121.36
e)The growth that they would have received on the bond in Company  A in the 
period it was disinvested  this will need  to be calculated.
f)The growth that they would have received on the bond in Company  W in the 
period it was disinvested  this will need  to be calculated.
Ref: DRN00524285g)The cost of accountancy fees incurred  as a result of surrendering the bonds  
in company A and W - £1,266.
h)Pay Mr and Mrs K £750 for the distress and inconvenience theyve  suffered.
my provisional decision
I currently intend to uphold this complaint against  MedDen  Financial Services LLP and ask 
them to compensate Mr and Mrs K as detailed above.
Ill consider any comments I receive by the date specified before I issue  my final decision.
response to provisional decision
MedDen didnt respond to the comments in my provisional decision.  
Mr and Mrs K responded to clarify  that they hadnt  reinvested their shares in company A. 
They used funds  from both investments  to reinvest  all their money in company W. As there  
was still a period  before  the funds were reinvested, the outcome in my provisional  decision 
above remains the same. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I see no reason to depart from my provisional  findings above and make the same findings  
here.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold this complaint  against MedDen Financial Services  
LLP. They should compensate Mr and Mrs K as detailed above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 September 2020.
Naima Abdul-Rasool
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0052428