K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1999. Miss P says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax  (BOS) mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Ps case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Ive seen a copy  of Miss Ps mortgage application  form which  had a separate section for PPI. 
There was a Yes box to tick to add PPI and a No box to decline it. On Miss Ps form the Yes 
box has been ticked. There is a handwritten note requesting a benefit  amount of £200. She 
has signed this section of the form to confirm her selection in addition to signing for the 
mortgage itself.  Ive also seen Miss Ps separate PPI application form which had the cost set 
out and Miss P has also signed this form. 
There is nothing on these  forms  indicating  that the cover  was compulsory and she was given  
the option to decline cover. So, overall, I think BOS made it clear Miss P didnt have to take 
out the PPI and she chose to take it out. 
Miss P also feels BOS may have pressured  her to take the PPI. But other  than saying it 
mightve pressured her, she hasnt said much more  than this. Pressure can be subjective so 
Id need persuasive  evidence  to uphold the complaint on this basis.  But I havent heard any 
specific detail about what BOS said or did to put pressure on Miss P. Overall,  I havent seen 
enough to make me think BOS put pressure  on Miss P to take the PPI.  
BOS recommended the PPI to Miss P so it had to check  the PPI was right for her  and 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example, 
she was eligible for the policy and she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on 
the PPI cover. 
Based on what Ive seen,  Miss P also seems  to have had a need for the cover.  Miss P told 
us she had six months full sick pay followed by six months  half sick pay provided by her 
employer. Shes also said she had some savings available to help her meet her repayments 
should she have  found herself  unexpectedly out of work. 
But this policy wouldve paid out on top of her sick pay. It also couldve paid out for up to 12 
months if Miss P was unable to work because illness or injury   so potentially  longer than 
her full sick pay wouldve  lasted. It provided  up to 12 months  of cover for unemployment. 
And having the policy wouldve left her sick pay and savings available for Miss P to use on 
other essential expenditure. So I still think the PPI couldve been useful for her. 
Its possible the information BOS gave Miss P about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But I think she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover.  And 
it seems like it would have  been  useful for her if something went wrong.  It also looks like it 
was affordable. 
Ref: DRN02091352A mortgage is a long term and significant commitment  the consequence  of not being able 
to make repayments can be serious.  Based  on everything  Ive seen, I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover. 
Which means BOS doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss P.
But BOS  will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss P because: 
BOS got a high level of commission  and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss P about  that. Because  BOS  didnt tell Miss P, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, BOS has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
BOS has to pay back to Miss P any commission and profit  share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. BOS should also pay back to Miss P any extra  interest she paid 
because of that.
BOS should pay back to Miss P the extra  she paid each  month  because  the commission and 
profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. BOS  should also pay Miss P 8%* 
simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Miss P can claim back  the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Miss P. But Bank of Scotland plc does have to pay back to Miss P any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 February  2019.
Asma Begum
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0209135