K821x#15complaint
Mrs G has complained that Close Asset Management Limited should have advised her to 
join her employers occupational pension scheme (OPS) when she took advice from them in 
2005.
background
Mrs G took financial advice from Close in 2005.  She had recently sold her home  and had 
cash to invest. Close  completed a fact-find  and then gave advice which largely focussed on 
inheritance tax issues. The advice included recommending a whole-of-life insurance  policy  
and an investment bond which would  be used to fund the premiums of that policy.
Close took details  of Mrs Gs employment  and noted  that she wasnt in a pension scheme 
but it didnt advise her to join the OPS she was eligible to join.
Mrs G says that although she had commenced this employment shortly before she took 
advice in 2005, she had decided not to join the OPS given the contributions  necessary on 
her relatively low salary.
Our adjudicator said that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that Close  should  have  
advised her to join the OPS and had it done  so she probably would have.
Close didnt agree. It said the scope of its advice was limited  and didnt include pension  
advice.
As no agreement was reached  the case has been  passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicator. I uphold  this complaint and Ill explain why.
Close knew that Mrs G was eligible to join the OPS but hadnt done so. The fact-find 
completed in 2005 noted  that pension planning wasnt  a priority for her and that she could 
draw as much income as she requires from a trust fund. But the same  fact-find  also noted 
that pension planning was a low priority,  four on a scale of one to five.
So although  pension planning wasnt a major issue for Mrs G at the time and given her other 
circumstances, I think  it was something that could and should  have been considered. Mrs G 
as a lay person may not have appreciated the full benefits of joining the OPS.  Joining it 
would have helped  her in reaching her main objective of securing  a legacy for her children 
as it would have  provided another income  stream in retirement which would  have reduced  
her reliance on her own assets  and the trust fund  which her children were beneficiaries of. 
It would have been a simple matter for Close to recommend that she reconsider  her decision 
not to opt into the OPS. Given that she apparently  had flexibility to increase her income from 
the trust fund, the pension contributions should not have prevented her from joining the 
OPS. 
Ref: DRN03665232Close says that the scope  of its advice was limited.  The recommendation letter  from October 
2005 says that advice  will address the areas mentioned within the letter. It also says the 
following:
My advice is limited  solely to your objectives  set out below and is not intended to be a full 
financial review.
But the fact-find from the meeting that preceded this letter had, although somewhat 
ambiguously, noted that pension planning was a priority even if it was a low priority.  Other  
financial issues were considered and determined as not being a priority at all.
The terms of business set out the extent of the relationship between Mrs G and Close.  
These said that:
Unless confirmed in writing, to the contrary, we will assume that you do not wish to place 
any restrictions on the advice we give you.
Apart from the opening statement in the letter, theres no evidence  that any restrictions were  
placed on the advice. Mrs G accepted the advice that Close did provide and so I think its 
likely that if she had been advised to join the OPS she would have done so.
fair compensation
Close should put Mrs G back  into the position (or as close to as possible) she would now be 
in but for the lack of advice. Close should  therefore  undertake a redress calculation  in line 
with the revised  methodology issued  by the Financial Conduct Authority in October 2017. If 
this demonstrates a loss we would usually expect the compensation amount to be paid into 
Mrs Gs pension plan. Any payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available  
tax relief. Any compensation should  not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with 
any existing protection  or allowance.
However, if Mrs G does  not have a pension plan to pay in to or if there are protection  or 
allowance implications, it should be paid directly to Mrs G as a lump sum after making a 
deduction to reflect the rate of income tax Mrs G pays  in retirement. This is because the 
payment would otherwise have been used to provide pension benefits, which would have 
been taxed according to her likely tax paying status  in retirement. Close  will need to confirm 
with Mrs G the rate applicable to her.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  about Close Asset Management Limited. It must calculate and pay 
redress as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0366523