K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs B say Bradford & Bingley Plc (B&B)  mis-sold them  a mortgage  payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs B applied  to take out a PPI policy to protect the repayments on their joint further 
mortgage advance  in 1988.  They paid a monthly premium for the PPI, which covered Mr B 
for accident and sickness.
 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  Mr and Mrs B disagreed,  so the 
complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  
Mr and Mrs Bs case. 
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Ive looked at whether Mr and Mrs B were  pressured into taking  out the PPI but I havent 
seen anything to show thats likely what happened. Ive also looked into whether they were 
given a choice  about buying  PPI and were told it was optional.  Ive seen a copy of the 
relevant part of their signed mortgage application  form. The form included  a section on PPI 
and gave them the option to say whether or not they wanted PPI. I can see that the word 
YES was handwritten  in the box to ask for PPI. 
I cant say for sure what  Mr and Mrs B might have been told at their meeting but I think B&B 
made them aware PPI was separate to the mortgage  and that they had a choice about 
buying it. And it seems  they chose to take it out. 
From the information Ive seen I dont think B&B recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs B, so 
it didnt have to check if it was right for them. But it still should have given them  clear  
information so they could  make up their own minds about whether it was right for them.  
I cant say for sure whether B&B did that. But I dont  think any information about the PPI 
would have made a difference  to their decision to buy it, based on what  Ive seen  of their 
circumstances at the time. I say that because,  for example:
Mr B was eligible  for the PPI. The PPI had certain restrictions and limitations to the 
cover it provided but I cant see that he would have been affected by them at the time 
of the sale.
Mr B was entitled to sick pay for a limited  time.  The PPI benefits  would  have paid out 
on top of anything he got and potentially until the end of the mortgage. Mr and Mrs B 
say they also had savings or insurance they could have  used if Mr B was off work. 
But the PPI benefits  would have  allowed them  to use those provisions to cover  their 
other expenses if Mr B wasnt working. So I believe they would have thought the PPI 
Ref: DRN08335302provided them with useful additional protection  especially given the serious 
consequences of defaulting on a debt secured  against their home. 
Although I cant see that the monthly premium  of £3.50  was made clear to Mr and 
Mrs B, I dont  think it would have put them  off the PPI. And the PPI was flexible in 
that they could  have  cancelled it at any time if they decided  they no longer wanted it.
Which means B&B doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs B. But 
B&B will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs B because:
B&B got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mr and Mrs B about that. Because B&B didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs B, that was unfair. 
To put that right, B&Bs basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think  that offers  fair in this 
case.
 
what the business needs  to do
B&B has to pay back to Mr and Mrs B any commission and profit share  it got that was more  
than 50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt  already  done so. B&B should  also pay back to Mr 
and Mrs B any extra interest they paid because of that.
B&B should  pay back to Mr and Mrs B the extra  they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. B&B should  also 
pay Mr and Mrs B 8%* simple interest  on each payment (15% on payments before April 
1993).
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs B can claim back the tax if they dont  pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bradford & Bingley Plc doesnt  have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs B.
But Bradford  & Bingley Plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs B any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium,  if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 May 2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0833530