K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Great Lakes  Insurance SE wont pay his wedding insurance  claim  and 
about its service. My references  to Great Lakes include its agents.
background
Mr D was due to get married in June 2017 and the arrangements were made from 
April 2016. In May 2016 Mr Ds mother was diagnosed with pancreatic  cancer  and she had 
surgery in June 2016.
In July 2016 Mr D took out wedding insurance with Great Lakes. Unfortunately  his mothers 
health deteriorated. The wedding was cancelled and he made a claim in April 2017. Very 
sadly, Mr Ds mother died from cancer  soon after.
Great Lakes declined the claim.  A general exclusion in the policy excluded circumstances of 
which (Mr D was) aware at the time he took out the policy.  Great Lakes said when Mr D took 
out the policy he was aware  of his mother's condition which may potentially  result in a claim.
Mr D complained to us. He wants the claim paid and an explanation as to why the decline 
took so long. 
On the claim, Mr D said Great Lakes reliance  on a general exclusion was revealing.  The 
policy specifically excluded claims If anyone  has been given a terminal prognosis or If 
anyone is on a waiting  list for hospital  treatment, awaiting  results of tests  or medical 
investigations that could result in them not being  able to attend the wedding. Mr D thought 
Great Lakes couldnt  rely on those specific exclusions. He said given his mothers situation 
hed carefully reviewed different policies wording around cancellation due to sickness and 
hed taken out the policy as it has less broad specific exclusions than other policies. He said 
it wasnt fair for Great  Lakes to rely on the general  exclusion  as he wasnt aware his mother  
would have passed away by the time of his wedding a year later.
Mr D also said Great Lakes had taken 10 months to decline  the claim which was too long 
and added to his stress at an already terribly  distressing  time.
Our investigator thought Great Lakes had acted  fairly in declining  the claim and hadnt 
unnecessarily delayed making its decision.
Mr D disagrees  and wants an ombudsmans  decision. He obtained his late mother medical 
records and he detailed  how he thought they supported his complaint. In summary he said 
there was no mention  of chemotherapy after the operation which  had looked to be 
successful. There wasnt evidence of probable  metastatic cancer until September 2016 and 
it was the reoccurrence  of cancer  in a different part of the body which  caused  his mother's 
death. He emphasised the effect  of the delay  on someone in mourning and his distress of 
going through his mothers medical  records which he said could have been avoided  if the 
policy wording had been clear.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN00277582Im very sorry to read of Mr Ds mothers illness and death and the impact on Mr D. 
I understand his strong feelings  and it seems cold to say that I dont uphold  Mr Ds complaint 
given the circumstances. But I have to review  all the evidence impartially and decide  if 
Great Lakes fairly  and reasonably declined the claim,  and I think  it did. I also think it made its 
decision in a reasonable timescale. Ill explain why. 
The general exclusion that Great Lakes relied  on to decline  the claim is clear  in the policy.  
Its a standard  exclusion in many insurance policies  as generally insurers dont want to 
insure a risk thats  already  known or foreseeable. 
Mr D says he thought  the operation has been a success and the cancer  was in remission.  
Ive read all the medical records including the discharge summary which  says the operation 
went without complication and the report which says it was in early  September (after  the 
policy was taken out) that tests showed  sadly Mr Ds mother  was very likely to have 
metastatic cancer.
But Mr Ds mother  had a serious  illness and although the operation  appeared to have  
removed the pancreatic  tumour  that was only a month before Mr D took out the policy.  His 
mother was still under very frequent review with the hospital after the operation.  The day 
before he took out the policy she had a review by a surgeon where an oncology review was 
planned, which took place two weeks later. Before the policy was taken out she had to go to 
the hospital accident and emergency department with complications  of the operation.
I think Mr D knew  or should have reasonably known that there was a real possibility of him 
having to make a claim due to his mothers illness. Hes told us that when he took out the 
policy he looked at various policies to compare policy cover in the event  of illness,  given his 
mothers situation. That suggests to me he thought  a claim was a real possibility, although  
Im not suggesting he would  have known his mother would pass away  when she did. 
Given the situation, I think it would have been very difficult  for Mr D to find a policy  that 
would have covered cancellation of the wedding  due to his mothers  illness.
Mr Ds mothers  cancer  had spread  out of her pancreas.  But that doesnt mean it was a 
wholly separate unconnected illness. The medical  report Mr D has referred to at Appendix 6 
of his enclosures says the nature of the illness  is pancreatic cancer. The death  certificate  
shows his mothers cause  of death was metastatic pancreatic adenocarcinoma.  Ultimately 
the illness which very understandably caused Mr D to cancel his wedding resulted  from the 
illness which  he knew about  when he took out the policy.
As I think  Great Lakes can fairly  rely on the general  exclusion to decline the claim I dont 
need to consider whether  it could  have also relied on the waiting list for hospital treatment, 
awaiting results of tests or medical investigations exclusion. 
On Great  Lakes service,  Mr D sent a completed claim form in June 2017.  Some information 
about the wedding expenses was outstanding  which Mr D provided in October 2017. The 
claim then went  to the underwriters who in December raised that they needed more medical 
information which was provided in early  January 2018. On 12 January 2018  Great  Lakes 
declined the claim. 
The claim process was during a very difficult  time for Mr D and he was reliant  on third parties 
providing information. Im in no way criticising him for not sending the information sooner.  
But although  the claim took a long time Great  Lakes  didnt  unnecessarily  delay. It was 
Ref: DRN00277583frustrating for Mr D to be asked for medical  information later in the process but it was 
reasonable for Great Lakes to ask for that information. 
I have great  sympathy  with Mr D, but overall  Im satisfied that Great Lakes fairly and 
reasonably declined the claim  and gave reasonable service.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0027758