K820x#14Complaint
Mrs L has complained  about  the increase in premiums Aviva Life Services UK Limited has 
applied to her whole of life policy.
Background
Mrs L took out the whole  of life policy in 1994. The original sum assured was £49,999 with 
an annual premium of just over £500.
The policy was reviewed  in line with its terms and conditions, after the first 10 years  and then 
five years thereafter. And then from 2007 the policy was reviewed annually.  No change in 
the premiums or sum assured was required until 2008 when it was found that the premium 
Mrs L was paying  wasnt enough to maintain the sum assured. So, she was given the option  
to either  increase the premiums  she was paying  and maintain the sum assured or keep  the 
premiums at the same level and accept a decrease  in the sum assured.
Mrs L agreed to increase  the premiums to just over £550 per year.
In 2019 the policy was reviewed again  and this time a further increase was required to 
maintain the sum assured. This took the annual premium  to just over £1,500.  This is what  
prompted the complaint.
Mrs L is being represented by her husband  Mr L. He has said that the sharp increase in 
annual premium was sudden and he feels this cant be correct after so many years  where no 
changes were required. He has said he sees no reason why the increase is necessary and 
feels Aviva  had given  them a reasonable expectation that the premiums would be more or 
less stable until death.
The complaint was assessed  by one of our investigators who felt it couldnt  be upheld.  She 
was satisfied from all the information provided  that although the premium increase was 
significant it appeared to have been carried out correctly. And also, this was a usual feature 
of these policies.
Mr L on Mrs Ls behalf didnt agree  with the assessment and remained of the view the 
increase in premiums  were incorrect. 
As no agreement could be reached  the complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  the 
complaint should  be upheld.
Firstly, I agree the increase in premiums  that Mrs L is required to pay is significant and 
I appreciate why Mr and Mrs L are unhappy.  This is a valuable  policy  providing important life 
protection and one which has been  paid into for decades. However,  I am only able to ask 
Aviva to resolve something  if it has actually done  something wrong  or if a mistake has been 
made.
Ref: DRN01555782The policy is a reviewable one so there was always a chance the level of cover or the 
amount being  paid in would have to be amended at some  point  during  the life of the policy.  
Mrs L should have  been aware of this fact when she took the policy out. However, how the 
policy was sold to Mrs L and what she was told at the time of the sale isnt something I can 
comment on because this falls out of the jurisdiction of this service, an issue  which has 
already been dealt  with. 
So all I can focus on in this decision is whether  the reviews were  carried out correctly and 
whether the results of the 2019 review were  accurate.
The reviews  of whole of life policies are conducted by actuaries within any business  and are 
carried out taking  account of increasing cost of providing the life cover, the overall 
performance of the markets as well as mortality rates. The figures they calculate  are not 
something anyone  in this Service can challenge from a calculation point of view.  All we can 
do is ensure the reviews  have taken place in the right way and in line with the policys terms 
and conditions.
I appreciate the increase is significant,  but this really  isnt unusual  for these types of policies. 
And as already mentioned  this should  have been  explained at the time of the sale. If it wasnt 
or of Mrs L isnt able to remember  this this isnt the responsibility of Aviva.
The way whole of life policies work are that while  the costs may be low at the start this isnt 
sustainable over the life of the policy because as the policy holder gets older  the cost of 
providing the cover can increase. This in turn naturally has an effect on the value of the 
underlying fund. This is why reviews are carried  out  to ensure that enough  is being  put into 
the policy for the policy to still be able to provide the desired level of cover.  As well as this as 
there is an investment  element to whole of life policies market  performance also has a part 
to play in this but an increase in premiums  doesnt indicate any collapse in the specific funds 
involved.
Ultimately what  causes  the premiums to have to be increased is the rising costs  of providing 
the life cover against the backdrop  of increasing  charges,  the cost of providing the cover and 
mortality charges.
It is the nature of these types of policies for them  to be reviewed and it should  have been 
made clear when the policy  was sold to Mrs L that increasing premiums  were a potential  of 
the policy.
I know Mr L feels Aviva gave the impression that the premiums  would remain  stable but had 
the nature  of the policy been  understood or at least made clear  at the beginning 
Mr and Mrs L should have  realised that at any review the premiums  could  change  regardless 
of how long they stayed stable.
So, while I understand Mrs Ls disappointment with this policy,  I am satisfied  that Aviva  
hasnt done anything wrong.  It has reviewed  the policy correctly and inline with the terms 
and conditions. I also have no reason  to doubt the figures its actuarial department has 
provided as the result  of the 2019 review. Given this is the way these policies work I cant 
make Aviva provide a certain level of cover if it isnt receiving the right amount in premiums 
to do so. 
Ref: DRN01555783My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2020.
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0155578