K821x#15complaint
Mr L has complained  about  the advice he was given by Sussex Independent Financial  
Advisers Limited (Sussex) to transfer  his existing pension into a new plan, in order to invest 
in Harlequin Property  (Harlequin).
background
In 2009, Mr L transferred  his existing personal pension  into a self-invested  personal pension 
(SIPP). 
Once the transfer was completed, the SIPP fund was used  to part finance  a deposit for an 
investment in Harlequin. The deposit  was 30% of the total investment: 20% was paid by the 
SIPP and 10% was paid in the form of commission sacrifice from Guardian.  The investment 
was made  jointly  by Mr L with his wife, Mrs L.  
One of our adjudicators looked  at the complaint and thought it should be upheld. He said:
Mr and Mrs L were  introduced to Harlequin by their mortgage adviser, who I shall call 
Mr F. His network was promoting  Harlequin.  Mr F referred them  to Sussex  for 
advice on whether they could use their pensions to invest, as he could not give 
pension advice. 
Sussex had a duty to give suitable advice  about the transfer  and intended 
investment.
Theres no evidence the SIPP provider gave any advice. 
Sussex was aware Mr and Mrs L intended to invest in Harlequin.  The available 
information shows that Sussex did not even consider  whether  a transfer was suitable, 
let alone the Harlequin investment.
The regulator issued  an alert in 2013 warning financial business they needed to take 
account of the underlying investments when advising on pension  transfers. 
Mr and Mrs L had combined  savings and investments  worth  around £11,000. They  
also had an overseas property valued at 250,000 euros.  Even though  they might 
have been prepared to accept the risk of the Harlequin investment, they could  not 
bear that risk. 
Sussex did not agree with the adjudicator.  It said:
It was Mr F who advised Mr and Mrs L to invest in Harlequin.  He received a 
commission payment for selling  them  that investment, and he rebated  part of this 
to Mr and Mrs L. If Mr F hadnt  done this, the investment wouldnt have gone 
ahead. As such, arranging the SIPP did not fully facilitate the investment.
Its true that Mr F couldnt arrange the pension transfer. Thats why he referred  
Mr and Mrs L to Sussex. It recalls at the time the regulator was concerned  that 
customers shouldnt be recommended a SIPP, unless they were going to use it 
for self-investment. 
Ref: DRN09476292The adjudicator  referred to a regulatory alert issued in 2013.  The alert said that, 
when firms were  advising clients to transfer  into a SIPP, they had to consider the 
suitability of the intended investment too. However, that alert was issued years 
after the advice.  
At the time of the advice, Sussexs duty was limited to whether the transfer was 
possible and whether the investment was permitted by HMRC rules.  
Mr and Mrs L were  already contracted to purchase the investment. If Sussex  had 
advised them not to proceed, it would be giving  advice  on an unregulated 
investment. 
Although the SIPP provider  didnt  give advice, it accepted the investment  into the 
SIPP. As it would  have carried due diligence on Harlequin, this shows there were 
no problems with the investment.
As the matter remains unresolved, the complaint has been referred to me for determination.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As noted above,  Mr L invested jointly with his wife husband in Harlequin through a SIPP.  But 
they each had individual accounts within the SIPP. So in this decision I will only be 
considering Mr Ls complaint. Mrs L has also made  a complaint which  is being  considered  
separately. I will at times however refer to both Mr L and Mrs Ls circumstances. 
Its clear that Mr L was introduced to the concept of investing in Harlequin by Mr F in 
November 2009.  Mr L has confirmed  that Mr F was promoting  the investment through his 
business. He and Mrs L completed a Harlequin reservation form on 1 November 2009, and 
paid a non-refundable reservation fee of £1,000.
But as I understand  it, Mr F wasnt authorised to advise on pension  transfers.  He therefore 
introduced Mr and Mrs L to allow this to take place. 
Sussex completed a confidential financial review form, in which  Mr Ls personal  and financial  
details were recorded. This showed that Mr L was 42 years old, and married  with two 
dependants. He had a final salary pension scheme, and a personal  pension plan valued at 
£4,000.
The form contained a section to record Mr Ls attitude to investment risk. But because  the 
quality of the copy is quite poor, its difficult to read what this is. In a letter to Mr L in 
December 2009  Sussex  said that his attitude  to risk was three to four on a scale of one to 
five, which  was described as balanced to adventurous. 
Sussex also sent Mr L a report setting  out its recommendations. This noted that Mr L was 
keen to invest in commercial property abroad, and thats why a SIPP was being 
recommended. But because of the guarantees attached to the final salary pension,  this 
wasnt being transferred.  His current pension provider did have a SIPP contract, but this 
Ref: DRN09476293couldnt be used  to invest in Harlequin. And while the report said Mr L had taken advice from 
the SIPP provider,  Ive not seen  evidence to support this. Instead,  its clear that the 
recommendation to transfer into the SIPP came  from Sussex. 
But Sussex knew that the reason for the transfer was to facilitate the investment in 
Harlequin. In fact, from the evidence Ive seen Mr L was referred  to Sussex  by Mr F for this 
specific purpose. Ive not seen evidence he could have gone ahead with the investment  
other than by using  his pension fund. Sussex seems to have been willing to go along  with 
arranging the transfer without fully considering  the consequences for Mr L. 
Sussex should have  appreciated that the investment wasnt  suitable for Mr L. This was an 
unregulated collective investment scheme for an off-plan commercial property development 
in the Caribbean. It involved a high degree of risk which wasnt compatible  with Mr Ls risk 
profile. In addition, the investment meant that all the fairly modest  pension  provision Mr L 
had built up in his personal would be invested  in this one fund. 
I appreciate Mr L also had a final salary  pension. But Sussex doesnt appear to have 
recorded any details  of the benefits provided.  So its unclear what additional provision this 
afforded. In any event,  I dont think the fact he had this further pension  justified  the advice to 
transfer his personal  pension.  
While Sussex  didnt  advise Mr L to invest in Harlequin, it wasnt  able to provide suitable 
advice on the transfer without also taking  account  of the intended  investment. 
As the adjudicator noted, the FSA issued an alert in January 2013 relating to pension 
transfers. In part, this said:
It has been  brought to the FSAs  attention that some financial advisers are giving advice to 
customers on pension transfers or pension switches without assessing the advantages and 
disadvantages of investment  proposed  to be held within the new pension. In particular, we 
have seen advisers moving customers retirement  savings to self-invested personal 
pensions (SIPPs) that invest wholly or primarily in high risk, often  illiquid unregulated 
investments (some which may be in Unregulated Collective Investment Schemes)
The cases  we have  seen  tend to operate under a similar advice model. An introducer  will 
pass customer details to an unregulated firm, which markets an unregulated investment (e.g. 
an overseas property development).  When the customer expresses an interest  in the 
unregulated investment, the customer is introduced to a regulated  financial adviser to 
provide advice on a SIPP  capable of holding the unregulated  investment.  The financial 
adviser does not give advice  on the unregulated investment, and says it is only providing 
advice on a SIPP capable  of holding the unregulated investment. Sometimes the regulated  
financial adviser also assists the customer to unlock  monies held in other investments so 
that the customer is able to invest  in the unregulated investment
Ref: DRN09476294 where a financial  adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will transfer  out 
of a current pension  arrangement to release funds to invest in an overseas property 
investment under a SIPP, then the suitability of the overseas property investment must form 
part of the advice about whether the customer should transfer into the SIPP. If, taking into 
account the individual circumstances of the customer, the original pension product, including  
its underlying holdings, is more suitable  for the customer then the SIPP  is not suitable.
This is because if you give regulated advice  and the recommendation will enable 
investment in unregulated  items you cannot separate out the unregulated elements from 
the regulated elements.
 The FSA asks regulated firms,  in particular financial adviser  and SIPP Operators to report 
those FSA firms  that are carrying  on these  activities in breach of the FSA requirements
I appreciate that the alert was issued  after the advice was given to Mr L. But the alert didnt 
make any changes to the regulations or set out any new approach. It simply re-stated the 
principles that already  applied, and which were in place in 2010 when the advice was given.
Sussex says advising Mr L not to invest in Harlequin  would have been giving advice on an 
unregulated investment. But if Sussex  felt it was unable,  for whatever reason, to give such  
advice, I dont think this would have prevented it from making Mr L aware  of the very real 
risks investing in Harlequin  posed to his pension fund. 
I appreciate its likely Mr L was convinced about investing in Harlequin  as a result  of his 
discussions with Mr F. I understand hed acted as Mr Ls financial and mortgage adviser for 
a number of years. So its likely a certain degree of trust will have  built up. The fact that Mr F 
was rebating some  of his commission may well also have played some  part.  
I also appreciate that Mr L had already  shown  some commitment towards investing in 
Harlequin by paying  a reservation fee. 
But while Ive taken  all this into account,  I dont think it changes the outcome of the 
complaint. I think that if Mr L had been  made fully aware of the risks involved he would have 
decided not to go ahead with the investment. Had he done so, its likely hed have lost the 
reservation fee. This would have been a hard decision to make.  But regardless of this, I think  
that if Mr L was aware hed be putting  his pension provision at significant  risk, hed have 
chosen not to transfer his pension and invest in Harlequin. 
Its possible there are other  businesses  involved which could have some liability  for the loss 
Mr L has suffered. If Sussex wishes  to take an assignment of any rights  of action against any 
third party involved in the sale of the investment, it would  not be inappropriate for it to do so, 
but only after redress has first been paid. Further, the assignment should  only relate to any 
losses for which Sussex fully redresses  Mr L.
Im aware that a party  involved with Harlequin has been charged with fraud offences. A court 
might therefore conclude that the loss doesnt flow directly from Sussexs unsuitable  advice. 
And on this basis, a court might not require it to compensate Mr L  despite  the clearly  
unsuitable advice.  
But in assessing fair compensation, Im not limited  to the position  a court might take. It may be 
there has been a break in the chain of causation. That might  mean it wouldnt be fair to say 
Ref: DRN09476295that all of the losses suffered flowed from the unsuitable advice. That will depend on the 
particular circumstances  of the case.  No liability will arise for an adviser who has given 
suitable advice  even if fraud  later takes place.  But the position is different where the consumer 
wouldnt have been in the investment in the first place without the unsuitable advice. In that 
situation, it may be fair to assess compensation on our usual basis  aiming  to put the 
consumers in the position they would have been in if theyd been  given  suitable  advice.
In this particular  case, I find that it would be fair and reasonable to make  an award, given the 
specific circumstances. I am satisfied that Mr L wouldnt have made the transfer  or the 
Harlequin investment  had it not been for the failings of Sussex. If the adviser  had given her 
suitable advice,  the investment wouldnt have been made. And I consider that the advice 
given by Sussex completely disregarded Mr Ls interests. As a direct result  of the advisers 
failure to give suitable advice,  he invested  his pension into a specialised,  unregulated 
investment with a limited  track record.  
So I think that its fair and reasonable to hold Sussex responsible  for the whole of the loss 
suffered by Mr L. I am not asking  it to account for loss that goes beyond the consequences 
of its failings. I am satisfied those  failings have caused the full extent of the loss in question. 
fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr L as 
close to the position he would probably  now be in if he had not been given unsuitable advice. 
I think that with suitable  advice  Mr L would  have kept her existing pension. 
There are also a number  of possibilities and unknown factors in making an award. I 
understand Harlequin Property are unlikely to allow Sussex to take over the investment from 
Mr L and the involvement of third parties  the SIPP provider and Harlequin Property  
means much of this is beyond this service or Sussexs control.  
All the variables are unknown and each may have an impact on the extent of any award this 
service may make. The facts suggest its unlikely that the property will be completed and 
unlikely that the contract  and any future payments would be enforceable  but I cant be 
certain of that.
While its complicated to put Mr L back in the position he would have been in if suitable  
advice had been given, I think its fair that he is compensated now.  I dont think we should 
wait and determine each and every  possibility before making  an award. What is set out 
below is a fair way of achieving this. 
In summary,  Sussex should:
1.Obtain the notional transfer value of Mr Ls previous pension plan, as date of my final 
decision, if it had not been  transferred to the SIPP.
2.Obtain the transfer value, as date of my final decision, of Mr Ls SIPP, including any 
outstanding charges.  
3.And then pay the amount of (1  2) into Mr Ls SIPP  so that the transfer value is 
increased by the amount calculated. This payment  should take account of any available 
tax relief and the effect of charges. In addition,  Sussex should:
Ref: DRN094762964.Pay any future fees owed by Mr L to the SIPP,  for the next five years.
5.Pay Mr L £350 for the trouble and upset caused.
I have set out each  point  in further detail below.
1.Obtain the notional transfer value  of Mr Ls previous pension  plan if it had not been 
transferred to the SIPP. That should  be the value at the date of this decision.
Sussex should ask Mr Ls former pension provider to calculate the notional  transfer  value 
that would  have applied as at the date of this decision had he not transferred his pension but 
instead remained invested. 
If there are any difficulties in obtaining  a notional valuation then the FTSE WMA Stock 
Market Income Total Return  Index  should  be used. That is a reasonable proxy for the type of 
return that could  have been  achieved  if suitable funds had been chosen.
Sussex should assume that any contributions or withdrawals  that have been made would still 
have been made, and on the same dates.
2Obtain the transfer value  as at the date of this decision  of Ms Ls SIPP,  including  any 
outstanding charges.  
This should be confirmed  by the SIPP operator. If the operator  has continued to take 
charges from the SIPP and there  wasnt an adequate cash balance to meet them, it might  be 
a negative figure. 
3Pay an amount into Mr Ls SIPP so that the transfer value is increased to equal  the 
amount calculated in (3). This payment should  take account of any available  tax relief 
and the effect  of charges.
If its not possible to pay the compensation into the SIPP, Sussex should pay it as a cash  
sum to Mr L. But had it been possible  to pay into the SIPP, it would have provided a taxable  
income. Therefore  the total amount  should  be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax 
that would  otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr Ls marginal rate of tax in retirement, 
assumed to be 20%. 
4Pay any future fees owed to the SIPP for the next five years.
Had Sussex given suitable  advice I dont  think there  would be a SIPP. Its not fair that Mr L 
continues to pay the annual SIPP fees if it cant be closed.  
Ideally, Sussex should take over the investment to allow the SIPP to be closed. This is the 
fairest way of putting Mr L back in the position  he would have been in. But its not clear that the 
ownership of the Harlequin Property  investment can currently  be transferred. This may change  
at some point, but I dont  know  when that will be  there are a number of uncertainties. 
Ref: DRN09476297So, to provide certainty to all parties, I think its fair that Sussex pays Mr L an upfront lump 
sum equivalent to five years worth of SIPP  fees (calculated using the previous years fees), 
or undertakes to cover the fees that fall due during the next five years.  This should provide a 
reasonable period for things to be worked  out so the SIPP  can be closed. 
In return for the compensation set out above, Sussex may ask Mr L to provide an 
undertaking to give it the net amount of any payment  he may receive from the Harlequin  
investment in that five-year  period,  as well as any other payment he may receive  from any 
party as a result of the investment. That undertaking should  allow  for the effect of any tax 
and charges on the amount he may receive.  Sussex  will need to meet  any costs in drawing  
up this undertaking.  If it asks Mr L to provide an undertaking, payment of the compensation 
awarded by this decision may be dependent upon  provision of that undertaking. 
If, after five years, Sussex wants to keep the SIPP open, and to maintain an undertaking for 
any future payments  under the Harlequin  Property investment, it must agree to pay any 
further future  SIPP fees. If Sussex  fails to pay the SIPP fees, Mr L should then have the 
option of trying to cancel  the Harlequin Property contract to enable the SIPP to be closed.
In addition, Sussex is entitled  to take, if it wishes, an assignment from Mr L of any claim he 
may have  against  any third parties in relation to this pension transfer and Harlequin Property 
investment. If Sussex chooses to take an assignment of rights, it must be effected  before 
payment of compensation is made. Sussex must first provide a draft of the assignment to 
Mr L for his consideration and agreement. 
5Pay Mr L £350 for the trouble and upset caused.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I direct Sussex Independent Financial Advisers  Limited to calculate 
and pay Mr L redress as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2019.
Doug Mansell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0947629