K821x#15complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) voided (treated it as though  
it had never  been  in place) his home insurance  policy and rejected his claim.
background
Between 2016 and 2017 Mr A made  three claims under an insurance policy  covering his 
mobile phone.
Later in 2017  he decided  to take out home  insurance cover. He was referred to RSA after 
searching on a price comparison website. One of the questions  asked on the comparison 
website was whether  hed had any previous contents claims. Mr A didnt tell RSA about the 
mobile phone claims.  He said he didnt class them as contents insurance claims as the 
cover was specifically for mobile phones. After speaking to RSA on the phone, he took out 
the home insurance policy.
Mr A made a claim to RSA after he spilt water on his laptop and it stopped working. RSA 
said he should have  told it about the previous  mobile phone  claims and because he hadnt, it 
wouldnt accept his claim and was voiding his policy. It refunded his premium.
Mr A brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator upheld  the complaint. He didnt 
think Mr A had misled RSA about his past claims.  He thought  RSA should remove  the record  
of the voidance of the policy from any internal and external databases  and reassess the 
claim.
As RSA didnt agree, the matter has been  referred to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a consumer buys an insurance policy, theyll be asked  to provide certain  information.  
In simple terms the insurer is trying  to assess  how likely  it is that the consumer will make  a 
claim. It can be a misrepresentation if an answer given is inaccurate or incomplete.  But the 
insurer will only be entitled to take action if its a qualifying  misrepresentation in accordance  
with the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012  (CIDRA). The 
remedies available  to the insurer for a qualifying misrepresentation include voiding the 
policy.
Under the terms of CIDRA, there are two main factors I need  to take into account in 
deciding whether theres been a qualifying misrepresentation.  These are how clear and 
specific the insurers questions were and whether the consumer took reasonable care not to 
make a misrepresentation.
The comparison website used by Mr A currently asks consumers:
Have  you or anyone living with you made any home  insurance claims in the last 5 years?
RSAs own website to which  Mr A was referred  asks:
Ref: DRN03102422How many home claims have you made in the last 3 years not including  flood claims?
 
Underneath that question is the following guidance:
If you are selecting Contents Cover you only need to tell us about any contents claims. If 
you are selecting Buildings  Cover  you only need to tell us about any buildings  claims.
The policy that Mr A had previously claimed under was a gadget insurance policy  covering 
theft, damage and mechanical breakdown for mobile  phones,  laptops and other devices. 
There is some overlap between this sort of policy  and contents/travel  insurance  policies. But 
gadget insurance  often  covers a broader  range  of risks and has a lower excess  than many  
contents insurance policies. They are sometimes marketed as having the advantage that a 
claim on a gadget insurance  policy wont  result  in the premium  for contents insurance 
increasing at renewal time. I think it was reasonable for Mr A not to class the insurance he 
had for his mobile phone  as a home or contents  insurance policy.
I think the questions  asked of Mr A were clear. But I also think it was reasonable for him to 
assume that RSA wanted to know about any home  or contents claims as opposed to any 
claims under gadget  insurance.
Ive listened to the phone conversation Mr A had with RSA when he took out the policy. He 
was asked whether  the information  hed previously provided was correct and he confirmed it 
was. Later  on in the conversation he asked  whether  mobile  phones  were covered under the 
policy and he was told that they were.  I dont think this was enough in itself to alert Mr A to 
the fact that in asking the questions mentioned  above RSA wanted  to know about any claims 
under gadget insurance policies too.
RSA has also referred  to the statement  of fact issued to Mr A after hed taken the policy out. 
It asked him to let it know if any of the details were  incorrect. The information included  the 
following statement:
You or any person  living with you have not made any claims in the last 3 years .
If this had been the only question Mr A was asked,  I think  there  would have been less room 
for uncertainty about  how he should have answered  it. But it wasnt and I think  it was 
reasonable for this question to be linked  in Mr As mind to the earlier questions asked on the 
websites. Thats because  once the questions in a proposal form have been answered, 
insurers often send  out a statement to confirm  the information provided. One of the things I 
look for is to check that the questions set out in the statement match  those that the 
consumer was actually  asked beforehand. Where  theres an obvious mismatch  between the 
two questions, Im more  likely to give the consumer the benefit of the doubt with regard  to 
the second question and thats what I intend to do here. 
I cant reasonably conclude that RSA has acted fairly in voiding Mr As policy and declining 
his claim.  In my opinion  Mr A took reasonable care to avoid giving incorrect information to 
RSA. As a result RSA isnt entitled to take the action it did. Ultimately  although RSA may 
have meant  to ask about claims under other  insurance policies  rather  than just home 
insurance, I can only consider the question it actually asked, rather than any additional 
meaning RSA may wish to attach  to it. 
I think RSA should  reinstate  the policy (subject to Mr A repaying  the premium) and 
reconsider the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. It should 
Ref: DRN03102423also ensure that any cancellation markers placed on Mr As insurance  record  are removed  
from any internal and external databases.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance  
Plc to do the following:
reinstate the policy (subject to Mr A repaying the premium) and reconsider the claim in 
line with the remaining  terms and conditions; and
remove any cancellation markers  from Mr As internal and external insurance  records  
placed due to this incident  and confirm to him that this has been done.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2020.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0310242