K820x#14complaint
Ms J is unhappy with the way Society of Lloyds (SOL) has handled and settled a claim for 
subsidence damage under a buildings insurance policy.
background
Ms J brought a previous  complaint to this service about the way a subsidence  claim had 
been handled by SOL. One of the issues she complained  about  was the fact that the garden 
hadnt been restored to its original  condition following the repairs.  In 2010 another 
ombudsman upheld the complaint. 
Since then SOL has made various attempts to restore the lawn,  including returfing  and 
reseeding it. The lawn has a long line in it where grass wont  grow and there are other bare 
patches of soil on it.
Ms J complained to SOL. In November 2017 it offered her £200. It said this would pay for 
two visits by a local gardener or lawn specialist.  Ms J didnt think this was enough.  SOL 
asked her to provide a quote  for its approval  or advise it of the figure she had in mind  since  it 
wanted to make a cash settlement to bring the matter to an end.
In July 2017 Ms J brought her complaint to this service.
SOL says in May 2018 it emailed Ms J to tell her it was sending its contractor to returf  the 
lawn. It says when the contractor arrived, Ms J didnt allow  it to start work because it was the 
same contractor that had returfed the lawn previously.
SOL then offered Ms J £1,776 including VAT. It said that would enable her to make her own 
arrangements to have  the lawn returfed. In July 2018 SOL increased its offer to £2,131.20. It 
said this was based on the estimate  from its contractor with a 20% uplift. 
Our adjudicator thought SOLs last offer was reasonable. Ms J said the uplift  of £335.20 
didnt reflect the inconvenience shed suffered. She also said the delay in reinstating the 
garden had caused her to have to spend  £3,000 on legal  costs as part of her divorce  
because of the delay in putting the property  on the market. As Ms J didnt accept the offer,  
the matter has been  referred to me.
Ms J says she has now had the garden  returfed. She said according to her landscape  
gardener the reason  the previous turf had failed was due to weed ground cover under the 
turf and poor topsoil  below that.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not clear to me why the first turf failed. Ms J said the top soil wasnt  good enough. SOL 
suggested Ms J hadnt watered and/or maintained the lawn properly. In any event there  were  
weeds in it and SOL agreed to redo it. Mrs J feels strongly that the plastic membrane under 
the turf caused  the second lot of turf to fail. SOLs contractor says that its common  to put 
such a membrane in place. I can see that the lawn had established itself after the second lot 
Ref: DRN08777132of turf was laid but for some reason  was patchy. So Im not persuaded that the membrane 
was necessarily the problem.
The policy allows  SOL to impose a cash settlement. I need to consider whether it was fair 
and reasonable for it to do so. Once an insurer has started repairs, I think its entered  into a 
repair contract with the policyholder - in essence,  an agreement has been reached where 
the claim will be settled by repairing the damage. Thats important because if things go 
wrong  for example,  the repair is more difficult than it originally appeared, the insurer cant  
turn back  the clock  and seek to settle  the claim on another  basis  e.g. by paying cash. Its 
effectively stuck with the choice  it made  to repair.
There are however rare occasions when Ill decide that its fair for the insurer to step back  
and to refuse to carry on with the repairs. But that will usually  only happen if the relationship 
between the insurer  and policyholder has irretrievably broken  down.
Thats what  I think has happened  in this case. I can understand  why Ms J has lost 
confidence in SOLs contractor for whatever reason its repairs  had failed. It also seems as 
though they tried to fob Ms J off with various excuses. From SOLs  perspective  it was trying 
to resolve the problem  but Ms J sent its contractor away.  Ms J said she couldnt mow  the 
lawn because she didnt  have a mower  with a roller to cope with the bare patches. SOL 
didnt think she was helping with the aftercare  needed  to make the grass grow  properly.  This 
has been going on for several years.
SOL offered  to consider increasing  its initial offer if Ms J showed shed been  quoted  more  for 
the works.  Since  Ms J didnt provide her own quote,  it based  the final settlement offer on a 
quote from its contractor  and allowed a 20% uplift. Ms J says she paid £3,500 to her 
landscaper but this included some other works.  Overall Im not persuaded that SOLs  offer 
was unreasonable.
Bearing in mind the difficulties leading up to this stage I think it was reasonable of SOL to 
seek to settle the claim in this way.
I appreciate that this has been a difficult time for Ms J as shes  suffered from health  issues  
and she didnt feel able to put her home  on the market until recently. But I cant fairly hold 
SOL liable for that or her additional legal costs. Im not convinced  that they were  directly 
caused by a failure on SOLs part. 
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 April 2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0877713