K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains that Inter Partner  Assistance SA (IPA) damaged his van following a claim
against a classic motor  insurance policy. Mr P is a named driver on the policy.
background
The background to this complaint is set out in my provisional decision dated 
7 February 2019,  an extract  of which  is attached and forms part of this final decision. I set 
out why I thought Mr Ps complaint should be upheld and what IPA should do to put matters  
right. 
Mr P accepted my provisional decision but IPA didnt.  It said it didnt think that my provisional 
decision was fair, as theres  no evidence that there had been an impact,  or that anything  had 
been jammed or that thered been excessive force through the door hinges.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
As I said in my provisional decision,  I dont think IPA acted unfairly in concluding that the 
damage wasnt caused by an impact. I remain of the view that the evidence suggests that 
there was excessive flexing around the passenger side, lower door hinge. Theres nothing to 
suggest that the damage was caused  by an underlying problem or that the flexing was 
spontaneous. I still think that, on balance,  the evidence suggests that IPA/its agents caused  
the damage to the front, passenger side door of Mr Ps van, causing  it to flex excessively. 
I see no reason to depart from my earlier conclusions. I think that IPA should pay £726 for 
the cost of repairs and compensation of £250  in relation to Mr Ps distress and 
inconvenience. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decision and above,  I uphold Mr Ps complaint. I 
now require Inter Partner Assistance SA to pay Mr P:
    £726 for the cost of repairs and;
    compensation of £250  in relation to his distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN04618422extract of provisional  decision
complaint
Mr P complains that Inter Partner Assistance  SA (IPA) damaged  his van following a claim 
against a classic motor  insurance policy. Mr P is a named driver on the policy.
background
In August 2018, Mr Ps van broke down whilst driving abroad. The policy included European 
assistance and recovery so the van was recovered to a garage. I understand that the garage  
said it couldnt repair Mr Ps van. IPA arranged  for a recovery agent  to transport Mr Ps van
to the UK.
IPA said its recovery agent reported  damage  to Mr Ps van on arrival at the destination. The 
recovery agent took photos of the van loaded onto the trailer - presumably before the start 
of the journey - that show no damage. The subsequent photos show cracking of the 
bodywork and one large and one small hole near the lower hinge of the passenger side, 
front door of Mr Ps van.
IPA said that during the journey the paint and filler on the passenger side front door of 
Mr Ps van fell off. It said filler hadnt  taken to the metalwork and as the van had been 
standing in exceptionally high temperatures, the paint  had started to crack and fall off. IPA 
said the paint  hadnt adhered to the panel indicating poor preparation when it was repainted. 
It said that if the panel had been  hit, there would have been  signs  on the panel  and the paint 
would have flexed.  IPA also questioned  how the door could have been hit while  it was on a 
trailer a foot wider than the van and towed behind a similarly wide truck. IPA said its 
recovery agent hadnt caused  the damage.
Mr P got a report from his body shop repairer  who said that it was unlikely that high 
temperatures caused the body filler to fall out. He also said that his opinion  was that the 
lower, passenger side hinge  had been struck, which deformed the door skin, causing the 
filler to loosen and fall out. He noted  that the lock on the passenger front door doesnt 
work from inside the van. The body shop repairer  quoted £726  to repair  the van.
Our investigator said that IPA should arrange  for an independent engineer to inspect 
Mr Ps van and provide  a report on the cause of the damage. IPA arranged for such an 
inspection and following  receipt of the report,  it maintained its view that it wasnt 
responsible for the damage.
Mr P said that the independent engineer instructed by IPA contradicted the cause of the 
damage suggested by its recovery agent and doesnt offer a reasonable alternative to 
that suggested by his body shop repairer.  He said that IPA is responsible for the damage 
as it happened  when the van was in its care and theres  no credible explanation for it.
The investigator said the IPA should  pay for the costs of repair to the front passenger 
door. IPA didnt agree. It said that there wasnt enough evidence to show  that its recovery  
agent caused the damage.  IPA asked that an ombudsman consider the complaint.
As there  was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed  to me, 
an ombudsman, to decide.
Ref: DRN04618423my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Were not engineers. We dont assess how damage  to a vehicle has been caused, as thats 
a matter for the experts. In this situation,  the experts are the insurer and the 
engineer/mechanic instructed by both sides. Our role in this type of complaint is to 
determine whether  the evidence suggests that IPA caused the damage to Mr Ps van and 
whether it acted fairly.
It doesnt automatically follow that IPA or its recovery agent  caused the damage 
simply because the damage  became apparent whilst the van was in its care. Its 
possible, especially  with a van of this age, that there was underlying damage. But the 
evidence doesnt  support  that conclusion here.
The independent engineer says that the van was restored to a good standard  and that 
there were no similar problems elsewhere  on the bodywork. The photos  taken before  the 
damage dont show  that the door was defective in any way or that there were existing 
stress cracks. Neither Mr Ps body  shop mechanic nor the independent engineer  suggest  
that the damage  was caused by wear  and tear, underlying damage,  previous poor 
workmanship or high temperatures.
The mechanic in the body  shop instructed by Mr P said the following:
IN MY OPINION THE LOWER N/S HINGE  HAS BEEN STRUCK 
THUS DEFORMING THE DOOR SKIN CAUSING  THE FILLER  TO
LOOSEN AND FALL OUT 
The independent engineer said:
We could see no evidence to suggest  that the door has been impacted in 
anyway
I dont think IPA acted unfairly  in concluding  that the damage wasnt caused  by an 
impact. Mr Ps mechanic doesnt  support  his opinion that the hinge had been struck  
such as referring to impact marks or distortion. I dont  think that the evidence  suggests 
that the damage  was caused by an impact  but thats  not the end of the matter.
In the conclusions section  of his report  the independent engineer  said he couldnt  see 
that force had been applied to the passenger side door hinges but in his final remarks he 
said:
The filler work has cracked and separated from the n/s door.  This results  
from around the n/s lower  door hinge, where  we feel the door may have 
flexed excessively, causing the resulting filler cracks.
The engineer said he wasnt  able to find the cause of the excessive stress/flexing of the 
door hinges but he doesnt say that it was caused by an underlying  problem or that the 
flexing was spontaneous.
Ref: DRN04618424It seems to me that the report indicates that there  was excessive flexing around the 
passenger side lower door hinge   which caused  the cracks  and holes. He also said that 
the passenger  door didnt fit correctly. On balance, the evidence suggests that IPA/its 
agents caused the damage to the front passenger side door of Mr Ps van, causing it to 
flex[ ] excessively . I think that a fair outcome here is for it to pay for the repairs.  Mr P has a 
quote of £726.
IPA should also compensate Mr P for his distress  and inconvenience. The damage  first 
came to light in mid-September  2018. IPAs  claim notes suggest that it initially thought that 
the damage was caused by an impact and that the paint couldnt have simply fallen off. 
But in its final response to Mr P, it said that the damage was caused by poor previous 
workmanship and high temperatures.
It would have  been appropriate for IPA to instruct  an independent  engineer at an early 
stage in order to find out the cause of the damage. It didnt  do that until our investigator said 
it should do so. The independent  engineer didnt inspect Mr Ps van until mid-December  
2018. So theres been delay in dealing with this matter,  which has no doubt caused
Mr P distress and inconvenience  as there  was continued uncertainty about  the repairs.  I
think appropriate compensation  for that is £250.
my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I intend to uphold Mr Ps complaint  and direct  Inter Partner
Assistance SA to pay Mr P:
    £726 for the cost of repairs and;
    compensation of £250  in relation to his distress and inconvenience.
Ref: DRN0461842