K821x#15complaint
Mr P says S.D. Taylor  Limited trading as Loans at Home (LAH) lent to him irresponsibly. He 
says he couldnt  afford  the lending and making  the repayments caused him significant 
problems going  forward. He says he is still repaying the loans through a debt management  
plan a number  of years later.  
background
This complaint is about six home collected  credit loans LAH provided to Mr P between  
July 2010 and December 2012.  Some of the information LAH has provided  about this 
lending is in the table below.
loan 
numberdate startedamount  
borroweddate ended
1 07/07/2010 £500 30/03/2011
2 30/03/2011 £500 26/10/2011
3 26/10/2011 £500 01/08/2012
4 18/04/2012 £250 05/12/2012
5 01/08/2012 £500 outstanding
6 05/12/2012 £250 outstanding
LAH has objected to the Financial Ombudsman  Service considering these  complaints.  This 
is because of when  Mr P made his complaint in relation to when he took the loans out. Ive 
considered the jurisdiction  of these complaints separately. 
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. She thought  LAH was wrong to approve all of the 
lending. LAH disagreed  with the adjudicators opinion  so the complaint has been passed  to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  high cost credit, including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
LAH needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr P could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early  stages  of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might  be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
Ref: DRN01793932But certain factors might  point to the fact that LAH should fairly and reasonably  have done  
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being  affordable  on a strict pounds and pence  calculation might be 
an indication  a consumer  could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case.  The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having  to borrow  
to meet  the repayments. And it follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought  fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments  sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments  without  borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ps complaint. Ive decided to uphold Mr Ps complaint 
and Ive explained why below.
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate  check for loans 1 to 3 would most likely have 
shown that Mr P was having problems managing his money. In particular he was already 
borrowing and repaying significant amounts from other similar lenders. 
I think that LAH wouldve found out this information if it had made proportionate checks. And 
I think its likely that LAH wouldve seen  Mr P wouldnt  have  been  able repay  the loans in a 
sustainable way, given his other commitments. So I think  that LAH shouldnt have given 
loans 1 to 3 to Mr P and I think hes lost out as a result of this. So Im upholding Mr Ps 
complaint about  loans  1 to 3
I havent looked at proportionate affordability  checks for loans 4 to 6 because I dont think 
that it is necessary  to do so. Ive looked  at the overall  pattern  of LAHs lending  history with 
Mr P, with a view to seeing  if there was a point  at which LAH should reasonably have seen 
that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful.  And so LAH should have 
realised that it shouldnt have provided any further  loans. 
Ref: DRN01793933Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ps case, I think  that this point  was reached by loan 
4. I say this because:
At this point LAH ought to have realised  Mr P was not managing to repay his loans 
sustainably. Mr P had been  indebted to LAH for just under  two years.  So LAH ought  
to have realised it was more likely than not Mr P was having to borrow  further to 
cover the hole repaying his previous borrowing was leaving in his finances and that 
Mr Ps indebtedness was unsustainable.
Right from the start Mr P was provided with a new loan a very short  time after settling 
a previous one. And at times he had more than one loan running at the same  time
Mr P wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed LAH.  Loan 6 was taken 
out over two years after Mr Ps first. So Mr P had paid large amounts of interest to, in 
effect, service a debt to LAH over an extended  period.
I think that Mr P lost out because LAH continued  to provide borrowing from loan 4 onwards  
because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ps indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit over an extended  period of time.
the length of time over which Mr P borrowed  was likely to have had negative 
implications on Mr Ps ability to access mainstream  credit  and so kept him in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
So Im also upholding  the complaint about loans 4 to 6 and LAH should put things right.
putting things right  what LAH needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr P paid on loans 1 to 6;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement*;
remove any negative information  about loans 1 to 3 from Mr Ps credit file;
the number  of loans taken from loan 4 onwards means any information  recorded 
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loans 4 to 6 should be removed from 
Mr Ps credit file.
If Mr P still owes LAH any of the principal balance he borrowed on his final two loans, 
instead of the above, LAH should remove all the interest and charges applied  to the 
outstanding balance. LAH should then re-work the account as if all payments made  by Mr P 
went to towards the principal. But importantly, LAH needs to make sure that Mr P doesnt 
repay more  than the principal amount borrowed. 
If after doing this Mr P hasnt repaid the principal he borrowed LAH can deduct this from the 
remainder of the compensation. If, Mr P has already  paid enough to repay the principal then 
any overpayment should be refunded  to him with 8% simple* interest from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement
And if LAH no longer owns this debt, and it wants to make a deduction due to the amount 
owed, then it should buy it back.  If it doesnt  then it isnt entitled to make  any deductions for it 
from the amount  it needs to pay Mr P.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires LAH to take off tax from this interest. LAH must  give Mr P 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN01793934my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ps complaint.
S.D. Taylor Limited should put things  right by doing what  Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 July 2020
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0179393