K820x#14complaint
Mrs O complains that Lloyds Bank  General Insurance  Limited hasnt fairly settled a claim 
she made on her home contents insurance policy.
background
Mrs O has a home contents insurance  policy with Lloyds. In around August 2018 she was 
burgled and various  items were stolen  including a high value emerald and diamond platinum 
ring, which is the subject of this complaint.  
Mrs O said this ring was of significant sentimental value. It was designed by her late 
husband using  a high quality emerald sourced  from abroad by her daughter.  And it was 
given to her as a 60th birthday present. 
Mrs O had had this ring valued  in 2016 and had provided Lloyds with a valuation document 
confirming that it was worth £6,050 at the time it was valued. She had insured  this ring as a 
specified item under her insurance policy with a value limit of £6,500.
After Mrs O was burgled she reported  what had happened to the police. They attended  and 
gave her a crime reference number. Mrs O gave  this information to Lloyds and said she 
wanted to make a claim on her policy. Lloyds agreed to settle her claim subject to the limits 
and excesses specified on her policy schedule. 
Lloyds approached a jewellery retailer, which Ill refer to as G. It gave G a copy of the 
valuation document  Mrs O had obtained in 2016. And it asked G to confirm what  it would  
cost to replace  Mrs Os stolen ring. G took Mrs Os valuation document  into account  and told 
Lloyds that the retail  cost to replace this ring would be £8,950.  
Lloyds offered Mrs O two ways of settling her claim for the ring. It said it would  issue gift 
vouchers up to the value of £8,950 to enable Mrs O to purchase  a replacement ring from G. 
Or, in the alternative,  it would  pay her a cash settlement if she preferred. It said if Mrs O 
wanted to accept a cash  settlement it would pay her £4,775 due to the discount it was able 
to obtain from G. 
Mrs O wasnt  happy with how Lloyds  was intending  to settle  her claim. She wasnt willing to 
accept gift vouchers  and didnt want Lloyds to replace her stolen ring. She said her ring was 
irreplaceable. And, instead, she wanted  Lloyds to pay her a cash  settlement. She said she 
wasnt told she would be offered vouchers or that money would be deducted from the 
replacement value G had provided. And she thought it was unfair  that she was being offered 
a cash settlement that was less than the specified  sum she had insured her ring for. 
Mrs O brought a claim to our service, which was considered by one of our investigators. 
They thought that the claim  had been fairly dealt with by Lloyds.  And they didnt think that it 
needed to do anything further because  it had made  a fair offer to Mrs O to replace her ring or 
settle in cash.  But Mrs O didnt agree with our investigators view and asked that an 
ombudsman decide  her complaint.
Ref: DRN00893432my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Ive reached the 
same conclusion as the investigator  that Lloyds acted fairly when it offered to settle 
Mrs Os claim. Ill explain why.
But before I do Id like to say that I recognise  how distressing it must have been for Mrs O to 
have had her ring stolen.  I can see that this item is of considerable sentimental value. 
So, I can understand why Mrs O feels this ring is irreplaceable. But the issue here is whether 
Lloyds has fairly settled this claim. And I think it has. Ill explain why.
Its not in dispute  that Mrs O suffered  the loss of her diamond and emerald ring due to a 
burglary at her home address and that this ring is covered under her policy. The issue  here 
is whether the amount Lloyds has offered to settle  Mrs Os claim fairly reflects the value  of 
the ring she insured.
Mrs Os policy,  in common with many  home  insurance policies, allows  Lloyds to settle this 
claim in a number of ways. The terms and conditions of her insurance policy allow  Lloyds to 
either replace an item or make a money payment instead. They explain in clear  and 
intelligible language that Lloyds will pay the cost of replacement as new if available or 
otherwise the nearest equivalent  less any discounts obtainable. And the terms go on to 
state that if an item is irreplaceable, Lloyds will base its payment on expert opinion of its 
value immediately prior to its loss. 
Its clear that Mrs O is unhappy with the choice of jeweller Lloyds  used to assist it here. But 
Lloyds is entitled  to make a business  decision about which  retailer it wishes  to use and thats 
not a decision  our service  will interfere with. So I wont comment  on whether Lloyds was right 
to consult with G about this claim.  Instead,  Ill address whether Lloyds fairly calculated the 
value of Mrs Os stolen  ring. 
Mrs O provided  Lloyds  with a valuation of her stolen ring, which  says that in 2016 her ring 
was valued at £6,050.  I understand that this was given to G who has provided  an expert 
opinion of the value of Mrs Os stolen ring to assist Lloyds in determining how to fairly 
quantify her loss. The quotes G provided Lloyds show what  it thinks it will cost to replace Mrs 
Os stolen ring. G has said a replacement ring would need  to be specially made for her. 
G believes that the retail  cost of replacing Mrs Os ring would be £8,950. But Mrs O believes 
that her stolen ring was worth more than £8,950.  Having carefully  considered what  Lloyds 
and Mrs O have said here, Im satisfied that G has quoted for a reasonably  matched 
replacement ring and that the value it has placed on this ring is fair and reasonable. 
I also have to bear in mind that Mrs O insured her ring for £6,500, which reflected what she 
perceived to be its full replacement value. The valuation thats  been  given to her is more  than 
the sum she insured. So, Im persuaded Lloyds  has been  fair with the value its used here.
Lloyds has offered to replace Mrs Os stolen ring by issuing her vouchers up to the value of 
£8,950 that she can use in Gs shops.  Had Mrs O accepted this Lloyds would have met its 
obligation to her under this policy. But Mrs O doesnt want  Lloyds to replace her ring. She 
says her ring had sentimental value and is therefore irreplaceable. Whilst I sympathise with 
Mrs O, Lloyds can only meet its contractual obligations to cover the loss of this ring by either  
replacing it or making a money payment  instead.  
Ref: DRN00893433Mrs O wants Lloyds to pay her a cash settlement, which its agreed to do. But its clear she 
disagrees with the amount shes been offered.  As I mentioned before, under the terms of 
Mrs Os policy,  if Lloyds offers her a cash settlement its entitled to deduct  from that sum any 
discounts obtainable. This means  it can limit its cash settlement to the cost it would incur if it 
were to use its preferred  jewellery retailer. And this can be less that the cost Mrs O would 
incur if she bought a replacement  ring directly from G. 
Here, if G was to replace  Mrs Os ring it would incur a retail cost of £8,950.  But, as Lloyds 
preferred jewellery  supplier, G is able to offer it a 50% discount on retail prices, which 
explains why Mrs O has been offered a cash  settlement of £4,475. It isnt unusual  for 
insurers to have an arrangement with a preferred supplier  that can offer it discounts.  So, I 
cant say Lloyds has done anything wrong  in the approach  its taken here. 
While I appreciate that Lloyds cash settlement offer is frustrating for Mrs O its agreed to pay 
the full cost of replacing her ring (less  its discount). Im satisfied that its correctly  applied its 
supplier discount  when calculating the cash settlement equivalent of her ring. And this 
means its offered  to settle Mrs Os claim in line with the terms of her insurance policy. 
I understand that Mrs O has told our service that she wasnt aware  Lloyds was entitled to 
reduce a cash settlement in the way its outlined to her. But this is set out clearly in the terms 
of Mrs Os policy, which Id have expected her to have read. It follows that I cant fairly find 
that she wasnt informed  about how Lloyds would  settle a claim made under her policy.  And I 
cant see any good reason why Lloyds  should  be prevented from applying the terms of 
Mrs Os policy to any offer made.
I appreciate that Mrs O will be disappointed with my decision, but theres  nothing  to 
persuade me that Lloyds has treated her unfairly or unreasonably. Its agreed  to settle 
Mrs Os claim as a cash settlement as an alternative to replacing  the stolen ring. And Im not 
persuaded there are any grounds  for me to fairly and reasonably  require Lloyds to change  its 
original settlement offer made to Mrs O. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 January 2020.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0089343