K820x#14complaint
Miss Y says Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) mis -sold her a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.  
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2000.  The policy was added  to 
Miss Ys credit card account when she applied for the card in person. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Miss Y disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Ys case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Ys complaint because:
 The card application form has a box to be completed if Miss J wants PPI. The question  
asked is If you would like . The box for PPI is completed. I think  BOS made Miss Y 
aware that the PPI was optional and that she chose  to take it  although I can 
understand why she can no longer remember this. 
 BOS recommended the PPI to Miss Y, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable  for her 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. 
 Its possible the information BOS gave Miss Y about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been.  But Miss Y chose to take out the policy  and so appears to have 
wanted this type of cover.  She was not affected by any of the exclusions or limitations  
and the policy  was competitively priced  and apparently affordable.  So I think  it unlikely 
Miss Y would have  made a different decision if better information had been provided. 
On balance I think she would  still have taken out the policy.
Ive taken into account Miss Ys comments, including what  shes said about not being aware 
she had PPI. I have seen some of her card statements and the PPI payments are described  
and listed separately.  I think  if Miss Y didnt  know  what this was for she might have asked 
the bank to explain, but I cant see she did that.  So this point doesnt change my conclusion.
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ys complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss Y to let me 
know whether she accepts or rejects my decision before  13 June 2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN07318452
Ref: DRN0731845