K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that a car he has on finance with Volkswagen Financial Services  (UK) 
Limited (VWFS) was faulty at the point of supply.
background
In December 2017 Mr S took receipt of a new car. He financed the deal through a hire 
purchase agreement  with VWFS. But in September 2018 the gearbox  broke  and had to be 
replaced under warranty. Mr S complains that the £70 compensation offered to him by 
VWFS is insufficient.
VWFS didnt  uphold his complaint. They said that they had responsibility for any problems 
with the car at the point  of supply and as Mr S had had the car for nine months when it failed 
they couldnt accept the fault had been  there from the beginning. They did however, offer the 
£70 compensation  for the inconvenience suffered.
So Mr S referred his complaint to this service and our adjudicator  took a look at the 
evidence. He thought that despite  the time elapsed;  a reasonable person wouldnt expect a 
new cars gearbox to fail after only 5,000 miles, so he thought VWFS  were  responsible  and 
should have accepted Mr Ss complaint. But he noted, if they had, they would have been 
entitled to repair it and as this repair how now been  completed for free, on warranty,  he 
didnt think any further action was necessary. He considered the amount of inconvenience 
Mr S had suffered.  He noted  hed been  provided with a courtesy  car but thered been a 
period of three days when he didnt have access to a vehicle. Hed also needed to leave 
work early and so had his father, to take him to the garage. He therefore considered VWFSs 
offer of £70 was reasonable given the inconvenience experienced.
But Mr S disagreed. He said the courtesy  car was a diesel and as diesel is more  expensive 
than petrol  it cost more  to run. So he insisted  that £70 was not sufficient compensation for 
the inconvenience hed experienced. He asked  for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think VWFS need to do anything  else here as I think  the compensation theyve  
provided is sufficient. I know that will be disappointing for Mr S so please  let me explain why.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr S acquired his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The relevant law says that the car 
should have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then VWFS is responsible  
and Id agree that here they do have responsibility for the fault that occurred.
I think gearboxes should  last much longer than 5,000 miles before they break and I think its 
most likely that the fault with the gearbox was inherent,  or developing at the point of supply. 
And wed therefore look to VWFS  to provide redress. But the car has already been fixed  
Ref: DRN03326442under warranty and is working well  so theres nothing to attend to other than to 
compensate Mr S for any inconvenience  hes suffered.
Ive considered the inconvenience hes been put to and that Ive set out above and Im 
persuaded that in these circumstances £70 is sufficient  and VWFS  neednt  take any further 
action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited to pay Mr S £70 to compensate him for the inconvenience hes 
experienced.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0332644