K820x#14complaint
Ms M complains about the Society of Lloyds (SOL) and its decision  to reject her claim for 
legal expenses assistance.
background
I issued a provisional decision last month detailing my initial  findings  that I wasnt minded to 
uphold Ms Ms case. I set out the background to the complaint as follows;
Ms M held a policy with SOL from December  2014  for one year only to December 2015.
Ms M submitted a claim to SOL in August 2018  relating to a dispute  she had with a firm of 
lawyers. SOLs view was that the dispute began in July 2014  and in May 2015 Ms M was 
made aware  of a potential claim.  
SOL rejected Ms Ms claim on the basis that the policy required claims to be reported during 
the period of insurance and immediately  after Ms M first became aware of the circumstances 
that could lead to a claim. As the claim was made  some time outside the insured period SOL 
refused cover.
One of our investigators  looked into the matter and came to a view that SOL should review  
the claim as it occurred during the insured period. He referred to the Insurance:  Conduct of 
Business sourcebook (ICOBS)  and where  a policy condition  has been breached, SOL 
shouldnt decline the claim unless the circumstances  of the claim are connected with the 
breach. 
SOL disagreed with the investigator explaining that claim prejudice is not relevant to policy 
coverage. SOL didnt think it was an unfair requirement that a claim be reported during the 
insured period. And so as it wasnt reported  within the insured period the terms allow  SOL to 
refuse the claim.  
SOL also pointed to the nature of the dispute between Ms M and the lawyers she wanted to 
litigate against.  The dispute was about  advice in relation to a lease extension for a number  of 
properties but the policy expressly stated that it didnt insure any claim relating to the letting, 
leasing or licencing  of land or buildings where Ms M acts as the landlord.
The investigator wasnt persuaded  to change his view and thought it fair and reasonable for 
SOL to review Ms Ms claim in full. He didnt think the claim was purely to do with the lease 
issue and as SOL hadnt fully reviewed the claim it should do so. This may, or may not 
reveal that some of the claim is covered. 
SOL continued to disagree and so the matter has been referred to an ombudsman for a 
decision.
my provisional findings
I explained these  as follows;
The policy Ms M has with SOL is commonly referred  to as a claims Made policy.  This is 
reflected in the policy wording about the cover given by SOL. The policy says SOL will pay 
Ms Ms legal costs and expenses but sets out some conditions that must  be met. These 
Ref: DRN07009302include her paying  the premium  and the claim being  reported to SOL during the period of 
insurance and immediately after Ms M first becomes aware of circumstances which could  
give rise to a claim under the policy.
The policy ended in December  2015 and the claim wasnt reported until August 2018. Im 
satisfied Ms M failed to comply with the policy conditions so strictly  speaking  the policy 
doesnt cover her claim.  While  I appreciate  Ms M appears to have breached a policy  
condition I wouldnt be persuaded that its fair and reasonable for SOL to rely on that breach 
unless it has been prejudiced by the breach. 
Industry rules (ICOBS) say its unreasonable to reject  a claim if it is for breach of a warranty 
or condition  unless the circumstances of the claim are connected  to the breach. Im 
persuaded there has been some prejudice to SOL. The circumstances concern poor legal 
advice. Ms M took her case to the Solicitors Regulation  Authority  and the Legal 
Ombudsman some years  ago. Ms M says she didnt  pursue the matter to the end with the 
legal ombudsman (a free service), who would have made findings  on the advice given by the 
lawyers. Ive heard Ms M in telephone call recordings say that it looked  as though the legal 
ombudsman was leaning  towards the lawyer rather than her. 
The claim is about poor advice and thats an issue within the remit of the legal ombudsman,  
a free service. Had Ms M pursued  that matter  she would have received a decision  about the 
validity/accuracy/standard of the advice  given. If that decision had been favourable the legal 
ombudsman could have  awarded a refund of fees in whole or in part. That would have 
meant her claim to SOL would either not have been  made or at least shown whether Ms M 
had a case with prospects  of success.  In either  case it would have reduced SOLs  exposure  
to costs.
Ms M instructed the lawyers in the summer of 2014  to deal with a residential lease 
extension. And by March 2015  its alleged by Ms M that theyd given her incorrect advice. By 
May 2015 Ms M says she noticed issues on the lawyers invoice and questioned excessive 
charging. The crux of the complaint against  the lawyers centres on the issue  of properties  
and the extension of leases. Claims relating to such an issue are not covered by the policy 
where Ms M acts as the landlord. So Im satisfied that SOLs decision not to cover this part 
of Ms Ms claim is in line with the policy and fair.
Ive considered very carefully whether there are other issues  that might warrant a closer look 
by SOL under the policy. Ms M thinks that her lawyers charged her excessively, and she 
says the lawyers gave  poor and incorrect advice. She wants legal  expenses  assistance to 
recover monies from the lawyers.
Ms Ms policy does cover  her for disputes arising out of an agreement  for buying or hiring  
consumer services. And so a dispute against the lawyers in relation to their agreement  is 
covered. But the challenge for Ms M is that the dispute she has with the lawyers centres on 
and around the residential lease extension and the advice provided in relation to that. 
Unfortunately this matter  is excluded  by her policy. 
I appreciate Ms M is very unhappy with the lawyers  she originally instructed to advise on and 
carry out the residential lease extension. And I understand that this occurred at a particularly 
sad and distressing time. However, Im persuaded by all the evidence  that her claim for legal 
expenses is excluded because its about  a lease extension for a number of properties and 
Ref: DRN07009303the policy expressly states  that it didnt cover  any claim relating to the letting, leasing or 
licencing of land or buildings where  Ms M acts as the landlord.
In all the circumstances of this case Im satisfied SOL has acted in line with the policy terms 
and fairly  and reasonably. 
replies
Ms M replied to my provisional decision. She says her complaint against the lawyers was 
about the advice given  and payment  made  to the lawyers for the re-sealing of a Grant in the 
UK. The lease  extension was a secondary matter as it couldnt be dealt  with until probate 
was complete in the UK. Ms M said she is confused that the matter  has been  based on the 
lease extension.
SOL replied  too but had nothing to further  to add.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also thought  carefully on Ms Ms 
reply.
Ms M wrote in her claim  form to SOL in August 2018;
Around July 2014 I instructed [firm of solicitors]  to deal with the residential  lease extension 
of the London property
And she later sets out that the firm of solicitors wrongly advised her and made  an application 
to the Land Registry. She said she was advised improperly about applying to Land Registry 
and applying  for a Grant  of Probate in the UK. 
I disagree with Ms M that the lease extension was a secondary issue. In the claim she set 
out to SOL she said she instructed solicitors  to deal with the residential lease of property. It 
turned out that in order to do what Ms M wanted  the solicitors gave advice (albeit  Ms M says 
that advice was poor) and acted on her behalf  in securing a Grant of Probate. While  Ms M 
says what the solicitors did was not the right thing to do, and ultimately  cost her more 
money, in her own claim form she says she instructed  the solicitors to deal with a residential  
lease extension. 
Even if I accepted Ms Ms point that the primary issue was the re-sealing of a Grant  I am 
satisfied that the delay  in notifying SOL of her claim was a breach of a policy  condition.  The 
relevant condition was for Ms M to report her claim to SOL during the period of insurance, 
and immediately after she first became aware  of circumstances which  could give rise to a 
claim under the policy.
As I said in my provisional decision,  industry rules (ICOBS) say its unreasonable for an 
insurer to reject a claim if it is for breach  of a warranty or condition  unless the circumstances 
of the claim are connected to the breach. I remain persuaded there has been some  prejudice 
to SOL.  The circumstances of the claim concern poor legal advice. Ms M took her complaint 
about the solicitors  to the Solicitors Regulation Authority (SRA) and the Legal  Ombudsman 
(LeO) some years ago. Ms M says she didnt pursue the matter to the end with the legal  
ombudsman (a free service), who would have made findings on the advice given by the 
lawyers. Ive heard Ms M in telephone call recordings say that it looked  as though the legal 
ombudsman was leaning  towards the solicitor rather than her. 
Ref: DRN07009304The claim is about poor advice and thats an issue within the remit of the legal ombudsman,  
a free service. Had Ms M pursued  that matter  she would have received a decision  about the 
validity/accuracy/standard of the advice  given. If that decision had been favourable the legal 
ombudsman could have  awarded a refund of fees in whole or in part. That would have 
meant her claim to SOL would either not have been  made or at least shown whether Ms M 
had a case with prospects  of success.  In either  case it would have reduced SOLs  exposure  
to costs. 
Its not to say Ms M had to complain  to the SRA or LeO before she made a claim to SOL.  
But she was required to make her claim to SOL within the insured period. Since her policy  
ended Ms M complained  to the solicitors Regulator  and the relevant Ombudsman scheme 
about the solicitors  advice. From the information Ms M provided it looks as though  LeO 
and/or SRA were  leaning  towards the solicitor rather than her. But Ms M didnt see that 
process through and so neither party now has the outcome and insight of the SRA/LeO on 
the same  complaint issues  that SOL would have  to consider in assessing Ms Ms claim 
against the solicitor.  
Taking all this into account I am persuaded the late notification means SOL would have to 
consider a claim in circumstances  where  Ms M could have recovered the fees in whole or 
part had she finished the complaint process with the Legal Ombudsman. And if the Legal 
Ombudsman had concluded no wrongdoing on the solicitors part then SOL is likely to have  
not covered Ms Ms claim at all. I am not satisfied it would be fair or reasonable, in this case, 
to require SOL to consider Ms Ms claim.
my final decision
Having thought carefully about Ms Ms complaint against Society of Lloyds  I dont uphold  it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Sean Hamilton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0700930