K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that K T Green Limited mis-sold him a monthly premium  payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy  taken out in 2005  when he applied for a hire purchase  loan to buy a 
car.
background
Mr B complained to this Service.  He said the policy called Creditcare  Gold  was mis-sold to 
him. He was paying  £35.84 per month  to receive a benefit of £232.97 per month up to a 
maximum limit if he couldnt work  because  he was sick or had an accident. 
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be upheld because  it wasnt  clear  that K T 
Green had told him the PPI policy was a separate and optional product.
 
K T Green  didnt confirm whether it agreed with our adjudicators view and so the matter was 
passed to me to look at again.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.  
Ive decided to uphold his complaint for the reasons Ill set out below. 
K T Green  says this was a non-advised sale to Mr B. And K T Green said it would not have 
sold PPI to Mr B unless he had specifically  requested it. It produced  a Demands and Needs  
Statement  which showed PPI had been  explained to Mr B at the time of the sale  although  
it didnt show exactly what insurance  recommendations  had been made. And it produced a 
copy of his hire purchase agreement to show the premium for Creditcare Gold was included  
in his loan repayment. 
I looked at all the documents very carefully. I could  not see anything on the documents 
which showed the PPI was an optional  product.  And I could not see anything on the 
documents which showed Mr B could decline to have PPI added to his loan agreement.
I also saw that Mr Bs hire purchase agreement did not have a separate place for him to sign 
for PPI. So I dont think its clear from the documents Ive seen that Mr B was aware that PPI 
was separate  and optional. So I think there  is a failing in this sale. 
K T Green  said the PPI wouldnt  have  been  added to a consumers account unless that 
person had asked  for PPI. And, although I accept  Mr B signed his hire purchase  agreement,  
Im afraid I simply dont  have enough evidence to show  that he actively  selected for PPI in 
this sale. 
Taking everything into account,  Im not satisfied that K T Green did enough to show the 
policy was a separate and optional product in a clear and balanced way. So I dont think  K T 
Green made  it clear  enough to Mr B that the policy was optional. I think this is a very basic  
requirement of a sale  and I think this is a strong enough reason  to uphold the complaint  
so I dont need to consider any other grounds  of his complaint. 
Ref: DRN08770952my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I make the following award against K T 
Green Limited. K T Green  Limited should:
Work  out and pay Mr B the difference between what he paid each month on the loan 
and what he would  have  paid each month without PPI;
Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr B paid each month from when he paid it 
until he gets it back. The rate of interest  is 8% a year ;
If Mr B made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, K T Green Limited can take off 
what he got for the claim from the amount it owes him.
  HM Revenue & Customs requires K T Green Limited to take off tax from this interest.  K T 
Green Limited must  give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for 
one
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 October  2020.
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0877095