K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that he wasnt told his travel  insurance would be cancelled  when he 
upgraded his Nationwide Building Society  bank account. 
background
Mr B has a FlexAccount with Nationwide that comes with free travel insurance. Mr B applied  
online to upgrade his account  to a FlexDirect account. Hes explained that during  the 
application process he wasnt told his travel insurance would be cancelled  once the upgrade 
completed. 
After Nationwide  upgraded the account it wrote to Mr B and advised his travel insurance had 
been cancelled.  Mr B got in touch with Nationwide and complained. Nationwide  responded 
on 3 April 2019 and confirmed Mr B could reopen his old FlexAccount which would mean  his 
travel insurance would be reinstated. 
Mr B has explained that during this period he had hoped to book  a holiday. He says that 
because of this issue he had to delay making the booking which pushed up the prices.  
On 24 April 2019 Nationwide  emailed Mr B and confirmed the travel insurance had been  
reinstated. 
Mr B continued to discuss his concerns with Nationwide and it issued a second response to 
his complaint on 8 May 2019. Nationwide  confirmed its original decision concerning the 
information provided regarding whether the FlexDirect account came with free travel  
insurance remained the same. But Nationwide apologised for the amount of time Mr B spent 
waiting to discuss his concerns  and accepted  hed been given some misleading information  
when he called. Nationwide  paid Mr B £125  to apologise. 
Mr B referred his complaint to our service and an investigator looked at what  had happened.  
He thought Nationwide had dealt  with Mr Bs complaint  fairly  and didnt  ask it to increase the 
settlement or do anything  else.  Mr B asked to appeal so his complaint has been  passed to 
me to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B says Nationwide didnt make it clear  that he would lose the travel insurance associated  
with his FlexAccount once the FlexDirect  upgrade went through.  But Nationwide has sent in 
evidence showing the information provided  by its systems when someone applies to 
upgrade their account. 
It shows that when  applying for the FlexDirect upgrade customers are told the travel 
insurance and promotional offers that come  with your FlexAccount will stop when you 
change to FlexDirect. A link to a video which sets out how travel insurance  will change  is 
also included. Whilst I appreciate Mr B genuinely didnt realise his travel insurance  would 
stop once the account upgraded, Im satisfied Nationwide does make that clear during the 
application process. 
Ref: DRN03572002Mr B quickly  got in touch  with Nationwide once he realised the FlexDirect account  wasnt 
right for him and it took steps to switch it back to the FlexAccount. Nationwide  emailed Mr B 
on 24 April 2019 and confirmed the travel insurance  was in place. I appreciate Mr B says 
there was a delay  reinstating the cover  but I havent  found that to be the case. From what  
Ive seen, Nationwide acted quickly on Mr Bs instructions  to reinstate his FlexAccount  and 
travel insurance. I appreciate Mr B says there was a delay in booking travel  abroad which 
increased costs. But I havent  found  any evidence of a delay after he asked it to switch  the 
account back and Nationwide made  Mr B aware  it would take some time for the policy to 
show on his account.  
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr B but Im satisfied  Nationwide gave clear information about the 
impact of switching account types  and explained  the associated account  benefits, including  
travel insurance, would change. Nationwide acted on Mr Bs instructions to reinstate his 
FlexAccount without  an unreasonable delay. 
Nationwide paid Mr B £125 because of delays when calling and providing some incorrect  
information when  he discussed the travel insurance. Having considered everything Ive seen, 
Im satisfied the settlement Nationwide has paid is fair in all the circumstances so Im not 
telling it to increase  its offer or take any further action to resolve this complaint. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 October  2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0357200