K820x#14complaint
Ms T complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC trading as Barclaycard has refused to refund 
money she made to a financial  trading  company under either S75 Consumer Credit  Act 1974 
(CCA) or under the chargeback rules.
background
Ms T made  a number of payments of just under  £10,000 from her Barclaycard to a company 
I will call P for what she says was described as risk free trading in 2017. She says the 
company gave her false information and lost her money. Ms T says she asked Barclaycard 
to raise a chargeback and or to refund her money under S75 CCA but it didnt refund her 
money as she says it should.
Barclaycard says it raised a chargeback claim but it was successfully defended and it took 
the chargeback  as far as it could under the chargeback rules. It says S75 doesnt apply as 
Ms T transferred money to P for the purposes of trading and not for goods  or services. 
Barclaycard has offered  to help Ms T with the amount she owes  it and has paid 
compensation for not dealing with part of her complaint as it should  have.
Ms T brought her complaint to us but our investigator  didnt think Barclaycard had acted 
unfairly or made a mistake. She thought  S75 didnt apply as there  wasnt a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation but a transfer  of money by Ms T to be used for the purposes  of 
trading. The investigator  also thought Barclaycard had taken the chargeback  claim as far as 
it could and it wasnt responsible for the final decision  or the scheme rules.
Ms T doesnt accept  that view and says P told her the trading was risk free before  she used 
her credit card to make  payments to it. She says P misrepresented the situation and so 
Barclaycard should  be equally responsible for that and so should refund her money.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and or 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall conclusions  as the investigator  for the same  reasons. I realise  Ms T will be 
disappointed by my decision and I appreciate how strongly she feels  about  whats  happened 
and the difficult  financial position she now finds herself in.
The chargeback schemes  are run by the card providers and not as in this case  by 
Barclaycard. We would normally expect a business to raise  a chargeback if there  is a 
reasonable prospect of success. And Im satisfied that Barclaycard did raise a chargeback  
and continued  to peruse it until the card provider made a final decision. So I dont think 
Barclaycard could have done anything more in those circumstances and as Ms T knows it 
didnt make the decision to the reject the chargeback that was successfully defended.
The investigator has explained that S75 CCA does in certain circumstances hold the credit  
provider equally liable  for a breach of contract  or any misrepresentation. But Im satisfied  
here that Ms T wasnt buying a service or product  but was using her Barclaycard to make a 
payment to her account with P that would  in turn be used  for trading. So I dont think  there  
was a breach  of contract by P or that it misrepresented the position as far as the transferring 
of the money  into the account  or what it was to be used for. I appreciate that Ms T says P 
told her the trading was risk free but I dont think that is covered by S75 in this situation as 
Ref: DRN09884992for the reasons Ive explained Ms T did receive what she wanted  which  was money  in her 
trading account.
I understand that Ms T now finds herself in financial difficulties. Banks and building  societies 
should treat customers  in that position  positively and sympathetically  and I can see that 
Barclaycard has offered  to discuss the debt with Ms T and try to help her. I hope Ms T can 
speak to Barclaycard  in order to discuss her repayment options. I appreciate that this wasnt  
the answer that Ms T wanted and I hope that she can take matters further against P using 
other means. I also make clear that Ive not looked  at the level of compensation Barclaycard 
has paid Ms T in respect  of how it dealt with the complaint originally as Ms T hasnt said that 
she disagrees with it. And I can see that her main  complaint is about  the refund of the money 
in any event.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 May 2019
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0988499