K820x#14complaint
Mr M has complained that The Co-operative Bank Plc didnt do enough  to help him when he 
fell victim to a scam.  He feels The Co-op  could have done more  to prevent the payment 
going through, or to refund him the money. 
background
On 22 June 2018 Mr M made a payment of £1,300 from his Co-op current account to 
someone who he thought was his kitchen contractor. Mr Ms contractor contacted  him on 25 
June 2018 to say he was delaying the start of work due to the deposit not having been paid. 
Mr M met with the contractor later that same day to discuss what  had happened and to 
compare emails. It became apparent that Mr M had made the payment to a scammer who 
had impersonated  the contractor and who had sent Mr M an email  containing  their own bank 
details instead  of the contractors. On finding this out, Mr M immediately contacted The Co-
op to tell it what had happened and to see if there  was anything it could do to help. The Co-
op contacted the scammers bank  to see if any of Mr Ms money could be retrieved. But the 
scammers bank  confirmed  that virtually no money remained from Mr Ms transaction. Mr M 
was refunded £38.24 on 18 July 2018.
Mr M complained that, by putting the contractors name as the payee when setting up the 
payment, that showed his intention to pay the contractor and he was unaware that the bank 
didnt check the payee name against  the account  name that he was transferring the money  
to. The Co-ops  response was that the payee name was for reference only.  As matching up 
the payee name against the recipient  bank  account name was not part of the payment 
regulations or the banks processes, it was unable to agree that it should  uphold the 
complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry  
practice at the time. 
Having done so, I think The Co-op  acted  fairly  and reasonably in allowing the transfer to 
leave Mr Ms account. And I think it took appropriate  steps to try and recover  funds  from the 
beneficiary bank. So, I cant fairly  say that The Co-op should reimburse Mr M with the £1,300 
he lost. Ill explain why in more detail.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank  is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment  
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account. When  Mr M 
made the payment, he didnt know he was dealing with a scammer,  so he sent the money in 
good faith. This means that  at the time  he wanted the payment to go ahead and 
authorised it to be made.  And I have  taken that into account when deciding what  is fair and 
reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:
Ref: DRN08282932The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes  a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of its 
customer (known as the Quincecare  duty).    
Regulated firms like The Co-op are also required to conduct their business with due skill, 
care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle  6).  
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  taken 
proactive steps  to: 
identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  circumstances, 
including those  at risk of financial exploitation  (something recognised by the FCA in 
recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February  2016 report improving 
outcomes for customers in vulnerable  circumstances);  
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers from 
Financial harm  as a result  of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice , which a 
number of banks  and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
 
in relation to branch transactions  follow  the Banking Protocol when available.     
This means  that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion,  fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make  a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.  
This is particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated  
fraud and scams in recent  years  - which banks are generally more familiar  with than the 
average customer.  
In this case, I need to decide  whether The Co-op  acted  fairly and reasonably  in its dealings 
with Mr M when  he transferred £1,300 or whether it should have done  more than it did. But I 
dont think the payment  was particularly suspicious or unusual enough to say The Co-op 
ought to have had concerns that Mr M was being  scammed. I dont think  it was sufficiently  
suspicious to conclude  The Co-op ought  to have identified that it may be potentially  
fraudulent. 
Mr M set up the new payee and made  the payment online.  In doing so he had given his 
contractors name as the payee name. Mr M says he was unaware  that the bank did not 
correlate the payee name  given against the actual account name  that he was transferring 
the money to. 
The Co-op used  the account number and sort code as the unique  identifiers for the payment 
instruction. The payee  name was for Mr Ms reference only. In this instance, even if The Co-
op had made it clear that it didnt cross check  the payees name  against  the recipient  
Ref: DRN08282933account name, I consider that Mr M would still have made the transfer. He was in no real 
doubt at the time that he was paying  money into the contractors account.  Hes also said that 
he had considered contacting the contractor to double check his bank details but that it 
seemed overly cautious and he didnt want to disrupt the contractor when he was busy, 
thereby risking a possible strain to their relationship. 
Checking the account name  of the payee did not form part of the Payment Services  
Regulations. At the time, The Co-op would not have  had access  to accounts  held at other 
banks to cross reference the name. As such, I dont think it would be fair to hold The Co-op 
to a standard that was over and above recognised industry good practice at the time. Overall  
I dont think that The Co-op did anything wrong by following  the instructions Mr M had given  
to make the transaction.
Mr M has talked  about the time pressure he was under to get work started on his kitchen due 
to the conditions placed on the repair grant  that he had applied  for, coupled with the 
pressure of arranging  delivery of the necessary fixtures and fittings. Hes also explained how 
angry he is about having to make further payments to the contractor in cash,  thereby putting  
himself at risk by carrying large amounts of cash in the street. Ive thought very carefully 
about what Mr M has said about  this. Whilst I appreciate  the stress that Mr M would  have 
been under  at the time,  on balance I am unable to conclude that these circumstances  were  
such that The Co-op should have  identified him as a vulnerable consumer or as someone 
that was in a vulnerable situation,  such that he would be more at risk of being scammed.
When Mr M told The Co-op  that hed been  scammed it acted quickly,  contacting  the 
scammers bank  to see if any of Mr Ms money  was still in the receiving account and could 
be retrieved. Unfortunately, by that time,  most of Mr Hs money had gone (although he did 
receive back £38.24  on 18 July 2018). Any further  investigations into what  happened  to the 
money after it left the scammers account werent  the responsibility of Lloyds, and it wouldnt 
have unrestricted  access to that information. So, contacting the scammers bank to try and 
retrieve his money was all The Co-op  could do to help Mr M at that stage.
Mr M believes that, if the scam had happened  more  recently, during the time since  banks 
have been following the contingent  reimbursement  model  (CRM)  code, The Co-op would 
have refunded his money. He therefore thinks that this service should apply that code 
retrospectively. However, as I have  said earlier,  I dont consider it would be fair to hold The 
Co-op to a standard that was beyond expected codes of good  practice  at the time.
Its extremely unfortunate that Mr M has lost out, and I understand that this whole experience 
will have been hugely upsetting for him. Mr M says he shouldnt be held solely responsible  
for the loss. I dont  think anyone would say he was solely responsible   it is clearly the 
scammers who are to blame for Mr M losing his money. But in the circumstances, I cant 
fairly say that The Co-op should have  done more to prevent that loss. I cant hold The Co-op 
responsible for Mr M having fallen victim  to a scam, and I think The Co-op did all it could to 
help him once it knew what had happened. So it would not be fair to ask The Co-op  to 
compensate Mr M for his loss.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 October  2020.
Ref: DRN08282934Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0828293