K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Nationwide Building Society  (trading  as Staffordshire Building  
Society) mis-sold  Mrs and Mr B payment protection insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1996.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mrs and Mr B disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive considered carefully Mrs and Mr Bs comments. However, Ive decided not to uphold  this 
complaint. I will explain  why:
I think Nationwide made Mrs and Mr B aware  that the PPI was optional, but that they still 
chose to take it. The surviving documents suggest it was presented as a choice, and I 
can see that Mr B signed the PPI application  form. Though  this did all happen over 
22 years,  so I wouldnt expect someone  to recall in detail everything that happened  so 
long ago.
Nationwide didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs and Mr B, as being particularly suited to 
their individual needs. This means it didnt have  to check if the PPI fitted  their 
circumstances. It would  have  been for Mrs and Mr B to decide whether it was suitable.  
But even  if it had made a recommendation, I think it would probably have been an 
appropriate one in their circumstances at the time.  Not being able to pay a mortgage  can 
cause significant  difficulties, and the PPI would have paid out in addition to any employer 
sickness and redundancy benefits,  and possibly for longer. And Ive not been  told 
anything to suggest they couldnt afford the PPI when they took it out. So it would have 
been potentially  useful. 
Its possible Nationwide didnt clearly  point out the main things the policy didnt  cover. 
But its unlikely Mr B (the person covered) would  have  been affected by any of these. 
Mr B says he was self-employed at the time and believes  this would have made it difficult  
for him to claim. This could be true with some PPI policies, but Ive looked at the wording 
of this one, and it didnt make  it any more difficult than if he hadnt  been self-employed.   
Its likely  Mr B was eligible for the policy, and Mrs and Mr B would be paying  for it 
monthly, so they could  cancel  it at any time without  further cost if their situation changed.
Its hard to know how well Nationwide explained  the costs  and benefits  of the policy.  But 
I dont anyway think full and clear information about the costs  would  have affected  
whether Mrs and Mr B took the PPI.
Ref: DRN02931872my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 June  2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0293187