K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Cumberland Building Society mis-sold them  payment  protection 
insurance (PPI) in connection  with their mortgage.
background
In 1992 Mr and Mrs W took out a mortgage  with Cumberland  during a meeting at one of its 
branches. At the same  time Mr and Mrs W took out PPI to cover Mr Ws income and protect 
their mortgage payments  in the event  Mr W couldnt work through  accident, sickness  or if he 
lost his job.
The policy cost £7.43 a month  and it provided a benefit  of £150 per month to approximately 
match Mr and Mrs Ws monthly mortgage  payment.
Upon a successful  claim the policy would have  paid out for both accident/sickness and 
unemployment for up to 12 months per claim.
Mr and Mrs Ws PPI policy ended in 1993.
The adjudicator who looked at Mr and Mrs Ws complaint didnt think  Cumberland  explained 
the terms and conditions of the PPI policy clearly to Mr and Mrs W. And she didnt think Mr 
and Mrs W wouldve bought the policy if it had. Cumberland disagrees,  so Mr and Mrs Ws 
complaint has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to handling  
complaints about  PPI on our website, and Ive taken account of whats  relevant here in 
considering this complaint.
Cumberland says this was an advised  sale. So it not only had to provide Mr and Mrs W with 
enough information about the policy so they could make an informed decision about  it. It also 
had to ensure  the policy was right or suitable for them  based  on their needs and 
circumstances at the time. Ive taken this into account in my consideration of the case.
This isnt an easy complaint to decide.  There is limited evidence  available  from the time of 
the sale, around 25 years ago. So, I must  carefully  weigh  up what  is available  to me when  
reaching my decision.
Having done so, on balance, Ive decided  to uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. Ill explain 
why.
Cumberland had a duty to give Mr and Mrs W enough clear information about  the PPI so 
they could make an informed decision about  whether they wanted  it. From what Ive seen, I 
dont think Cumberland  did this. And also from what Ive seen, on balance,  I think  if 
Cumberland had given  Mr and Mrs W the clear information they needed they wouldnt have 
bought the policy.
I say this because  its likely the policy Mr and Mrs W were  sold wouldnt have covered Mr W 
for any medical conditions  he had when they bought it. Mr and Mrs W have told us that Mr W 
Ref: DRN08176912had a medical condition when they were sold the policy that could have significantly affected 
his health in later life. They explained to our adjudicator  that the medical condition had been 
ongoing for a number  of years and required daily medication to control it. They  told 
Cumberland about  the medical condition during their investigation into the complaint. 
At the time of the sale, Cumberland did ask Mr W if he was in good health, and he replied 
that he was.  But  I think its more likely than not, that he didnt understand the purpose of the 
question or its consequences. I say this because  he had been on the medication he required 
for a number of years  and he says it wasnt affecting  his day to day life. I could understand 
why he would have  said he was in good  health. But had he instead been told about the 
exclusion in the policy, I think its more likely than not that he would  have answered  
differently.
As Ive said,  I think its likely the PPI excluded  cover for Mr Ws known medical condition. Mr 
and Mrs Ws explanation  of Mr Ws medical  condition has been clear, detailed  and plausible,  
and whilst I accept theyre  saying this in support  of their complaint, I think  its more likely 
than not that he did have  this medical  condition. So, on the basis of this, I think  its likely the 
exclusion in the policy wouldve mattered to Mr and Mrs W when they bought the PPI. 
There was no information about this exclusion on documents  Mr and Mrs W signed when 
they were sold the PPI policy. So I havent seen anything to show  Cumberland did enough to 
make this exclusion clear to Mr and Mrs W.
If it had done, and based on the information Ive got, I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs W 
wouldve gone ahead with the policy if theyd known Mr W wasnt  likely to have been  
covered if hed needed time off work because of his known  medical  condition.  
I think Mr and Mrs W have lost out because of what Cumberland has done  wrong  and so it 
should put things right.
(For completeness,  I note that Mr W tried to make a claim  on the policy  and is unhappy that 
he was not successful. If he remains unhappy,  he would need to raise  this with the business 
first and it is not the subject of this decision.)
putting things right
Cumberland should  put Mr and Mrs W in the position theyd  be in now if they hadnt taken 
out PPI. Cumberland should:
Pay Mr and Mrs W the amount they paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
If Mr and Mrs W made a successful  claim under the PPI policy, Cumberland  can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Cumberland to take off tax from this interest.  
Cumberland must give Mr and Mrs W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they 
ask for one. 
Ref: DRN08176913my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint and direct  Cumberland 
building Society  to put things right as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 April 2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0817691