K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S say Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint  copy of which  attached and forms part of 
this decision. I set out the background to the matter and explained why I didnt think 
Mr and Mrs Ss complaint should  be upheld. In summary this was because I didnt think  the 
PPI was unsuitable for Mr and Mrs S.
Neither Mr and Mrs S nor Halifax responded to my provisional decision by the deadline Id 
set.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I still dont think 
Mr and Mrs Ss complaint should  be upheld.
As neither party has provided any further evidence  or arguments  for me to consider, I see no 
reason to reach a different decision to that set out previously in my provisional decision. It 
follows that I dont  uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint and Halifax  doesnt  need to refund 
everything they paid for it.
But as I mentioned in my provisional decision, Halifax  has paid back  some of the cost of the 
PPI part of the plan. I dont  think it needs  to do anything more.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 May 2019.
Claire Allison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN09007602provisional decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs S say Bank of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) mis-sold them  a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs S applied  for a mortgage  with Halifax  through an intermediary  in 2001. The PPI started at 
the same time as the mortgage. It provided cover for both Mr and Mrs S if they werent  able to work 
because of accident or sickness, or if they were unemployed. They would be able to make a claim 
after 30 days  of not working for one of these  reasons.  The PPI would  pay out a monthly benefit that 
would cover their mortgage repayments and other mortgage  related expenses for up to 24 months.  At 
the time it cost £14.38 a month.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ss case.
I currently dont think Mr and Mrs Ss complaint should  be upheld. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs S say the PPI was automatically  added to their mortgage and that Halifax told them  it was 
highly recommended.  They  say they only carried  on with it because  they didnt want  their mortgage to 
be refused. And I accept that (over 15 year on) this is how they remember  things.
Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage  was applied for through an intermediary  a third party, completely separate  
to Halifax. The mortgage application that was completed at the time doesnt appear to include any 
mention of PPI, which  you might expect  if it was something  they had to have to get the mortgage. 
There is a section about  property insurance, for example, which explains the property must  be 
insured.
Although it isnt completely  clear what happened,  it looks like Halifax contacted Mr and Mrs S when it 
received their mortgage  application and it sent them quotations for PPI, as well as buildings and 
contents insurance. Its likely the quotations were sent following  a conversation with Mr and/or Mrs S. 
For the PPI to be set up, I think  Mr and Mrs S would have had to complete and sign a separate  PPI 
application form. So it doesnt seem that the PPI was automatically included  it would only have been  
set up if Mr and Mrs S had said they wanted it.
Halifax may well have  told Mr and Mrs S it was a good idea to have the PPI but this isnt the same as 
giving them the impression they had to take it out to get the mortgage.  Having carefully considered 
the available evidence, I think  its more  likely Halifax made it clear that Mr and Mrs S didnt have to 
take out the PPI and they chose to take it out  although I can understand why they cant remember 
this.
Halifax says it recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs S so it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances  at the time, I think  that it was. For 
example they werent affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover and they seem  to 
have had a need for the cover. 
Ref: DRN09007603Mr and Mrs S have told us about some critical  illness  cover they had at the time. But this provided 
different cover to the PPI. So the fact they had this, wouldnt mean  the PPI wasnt necessary. Theyve 
also told us their employee benefits would have meant they didnt  need the PPI. Weve  asked for 
some more information  about these but so far havent received anything. So Ive had to base  my 
decision on what I think these are most likely to have been.
Although Mr and Mrs S have both said they would have received 12 months or more  pay from their 
employers if they were  off sick, this is unlikely.  I accept they might have had generous benefits from 
their employers at the time, but in my experience 12 months full pay is very unusual. Its likely  that, if 
their sick pay did continue  for this long, at some  point  it would reduce.  And at this time the PPI would  
be particularly useful because  it would  mean they wouldnt have to worry about  making their mortgage 
repayments with a reduced income.
Mr and Mrs S have also said they would  both have received enhanced redundancy packages if they 
were made redundant. Again, I accept this may have been  the case.  But theyd both only been 
employed by their employers at the time for around three years. And given their ages  at the time, 
even an enhanced redundancy package is unlikely to have meant they had no need for a PPI policy 
that would cover their mortgage  repayments  for up to 24 months if they were  unemployed. 
Overall I think  the PPI was a suitable recommendation  for Mr and Mrs S. I think  it provided  valuable 
cover to them given the fact the policy protected the mortgage repayments relating to their home and 
the potential consequences  should they be unable  to make  the repayments  on loans secured  against 
their house.
Its possible the information Halifax  gave Mr and Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But as Ive explain,  I think  they chose  to take it out - so it looks like they wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems  like it would have been useful for them if something went wrong. It also looks like 
it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would  have put them  off taking out 
the cover.  
This means  I dont currently think the PPI was mis-sold. So Halifax doesnt  need to refund everything 
Mr and Mrs S paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mr and Mrs S back some of the cost 
of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more. I understand Halifax has already  paid this to Mr 
and Mrs S.
my provisional  decision
I dont plan to uphold this complaint.
Claire Allison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0900760