K821x#15complaint
Mr N has complained that Zenith Insurance plc refuses to remove a voidance mark from his 
record on internal  and external databases. Zenith cancelled a commercial  vehicle policy  as if 
it didnt exist because  it said Mr N misrepresented his driving history. 
background
Mr N bought a van insurance policy through a broker in December 2014. 
In July 2015 Mr N changed  van and his current insurer would no longer provide cover.  So his 
broker arranged a new policy with a different insurer.  
Just after Mr N renewed his policy in July 2016,  his broker  contacted  him. It said a 
windscreen claim hed made  in June 2016  had now settled.  But as a result his current  
insurer would no longer provide cover. So it arranged  a new policy  with a different insurer, 
Zenith. This policy started  on 28 July 2016. 
In September  2017 Mr N made a claim  to Zenith  for damage to his van. Zenith  found  out that 
Mr N had a motor conviction from March 2015 which he hadnt disclosed.  It said if it had 
known about the conviction, it wouldnt have provided insurance  for Mr N. This was due to 
the accumulative risk - because Mr N had other motor  convictions over the previous five 
years.
Zenith instructed  Mr Ns broker to carry out the cancellation of Mr Ns policy  and back date it 
28 July 2016.  This meant that Mr Ns damage  claim in September  2017  wasnt covered. 
Mr N complained to his broker, but it didnt uphold his complaint. So Mr N asked us to look at 
things for him. 
Our adjudicator recommended  Mr Ns complaint should be upheld. His broker didnt ask 
Mr N any questions about his driving history  when it arranged  a new policy for him in 2015  
and in 2016. She recommended his broker arrange for the voidance to be removed from any 
internal and external databases. And she recommended the broker pay Mr N £100 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  it caused him. 
Mr Ns broker  accepted  the adjudicators recommendations and paid Mr N £100 
compensation. And Mr N accepted the adjudicators  findings. However,  the broker  asked  the 
insurer Zenith to remove the voidance. But Zenith refused. 
Mr N raised a new complaint with Zenith.  But Zenith said the voidance should  stand.  It said 
Mr N renewed  his policy with the broker in July 2016. So its looked at what  Mr N reported at 
renewal. It said Mr N was asked to review  the documents and to call if anything had 
changed. Zenith said the renewal documents explained the consequences of failing to 
disclose correct information. So it said Mr N was aware of the importance  of checking his 
documents before entering into a contract  with Zenith. 
Zenith therefore believes Mr N was provided with clear information at the time and its 
decision stands. It said if it knew about Mr Ns motor  conviction from March  2015, it wouldnt 
have offered him a policy. 
As Zenith doesnt  agree, the case has been passed  to me to decide.
Ref: DRN01908742my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I intend  to uphold it. Ill 
explain why. 
Mr Ns broker  contacted  Mr N after his policy automatically renewed on 3 July 2016. It 
explained that Mr Ns current  insurer could no longer provide cover for him. So it said it 
would need to arrange a new policy for him.
At this stage, Mr Ns broker should have  asked Mr N a clear question about  his driving 
history as it was arranging a new policy for him. But it didnt. His broker accepts it didnt. In 
any event, in July 2015 Mr N called his broker to change  his van. During  this call, his broker  
explained that his insurer at the time would no longer provide cover  for this vehicle. So his 
broker arranged a new insurance contract then. However, it failed to ask Mr N any questions 
about his driving  history  in July 2015.  
So I dont  think the renewal documentation sent to Mr N for 3 July 2016 makes a difference 
to the outcome. And as the motoring conviction was from March  2015, nothing  had changed 
in the twelve months  from July 2015 to July 2016.
Mr Ns policy  with Zenith started on 28 July 2016.  Mr Ns broker  has accepted it failed to ask 
Mr N a clear question about his driving history when it sold the policy  to him. If it had done  
so, then I think its more likely  than not that Mr N would have answered the question honestly  
and disclosed the motor conviction  from March  2015. Hed disclosed  previous motor 
convictions in December 2014 to his broker. And so I think his broker  would  then have been 
in a position to find him cover with a different insurer. 
But because his broker failed  to ask Mr N about  his driving history,  we dont think  this is 
Mr Ns fault. Mr N said he cant recollect  but he believed hed told his broker  about the 
conviction at an earlier stage. 
It therefore follows that it isnt fair for Mr N to be penalised  as a result  of his brokers  actions. 
So I think its fair and reasonable for Zenith to remove the voidance from Mr Ns record  on 
all internal and external  databases. 
Ref: DRN01908743my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint. I require 
Zenith Insurance plc to remove the voidance from all internal and external databases and 
provide Mr N with a letter confirming it has done  this. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0190874