K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains about Trading 212 UK Limited.  Hes unhappy that he wasnt  able to deposit 
funds in to his account to prevent the closure of his positions. 
background
Mr A has a Contract for Difference trading account with Trading 212. In March  2018 he 
received a margin call and so he tried to fund his account using several different bank cards.  
The deposit  attempts were unsuccessful and as his account fell below the required margin  
requirements, Trading  212 automatically closed out some of his positions.
Mr A complained to Trading 212 about this as he considers them responsible  for his 
positions closing  due to not being  able to deposit funds into the account to prevent it from 
happening. He wants to be reimbursed for the £90,000 loss he suffered.
Trading 212 didnt  uphold the complaint. They said Mr As card payments were  rejected by 
their third party payment  provider as they were  subject  to a fraud marker at the time and that 
further information shows a card was blocked by the card payment provider. They explained 
that they rely on the information provided  to them and that when a card is subject  to a 
fraudulent transaction they have  regulatory obligations to follow which  may mean rejecting 
payments. They  cant  however  be held liable for losses arising as result  of them fulfilling  their 
obligations in this regard.
They also went on to explain that they cant be held liable for any fault with the third party  
payment provider. And that there were other funding methods available  to Mr A but they 
couldnt be held responsible for his decision not to use these  in order to keep his positions 
open. Trading  212 also confirmed that an earlier 10% deposit bonus offer they made  to 
Mr A, which he rejected, had now expired and so it was no longer available to him.
As Mr A remained unhappy he brought the complaint to our service.  Our adjudicator  looked  
in to the matter  but she didnt think Trading 212 had acted unfairly in the circumstances and 
felt they were entitled to close positions when they didnt receive the required funds.
Mr A disagreed and so the matter has been  passed to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
It isnt in dispute that Mr As account fell below the margin requirements  needed  to keep his 
positions open. But rather, Mr A argues that he wasnt  able to prevent the closure  of his 
positions as he wasnt able to deposit funds in to his account by card.  Ive therefore looked 
at whether Trading  212 is responsible for the financial loss he suffered as a result  of this. But 
while I sympathise with Mr As situation, for the reasons Ill explain, I dont think  they are.
Trading 212 use a third party payment provider to allow  clients  to fund their account by bank 
card. And in Mr As case it seems that the payment  provider rejected his card payments  due 
to an active fraud marker as well as one of the cards being  blocked by the card payment  
provider. So although I appreciate Mr As efforts in trying to fund his account  by using 
Ref: DRN02939552several cards, the payments were rejected (or blocked) as a security  measure by the 
payment provider and not by Trading 212.
The client  agreement, under section  7, explains that Trading 212 wont  be liable for the 
failure of any third party trading systems, software  or services not provided by them. So Ive 
considered whether Trading 212 applied those terms fairly and reasonably  in this case. And 
given the circumstances, Im satisfied  that Trading 212 isnt responsible for the actions of the 
payment provider. I say this because I consider that it is reasonable for Trading 212 to rely 
on the information provided to them from the payment  provider. This is because I would 
expect them to take reasonable steps  to protect  themselves  and their clients  from potential  
fraudulent activity. So I think not accepting a card a payment when there is an active fraud 
marker is an appropriate action to take.
Ive also taken in to consideration that Trading 212 offers their clients various funding  options 
and that Mr A was aware of these when he was experiencing  the card problems.  Although I 
understand Mr A had concerns  about using other funding methods due to timescales and 
costs, as well his belief  it could be a potential scam as there wasnt  anything  wrong  with his 
cards, I dont think it would be fair to hold Trading  212 responsible  for that. It was Mr As 
responsibility to ensure  he had sufficient equity in his account to meet the relevant margin 
requirements. And so I dont think Trading 212 can be blamed  for his decision to not use the 
alternative funding  options in order to prevent the closure of his positions.
I understand Mr A is also unhappy with the information he was provided  by Trading 212 
when he informed them of the card problems  via their online live chat service. Ive looked at 
what was discussed  but I dont think Mr A was misinformed or that the advice he received to 
contact his bank  was unreasonable in the circumstances. Mr A was experiencing difficulties 
funding his account using his bank  cards and so, given the limited  information available to 
Trading 212 at that time; I think it was reasonable for them to direct him to his bank provider 
at the time. I dont  think its unreasonable for them to assume that this was the most likely  
explanation for why the payments were declined. While  it later came to light that the 
payments were being rejected by the payment provider, I dont think this means  Mr A was 
misinformed or that Trading 212 acted unfairly in this respect.
I know Mr A will be disappointed by this outcome but I dont consider Trading 212 is 
responsible for the losses he suffered as a result  of the closure of his positions.  Im satisfied 
that they managed his account  as I would expect and that they were  entitled, under the 
terms of the account,  to close the positions due to not receiving the necessary funds.
Im aware that following  the complaint being  raised Trading 212 offered Mr A 10% a deposit 
bonus which was rejected.  I understand this offer has since expired and is no longer 
available. As I dont consider Trading 212 has acted  wrongly here, or that they are 
responsible for the losses Mr A suffered, I dont think  it would be fair for me to ask them to 
offer this again  or do anything further.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2019
Ref: DRN02939553Daniel ODell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0293955