K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  about the way Bank of Scotland plc trading  as Halifax  dealt with 
them and their account when they were in financial difficulty in July/August  2013. Mr and Mrs 
B want Halifax to agree  that it didnt help them in their financial difficulty  and pay them 
compensation.
background
Mr and Mrs B make  a complaint that Halifax hasnt  treated them positively and 
sympathetically in their financial difficulty.  Mr and Mrs B have a broader  complaint, and 
indeed brought  a complaint to this service about  the fees and charges Halifax charged in 
2014. Another Ombudsman looked at which parts of this complaint we can and cannot 
consider under our rules  and decided that we can only consider those fees and charges 
applied before January 2009 and after March  2014. We can also consider the fairness  
generally of how Halifax  treated  Mr and Mrs B between March  2014 and the date the 
mortgage was redeemed. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. In respect  of the 
fees and charges, he didnt recommend any further  refund. Before  2009,  there  were  only two 
fees that hadnt been refunded which were for £35 in January 2007 and July 2008.  But 
Halifax had made  a refund of £4,310.22 fees on 18 May 2018 some  of which  were  a 
duplicate of £2,795 worth of fees refunded in 2014. So, given this level of duplication our 
adjudicator felt that even if he were to find against  Halifax on that point, it wouldnt be 
reasonable to require  it to make a further refund. Our adjudicator also felt that the fees 
charged after 2014 which were legal fees of £609 and a sealing fee of £20 on redemption of 
the mortgage were  reasonable.  Our adjudicator also felt that during the period from 2014 
that Halifax made every effort to assist Mr and Mrs B. Mr and Mrs B disagreed and asked for 
a review.
  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise that in her discussions  with our adjudicator Mrs B has said that she is bringing 
this complaint so that in the future  Halifax will listen to customers problems, show care and 
understanding and support their customers.  So, I appreciate that Mr and Mrs B bring  this 
complaint not for their benefit alone. My role, however, is to make  a decision on this 
particular dispute.  Another Ombudsman  has made  a decision as to what  I can and cannot 
consider in this complaint. I note that in Mr and Mrs Bs complaint form, they say that their 
complaint relates  to how Halifax dealt with them in July/August 2013. But Mr and Mrs B 
raised a previous complaint to this service about  that and as our Ombudsman says,  it wont 
be revisited. 
I can look at the fees charged before 2009  but there  are only £70 of fees that havent  been 
refunded. Halifax has overcompensated Mr and Mrs B by refunding  fees in duplicate  so it 
wouldnt be reasonable even if these fees were charged unfairly  to require Halifax to pay 
further compensation.
Ref: DRN08347702I have also looked  at how fairly Halifax  dealt  with Mr and Mrs B since 2014.  Mr and Mrs Bs 
complaint appears  to relate to the period before then as set out in their complaint form. I see 
that Mr and Mrs B in their email to us of 24 March 2019 complain that Halifax  went  straight  
to the Courts  for Possession of the Property,  and incurred solicitors  costs for both them and 
Halifax which they had to pay. I note that the court action  seems to have occurred in October 
2013 and Halifaxs  solicitors bill was received by the lender on 21 January 2014 for £609  
which doesnt appear excessive. This would indicate  that the action of which Mr and Mrs B 
complain of took place  in 2013 which is consistent  with what Mr and Mrs B say in the 
complaint form. But for the reasons stated above I am unable to consider Halifaxs actions 
during that period.
During the period I can consider I noted  that Halifax discussed with Mrs B the option of 
capitalising the arrears but Mr and Mrs B declined this. I also noted that a number of 
payment arrangements  were made. I see that on redeeming the mortgage, Mr and Mrs B 
were charged a standard redemption fee as normal. There is nothing to suggest in the 
period after March 2014 that Halifax had acted unfairly or unreasonably to Mr and Mrs B. I'm 
very sorry to hear that Mrs B has recently suffered a serious illness but for the reasons 
stated I cant fairly uphold this complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint,
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 July 2019.  
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0834770