K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs D have complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold them a 
number of packaged bank accounts. They paid a monthly fee for the accounts  which  
provided several benefits in return.
background
Mr and Mrs Ds account history  with Barclays is as follows:
the account was opened as a fee-free account in September 1995
it was upgraded  to an Additions packaged account in November 2004
it was upgraded  again to an Additions  Plus account in February  2006
the account was migrated  to a Barclays Bank account with added Feature Store 
Tech Pack and Travel Pack  in January 2017
Mrs and Mrs D removed the Feature  Store  packs in April 2018
The migration in January 2017 wasnt a separate sale, but was the result of Barclays  
changing the range of products it offered.  
Barclays accepted  that it mis-sold the Additions and Additions Plus accounts  to Mr and 
Mrs D and it has refunded the fees they paid for them,  plus interest. It hasnt refunded  the 
fees after Mr and Mrs Ds account  was migrated in January  2017.  
Mr and Mrs D have complained that Barclays has capped their refund, and theyve said they 
should be compensated for all of the account  fees they paid. One of our adjudicators also 
didnt think it was fair for Barclays  to cap the refund it paid to Mr and Mrs D at the point their 
account was migrated. She recommended  that Barclays should refund the remaining fees, 
plus interest.
Barclays didnt agree with the adjudicator so the case has been  passed to me to make a 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Where evidence is incomplete and matters  are in dispute, as they are here,  I make  my 
decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened  keeping  in mind everything 
Ive seen and been told.
Im going  to uphold  this complaint. Ill explain why.
By its own admission,  Barclays  mis-sold the Additions and Additions  Plus accounts to Mr 
and Mrs D. And in its response to their complaint, Barclays said it agreed with Mr and Mrs D 
that the Additions Plus account  was unsuitable  for them.
As Ive said,  Barclays has refunded the fees up to the point that Mr and Mrs Ds account was 
migrated. It says it did this because the letters it sent to Mr and Mrs D about the migration 
gave them a choice  about whether to keep the Tech and Travel  packs  or not.
Ref: DRN05545802I dont agree with Barclays on this, and I think its unfair for Barclays  to cap a refund on this 
basis. 
Mr and Mrs Ds complaint  isnt that they didnt have a choice about taking out the packaged 
bank accounts.  Their main point  is that the accounts benefits  were unsuitable because Mr D 
already had most of the benefits the accounts  provided, from his employer. So I dont  think  
its helpful for Barclays to put the onus  on Mr and Mrs D to read and take action in response  
to the letters  it sent them about their account migrating. Nor is it right for Barclays  to rely on 
the fact that Mr and Mrs D had a choice about  what action to take  on an account  it had 
already said was unsuitable for them.
When Mr and Mrs Ds account was migrated,  Barclays  added the Feature Store  packs  that 
were most similar to the Additions  Plus account. Bearing in mind these packs meant  the 
account then offered  travel insurance, mobile  phone insurance, and gadget insurance, the 
continued inclusion  of these benefits  meant the account was still unsuitable for 
Mr and Mrs D. 
Barclays agrees it shouldnt have sold the Additions  Plus account to Mr and Mrs D, because  
it was unsuitable  for them.  So it also shouldnt have migrated their account  to the Barclays 
Bank account with Tech  Pack and Travel  Pack. So I dont think  its fair for Barclays  refund to 
be capped at the point the account was migrated.
Having considered everything  carefully,  Ive decided  that Mr and Mrs D have lost out 
because of what Barclays did wrong. So my decision  is that I uphold  this complaint.
putting things right
Barclays should put things right by doing  the following:
Pay Mr and Mrs D the amount they paid each month for the Tech  Pack and Travel Pack
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they it back. The rate of 
interest is 8% a year.
If Mr and Mrs D have saved money  because of a better  rate on their overdraft, loan or 
savings account  by having the Tech Pack and Travel Pack,  and Barclays can show 
exactly how much Mr and Mrs D saved, it may deduct these savings from the amount it 
pays them. Barclays must  explain clearly  and simply to Mr and Mrs D how it has worked  
out any deductions.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Barclays to take off tax from this interest. Barclays must give Mr 
and Mrs D a certificate showing  how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
Ref: DRN05545803my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require Barclays Bank  UK PLC to put things right by doing what  
Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2019.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0554580