K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that National Westminster Bank Plc wont refund to him the money  that he 
paid for an IT training course. His complaint  is made against NatWest  under section 75 of 
the Consumer  Credit Act 1974. 
background
Mr A used his NatWest credit card in September 2014 to pay a deposit  of £1,948.05 for an 
IT training course. The total cost of the course was £5,224 with the outstanding amount to be 
repaid in monthly instalments.  He started  the course but didnt complete it and says that 
there were issues with the course.  He claimed  a refund from NatWest under section 75 in 
July 2018. But he wasnt satisfied with its response  so complained to this service.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. She didnt agree 
that the course was misrepresented to Mr A or that the contract was breached. So she said 
that she wouldnt be asking NatWest to change anything.  And she said that the course  
provider had told her that Mr As outstanding  balance was written-off in January 2019  so 
there was nothing more  for him to pay. 
Mr A has asked  for his complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman.  He says that he feels 
that the way that he was signed  up for the course was misleading
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the 
supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit  if theres  been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier. To be able to uphold  Mr As complaint about  NatWest, I 
must be satisfied that theres been  a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the course 
provider and that NatWests response to his claim under section 75 wasnt fair or 
reasonable. Im not determining the outcome  of Mr As claim under section 75 as only a 
court would be able to do that.
Mr A said in his detailed letter to NatWest in July 2018 that hes been the victim of 
misrepresentation of product and services  and breach of contract by the course  provider. He 
says that he was sold something  which  was unrealistic, the product  and services  werent  
delivered completely  and werent what hed expected. And he says that he was suffering 
from depression and anxiety as he felt betrayed and was struggling  financially when he 
didnt find work and had a new born child in February 2016.
Mr A signed  an order form, a Job (or money  back) guarantee and terms and conditions  for 
both the course  and the pay as you earn programme in September 2014. And he was 
provided with a course brochure and had access to information about the course on the 
course providers web-site.  He complained  to the course provider in 2016  and then to 
NatWest in July 2018.  But Im not persuaded that hes provided enough evidence to show 
that the course was misrepresented to him. I consider that the documents  that he signed and 
the information that was available to him gave him enough information about the course so 
that he was aware  (or ought to have been aware) of what he was agreeing to.
Ref: DRN01235392Ive not seen enough evidence to show that Mr A contacted the course supplier about the 
difficulties that he was experiencing in accessing the course materials.  And the course  
provider said that it was confident that it could definitely secure him a job if Mr A worked  
more closely with it  and it initiated its escalation  process. I consider that the course was 
available to Mr A if he wanted  to complete  it. But he hasnt completed the course  and hasnt 
found IT employment. He signed the guarantee but I consider that he wasnt entitled  to make 
a claim under the guarantee because he hadnt  completed the course.
So Im not persuaded that theres  enough  evidence  to show  that theres been a breach of 
contract by the course provider. And the course  provider says that it wrote-off  the 
outstanding balance on Mr As account in January 2019.
As Im not persuaded that theres been  a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
course provider, I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable  for me to require NatWest  to 
refund to Mr A any of the money that hes paid for the course   or to take any other action in 
response to his complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 August 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0123539