K821x#15complaint
Mr B has complained about Admiral Insurance Company Limiteds handling of his car 
insurance policy.
background
Mr B insured  his car with Admiral in March 2018. In July 2018, Mr B said he caused minor 
damage to another car after he hit it while the other car was parked and unattended. Mr B 
left his contact details. When the other  cars owner  contacted him, Mr B said that he was 
happy to pay for the damage. But the owner  of the other car claimed against Mr Bs policy.
Mr B told Admiral  that he wanted to pay for the other cars repair  (known as buying  back 
the claim) so that his long no claims bonus (NCB)  wouldnt be affected by having a fault 
claim against his driving record. Admiral  told Mr B that if he did buy back  the claim, his NCB 
wouldnt be affected and the incident  would be recorded as a non-fault  claim.
Admiral paid £1,728.10 to settle  the other  drivers claim. That was made up of £1,154.92 to 
repair the other car and £573.18 for the other  drivers hire car for 11 days. Mr B felt that was 
excessive given the accident was minor. He asked to see a breakdown of the other  cars  
repair to show the costs were unreasonable. Admiral said the costs were  reasonable. Mr B 
complained but Admiral  said they hadnt done  anything wrong.
As Mr B didnt think  that was fair, he brought his complaint to our service. One of our 
adjudicators looked into it. She felt that Admirals actions were  reasonable. As Mr B didnt 
agree with our adjudicator, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision was issued on 7 February 2020. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im intending to 
uphold this complaint.  Ill explain why.
When an insurer pay to settle a claim for loss or damage caused  by their policyholder 
to a third party, the insurer updates a shared insurance database to show the 
incident as a fault claim. A fault claim means  the insurer has had to pay to settle a 
claim but hasnt been able to recover what they paid from another party. In other 
words, the claim has cost the insurer. But some insurers,  like Admiral, allow their 
policyholders to buy back the claim.  Where that happens the policyholder  reimburses 
the insurer the amount they paid to settle the third partys claim. Where  that happens, 
it means the claim hasnt  cost the insurer but their policyholder. Once  a claim is 
bought back the insurer will record the incident  as a non-fault claim on the shared 
insurance database. It also means that because there has been no claim against  the 
policyholders policy, their NCB wont be affected.
In Mr Bs case, his intention was to buy back the claim and for his NCB to remain 
unaffected. I should also say that Mr B didnt claim on his policy for the damage 
caused to his own car. He said it was minor and he sorted it out himself. 
Its correct that Mr B was at fault for the incident  and he admitted that. But Admiral  
had the responsibility to ensure the costs claimed by the other driver were 
reasonable. I understand from Admirals file notes that they felt the overall cost of the 
Ref: DRN07827782claim they paid to the other driver was low in the grand scheme of things. But just 
because it was low doesnt mean  it was reasonable.
Mr B said that when he spoke with the other driver  and offered to pay for the repair of 
his car, the other driver refused saying that, this being the third such  incident he has 
sustained in the narrow street outside his home,  he was experienced in making 
claims and preferred to do the job properly. I understand that Mr B had concerns 
about the extent  of the damage the other driver  claimed  was caused by Mr B. Mr B 
therefore, understandably,  asked Admiral for evidence  of the damage and costs 
claimed. The file notes show that Admiral  told Mr B they were  awaiting  information 
from the other drivers insurer and they would update him once they received it. But 
Admiral never gave Mr B the information he wanted  even when he challenged the 
settlement as being unreasonable. In their final response letter  to Mr B, Admiral  said 
they couldnt disclose the other drivers breakdown of costs  because it was business 
sensitive information. The impression Admiral gave  was that they had received the 
breakdown, considered it and decided it was reasonable. But Admiral  later confirmed 
to our service that they never received  a breakdown  of costs from the other  drivers  
insurer. So I dont think it was reasonable for Admiral to give Mr B the impression that 
they had seen a breakdown and concluded it was reasonable.
I understand that Mr B felt the other  drivers damage  was so minor  that it wouldnt 
have cost much to repair it. He also felt a hire car for 11 days  was excessive as the 
minor damage wouldnt have taken  that long to repair.  I should say that while a 
customer may choose to use a local garage that may be cheaper  to repair  their car, 
insurers use certain approved repairers that have  to meet certain  quality standards.  
Thats because when  a car is repaired through an insurer the work is guaranteed, so 
it has to be to a certain expected standard. So, a customer  paying  to have their own 
car repaired privately might be prepared  to accept a lower standard  of repair.  They 
might be happy with a part being  repaired rather than replaced at a higher cost.  But I 
think its reasonable for insurers to maintain a certain standard.  So, its not unusual  
for a larger,  reputable repairer providing  a guarantee to charge more  than a small, 
local garage. That being said,  I still expect  the cost of repair  to be reasonable. I can 
also understand why Mr B felt a hire car for 11 days was excessive as he felt the 
damage was so minor it couldnt  have taken  that long to repair the car. That is why 
our service  asked to see the breakdown  of the repair  to consider what  work  had been  
done and whether it was reasonable for it to have taken 11 days.
In rejecting Mr Bs complaint, Admiral  quoted  a 2013 Court of Appeal decision which  
said a third party could  claim  costs which are deemed reasonable. Its correct that 
the quoted case did say a third party could claim the reasonable  cost of repair but it 
also said what amounted  to a reasonable cost of repair was a question of fact for the 
trial judge to determine. In other words, the cost of repair claimed by a third party 
has to be reasonable and can be challenged. But, in Mr Bs case, Admiral concluded 
the cost claimed  by the other driver  was reasonable without seeing any evidence of 
the breakdown  or work involved. And as Ive said above, I think  they based  their 
conclusion on their belief  that the cost was low in the grand  scheme  of things.  But I 
think Admiral had a duty to ensure  the cost claimed was reasonable, especially  as 
Mr B wanted  to buy back the claim.  And also because Mr B had doubts about the 
other drivers  claim. Admiral said the cost of the claim they settled had no impact on 
Mr Bs future premium.  While that may have been the case had Mr B renewed his 
policy with Admiral, the cost of a past claim might  be a factor other  insurers  may take 
into consideration when setting premiums.  
Ref: DRN07827783Finally, during their correspondence Admiral wrote  to Mr B saying: we have 
reviewed the third partys  claim and consider it to be reasonable. As it has gone 
through insurance then the costs  are always going to be inflated. Mr B was shocked 
by what Admiral said and I can understand why. As Ive already mentioned, Mr B had 
concerns with the extent of what the other  driver had claimed; he felt the cost of 
repair and the hire car was excessive; and he then was told by Admiral  the cost of 
the claim was inflated yet at the same time being told it was reasonable. Whether  
or not Mr B wanted to buy back the claim,  as a customer I think he was entitled to 
expect that a claim on his policy was being dealt with fairly and reasonably. He 
clearly didnt think it was. So, I think Admiral should have done more to reassure him 
and to satisfy him that the cost claimed  was reasonable.  But I think they did the 
opposite by confirming  his fear that the claim was inflated. I therefore  dont  think 
Admiral treated Mr B fairly and I dont  think they handled the claim reasonably. I 
therefore intend to uphold  this complaint.
I dont have details  of the breakdown of the work done to the other drivers car. And 
Admiral told our service they dont  have that information either. I dont think  Mr B 
should be disadvantaged because Admiral  didnt deal with the claim against his 
policy reasonably.  Admiral paid a total of £1,728.10 to settle the other drivers claim. I 
think Mr B should still be given the opportunity  to buy back  the claim.  But he should 
be able to do so by paying  50% of the total cost Admiral  paid.  That is £864.05. As 
Admiral havent seen engineering evidence I can't say with any certainty that the cost 
they paid is reasonable. But Im aware  that the cost to replace even fairly minor 
damage on modern  cars can run to many hundreds of pounds  and take longer than 
many consumers expect. And it's certainly  not unusual for minor damage to result in 
repair and hire car costs  exceeding £1,000. In this case, given that Mr B was 
prepared to pay reasonable  costs,  but that Admirals lack of investigation has denied  
him the opportunity to establish exactly what reasonable costs  are, I think  its fair that 
he shares the costs  with Admiral. Thats why I think 50% is reasonable.
If Mr B pays that amount Admiral should  reinstate  his NCB year for the policy  year in 
which the claim happened (provided there  were  no other claims during that year 
which affected his NCB). Admiral should also correct the insurance  database  record 
from fault to a non-fault claim and send  Mr B a letter confirming that. Mr Bs next 
renewal policy would  have been  due in March 2019.  If Mr B renewed his policy  with 
Admiral, I think  they would have recalculated his renewal premium  on the basis  of 
him having a fault claim and with his NCB  having  been impacted. If thats the case, 
they should recalculate his premium on the basis of there being a non-fault  claim and 
his NCB  being  reinstated. If a refund of premium is due Admiral  should pay that to Mr 
B together  with simple  interest at a rate of 8% a year from the date he paid it until the 
date of refund.  If on the other hand  Mr B renewed  with a different insurer, they would  
have calculated his premium taking into account  the fault claim and his NCB  having 
been impacted  by the claim. Mr B should  contact his new insurer and explain the 
claim has been amended  to a non-fault claim and his NCB has been  reinstated for 
the previous policy  year.  My expectation  is that the new insurer  will recalculate his 
premium. He may or may not be entitled to a refund. Admiral should assist  Mr B with 
that process and offer to speak with his new insurer if they need confirmation or 
further information. But as Ive said, Admiral  should  provide Mr B with a letter 
outlining that his NCB and claim status  has been amended. Given this matter has 
been a source  of distress and inconvenience for Mr B, I also intend to require Admiral  
to pay him £150  compensation  to address  that.
Ref: DRN07827784The parties were invited to comment on my findings. Mr B accepted  my provisional findings.  
Admiral didnt and made  the following comments:
Highlighting the Court  of Appeal decision  referred to above,  Admiral said the other 
driver was entitled to claim reasonable costs of repair without having to obtain  the 
cheapest quotes .
If the other drivers quoted repair costs were within the realms of reasonableness,  
based on the reported circumstances  and damage sustained,  Admiral  would have no 
grounds to dispute or challenge the repair costs. Based on the information provided 
Admiral were satisfied the costs  were reasonable. 
If Admiral  challenged the repair cost in this case,  the other insurer would have issued 
proceedings and the court would have considered the evidence  provided to be within  
the realms of reasonableness and awarded the costs to the other drivers insurer  
along with their legal costs,  therefore  increasing  the overall cost of the claim. The 
level of damage would objectively appear  within the realms of reasonableness  given  
the damage reported.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my decision remains  the 
same. But I would like to respond  to Admirals comments as follows:
I accept that the Court  of Appeal decision  said the other  driver was entitled to claim 
reasonable costs  of repair. And I didnt say the other driver had to obtain the 
cheapest possible  quote. But the court  case said what  amounted to a reasonable 
cost of repair was a question of fact for the trial judge to determine. In other words, 
the cost of repair claimed by a third party has to be reasonable  and can be 
challenged if its not. The other  driver cant simply claim  any amount they choose to. 
In Mr Bs case,  Admiral  didnt see any engineering  evidence  or repair  estimate from 
the other driver.  So, I dont believe  Admiral  could have been  satisfied the cost of 
repair claimed was consistent with the accident  circumstances and damage claimed. 
Admiral couldnt therefore be certain the cost claimed was reasonable. As Ive said 
above, I think Admiral based  their conclusion on their belief that the cost was low in 
the grand  scheme  of things.  But just because the repair  cost claimed  appeared low 
doesnt necessarily  mean it was reasonable. Admiral  had a duty to ensure the cost 
claimed was reasonable, especially as Mr B wanted to buy back the claim. And also 
because Mr B had doubts about  the other drivers claim. Mr B had admitted liability  
for the accident.  So, given the only issue remaining  was the extent  of the damage 
and the cost of repairing it, I dont think the other drivers insurer  would have rushed 
to start legal proceedings given the paying  insurer, in this case  Admiral, had a right to 
ask for information about the cost of repair.
Admiral said they feel if the other drivers insurer started legal proceedings, the court  
would have considered the evidence provided by the other drivers insurer  to be 
within the realms of reasonableness.  And that the level of damage would objectively 
appear within the realms  of reasonable[ness]  given the damage  the insured 
reported. But I cant see how Admiral can reach that conclusion  without first seeing 
the necessary  evidence, namely a breakdown of the damage claimed and the 
estimated cost of repairing that damage. As the quoted Court of Appeal decision  
said, what amounted to a reasonable  cost of repair was a question  of fact for the trial 
Ref: DRN07827785judge to determine. And the judge  could only make  such a determination on seeing  
evidence of the damage and a breakdown of the estimated cost of repair.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Admiral Insurance  
Company Limited  to:
Allow Mr B to buy back the claim  for £864.05.
If Mr B buys back the claim, and provided there were no other claims during that 
policy year which affected his NCB, Admiral should award him a years NCB  for that 
policy year. Admiral should  provide  Mr B with a letter explaining this.
If Mr B buys back the claim, Admiral should  correct the insurance  database  to show  
the claim as non-fault. Admirals letter to Mr B should also confirm  this.
If Mr B buys back the claim and if he renewed his policy  with Admiral  in March  2019, 
Admiral should recalculate his premium on the basis that he had a non-fault claim 
and his NCB wasnt impacted. If that results  in a refund being due to Mr B, Admiral  
should pay that together with simple  interest  at a rate of 8% a year from the date he 
paid the premium until the date of refund.
If Mr B buys back the claim and he took out a policy with a different insurer in 
March 2019, Admiral should  assist Mr B in explaining to the new insurer  what  has 
happened. Thats so the new insurer recalculates  his premium on the basis  of him 
having a non-fault claim and his NCB not being  affected.
Pay Mr B £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience he experienced. 
This should be paid within 28 days of us telling them  that Mr B has accepted  my final 
decision. If they pay later than this they must also pay interest on that amount from 
the date of my final decision  to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple.1
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 March  2020.
Mehmet Osman  
ombudsman 
1 If Admiral consider that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, they should tell Mr B how much they have taken off. They  should also give him a 
certificate showing  this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate. 
Ref: DRN0782778