K820x#14Complaint
Mrs L complains  about Bank  of Scotland Plc t/a Halifaxs decision to review and block her 
account. And their decision  to no longer  deal with Mrs Ls family member who helped her 
manage her accounts.
Background
An online banking transfer of around  £20,000 was attempted from Mrs Ls account. This 
transaction was declined  and referred for security checks, due to the amount. Halifax 
restricted Mrs Ls accounts while they investigated things.
Halifaxs records show the transfer was attempted from Mrs Ls family member, who Ill refer 
to as Mr O. Mr O had third party access on Mrs Ls account and helped her to manage her 
finances. Halifax had some concerns about  the mental capacity of Mrs L and made the 
decision to revoke the third-party access.  They say this was to protect her money. Halifax  
refused to speak to Mrs L in branch, if her family member Mr O, was present with her. And 
they said Mr O would need to apply for Lasting  Power of Attorney  (LPoA) to continue  to 
manage Mrs Ls finances through her Halifax accounts.
Mrs L wasnt happy about this. She said it was difficult for her to get into branch due to her 
physical health  issues. And she said she didnt have  any issues with her mental capacity or 
making financial decisions. So, she wanted  Mr O to continue to manage her finances. Mrs L 
visited her GP and they confirmed she didnt lack any mental capacity.  Halifax considered 
this but said they would still need  the LPoA  to be able to deal with Mr O, or anybody  else on 
behalf of Mrs L, going  forward. 
Mrs L attended several branch meetings to try and sort things out, despite  her physical 
health problems.  At times, she was with Mr O and Halifax refused to speak to her. Mrs L also 
went along with another  family  member  and asked the Police  to be present on occasion. 
Halifax made the decision to wait for the LPoA due to their concerns about the security  of 
Mrs Ls money.
The investigator who investigated the complaint thought Halifax had acted reasonably.  
She explained that the review was triggered by an attempted large transfer and Halifax  have 
a duty to protect their customers money.  And she didnt think it was unreasonable for Halifax  
to ask for LPoA to allow Mr O to manage Mrs Ls money. The investigator also thought  it was 
necessary for Halifax to speak to Mrs L alone  in branch due to their concerns. So, she didnt 
think they needed to do anything differently. 
Mrs L didnt agree. She thought Halifax breached the Mental Health Capacity Act 2005 and 
was unhappy  the investigator didnt comment on this and other points of her complaint.
As an agreement couldnt  be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to review.
I issued a provisional decision in May 2020.  In it I said;
I trust Mrs L wont  take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed  her complaint in the way that I 
have. Ours  is an informal dispute  resolution  service, and Ive concentrated on what  I 
consider to be the crux of the complaint. Although Ive read and considered  the whole file, Ill 
keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont  comment on any specific  point,  its 
Ref: DRN09157972not because Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need  to comment on it to reach 
the fair outcome.
The account  review
Halifax, like all UK banks, are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to 
meet their legal and regulatory obligations.  Based  on what Ive seen, Im satisfied Halifax  
were acting in line with these obligations when reviewing Mrs Ls account. Ive explained  
further below.
Mrs Ls account review was triggered  by an attempted large  payment from her account to a 
third-party bank. On further  review, Halifax decided to suspend  Mrs Ls account and carry 
out a full review.  As part of this review,  Halifax learned that Mr O attempted the large 
payment transfer,  rather than Mrs L herself. While Mr O had third party  access, I dont think 
its unreasonable for Halifax to block the payment. I say that because Halifax  have a duty to 
protect their customers money. And while a large  transfer like this was out of the ordinary for 
Mrs Ls account, it is even  more unusual for a large transfer to be made  by somebody else  
regardless of any third-party  access arrangements. So, I consider Halifaxs actions to be 
reasonable.
Halifaxs concerns and requests
Mrs Ls mental capacity
I appreciate why Mrs L is upset that Halifax questioned her mental  capacity  and I agree 
they could have handled the situation  better in relation  to their concerns. From the evidence 
Ive seen, it seems Halifax were concerned that Mrs Ls money  wasnt  safe. And they 
thought that because of the attempted £20,000 transfer into a different account. 
Unfortunately, scams are becoming  increasingly  popular, and financial abuse is on the rise. 
So, while I appreciate Mrs L has no concerns  over Mr O handling her money, Halifax  didnt 
know that when  the transaction was flagged for review and therefore, Im pleased to see 
they were proactive in stopping the payment. 
I agree  Halifax could have handled the situation in a different way rather than accusing Mrs L 
of losing mental capacity.  Its not for me to decide  whether Halifax have used the Mental  
Health Capacity Act 2005 appropriately. But overall,  I dont think it makes a difference. I say 
that because Halifax were concerned for Mrs Ls welfare,  and they needed to be certain  the 
choice of her transferring  her money  was her choice alone.  And based  on the transfer 
attempt, they couldnt be certain of that.
Im pleased to see Mrs L was able to confirm with her GP that she wasnt  mentally  
incapacitated. While  Halifax took this into account  for their review,  they still had concerns 
about the safety of Mrs Ls money. And as Ive explained above, I think  these concerns were 
reasonable.
LPoA
Following their review, Halifax made  the decision to revoke Mr Os third-party access. They  
did this as a security measure to ensure  they didnt allow  any money to be moved  out of 
Mrs Ls account without  her full consent.
Ref: DRN09157973I understand this caused Mrs L inconvenience. She agreed for her family  member to have 
third-party access initially, so its reasonable she would  be left upset when that access was 
taken away without Mrs Ls agreement. But I cant fairly say Halifax  have done anything  
wrong here.  They had concerns about Mr Os use of Mrs Ls account (because he attempted  
the large transfer) and therefore, it wouldnt have been appropriate for Halifax  to allow the 
access to continue without being  sure Mrs L was in full agreement.
The LPoA would be a legal authority which is different from third-party  access. It gives  Mrs L, 
Mr O and Halifax more clarity and control over what Mr O can do with Mrs Ls money. 
Therefore, while  I appreciate this caused inconvenience, I think it was a suitable  option. I 
also understand LPoA has now been  granted, so I dont foresee any further issues for Mrs L 
and Mr O.
Face to face meetings
Halifax insisted on speaking to Mrs L face to face,  despite her physical health conditions.  
Mrs L has said she struggles to get into branch  and therefore didnt think  Halifax  were  
accommodating to her needs.  Ive thought about this carefully and I recognise the difficulties 
Mrs L faced when going into branch. However,  taking all the circumstances into 
consideration, I understand why Halifax wanted to speak to Mrs L face to face. Ive explained 
above why I think  it was reasonable for Halifax to have concerns  about Mrs Ls welfare   and 
I dont think a telephone conversation, or any other  type of communication, would have 
satisfied these concerns.  I also understand why they wanted  to speak to Mrs L alone   
without Mr O, or anybody else present. And again,  thats to ensure she completely 
understood and consented to the way her money was being managed.  
Ive thought about Mrs Ls comments  relating to another family member (not Mr O) and the 
Police being with her at times. While  this seems like it would be appropriate,  I dont think 
Halifax could be sure Mrs L was making  her own financial decisions when anybody  else was 
with her. So, overall, while I appreciate  the difficulty Mrs L experienced with these face to 
face meetings,  Im of the opinion this was for her own benefit and safety overall.
Overall
Overall, I know how frustrated and upset Mrs L will be with my decision.  But I want to assure 
her Ive looked at everything on her file and while I havent been  able to go into a lot of detail 
about the reasons why, Im satisfied Halifax have acted appropriately. So, I dont think I can 
fairly ask them to do anything to put things right.
Halifax were concerned about  Mrs Ls welfare  and financial  affairs, so they put restrictions  in 
place to protect her. They couldnt  be satisfied  fully until a LPoA was put in place for her 
family member to manage  her finances  in the circumstances. And I think that was 
appropriate in this situation.
I appreciate Mrs L would like Halifax to give her a full explanation why they decided  to review  
her account  initially  and act in the way they did  but a bank  isnt obliged to do that. 
However, Id like to reassure Mrs L that based  on the evidence Ive seen,  Im satisfied 
Halifax acted appropriately in the circumstances.  
So, in summary,  I thought  Halifax had acted appropriately under the circumstances and I 
didnt think they needed to do anything  differently.
Ref: DRN09157974Mrs Ls representative responded on behalf  of Mrs L. The representative explained:
The transaction of £20,000 was made by Mrs L when she was sitting  next to her 
family member who had third-party  access to the account.  And the destination 
account was to an account in Mrs Ls name;
Mrs L wanted somebody else present with her during the meetings because she felt 
bullied. Mrs L says Halifax tried to make her sign a document  to keep her money with 
Halifax;
Halifax denied Mrs L to have  anybody present when  speaking to her, including  the 
police;
Mrs L asked for access to her money to pay bills, but Halifax refused. This caused  
Mrs L upset and anxiety.  
The police told Mrs L that Halifax had told them one of Mrs Ls relatives raised 
concerns about her wellbeing, but the claims werent validated;
Mrs L has never been questioned by Halifax about the £20,000  transaction  or 
another large cheque which she paid in. Mrs L feels Halifax  have only started to 
question her transactions when she tried to end her banking  relationship with them.
Following this, I asked Halifax for further  information which  they provided. And they didnt 
dispute my provisional  decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive thought carefully about the additional  points Mrs L has raised but it doesnt  change the 
overall outcome.  Ive explained further  below.
I explained in my provisional decision  that Halifax are regulated  and therefore  have  certain 
legal and regulatory obligations which they must  comply with. Part of that means they can 
review accounts at any time. And thats what they did with Mrs Ls account. So, while I 
recognise Mrs L says she was sitting with her family  member at the time of making the 
transaction, I dont  consider it makes  a difference. And thats because the review was 
flagged because of the large  payment. It was only on further investigation Halifax  learned it 
wasnt Mrs L directly  making the transfer. But theyd already decided to review  the account.  
And they were entitled to do that.
I explained in my provisional decision  why I thought  it was appropriate  Halifax  wanted Mrs L 
to be alone during their meetings with her. And thats because they had to be sure moving 
her money in any way was her own decision. Halifax couldnt  have  been  sure of that if 
another family member, the police, or any other third-party was with her. So, my decision 
remains that it was acceptable  for Halifax to speak to Mrs L alone as they were acting in her 
best interests.
I havent seen  any evidence that Halifax tried to make Mrs L sign a document  to keep her 
money with their bank.  And while I have no reason to doubt  Mrs Ls version  of events, I cant 
Ref: DRN09157975see that any document was ever signed. And I cant decide based on hindsight  or what ifs. 
Im aware Mrs L has since moved  her money  to another bank, which is what she says she 
wanted to do. So, while I dont know for sure whether  Halifax made Mrs L feel pressured to 
sign a form or not, the fact is she didnt sign anything.  So, I cant  fairly  uphold Mrs Ls 
complaint on this point  alone. 
Im aware that Mrs Ls Direct Debits, standing orders and regular bill payments were still 
honoured while her account was under review. And I havent seen any evidence  of 
payments which  Mrs L couldnt make  as a result of Halifaxs review. I appreciate it would 
have been frustrating for Mrs L to not access her money in the way shed usually be able to 
or would have liked to. But Ive found Halifax were entitled to review the account  so I cant  
say theyve done anything wrong.  And a bank cant always guarantee when  funds in an 
account will be available. 
I dont feel it would be appropriate to comment on Police claims or accusations which have 
been made. Therefore, I havent  considered what Mrs Ls representative has said regarding  
another family member raising  concerns  about her wellbeing. Ive considered Halifaxs  
actions when reviewing  and suspending Mrs Ls accounts, and their actions relating to the 
third-party access on Mrs Ls account as that is the crux of the complaint.
Mrs Ls representative has questioned why Mrs L wasnt asked about the £20,000 
transaction. Halifax carried out their own review, and therefore  it is for them  to decide what 
they feel is relevant  to ask their customer. I appreciate Mrs L feels  the only reason  Halifax 
reviewed her account was because  she wanted to move her banking facility  and money  to 
another provider.  I recognise why Mrs L feels like this, however I havent seen anything  from 
the evidence both Halifax and Mrs L has provided to make me think  thats  the reason. 
Therefore, I cant agree.
Overall, Halifax  reviewed  Mrs Ls account because of a large transaction. And they were 
entitled to do so. Halifax had concerns over the third-party access  on Mrs Ls account and 
asked for a Lasting  Power of Attorney to be in place before the third-party was able to make 
any further decisions or transactions on Mrs Ls account. I consider Halifax  was acting in the 
best interest of Mrs L when making  this decision and therefore cant  fairly  say they did 
anything wrong. 
I recognise how strongly Mrs L feels about whats happened. So, I realise shell be 
disappointed by my decision. But, based  on the evidence Ive seen, I cant say Halifax  have 
acted unreasonably so Im not going to ask them to do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 August 2020.
Ref: DRN09157976Hayley West
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0915797