K820x#14complaint
Mr G is unhappy with Covea Insurance Plcs  decision  to decline his claim and cancel his policy.
background
Mr G had an income protection policy with Covea which he sourced from a broker. He made 
a claim on his policy in October 2018 following an injury which prevented  him working. Mr G 
said Covea declined his claim and cancelled his policy  unfairly. He said the reasons it gave 
were contradictory to its decision to pay a previous  claim he brought  earlier that year.  
Covea accepted it paid Mr Gs first claim but said this was a mistake. It said Mr G should not 
have been offered the policy because he didnt meet the initial  criteria  which  was that he 
should have been in work continuously in the six months prior to taking out the policy.  Covea 
explained that, upon closer inspection of Mr Gs medical records,  he didnt satisfy  that 
condition. And so it declined the second claim and cancelled the policy. 
Our investigator said Covea was entitled  to do this for the reasons it gave. He highlighted 
that Mr G had the benefit of cover for his first claim  and so didnt think  Covea should return  
the premiums Mr G had paid up until that point. 
Mr G disagreed. In summary, he said that he doesnt think Covea is treating him fairly as it 
knew about his circumstances when he initially took the policy. And suggested  it should  have 
realised then that he wasnt eligible for cover.  He would  like Covea to either accept his claim 
or return the premiums he paid up until the point it cancelled the policy. 
And so its for me to make a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I wont be asking Covea 
to do anything more  in terms of this complaint. The reason  I say this is because  I dont  think 
its done anything  wrong here. Ill explain why.
When Mr G took the policy with Covea he arranged it through  a broker, not directly  with the 
insurer. Covea has highlighted its criteria for this policy and that Mr G didnt meet it. I agree 
this happened  later down the line, but in some  ways, Mr G has benefited because of it. I say 
that because the first claim  he brought was accepted and paid by Covea, when it later 
transpired this claim  too, should have been declined. And so Mr G has had the benefit of this 
policy despite not meeting its initial criteria. 
The terms say that to be valid, someone  applying  for the policy  must be 
in work, and has been so continuously for the previous six months before taking out the policy
Mr Gs medical  history  showed that he didnt satisfy this requirement because hed been  
injured and therefore unable to work on four occasions in the six months prior to taking out the 
policy. So, on that basis, Covea has successfully demonstrated that he didnt meet its terms 
and would not have offered cover had it known the full story behind Mr Gs medical history.  
Ref: DRN06255622I take on board Mr G arguments about  this not being his fault. Hes suggested this was an 
advised sale of insurance through his broker, but that doesnt mean its Coveas fault either.  
Im aware Mr Gs brought  another complaint about  the broker  and so the suitability aspect  of 
his complaint will be considered as part of that case rather than here.
Having carefully considered Coveas actions against  its responsibilities to its customers, 
I dont think its treated Mr G unfairly. Typically,  in similar circumstances such as these, 
I would expect that the insurer returns the premiums paid by the consumer. However, in 
Mr Gs case, hes had the benefit of the policy for his first claim. And so, Ive thought about 
this carefully and decided that it would not be in Mr Gs best interest to apply that logic. 
The ombudsmans role is to put consumers back into the position they would have been in 
had the error  not occurred. Coveas decision to pay the first claim was an error, but if I were 
to instruct it to reverse its decision, then Mr G would need to return the money it paid as part 
of that claim, which was over £2,000. In return, Covea could then refund the premiums he 
paid for the policy, which was around  £500.  And so, I dont think it fair to do this because,  
strictly speaking,  I dont think the error was Mr Gs fault either and he would be worse off. 
Covea said its happy to leave things as they are even though its out of pocket and so I 
accept its proposal. The insurer has paid out on one of his claims,  therefore I think  its fair 
that Covea retain the premiums paid by Mr G. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint about Covea. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2020.
Scott Slade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0625562