K821x#15complaint
Mrs M complains about the handling of a claim under Section 75 of the Consumer  Credit  Act 
(CCA) 1974. The claim concerns the installation and quality of some doors and windows  
that she paid for under  a finance agreement with Clydesdale  Financial Services Limited  t/a 
Barclays Partner Finance  (BPF).
background
In August  2017,  Mrs M entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with BPF for the supply and 
installation by company  S of twelve replacement windows, three patio  doors, one back 
door and a guard door at her home.
Shortly after the doors and windows were  installed, Mrs M complained to BPF because  
shed identified a number of problems with the doors and windows,  including issues  with the 
specifications shed  given  for wheelchair  access.
Company Ss inspector  agreed there  was a problem with the installation of the door frames.  
And in a further inspection, a different surveyor said all the frames had been poorly installed, 
recommending they be re-made. The surveyor stated  in my professional opinion  the overall 
quality of the installation is not to our usual  standard and some of the finishing  off could be 
improved. From seeing photographs presented to me by the customer the windows have 
been damaged  by the installers  prior to installing  them by resting the windows on the 
driveway. The fixings on the windows are too close to the welds.  The draughts  in the 
windows were caused by the installation of the opening sashes.
Company S agreed to replace all the frames,  and a schedule of replacement,  refitting  and 
remedial works was produced. It said the requirements for wheelchair access werent in the 
contract, but it agreed  to make all the windows side openers and to put tiles under  door 
frames to give wheelchair access. BPF told Mrs M her loan account had been put on hold 
and that no payments would be requested until 14 March  2018. 
Mrs M wasnt satisfied  with the proposal and so she sought legal advice and arranged for an 
inspection by a surveyor. There was then a further  site visit where an addendum report  was 
produced. BPF acknowledged that Mrs Ms loan account hadnt  been put on hold and that 
the account had been debited in error. It reimbursed the payment and offered her £150 
compensation.
The remedial works began in July 2018, but they ended with company S claiming  Mrs M had 
refused to let the work continue because shed been  dissatisfied with the work. Further  
attempts at remedial  work in August 2018 also failed.
Mrs M made  a claim to BPF under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. She told 
company S she no longer wanted its contractors to do the remedial work and asked BPF to 
put her account  on hold.  BPF said company S had agreed to complete the remedial works. It 
offered to pay her £250 compensation for the time it had taken to resolve  the matter  and any 
inconvenience caused, but it maintained that the claim was closed. 
Mrs M brought her complaint to this service on 8 October 2018, stating that the remedial  
work had failed. She said shed been  intimidated  by company S into signing the work  off 
when it was first done and that it had taken  five or six site visits to decide how to resolve the 
Ref: DRN08612032problems. She also complained that her loan account had gone into arrears when she 
stopped making  the monthly payments, even  though  she was told it would be put on hold.
Mrs M said she wanted BPF to pay for a company of her choosing  to install  all new windows 
and doors  with correct  finishing, and pay all her consequential losses  including her 
surveyors fees, costs and expenses associated with the protection of her property  (for which 
shes provided invoices  amounting to £598.93), and her sons  travel costs.  She also wants a 
refund or a reduction  to the loan of £320,  which she says company S didnt declare when the 
design of the outer porch door was changed.  Additionally, Mrs M wants  compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by the loan account having gone  into arrears and an 
explanation and apology. Finally, she wants BPF to rectify her credit file and the remove all 
the diary entries  and comments in reference to the arrears.
BPF has explained it told Mrs M it would honour  her claim on the basis  that company S 
would carry out the required remedial works. Mrs M declined this resolution and her claim 
was closed. It said it wont allow Mrs M to reject the goods and that company S should be 
given further opportunity  to carry out the remedial works in an attempt to resolve the matter. 
Alternatively, company  S could inspect the installation to enable them to offer a price 
reduction to allow Mrs M to approach a third party  to undertake the remaining  works.
BPF accepts the loan account wasnt placed  on hold and so a payment was taken in error.  It 
refunded the payment and told Mrs M the next payment would be due in March  2018. This 
happened again in March  2018 and April 2018 and these payments were also refunded.  In 
October 2018 BPF reinstated the direct  debit instruction, but the October payment wasnt 
taken and the account went  into arrears.  BPF confirmed the arrears would be removed, no 
adverse information  would  be recorded with the credit reference  agencies and the account 
would remain on hold until the conclusion of the complaint.
my provisional findings
I said at the outset this was a complaint against BPF and wasnt considering  a complaint  
against company  S or any of its agents.
I also explained that, when considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into 
account relevant  law and regulations, relevant regulatory rules,  guidance  and standards and 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I would consider to have been good  industry  
practice at the relevant time.
Mrs M had said her windows and doors were poorly  installed and therefore her claim should 
be considered  under  Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act (CCA)  1974, which,  under 
certain conditions, applies  when something  has been purchased with a point of sale loan. 
Section 75 states:
If the debtor  under  a debtor-creditor-supplier  agreement falling within  section 12(b)  or (c) 
has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier in 
respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against  the 
creditor, who, with the supplier,  shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the debtor. 
I was satisfied Mrs M had contracted with company S for the supply  and fit of doors  and 
windows and had paid with a fixed sum loan. Because of this she could claim against  BPF 
for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by company  S in the same way that she 
Ref: DRN08612033couldve claimed directly against  company S. So I took Section 75 into account when 
deciding what was fair.
For a claim under Section 75 to be successful, there  had to have been a breach of contract  
or misrepresentation by the supplier. The Consumer Rights  Act (CRA) 2015 implied a term 
into the agreement  between Mrs M and company S that the goods must  be satisfactory 
quality and services  must be carried out with reasonable  care and skill. In this case Mrs M 
was saying thered  been a breach of contract because  the doors and windows hadnt been 
installed with reasonable care and skill.
Mrs M had told BPF she was unhappy  with the installation of the doors and windows by 
company S and, because she was unhappy with BPFs response, shed made a complaint. 
The problems included the finishing of the handles  and the fact the units  were  ill fitting.  
There were also areas of missing fire foam, and Mrs Ms flooring had been damaged.
There didnt appear  to be any dispute  that these problems existed and that they were due to 
poor quality  installation by company S. And having  considered Mrs Ms account, I was 
satisfied that there were  probably flaws with the design in that it failed to incorporate 
instructions shed given for wheelchair  access. Based on this, and the outcome of the 
inspections undertaken by company S, I was satisfied there was a breach of contract by 
company S.
Further, the agreed remedial work hadnt been successfully or satisfactorily completed,  and 
therefore the breach was yet to be remedied. Because  of this, I needed to decide  how the 
defective work could  most fairly be put right.
Mrs M didnt  accept shed told company S to leave site and she felt uncomfortable with their 
employees in her home. Shed  made  it clear she didnt want  company S to return  to carry out 
further work  at her property because there had already been several site visits and two failed 
repair attempts.
BPF had previously conceded  the frames needed  to be replaced,  and it accepted  further 
remedial work was necessary to remedy the breach.  But the outstanding issues were  
numerous and significant and the remedial work was unlikely  to be straightforward. I had 
concerns that further work paid for and overseen by BPF might  lead to more distress  and 
inconvenience for Mrs M and, because  of this I didnt think  it would be a fair or reasonable 
resolution to this claim.
Taking everything into account,  I thought  the fairest thing would be for BPF to allow  Mrs M to 
reject the goods.  I was minded to direct it to cover  the cost of having the windows and doors 
removed (at a time convenient  to Mrs M and in a manner that caused  minimal disruption), 
cancel the loan agreement and refund any payments  shed made in connection with the 
loan. She would then be able to pay for windows  and doors  to be installed by a company of 
her choosing.
Finally, Mrs M had submitted  evidence that there was a change  to the porch door 
specification and she believed the price shouldve  been reduced by £320. In the light of what  
Id said above,  I said this would no longer represent a loss to Mrs M and so I didnt  intend  to 
address the matter any further.
Ref: DRN08612034financial losses
I explained that Id considered the issue  of Mrs Ms sons travel costs  and I couldnt fairly ask 
BPF pay for that, because he wasnt a party to the complaint.
I agreed with our investigator that it had been Mrs Ms choice to instruct  a chartered 
surveyor, but having considered the situation she was in and the nature of the problem shed 
encountered, I understood  why shed felt she had no option other than to incur this cost in an 
effort to protect her interests,  and in these circumstances I thought  BPF should  reimburse  
her surveyors fees. But I wasnt satisfied that matters  had progressed  to the point of Mrs M 
needing legal representation, and so I stated I didnt intend to make  BPF pay her legal costs.
Also, I thought  Mrs M should be reimbursed  for the money she paid for temporary repairs.  
This was because she wouldnt have incurred those  costs  if the windows and doors had 
been installed properly  and I was satisfied they were a reasonably  foreseeable consequence  
of company Ss breach  of contract.
Mrs M had said she wanted an explanation  and an apology for the fact her account went into 
arrears and I was satisfied BPF had provided an explanation  and that it had acknowledged 
its failings in the offer of compensation. It had also confirmed the arrears would be removed, 
that it would  ensure that no adverse information  was recorded with credit  reference 
agencies. I was satisfied  this was reasonable.
compensation
BPF had previously agreed to pay Mrs M £150  and £250 compensation, which  was paid on 
22 December 2017 and on 26 September 2018.  
Mrs M felt she was entitled to more  compensation and that she should also be compensated 
for additional heating costs.  She was particularly  upset  because the doors  and windows 
were inspected by five different people and she had experienced significant  distress as a 
result of BPFs  failings.
I considered the impact  BPFs handling  of the Section 75 claim had on Mrs M, including  the 
time it took to identify  and agree the schedule of remedial  works, the time shed spent  
without satisfactory doors and windows and the distress and unnecessary inconvenience 
brought about by BPFs errors concerning the payments on the loan account. I was minded 
to direct it to pay Mrs M a further £600  compensation.  In reaching this sum, I took into 
account and included the fact that Mrs Ms central  heating costs were  likely to have 
increased as a result of the poor installation.
I was also mindful of the ongoing impact the breach of contract was having on Mrs M, 
including the continued inconvenience  and disruption shell likely experience once the goods  
have been rejected. For this I was minded to award a further £500 compensation.
developments
Neither party has objected to the findings  in my provisional decision, but clarification has 
been sought on some matters.
Mrs Ms said the original doors  and windows will be removed by a new company and has 
asked whether company S wants the original doors and windows back. 
Ref: DRN08612035Regarding the arrears  on her account, Mrs Ms said shes never received an explanation, or 
any compensation from BPF for the arrears and adverse remarks on her credit file from 
September 2018 through to November 2018.  And shes provided some clarification on some 
aspects of the background to her complaint.
BPFs explained Mrs M made three  monthly  repayments of £189.80 and these have already 
been refunded.  Its also said that because the loan will be rewound and deleted, it can 
delete all information  about the account from the credit file as this will be a true reflection of 
whats happened. Finally, its asked that the 28 days  for payment of the settlement doesnt 
begin until it has the details of the account  to which Mrs M wishes  it to pay the settlement. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge all the comments  Mrs Ms made in response to my provisional decision,  
including the clarifications shes provided on various aspects of the background. 
I understand shes concerned that she hasnt  received an explanation or any compensation 
from BPF about the arrears and adverse remarks  on her credit  file from September  2018 to 
November 2018.  But in considering what is fair compensation, Ive taken into account the 
impact BPFs failings have had on Mrs M from the date she entered  into the loan agreement.  
In doing this Ive been  mindful of all aspects  of the distress and inconvenience shes  
experienced, including the impact caused  by the all instances the loan account went into 
arrears. I therefore remain satisfied that the compensation awarded  below is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
As Mrs Ms engaged in communications  with a new company whove indicated they will 
remove the original  doors  and windows, and company S has said they dont  want  them  back, 
this isnt something BPF needs to be concerned with. There will be no cost to BPF for the 
removal of the doors and windows and they dont  need to be returned.
Im satisfied BPFs observations concerning the credit file are reasonable and I will direct  it to 
remove all information about the account from the credit file. For completeness, I understand 
BPF already has the sort code and account  details of the account into which Mrs M wishes it 
to make the settlement, and so this wont affect  the operation of interest in my directions 
below. If this isnt the case then BPF should take reasonable steps to clarify the account 
details without delay.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and direct Clydesdale Financial Services  Limited t/a Barclays Partner 
Finance to:
cancel the loan agreement, with nothing further  owed  by Mrs M.
arrange for the removal  of all information  about the loan account  from Mrs Ms credit 
file.
refund  Mrs M the £100 deposit she paid.  This is to include 8% simple interest* from 
the date she made the payment to the date she receives the refund.
Ref: DRN08612036reimburse the money Mrs M paid to her surveyor. This is to include 8% simple 
interest* from the date she made the payment/s to the date she receives the 
reimbursement.
reimburse Mrs M the £598.93  she spent on temporary repairs.  This is to include a 
payment of 8% simple interest* from the date she incurred the costs to the date she 
receives the reimbursement.
in addition to the £150 & £250  it has already agreed,  BPF should also pay Mrs M 
£600 compensation for the way its handled  the claim and £500 compensation for the 
inconvenience arising from the breach of contract. The compensation is to be paid 
within 28 days of the date on which we tell Clydesdale Financial Services Limited t/a 
Barclays Partner Finance  Mrs M accepts my final decision (if she does). If it pays  
later than this then interest* will have to be added  to the unpaid  amount from the date 
of my final decision until settlement  is made.
* HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Clydesdale Financial Services Limited t/a Barclays  
Partner Finance  to take off tax from this interest.  Clydesdale Financial Services  Limited t/a 
Barclays Partner Finance  must give Mrs M a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if 
she asks for one. She may then be able to reclaim the tax from the tax authorities if 
appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 October  2019.
Carolyn Bonnell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0861203