K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Aviva Life & Pensions  UK Limited failed to contact  him before reducing 
his level of critical illness cover (CIC), from £35,000  to £15,000. 
Mr H made  a claim after he had a heart attack  and was shocked when Aviva tried to settle 
the claim for £15,000.  
background
In 2001, Mr H had £35,000 of CIC, along  with £70,000 life cover, registered to his address at 
the time.  
Mr H says he moved from this address at some point between  the end of January and early 
February 2008. And between then, and 2015, he changed addresses  due to work and other 
reasons.
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didn't think  it should  be upheld.  In 
summary, she said:
Having considered if Aviva had done enough to contact Mr H before his level of CIC 
was reduced,  and if Avivas conduct  was in line with its terms and conditions, shes 
satisfied, on balance,  that it was. 
Despite all the address changes since Mr H took out the policy  in 2001, she's seen 
no evidence that hes notified Aviva of his change of address. 
In mid-2008,  Aviva wrote to Mr H but received gone away  correspondence. Later 
the same  month it wrote to his bank,  asking it to forward  correspondence  relating to 
his review, because  it didn't have an up to date address.  
Aviva  also tried to contact Mr H through the Department for Work  and Pensions  
(DWP) but received  no reply,  and it also tried through Capita Trace  without  success. 
So, overall it had done enough to contact Mr H. 
The policy documentation  made reasonably clear the reviewable nature and 
operation of the policy. Mr H also sold the policy to himself. So overall, he knew, or 
ought reasonably  have  known,  about the reviews. 
Between 2001 and 2018, the policy was reviewed twice.  On each occasion, Aviva  
wrote to Mr H to the address it had on file. Because the premium  was insufficient to 
cover the cost of the sum assured, the sum assured was reduced.  
This was reasonable and in line with its terms and conditions. Increasing the 
premiums wasn't  something  Aviva  was permitted to do, without Mr Hs permission. 
Mr H disagreed with the investigators conclusions. In summary,  he said:
He did sell the policy to himself and was doubly  unaware that the business could 
review the policy without consultation.  
Its untrue that letters were sent to him about the review - they were sent to the 
business head office in Bristol  an address  to which he has no connection. 
Why were  Aviva  trying to contact  Mr H in 2008,  when the first review wasn't until 
2011 and the second in 2016? And why was it sending letters  to his bank three years 
before the first review? 
His NHS, NI and bank numbers never changed.  
He fails to see how a policy can be changed by one side of a contractual agreement 
without the other side having any say on the matter.  
Ref: DRN00929182He would've  liked the opportunity to decide for himself whether or not to increase the 
premiums.  
In 2015 he had car insurance through Aviva, so they could  have contacted him at 
least before the second review in 2016.  
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.  On the face of the evidence,  and on balance, Im unable  
to safely say the business has done anything wrong by reducing Mr Hs level of CIC after 
review. 
But before I explain  further why this is the case,  I think its important for me to note 
I recognise Mr Hs strength of feeling  about this matter.  And Im sorry to learn of Mr Hs ill 
health. 
He has provided  detailed submissions to support the complaint, which  Ive read and 
considered carefully.  However, I hope  he wont take the fact my findings focus on what  
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail,  as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented  by Mr H and Aviva, and reach what I think  is an independent, fair 
and reasonable decision  based on the facts of the case.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I can take into account the relevant law, regulation  
and best industry  practice. But its for me to decide,  based on the information Ive been 
given, whats more  likely than not to have happened.
After the return of Mr Hs letter in 2008, Im satisfied Aviva exhausted a number of 
reasonable steps, through numerous  institutions,  over a reasonable period of time - including  
Mr Hs bank, the DWP, and Capita Trace   to locate him but without any success. 
This incidentally  makes Mr Hs points about  his NI, NHS and bank numbers staying the 
same immaterial in the circumstances,  because none of those details  mentioned by him 
confirmed his up to date address. And I cant blame Aviva for want  of trying. 
On balance Im satisfied the terms and conditions would have made reasonably clear the 
reviewable nature and operation of the CIC  so, Mr H knew, or ought reasonably to have 
known, how the policy worked. I don't say this just because he was an adviser and sold the 
policy to himself, but because of the documentation he was likely to have received at the 
point of sale. 
If Mr H didnt receive any paperwork/policy documentation  which I think on balance is 
unlikely  having sold the policy to himself, I think he ought to have taken  steps to ensure he 
received all the necessary policy documentation.  
Ref: DRN00929183I appreciate he didn't  get the review letters and so wouldn't have known about the 
information on it and the options  that were  open to him. I also agree that it was up to him, 
whether or not he wished to increase his premiums to maintain the sum assured. But if Mr H 
didn't notify  Aviva of his change of address  numerous changes  of address  I cant hold it 
responsible for this. Im satisfied Aviva  has done what  it was entitled to do. And Mr H knew, 
or ought to have  known, the importance  of notifying Aviva  of his change  of address.
Aviva couldnt have increased  Mr Hs premiums  without  his consent. And even if it was able 
to, there was no guarantee that the increased  premiums would be affordable, potentially 
leading to the policy being valueless for lack of payment  of premiums.  
I note Mr Hs question about why Aviva wrote  to him three  years  before the first review  in 
2011. It seems Aviva  wrote  to Mr H in 2008 to notify him that his level of cover was 
guaranteed until the next review. But why it wrote to him isnt central to my consideration - 
only that having received the gone  away correspondence, I think the business did the right 
thing to try and locate  him and not send anymore letters to that address. If it had done so, 
knowing that he was no longer there, it was likely to be in breach of a number  of data 
protection regulations. 
If Aviva didn't send  this letter  in 2008, and waited until 2011 before the first review, it was 
unlikely to have  received  a different response, because  Mr H was no longer at the address 
from 2008. 
I appreciate the point  Mr H makes  about  subsequent letters  being sent to Avivas  office in 
Bristol. I accept he had no connection to that address. It seems it did so to keep a record of 
the correspondence, and was able to provide a copy of all the correspondence hed missed. 
But also proof that the relevant letters were  produced.  
I appreciate the point  made by Mr H about his car insurance with Aviva  in 2015 but I dont 
think Aviva  was required to keep looking for him indefinitely. So, on balance  I don't blame it 
for not trying to contact him again in 2015  after he took out car insurance.  
Even if car insurance and protection policies shared the same  department within in Aviva  
which I dont think they do  I wouldn't expect Aviva  to keep  looking for Mr H in 2015, having 
had his letter  returned in 2008,  and having had no contact with him for seven years.  
I appreciate Mr H will be unhappy  Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. 
Furthermore, I realise my decision  isnt what he wants to hear.  Whilst I appreciate his 
frustration, Im not persuaded to require  the business to do anything.
On the face of the available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give Mr H 
what he wants.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0092918