K820x#14complaint
Ms P has complained that Be Wiser  Insurance Services Ltd unfairly arranged for her car 
insurance policy to be cancelled due to non payment. Shes also unhappy with the 
cancellation fee it charged her. 
background
Ms P bought a car insurance policy through a broker, Be Wiser in November 2016. She 
renewed her policy in November 2017.  She arranged to pay for her insurance by way of 
monthly instalments  under a credit agreement. 
From July 2018 Miss P experienced some problems  paying her monthly premium on time. 
Be Wisers  timeline shows it waived late payment fees and changed the collection date to 
help Miss P meet the payments and prevent her policy from being cancelled.  
In November 2018 Be Wiser arranged the renewal of Miss Ps policy.  She didnt meet the 
payment due in November 2018.  Be Wiser agreed to change  the collection date for future  
months  and agreed for Miss P to make the November payment by the end of the month. 
The cancellation warning  letter Be Wiser  sent Miss P gave a deadline of 29 November 2018 
for her to make the payment. 
On 30 November 2018 Be Wiser received an email from its out of office hours claims 
department. They said Miss P had tried to contact  Be Wiser to make payment on 29 
November 2018.  So Be Wiser extended the cancellation date to 4 December 2018 to allow  
Ms P further time to make the payment. Be Wiser called Miss P. But it couldnt speak with 
her. As Miss P didnt make the outstanding  payment by 4 December 2018, it arranged for 
her policy to be cancelled.  
Miss P complained to Be Wiser. She was unhappy that she couldnt  get through to make  
payment on 29 November 2018.  And she was unhappy with the balance it said she owed on 
cancellation. 
Be Wiser contacted the underwriter of her policy to see if it would reinstate her policy. But it 
wouldnt. Be Wiser said Miss P correctly owed a balance of £292.78.  This included its 
cancellation fee and for the days she was insured.  However, as a gesture of goodwill, Be 
Wiser reduced the balance Miss P owed to £163.48. 
Miss P asked us to look at her complaint. Our investigator thought Be Wiser had acted 
reasonably. 
Miss P didnt agree. She said she felt we hadnt  considered all aspects of her complaint. In 
summary she said:
Miss P was mostly unhappy  with the balance she owed on cancellation. She said 
she wasnt aware that a fee would be taken if she cancelled the policy. She said 
she didnt understand what had been sold to her. 
Miss P feels shes paid for the insurance cover she used. 
Be Wiser  wrote  to her mothers address after it agreed it wouldnt. She says this 
caused her mother upset as it sent letters about collecting the debt from Miss P 
to the wrong address. 
Ref: DRN05317882So Miss P would like an ombudsman to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why. 
Miss P believes the policy was mis-sold  to her  and that Be Wiser didnt follow  her 
instructions as to which address to write to. These arent complaints which  Be Wiser has 
replied to  or that we have investigated.  So Be Wiser needs  to have the opportunity  to 
address any new complaints Miss P has. If she remains unhappy with their reply,  she is free 
to ask us to look at these  new issues.  
I appreciate that Miss P believes  the amount Be Wiser  said she owed  on cancellation was 
excessive. We dont  think its wrong for an insurer or broker to charge a cancellation fee to 
cover its administration  costs, provided  its reasonable and set out in the policy documents. I 
can see that Be Wiser  set out its cancellation charge of £100  in its Terms of Business which 
it sent with Miss Ps policy  documents. And as Miss P entered into a credit  agreement to 
repay the yearly  premium  in monthly instalments  with a credit provider, they applied interest 
which was set out under the credit  agreement.
As a goodwill  gesture,  Be Wiser reduced  the balance Miss P correctly  owed by £129.30. So I 
cant say that Be Wiser treated Miss P unfairly by asking her to pay a reduced balance of 
£163.48. This is less than its cancellation fee and the amount she owed for the days she 
was insured under the policy.
I understand that Miss P had difficulty getting  through to Be Wiser on 29 November  2018  in 
order to make payment  to prevent her policy from being cancelled. But I can see that 
Be Wiser didnt cancel  her policy then. As it knew from its claims helpline team that Miss P 
had tried to contact it, it called Miss P on 30 November 2018  but wasnt able to speak with 
her. 
Miss P told us she made  several calls to Be Wiser  on 29 November 2018. So I think she was 
very aware  of the risk of her policy being  cancelled.  But I cant see anything  to show  me that 
she made any further attempt to contact Be Wiser over the following days to make the 
payment  until 5 December 2018   after it arranged for her policy to be cancelled on 
4 December 2018. 
Ive considered the fact that Miss P said she asked  for the collection date to be at the end of 
the month  and not the 20th. Be Wiser said Miss P agreed for the collection to be the 20th at 
renewal. But in any event, Be Wiser said it would  change  the date to the end of the month 
from December 2018  and it waived the late payment fee Miss P was charged for the 
November payment. As it tried to speak  to Miss P on 30 November 2018  and waited  until 4 
December 2018   I dont think the date of collection made a difference  to the outcome. I 
think Be Wiser did enough to help Miss P to try to prevent the cancellation of her policy. 
Be Wiser asked the underwriter if they would reinstate Miss Ps policy,  but they didnt  agree.  
Overall I cant  say that Be Wiser acted  unreasonably. 
Ref: DRN05317883I understand Miss P will be disappointed with my decision. But I think Be Wiser  was flexible 
in its approach before it made the decision to cancel Miss Ps policy  on behalf of the 
underwriter. So I think  its fair and reasonable for Be Wiser to ask Miss P to pay the reduced 
balance in line with its terms  of business  and the policy.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 February  2020.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0531788