K820x#14Complaint
Miss K says Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt do enough to help her when she was a victim of 
fraud.
Background
In January 2019, Miss K attempted to book a flight  ticket  online and paid £348.45 by debit  
card. A few weeks later she was concerned that shed not received the e-ticket shed been 
promised but found that she wasnt able to contact the agent that shed  been  dealing with. 
She realised  that shed  been the victim of a scam  and so contacted Barclays on 21 February 
2019. 
Barclays attempted to recover Miss Ks money  by using the chargeback  process operated  by 
the card scheme.  However, this wasnt successful.  It turned out that Miss K had made  the 
payment to a money remittance service,  and that once received by that service,  it had been 
sent on to the scammer. The chargeback failed on the basis that the money remittance  
service had correctly fulfilled its obligations.  Barclays declined to refund the payment and 
said it had taken all the steps it could to attempt to retrieve Miss Ks money.
Miss K was unhappy  with how Barclays had handled  things and so she referred her 
complaint to this service.  It was looked at by an investigator who didnt uphold it. The 
investigator looked at how Miss K normally used her account and concluded that there  would 
be nothing about  the £348.45  payment  that would appear suspicious. She didnt  think 
Barclays could reasonably have done anything to prevent the scam from taking place. She 
also said that Barclays had acted promptly once Miss K told it shed been the victim of a 
scam by raising a chargeback  and that this was the only option it had of helping  her to 
recover her money. 
Miss K disagreed with the investigators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to 
consider and come to a final decision. 
Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In doing so, Im required to consider 
relevant: law and regulations; regulators  rules,  guidance and standards;  codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the time.
Theres no question that Miss K has been the victim of a fraud. But the question  that I must 
consider here is the extent to which Barclays can be considered  liable for her losses.  In 
broad terms,  the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the terms and
conditions of the customers account.  
But that is not the whole the story:
the law recognises  that a bank may be liable  to its customer if it makes a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of 
its customer (known as the Quincecare  duty); and
Ref: DRN06455632regulated firms  like Barclays are also required  to conduct their business with due
skill, care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to
the interests of its customers  (Principle 6); and
As a matter  of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have taken
proactive steps  to:
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers
from Financial  harm  as a result of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice,  which
a number of banks and trade associations were involved in the development of)
That means there are circumstances where a bank should take additional steps, or make 
additional checks, before processing a payment,  or in some cases decline to make a 
payment altogether, to help protect  customers from the possibility of financial harm.  In this 
case, I need to decide whether Barclays acted fairly  and reasonably in its dealings  with 
Miss K when she carried out this card payment and when she reported that it was fraudulent. 
Ive considered this point  carefully and I agree with the investigator that it hasnt done 
anything wrong  here. 
This wasnt an out of character transaction. Miss Ks bank statements show that in the six 
months before this transaction,  there  were  seven transactions of more  than £300. Three of 
these were for more  than £1,000 and the highest value payment was for £10,000.  In that 
context, I dont think Barclays couldve had any reasonable basis for suspecting that Miss K 
was at risk of financial harm when  she made  this payment.
I also think Barclays did what it could once it became  aware of what  had happened.  Since 
the payment had been made using a debit card, Barclays wasnt able to retrieve the funds 
the same  way as it couldve done if this payment had been  made  by bank transfer.  Instead,  it 
raised a chargeback request via the card payment  scheme that handled  Miss Ks payment.  It 
is possible for a chargeback request  to be successful where a customer  has paid for goods 
or services that havent been received. Unfortunately, that wasnt the case  here. This 
payment was made to a third-party  money  remittance service.  The service that Miss K paid 
for (albeit  she didnt  realise it at the time) was for the transferred funds to be made available  
to the intended recipient. As a result, the chargeback  request was declined by the card 
scheme.
I do feel considerable sympathy  for what Miss K has been through  here.  But unfortunately, 
Im not persuaded that this was a consequence  of any specific failing on the part of 
Barclays so whilst Im sorry to have to disappoint  her, I dont uphold this complaint.
Final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 September 2020.
James Kimmitt
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0645563