K821x#15Complaint
Mr S complains that Oodle Financial  Services Limited refused to let him reject  a faulty car.
Background
In December 2018 Mr S bought a second  hand car which was financed by a hire purchase  
agreement with Oodle.  It was some five years old, had done  95,873  miles and cost £14,795.  
Oodle loaned £16,695 which also paid off an existing loan held by Mr S covering a shortfall 
of £1,900.
Within a matter of days he encountered a problem with the drivers side suspension and this 
was repaired,  but he says a problem then arose with the passenger side suspension. The 
repair was carried out by a third party  garage and the cost was covered by the warranty 
company. He also had problems  with the sunroof, but another garage said there was no 
fault.
Mr S complained to Oodle  and asked to reject  the car, but was refused. Mr S brought  his 
complaint to this service  where it was considered  by one of our adjudicators  who 
recommended it be upheld.
She was satisfied the car was faulty/developing faults from point of sale. She noted Oodle 
Finance hadnt  accepted the diagnostic report provided by Mr S and said the onus was on 
him to show  the car was faulty. But our adjudicator didnt agree  and said that given the first 
fault occurred  less than a month after purchase, and was with the suspension, she thought  it 
likely this had been developing  or had been faulty  at the point of sale.
She added that the further faults occurred less than three months into the agreement.  She 
noted Mr S had claimed there was excessive  play on ball joint in the front suspension and 
had supplied  a second diagnostic report which showed further  issues - related to the coolant 
of the car and the air conditioning.
She said the Consumer  Rights  Act 2015 states  that the quality of the goods must be free 
from minor defects. She didnt believe this to be the case  and that having given the 
dealership the opportunity to repair the first fault further failings have caused Mr S to lose 
trust in the car. She suggested Oodle let him reject  the car.
It didnt agree and said that this was high-mileage car which  was subject  to wear and tear. It 
said that he had driven  the car for some 5,339 miles in less than three  months which 
indicated it was of reasonable quality. It said it was unfair that he had repairs  carried out and 
then be allowed to reject  the car.
Mr S said that he still had problems with the sunroof jamming and Oodle had not responded 
to his email about  this which  he sent at the beginning  of January. He also said the puddle  
lights didnt work and a fuse box cover was missing.  I issued provisional decision as follows:
I said it was clear there were  faults with the car and the issue  was whether these were minor 
as suggested  by the business, or if they were such that would allow  Mr S to reject the car. I 
said I found this a very finely balanced matter.
Mr S made his complaint within 30 days and the fault with the suspension was significant, 
but it was repaired  at no cost to him. He said that the passenger-side suspension was also 
Ref: DRN08003532showing signs of being faulty, but I couldnt say that this was supported  by any independent 
evidence. I could see that Mr S was given a choice of two garages to take the car for an 
independent diagnostic report, but hadnt taken  this up. The report he had provided  in March 
was very brief and referred to issues with air conditioning.
In his initial complaint  Mr S said a warning light came on and he was advised to have it 
inspected by a suitable garage, but the light then went off and he took no action. He says it 
has reappeared  intermittently.  I wasnt aware he took any further  action on this matter and 
Id seen no evidence  of any fault connected  to the light.
Our adjudicator considered the car wasnt free from minor defects,  but I believed  this had to 
be set in the context  of the fact the car was five years old and had done over 95,000 miles. I 
noted that cars are subject to wear and tear, and one of this age was likely to have minor 
issues which one wouldnt expect in a new car.
I also took note of the fact that Mr S had use of the car. By 20 February 2019 Mr S had done 
5,339 miles. That was a significant mileage in a relatively short period of time.  I was satisfied 
the garage had addressed the faults Mr S identified, and I didnt think that itd been 
demonstrated that there were any further significant faults which  could be said to have been  
present at the point of sale.
Overall I didnt believe the issues which Mr S had encountered were such that he should be 
allowed to reject the car. The main issue had been repaired at no cost to him and the other  
matters have not prevented him from making  significant use of the car. That said,  I thought  it 
right that Oodle covered the cost of repairing the puddle lights  and the fuse cover.
Mr S didnt agree and raised a number of questions. He said the cost of repairing the 
suspension was £498 and he provided an invoice and wondered where the figure of £1,100 
had come from? He said the suspension was still faulty and he attached  copy  of an estimate  
for work to be done to the passenger side front suspension. He said he had taken the car to 
another garage and disputed that he hadnt  taken the car for an independent inspection.
He said he had already let us see this report which stated that the coolant pump and 
transmission is faulty, "Coolant  loss and Communication with A/C is faulty. He provided an 
updated version which said the engine  management  light was related top the coolant pump 
failure and a new pump would cost £403.66 plus VAT. He also let us have  a copy of a note 
from the dealer  showing it had agreed to book  in the car to deal with the faulty sunroof.
He didnt consider  the coolant,  engine, roof and suspension problems to be minor issues.  He 
pointed out the car was under five years  old and should be in better  repair. He also disputed 
that he had done 5,339 miles  by 20 February. He said the report  from the garage on 1 March  
2019 showed he had only done  4,248 miles at that point. 
He maintained the car was still faulty and the panoramic  sunroof needed to be inspected  by 
a specialist or a main  dealer.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN08003533In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.
The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Oodle is also the supplier of the goods  under this type of agreement, and responsible for a 
complaint about  their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
I will address the factual points Mr S has queried in my provisional decision.  When he first 
contacted this service  he told one of my colleagues that an engine  light came  on and he 
contacted the AA and was advised  to take it to a specialist. He said the light went  out so he 
didnt take it to the specialist. 
The mileage  information  had been provided by Oodle and I asked it to let me know where  
this had come from. It said that the figure had been  based on information reported  to the 
warranty company. It also said that the dealer had told it that the sunroof had been repaired 
by a mobile contractor.  I also asked  about the £1,100 cost of the suspension repair  it had 
quoted. It said Mr S had given this figure  in an early conversation and it had no reason to 
doubt him. It also said that the coolant issue had been repaired under warranty.
The diagnostic report covers the coolant problem.  This was dated  1 March 2019  and stated 
very briefly that there was an issue with the coolant  pump without an explanation as to how 
this had arisen or when it was likely to have occurred. Mr S provided an updated version 
dated 25 June  which added that the engine management light was connected to the coolant 
pump failure  and a new pump was required.  I dont know if the car was examined again  or 
not, or who added the additional  two sentences  to the document. 
This runs counter to the claim  by Oodle that the dealer  has said the coolant issue was 
repaired. I have  looked at the MOT status of the car and see it recently  passed its MOT with 
several advisories.  These include two worn tyres,  worn brakes  and it was noted the 
nearside front lower  suspension arm ball joint has slight play rear. There  is no reference to 
any other faults. As of 21 September the car had done  106,444  miles. I think  this shows  the 
car is roadworthy and has no major issues. It doesnt suggest  there  is a notable issue  with 
the suspension.
I am happy to accept  the mileage figure provided by Oodle was incorrect,  but I can see from 
the MOT data that Mr S has been  able to drive  the car for over 10,500  miles since  he 
acquired it. I also note the cost of the repair to the suspension was less than Oodle had been 
Ref: DRN08003534led to believe,  but this makes no difference to my opinion. The work was done  under 
warranty and there  are no issues which have shown up in the recent MOT and so it seems 
that it was done  satisfactorily. 
On balance I am not persuaded  there  were  faults  present at the point  of sale which havent 
been rectified by the dealer. The car had a high mileage and even if it was prestige make 
cars do suffer from wear and tear and I consider that to be the most likely  explanation in this 
case.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and I direct Oodle Financial Services 
Limited to cover the cost of repairing the puddle lights  and replacing  the fuse cover. Under  
the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, Im required  to ask Mr S to accept  or reject 
my decision  before 12 December 2019.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0800353