K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains about the way Nelson Insurance Company  Ltd has dealt with him and 
handled a claim  on his motor insurance  policy.
background
Mr S was involved  in an incident  and made a claim on his Nelson policy. Hes unhappy with 
the way its handled the claim  including that his car was deemed to be a total loss as he 
thinks it was economic to repair it. He also says, amongst other things, that he wasnt  given  
the opportunity  to obtain a courtesy car and has been caused unbearable stress. And he 
says the way Nelson has dealt with him warrants more than the £100 compensation it has 
offered. 
Nelson said in its final response that Mr S car had been inspected  by its engineer and the 
estimated costs of repairs were  over 86% of the cars value. So, it deemed  it to be a total 
loss. Mr S decided to keep the car and it was his broker that required an MOT to reinstitute 
comprehensive cover. It apologised  for two errors made on his claim and as a good will 
gesture it was paying him £100 compensation.
Our investigator felt this complaint  should  be partly upheld. He said:
Mr S car was inspected  by the engineer. Nelson acted reasonably writing off Mr S 
car in line with the engineers report.  Mr S had the car repaired for less than the 
engineers figure but Nelson is expected to settle  a claim based on what the engineer 
says.
Nelson did give Mr S an incorrect salvage figure  and made  another  error about the 
obtaining of a courtesy car. But its paid £100 compensation for these errors which is 
fair and reasonable. 
Mr S wasnt told of the option of having a courtesy vehicle so Nelson should pay him 
a further £140 compensation  for the lack of being able to get a courtesy  car for a 14 
day period because of what  it did. 
Mr S remains unhappy that his car was written  off. He thinks  the engineer is wrong.  Mr S 
also originally said that he cannot  disagree  with the investigators findings on the courtesy  
car but has since pointed  out that he is a private  hire driver and cannot hire a suitable 7 
seater car for £10 a day. He says the way Nelson has acted has increased how long its 
taken to deal with matters. And the £100  compensation  is in his view a feeble attempt to stop 
him taking  things further. He wants an ombudsman review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has provided detailed submissions to support  his complaint. Ive read and considered  
them all. But my findings are expressed in considerably less detail. And they focus on what  I 
think are the main issues.
Ref: DRN07335242In the report the engineer assesses Mr S cars  value, after consulting  the trade guides, at 
£2,935. He notes there  was a light to moderate  impact and suggests a claim reserve  of 
£2,544 for the estimated repair costs. Based on this he recommended  the claim should  be 
handled on a total loss basis.  
I realise Mr S strongly disagrees with the engineers estimated repair costs and the 
suggestion to treat his car as a write off. But he hasnt provided  any comparable  expert  
evidence from another  engineer to contradict the information given by and the view of the 
engineer instructed by Nelson.
As such,  I think it was reasonable for Nelson to rely upon available evidence,  particularly the 
engineers report  and conclusions when making its decision in this claim. And I think it acted 
reasonably by following the engineers recommendation  of writing off the car.
Even so Nelson acknowledges it made a couple  of mistakes when dealing with the claim and 
it has paid Mr S £100 compensation for them. 
The way Nelson dealt  with matters also appears to have affected  Mr S ability to get a 
courtesy car from a third party company. I understand Mr S frustration at our investigators 
conclusion that this warrants a payment of only £10 a day for 14 days loss of use of a 
courtesy car. He also says he couldnt have hired  another suitable vehicle for his business at 
this rate but that isnt Nelsons fault.   
Taking everything into account,  including the level of awards  we make,  I think in this case its 
fair and reasonable for Nelson to pay Mr S a further £140 compensation for this loss of use 
of a car, over and above  the £100  its already paid him. 
Overall I think  the adjudicators proposed  resolution of this complaint is fair and reasonable. I 
dont think I can fairly  or reasonably require Nelson  to pay any more than this. And I dont 
see any compelling reason to change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  To put things  right Nelson Insurance Company Ltd should pay Mr S 
an additional  £140 compensation.
Nelson must  pay the compensation  within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr S 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest* on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
* If HM Revenue & Customs requires Nelson  to take off tax from this interest. It must give Mr 
S a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2020.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0733524