K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R have complained about the way in which Santander UK Plc has administered 
with their mortgage account. Specifically,  they say that Santander failed to tell them  that if 
they reduced the remaining term of the mortgage when they made  a 10% overpayment each 
year rather  than reducing the monthly  repayment,  they would pay less interest overall.
To settle  the complaint, Mr and Mrs R want Santander to put them in the position theyd 
have been in if theyd chosen  the option  which would have saved them  the most interest. 
They also want Santander to pay compensation for failing to tell them they could save 
interest and for making them complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
background
In August  2014  Mr and Mrs R took out a mortgage with Santander, on the advice of a broker. 
It was on a two-year fixed rate. Every  two years thereafter Mr and Mrs R have switched their 
mortgage onto a new two-year fixed rate product.
The mortgage conditions  say that if the mortgage  is repaid  early  within  the fixed  rate period, 
an early repayment charge is applied. But there  is also a concession where Santander will 
allow a capital reduction of up to 10% of the outstanding balance  to be made each year, 
without charge.
The capital reduction results in the mortgage  balance being reduced. Customers  can choose 
either to ask Santander  to recalculate their monthly payments based on the reduced  capital 
balance over the same mortgage term, or to keep their monthly repayments at the same 
level, in which case they will pay off their mortgage sooner. Mr and Mrs R have always opted 
to reduce their monthly repayments.
When they initially took out their mortgage with Santander in 2014,  Mr and Mrs Rs monthly  
repayments were £748.54  per month  during the fixed rate period. They made a capital 
repayment of £8,500  in November 2015, and opted to reduce the monthly repayments which 
were then £672.19 for the remainder of the fixed rate period.
On 23 May 2016 Mr and Mrs R made a further  capital reduction of £6,000.  Their  monthly  
repayment reduced to £619.80 for June  2016 and £610.81 for July 2016. Mr and Mrs R then 
took out a new fixed  rate product which reduced  their payments from August 2016 to 
£599.87, fixed until 2 September  2018.
On 8 February 2017 Mr and Mrs R made a capital reduction of £5,000. This reduced their 
monthly repayments to £542.88 for March  2017, £541.25 for April 2017 and £541.24 for the 
remainder of the fixed rate period.
If Mr and Mrs R had kept their repayments  the same, theyd have  paid (according to my 
calculations) £17,964.96 over the fixed rate period from August 2014 to July 2016. They 
actually paid £16,326.83 and so saved £1,638.13.
If Mr and Mrs R had kept their repayments  the same between  August 2016 and July 2018,  
theyd have paid £14,396.88 being  24 x £599.87.  Instead (according to my calculations) 
theyve paid £11,518.07, a difference of £2,878.81.
Ref: DRN07772192So overall Mr and Mrs R have paid about  £4,500 less than if theyd opted to keep their 
repayments at the same  level after each  capital reduction.
Since August 2018 Mr and Mrs R have been  on a new fixed rate and their monthly 
repayment is £478.78. Theyve  not made a capital repayment since  February 2017.
In February 2019  they discovered  an online mortgage calculator on Santanders website.  
After using this, Mr and Mrs R say that they learned for the first time if theyd decided to 
reduce their mortgage  term with every capital repayment, theyd  have paid less interest.  
They complained to Santander.  
Mr and Mrs R say that Santander never explained,  at the point  when they made their 10% 
capital reduction,  that reducing  the mortgage  term but keeping their payments the same 
would mean  theyd pay less interest overall. They say that they didnt understand that a 
shorter loan term would  mean less interest, and that Santander  was under a duty to tell them  
this.
Mr and Mrs R acknowledge that it is self-evident that if they made higher repayments,  the 
term would  be reduced.  But they assumed that they would  also pay the same  amount of 
interest whether  they reduced  the term or reduced the repayment.
Santander didnt  uphold the complaint. It was satisfied its staff had explained that the capital 
reduction could  be used either to reduce the monthly repayments or the term of the loan (in 
which case the monthly repayment would stay the same).
Mr and Mrs R brought  the complaint to us. An investigator looked at the complaint but didnt 
think it should be upheld.  He was satisfied Santanders staff explained the options available  
when making a 10% capital reduction  there  could be either a reduction  in the monthly  
repayment or a reduction in the mortgage  term. Mr and Mrs R opted each time they made  a 
capital repayment  to keep their mortgage term over the same length,  and to reduce their 
monthly repayments.
Mr and Mrs R disagreed  with the investigators findings. They say that, when they recently  
spoke to Santander, they were told over the phone that if they reduced the term, theyd pay 
less interest. They say they were never  told this before. And although they were aware that 
they could have opted to reduce  the mortgage term, they didnt understand that a shorter 
loan term would mean theyd pay less interest than keeping the original term and reducing 
their repayments.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive read everything provided by Mr and 
Mrs R and Santander, and Ive looked at the account history.
Overall, Mr and Mrs R have saved  (according  to my rough calculations) approximately 
£4,500 by opting to reduce their monthly  repayments when making a capital reduction.  But 
Mr and Mrs R say that, by doing this rather  than reducing the mortgage term, they will end 
up paying approximately £2,000 more  interest. 
Santanders role is to administer the account,  and to apply payments in accordance with the 
instructions given by Mr and Mrs R. Im satisfied  that Santander explained  that Mr and Mrs R 
Ref: DRN07772193could either  reduce their monthly  repayment or reduce the capital balance and pay off their 
mortgage more  quickly if they kept their payments the same.  I dont think Santander  was 
under any duty to explain more than this, or to know that Mr and Mrs R wouldnt have 
understood that the shorter the term of the loan,  the less interest  would be payable.
Santander was also under no obligation to tell Mr and Mrs R to use an online calculator to 
work out how much interest theyd pay. Given this, I dont think  Santander has done anything 
wrong and Im not upholding the complaint.
I know Mr and Mrs R feel very strongly about  this case. They want  Santander to put them in 
the position theyd have  been in if theyd opted  to reduce their term and keep their 
repayments the same. Im not going  to order  Santander to do that. 
I dont know if Santander would be willing to re-work the account historically; thats a matter  
for the bank. But if Santander did agree to do this, it would mean that, if the account was to 
be recalculated  as if Mr and Mrs R had, in fact, kept their repayments  the same  to reduce 
the mortgage term, Mr and Mrs R would actually have to make  up those higher repayments. 
In other  words, Mr and Mrs R would need  to reimburse Santander for the savings theyve 
made over the years by opting  for a reduced  payment rather  than a reduced  term. 
As stated above, my rough calculations show that by reducing their repayments, Mr and 
Mrs R have paid about £4,500 less since November 2014 than they would have paid if 
theyd kept their repayments the same. That is not an exact figure and Santander  would be 
able to provide  a more accurate calculation.
If Santander was willing to re-work the account as if it had been  on a term reduction  rather  
than a payment  reduction, the bank will be able to calculate far more  accurately than I 
exactly how much Mr and Mrs R would need  to pay in order  to cover the full repayments  
from the date of the first capital reduction  in November 2014. To be clear, Mr and Mrs R 
cant have it both ways  and have the benefit  of reduced payments as well as a reduced  term. 
Because I dont think Santander has done  anything wrong, Im not going to order  the bank to 
make any changes to the account. Its within Santanders discretion to decide  if its willing  to 
rework the account,  if Mr and Mrs R want this and are prepared  to make up the extra  
repayments theyd  have made  if theyd chosen term reduction rather  than payment  
reduction.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 December  2019.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0777219