K821x#15complaint
B, a limited  company, says Xbridge  Limited  trading as Simply Business mis-sold it a 
business protection policy. 
This complaint has been brought by Bs sole director, Mr L. 
background
In May 2017  Simply Business sold Mr L a business protection policy  over the phone. That 
policy included goods in transit cover. 
In early 2018 a van that had been  hired  by B was stolen. B says inside the van were items 
belonging to a customer that were going  to be used for a job the next day. B made  a claim 
on its business protection policy to cover the costs of the items that had been  stolen along 
with the van. 
The insurer  declined that claim on the basis that the part of the policy that covered goods  in 
transit was restricted to Bs tools;  it didnt extend to goods belonging to Bs customers. Mr L 
says Simply Business didnt make that clear when he bought the policy  and so, the policy 
was mis-sold. Simply  Business doesnt accept that so Mr L bought a complaint to us, on 
behalf of B.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She said Simply Business should pay the claim B 
made on the business protection  policy so long as B was able to provide documentary 
evidence of its financial loses.  Simply Business didnt agree.  So the complaint has been  
passed to me to look at everything  afresh and make  a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I uphold  the complaint.  
Even though  Simply Business didnt recommend B to take out the policy,  it still had to 
provide clear, fair and not misleading information about the main terms of it. I dont think  it 
did that and Ill explain why.
Ive listened to the call Mr L had with Simply  Business  representative in May 2017 when the 
policy was sold. I dont  think Mr L was clearly told that the goods  in service section didnt 
cover stock which includes  customers goods (stock). 
Mr L was told the policy  includes: goods  in transit and also £5,000  tools  cover. This implies  
that theres a difference between tools and other  goods in transit,  and that both are covered. 
At no point  was he told that goods in transit only covered  tools  and not stock, even after Mr L 
asked: how much is the goods in service worth?
Later in the call, hes informed about an endorsement which has been applied  to the policy 
changing the definition of property to: business  and computer  equipment, stock, including 
customers goods in your control and tools belonging  to you or for which  you are responsible 
all pertaining to the business up to the limit stated in the schedule. That definition  applies to 
the goods in transit section of the policy  and from what Mr L was told Im satisfied that 
once again implies the policy would  cover any of those listed goods  that are in transit.  
Ref: DRN00473952Hes also given information about the exclusions relating to the goods in transit  section of the 
policy  and once  again, he isnt told that stock isnt included in the policy.  
So, all in all, Im satisfied  the information Mr L was given about  goods in transit cover wasnt  
clear and suggested B was covered for up to £5,000  of stock in Bs control,  subject to 
complying with other terms of the policy. 
I also think the documents B received after the call  including  the policy schedule and policy 
terms  didnt make the information about being covered for damage  to stock in transit  any 
clearer. 
Theres a property damage section in the policy which covers damage  to stock, materials 
and customer goods in prescribed circumstances. The insurance schedule does say cover  
for stock in Bs control isnt included under the property damage  section  of the policy.  But 
within the property  damage section of the policy theres also a sub-section  which  relates to 
damage to goods  in transit which is defined  as the time the property  is lifted  to the time it is 
unloaded at its destination And the schedule confirms that goods in transit  are covered 
under the policy.  
As mentioned above, the definition of property has been specifically amended by an 
endorsement made to the policy to include stock. So given what Mr L was told over the 
phone and the impression that gave, I dont think the documents make it any clearer  that B 
wasnt covered for stock  under  the goods in transit section of the policy.  
When deciding this issue, Ive taken into account all the comments made by Simply 
Business including what it says about  Mr L being told that goods in transit  would only be 
covered up to the limit in the insurance schedule. That schedule specifically says tools  are 
covered for up to £5,000.  But I dont  think thats  enough to make Mr L aware that stock  might 
not be included  - particularly as Mr L had been told that goods in transit  was covered up to 
£5,000. And for reasons set out above, I dont think it was made  clear  during the call that 
tools were covered but stock wasnt. 
Simply Business also says three  quotes had been generated for B when  it first sought to buy 
a policy  in 2016. It says the first quote  didnt include stock cover but the second did. But as 
Mr L wanted to be covered  for more than £25,000,  this level of cover couldnt be found. So a 
third quote  was generated which didnt include stock cover  and that was purchased in 
2016. But the business protection  insurance  policy B was sold in May 2017 superseded this 
policy. And that policy is different and contained an increased public liability  insurance  limit. 
It was also underwritten by a different insurance  provider. So given it was implied that stock  
in transit  was covered during the call in May 2017, and that the follow  up documents  didnt 
make things clearer, I dont think the quotes generated for B in 2016 has much bearing on 
what happened when  B bought the policy in 2017.
Simply Business also says that when reporting the stolen stock, he valued the losses  at 
around £10,000. It says if hed been  given the impression during the call in May 2017 that 
stock was covered  under  the goods in transit part of the policy up to the value of £5,000,  he 
shouldve realised that B would be underinsured and he wouldve requested a higher level of 
cover; the implication  being that he mustve known stock wasnt  covered. However, the fact 
Mr L didnt ask for a higher limit doesnt mean the policy wasnt  mis-sold  because at the time 
he mightve believed  the £5,000 was sufficient. 
Ref: DRN00473953Having considered everything, Im satisfied  that the policy was mis-sold. This had an impact 
on B because it reasonably believed it had purchased a policy which provided cover  for 
damage of stock in transit, when it hadnt. And when it came to make  a claim on that part of 
the policy, it was prevented from doing  so.
To put things right Simply  Business should  put itself in the position of the insurer, and 
discharge its obligations in accordance with the policys  remaining terms - including  but not 
limited to the excess and the policy limit of £5,000 - as if it was the insurer.  This should be on 
the basis that stock  was included in the goods  in transit  section of the policy.  
my final decision
I uphold Bs complaint. Xbridge Limited  trading as Simply Business should  put things right by 
doing what Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 May 2019.
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0047395