K820x#14complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Leagold Limited didnt  see through his pension transfer in 2015 
resulting in the premiums being refunded rather than being transferred to a new provider.
background
Mr B had four pension  plans, and in October  2014 engaged an advisor from Leagold to 
discuss consolidating them to one provider.  In December 2014  the advisor had received 
details of three, but not the defined contribution scheme relating to M a company where Mr 
B worked  for a short time. In January 2015 the Leagold advisor completed a fact find about 
Mr Bs financial circumstances and his attitude  to risk in order  to advise him whether to 
transfer. 
The Leagold  advisor emailed his report to Mr B in January  2015  explaining Ms pension  
scheme was being wound  up, so he wasnt  able to remain a deferred member.  He had three  
months from 15 January  1015 to transfer  his pension savings to another provider or his 
contributions would be refunded. After a discussion on 30 January 2015,  Mr B decided to 
transfer his pension with M to the provider  the advisor recommended and was told the 
transfer forms would be sent to him for completion. Mr B chased the advisor  by email on 19 
February 2015 and again  on 13 March 2015 as hed still not received the transfer  forms. 
Leagolds records show they were posted to Mr B on 19 March  2015, but he never received 
them, so the transfer didnt go ahead. 
In July 2015 the trustees of Ms pension scheme  wrote to Mr B to say his bank account had 
been credited  with just over £1,036 being  a refund  of his contributions. Mr B says he didnt 
receive that letter either and didnt notice the credit to his account as he had a lot going on at 
the time.
In 2019 Mr B wrote to M to ask about transferring his pension  and was told the scheme had 
been wound up and the funds had been  paid to him in June  2015  (actually  July).  So he 
complained to Leagold, as he thought  the advisor  should have done more  to check  hed 
received the forms  within the three-month window when the pension transfer needed to be 
completed. Leagold didnt  uphold the complaint. So Mr B complained  to this service. 
Our investigator looked into things, and accepted Mr Bs timeline of events. But he thought it 
was reasonable  for Leagold  to assume  Mr B had received the forms once he stopped 
chasing for them in March  2015. He was satisfied  the forms had been  sent,  even if Mr B 
didnt receive them.  And while it would have  been  better customer  service if Leagold had 
checked to see whether  Mr B had received the forms and still wanted to proceed with the 
transfer, he didnt  think they were  obliged to. Given Mr B was driving the transfer  and was 
aware of the timescale he was working to.
Mr B is still unhappy, He thinks the transfer didnt proceed because the advisor left Leagold 
at some point and didnt  properly  handover his work.  And he thinks  Leagold had a duty of 
care to him as their customer.  So its been passed  to me to make  a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  . Having done so, Im not going to uphold  
it, for broadly the same reason as the investigator.
Ref: DRN08880212Ive seen the switching report produced by the Leagold  advisor  and emailed to Mr B in 
January 2015,  which shows  that at the time the transfer value of his savings with M was just 
under £6,000. He also had three other  pension plans, with transfer  values of around 
£20,000, £14,000, and £3,000. I dont have notes  of exactly what was discussed  during the 
call on 30 January 2015, but it seems the advisor explained Ms pension fund was being  
wound up and he only had two options with his pension savings  to transfer them  to another  
provider or to receive a cash refund of his contributions. At the end of this call, Mr B decided  
to transfer his M pension  savings to the provider the advisor had recommended. He knew to 
make that happen he had to complete the transfer forms within a time limit. 
Mr B had completed a form in November 2014 to authorise the Leagold advisor to obtain 
information from his various pension providers  and produce the switching  report. But Im 
satisfied he was told he needed to complete different forms to authorise  Ms pension  
trustees to transfer his pension savings to the new provider. If he thought hed already 
authorised the transfer I think he would have queried why he needed to sign more forms, 
rather than chasing  Leagold for the forms in February and March  2015. And his chasing of 
Leagold suggests he knew there  was time pressure.  But then having still not received the 
forms or any confirmation the funds from M were  safely invested with the new provider, he 
took no action  for another four years, even though hed been  put on notice the scheme was 
being wound up. 
I agree  with the investigator it was reasonable for Leagold to assume Mr B had received  the 
forms as he stopped chasing for them. The deadline would, in theory, have expired in mid-
April 2015  quite  some time after Leagold  would reasonably have assumed he received 
them. Given  Mr B was still chasing  in March 2015  when the three months from January was 
due to expire, I think he knew there was a deadline.  And Im satisfied the forms were sent to 
the right address, as its the same one he gave to this service. 
Mr B was entitled to change his mind about transferring the M pension.  It seems he 
intended going ahead with the transfer  of the other three policies, and this one was relatively 
low in value, so he might  have preferred a cash refund instead. While it might have been 
good customer service if Leagold had contacted Mr B to check  hed received the forms but 
no longer wished to proceed,  I dont  think they were obliged to do that. I dont know  when the 
advisor left Leagold,  but I dont think its relevant to this complaint. The reason  the transfer 
didnt go ahead wasnt because  Mr B was unable to get hold of the Leagold advisor, but 
because he hadnt  completed the paperwork within the deadline. According  to his own 
timeline of events he didnt chase the forms after 13 March 2015.  
Mr B says he didnt notice an unexpected sum of over £1,000 being credited to his account 
in July 2015 as this coincided with the birth of his second child which had complications. I 
appreciate this must have been  a busy and stressful time for him and his family.  But Id still 
have expected him to check his bank statements as some point  during  that period, and 
perhaps the additional funds came in handy  at that time. But even if he had queried it at the 
time, its likely to have been too late as the transfer deadline had passed.
In summary,  Leagold gave Mr B the information he needed to make an informed  decision 
and told him hed need to complete the transfer  forms within  a short  timescale. Im satisfied 
the forms were sent to Mr B, even if he didnt  receive them. Whilst  Leagold could have 
checked a further time whether Mr B still wanted  to go ahead,  for whatever reason,  Mr B 
also chose not to pursue the transfer further. And he didnt question why it hadnt been 
completed until four years  after it could have taken place. I appreciate  the refund of 
Ref: DRN08880213contributions is less than the transfer  value,  but as he didnt complete the forms within  the 
timescale I cant hold Leagold responsible for this. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2020.
Sarah Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0888021