K821x#15complaint
Mr A has complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) provided poor service when he made 
enquiries and raised  a complaint over the administration of his motor policy.
background
Mr A had previously complained to UKI about his protected no claims discount,  which  UKI 
upheld and paid him £100.00 compensation. 
But Mr A said when  it was time for his renewal, his protected no claims discount  wasnt  
showing on his documentation  so he complained  again. Initially  UKI upheld it and offered 
him another  £100.00 compensation but as he had already been compensated for this 
previously, it then decided to reduce  that compensation  to £30.00.
At the same Mr A wanted to try to reduce his premium for the following year.  He said that 
although he went through several options with UKIs  adviser and agreed  the new quote, it 
never sent it to him. He said he remembered a figure of £43.00 per month was agreed. 
However, UKI said that was incorrect as what was agreed in the telephone conversation  was 
£45.79 per month.
Mr A was very unhappy  with this level of service  and complained. He also said UKI didnt call 
him when  it said it would. So he brought his complaint  to us. The adjudicator  ultimately 
upheld it and said UKI should  pay Mr A another £100.00 compensation. Mr A didnt  respond  
and UKI disagreed. Consequently, Mr As complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint on similar  grounds  to those of the adjudicator. Ill now explain why.
The adjudicator asked UKI a series of questions  for further information and further 
clarification of what had gone on. She asked  these several times but unfortunately, UKI 
didnt answer them  all. She also asked  Mr A to provide evidence that his documentation  
didnt show his protected no claims discount, but he wasnt able to do this.
Like the adjudicator,  I can see the documentation that was given to this service by both 
parties does show Mr As no claims discount  was protected. Therefore,  Im not upholding 
this part of Mr As complaint.
Ive also listened  to the call recordings and agree with UKI that there  was never  any mention 
of Mr As monthly premium payment  being  £43.00. It was to be £45.79.
The call recording also showed that UKI did promise to call Mr A back. Its not apparent this 
was done. And whilst UKI said its screen shot showed it had sent the revised renewal quote 
to Mr A, I agree with the adjudicator that its not very clear. 
So with this and the fact that UKI initially offered  Mr A £100.00  compensation and then 
reduced it to £30.00, I consider this caused Mr A unnecessary confusion  and mismanaged 
his expectations.  Theres also an issue regarding the online portal, which UKI, although 
asked by the adjudicator, never  addressed. Taking  all of these together,  I consider this 
Ref: DRN09348712complaint should  be otherwise be upheld and that UKI should pay Mr A an additional 
£100.00.
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint in part. 
I now require U K Insurance Limited to pay Mr A and further £100.00 compensation in 
addition to the £130.00 is has already paid.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 July 2019.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0934871