K820x#14complaint
Mrs L complains  about the decision of CIS General Insurance Limited to avoid her motor  
insurance policy from the date it started.
background
Mrs L has been represented by her partner in this complaint but for convenience Ill refer 
only to Mrs L below.
In around June 2017 Mrs L took out insurance  with CIS General Insurance Limited  (CIS) for 
a vehicle shed  leased for her business. 
In late 2018 she made  a claim  on the policy following an accident. But CIS refused to pay 
out and avoided the policy from the start on the basis it didnt cover vehicles registered to a 
business and leased for business use.
 
Mrs L had, by mistake, said she was the registered owner of the vehicle when shed applied 
for the insurance  on-line through another company. She felt it was unfair CIS refused to pay 
her claim and avoided the policy, even though  CIS reimbursed premiums  she paid. Her 
complaint to CIS wasnt  upheld so she brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator 
didnt think CIS had done anything wrong. Mrs L was unhappy with our investigators view so 
Ive reviewed everything afresh to come to a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When someone takes out motor insurance, generally speaking its their responsibility to 
answer the questions  on the application form correctly. And where the application is made 
by a private individual, as in Mrs Ls case,  its important to take into account the Consumer 
Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) when looking at complaints 
about insurance. Ive considered Mrs Ls complaint bearing both these things  in mind as well 
as relevant industry practice and guidelines.
 
Mrs Ls confirmed the vehicle she wanted  to insure  was bought  for business use and the 
registered owner was the company her business leased the vehicle from. 
Mrs L says she was in a hurry to get insurance  in place before the vehicle was delivered to 
her. Shes acknowledged there  were  disclaimers on the website she used that non-
disclosure could lead to insurance  being  avoided. But she argues the question about who 
the registered keeper was in the on-line application form she completed wasnt clear.  She 
didnt understand  what  registered keeper meant at the time she made the application and 
made a simple mistake  when she said she was the registered owner.  
Mrs L thinks its unfair CIS avoided the policy from the start and has suggested it would be 
fairer if CIS agreed to accept the difference between the premium  she paid originally and 
what the premium wouldve been had she given  the right information,  and confirm  cover is in 
place.
Ref: DRN09708072CIS has explained it doesnt cover vehicles that are registered to leasing companies. It says 
had it known who the registered  owner was when Mrs L applied  for insurance, it wouldnt 
have quoted or provided cover. 
Under CIDRA where  a consumer provides incorrect information in response to a question   
a misrepresentation  - an insurer can take action provided the misrepresentation is whats  
known as a qualifying misrepresentation. If the consumer takes reasonable care in 
providing information, it wont be a qualifying misrepresentation. So Ive thought about the 
circumstances surrounding  the misrepresentation Mrs L made and what Mrs Ls said. 
Ms Ls confirmed she and her partner  have owned vehicles in the past. I think  its likely shed 
have seen log books  (V5C) from the Driver and Vehicle Licensing  Agency (DVLA) for those 
other vehicles and understood what it means  to be the registered  owner  of a vehicle. Even if 
she didnt, and even  though she didnt  have the V5C for the vehicle in this complaint when 
she made the application for insurance, shes been able to check quite easily  since,  with the 
dealer who supplied the vehicle, who the registered owner was. Ms Ls said she was aware 
of disclaimers that non-disclosure could lead to the policy being avoided.  So Id expect her to 
have checked  who the registered  owner  was at the time she was making the application. 
Whilst I dont think  Mrs L deliberately failed to check  the information,  I dont think  she took 
reasonable care to do so. So I think CIS could  treat the misrepresentation as a qualifying 
misrepresentation under CIDRA  and avoid the policy  on that basis.
CIS has explained it relies  on the information  gathered via on-line applications being 
accurate to decide  if it will provide insurance; its explained it carries out some  checks to 
make sure applications arent fraudulent  but it doesnt routinely check who the registered 
owner is as Mrs Ls suggested it should have done.  In the circumstances of this case, I think 
it was reasonable  for CIS to think Mrs L had provided accurate information and base its 
decision to insure  the vehicle  on the information  in the application form.
CIS has refunded  the premiums to Mrs L since her misrepresentation was by mistake,  not 
deliberate. This is line with CIDRA and, I think,  fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
Bearing everything in mind I think CIS has treated Mrs L fairly  and reasonably  and I dont 
uphold her complaint.
 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ls complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 October  2019.
Julia Wilkinson
Ref: DRN09708073ombudsman
Ref: DRN0970807