K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L took out a number of packaged  bank accounts (PBAs) with The Royal  Bank of 
Scotland Plc (RBS) from 1998 to 2019  and they say they were  mis-sold.
background
Mr and Mrs L took out the following  joint accounts  with RBS:
Account Date of sale Fee paid?
Current July 1993 No
Royalties August 1998 Yes
Select Silver January 2012 Yes
Select Platinum October 2103 Yes
Reward February 2019 Yes
Mr and Mrs L say that they were  advised to take out the first three PBAs but they have not 
benefitted from them. They say they were coerced into taking them  to keep their overdraft. 
Mr and Mrs L are clear  that they do not have a complaint about the sale of the Reward 
account in 2019.
Our adjudicator didnt  think that RBS mis-sold the first three PBA accounts. Mr and Mrs L 
disagree so the case has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr and Mrs Ls complaint.
were Mr and Mrs L given  a choice whether to take out their PBAs and did they choose to do 
so?
I think its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs L were aware that bank accounts with 
overdraft facilities both with and without fees were available from RBS and other banks and 
financial institutions. I say this because such accounts were  widely  advertised in a very 
competitive market. So if RBS had told Mr and Mrs L that they had to have a fee paying 
account to keep their overdraft at any time,  I think  they would have queried this and looked  
into alternative products  that were easily available. In addition,  Mr and Mrs L had a fee free 
bank account  with overdraft facilities with RBS before they took out their Royalties account in 
1998. And they had increased their overdraft limit twice in the months before the sale initially 
to £250 and then to £500.
So I think they knew they had a choice  whether  to pay a fee for the Royalties account or not 
they chose to take it out. 
Mr and Mrs L were  moved by RBS from the Royalties account to the Select Silver Account in 
2012 as it was closing the Royalties account product. Ive seen evidence  that NatWest  sent 
Mr and Mrs L notification of this. And whilst I accept its possible something  went  wrong with 
the correspondence, NatWest had their correct address at the time and I think  Mr and Mrs L 
wouldve noticed the change in the account type and charges  and couldve queried  it if 
Ref: DRN01648272theyd received no information about it. So I think its more likely  than not they were made 
aware of the migration  to the Select Silver account at the time. 
Mr and Mrs L themselves upgraded to a Select Platinum account in 2013.
In both the migration and the upgrade I think Mr and Mrs L knew they had a choice whether 
to take out the accounts or not and chose to do so for the same reasons Ive given above  for 
the Royalties account.
did RBS do what it should have done  when  it sold the PBAs to Mr and Mrs L or have they lost 
out as a result of anything RBS did wrong?
RBS says that these  were  non-advised sales, by which it means that it didnt recommend the 
PBAs to Mr and Mrs L personally  or advise  them  to take the PBAs out. Mr and Mrs L say that 
RBS did advise them to take out the PBAs. 
I dont know what was said during the sales, but Ive not seen anything such as any records of 
discussions about Mr and Mrs Ls needs and circumstances or suitability checks  to show me 
clearly that RBS did make personal  recommendations  to them.  I accept its possible that in 
providing information to Mr and Mrs L and explaining the benefits of the PBAs, RBS may have 
said or implied that it was good idea to take out the PBAs. But this isnt the same as giving  
personal recommendations. And based on this services knowledge of RBSs sales  practices 
throughout this period, I think its more likely than not that RBS sold the PBAs to Mr and Mrs L 
on an information only basis.  
This means  RBS did not have to ensure that the PBAs were suitable for Mr and Mrs L, but it 
did have to provide  Mr and Mrs L with good enough information about the PBAs so they could 
make an informed decision about whether to have them or not.
And I think it did. I say this because RBS was trying to sell the accounts to Mr and Mrs L so I 
think it would  have  described each of the accounts extensively to them. Mr and Mrs L have 
said that they were  aware they were  being  charged  for the accounts; they used the preferential  
overdraft facilities on offer from the time of the first PBA and throughout the others. And RBS 
has provided evidence  of the information  packs it sent to Mr and Mrs L describing the PBAs.
Mr and Mrs L complain that they havent used many of the benefits.  I can see nothing in their 
personal circumstances throughout that would  have stopped them using the PBAs benefits. 
And it was for them to decide what they wanted to use and take the steps needed to register  
for or take up the products and services  available.
So, in my view Mr and Mrs L knew they had a choice about the PBAs  and they chose to take 
them out. And I dont  think there is anything RBS didnt tell them that would have changed 
their minds  and put them off taking out the PBAs.
my final decision
So my decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint.
Ref: DRN01648273Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 July 2020.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0164827