K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 2004, alongside  a further  mortgage  advance. Mr W says The Co-operative  Bank  Plc 
(Co-op) mis-sold him the PPI. 
Co-op was trading as Britannia Building Society at the time. To keep things simple, Ive 
referred to Co-op  as the lender throughout my decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mr W took out a mortgage with Co-op  in 1986. This PPI policy  wasnt  added until 2004, 
when he took out a further mortgage  advance.  Mr W says he wasnt  given  enough 
information to make a choice about  PPI and that he was led to believe he wouldnt be able to 
borrow more, unless  he took PPI. He said he didnt  need PPI.
Its not possible for me to know exactly what was discussed at the time. Where theres a 
disagreement, I have  to take into account  everything available  to me to determine what I 
think is most likely  to have happened  in the circumstances.  
Co-op has given  me a number of documents from the time of the sale. Ive seen the 
separate application Mr W completed  to apply for PPI. It was clear that Mr W didnt have to 
have PPI. The level of cover he took out was more  than his mortgage repayments.  Based on 
the limited information  available,  I havent enough to fairly conclude  that Co-op  didnt tell 
Mr W PPI was optional and he didnt  freely choose  to take out the cover.   I think it likely that 
he had enough  information to decide if he wanted it. I think  he wouldve understood he didnt 
have to have PPI to borrow  the extra money.  I say this because hed had his Co-op  
mortgage for some time and had taken out further advances, without PPI.
I dont know if Co-op  recommended the PPI to Mr W. If it did it had to check that the PPI was 
right for him   based on what  Ive seen of Mr Ws circumstances at the time, I think  that it 
was. He appeared eligible  to take out the policy. I can see that he by any of the exclusions to 
or limits on the PPI cover.  He said he wouldve got some sick pay through  work and had 
some savings. The policy couldve  covered him for up to 12 months per claim if he was too ill 
to work, had an accident or was made redundant. And that wouldve been on top of his sick 
pay. 
I cant see that his other resources made  the policy unsuitable. I think  it likely that the 
savings Mr W said he had were earmarked for another purpose.  I say this because  it said on 
his mortgage advance application that he wanted  to raise capital.
Its possible the information Co-op gave  Mr W about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems  
like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  like it was 
Ref: DRN07923962affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put Mr W off taking 
out the cover. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 March 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0792396