K820x#14complaint
Miss W says Casheuronet UK LLC (trading as Quick Quid) irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about a payday loans, for £350,  Quick Quid provided  to Miss W in 2011. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Miss Ws complaint as they didnt think Miss W had been  
treated unfairly.  Miss W disagreed and asked for an ombudsman review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Quick Quid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out reasonable checks  to understand whether 
Miss W could repay her loan in a sustainable manner. These  checks  could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment  amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of 
how much  information  it gathers and what it does to verify that information  in the early  
stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, the consumers income  was low or 
the amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the 
risk of it becoming unsustainable  and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed 
expect a lender  to be able to show that it hasnt continued to provide these loans to a 
customer irresponsibly. 
Quick Quid says it agreed to Miss Ws application after she provided details of her monthly 
income. And this didnt  suggest that Miss W wouldnt be able to make the repayment she 
was committing to. And in these  circumstances it wasnt irresponsible  to lend. 
The first thing for me to say is that the information provided does suggest that Miss W was 
asked to provide  details  of her monthly  income.  I accept that Miss Ws actual circumstances 
werent reflected  either in the information he provided, or the other  information  Quick  Quid 
obtained. And Miss Ws actual financial position might well have been  apparent  if further 
information  such as bank statements or detailed credit checks   had been obtained. 
But Quick  Quid could  only make  its decision based  on the information it had available  at the 
time. And as it was in the early stages of a lending relationship with Miss W  in terms of 
only providing her with a single loan, I dont think it had reached the stage where  there was a 
greater risk of the loan being unsustainable  for  Miss W. In these circumstances, I dont think  
Quick Quid needed  to take further  steps to verify  the information provided. 
Ref: DRN04525312Equally Im only able to uphold a complaint where  I can safely say that a lender has done  
something wrong. And, in this case, I think that Quick Quid carried  out reasonable checks 
even though its look like the information it mightve been provided wasnt reflective of      
Miss Ws actual  financial  position.  
Quick Quid relied on the information it was provided  with and given the amount of the 
repayments involved, together with Miss Ws declared income and Miss W only being 
provided with one loan, I think that this wasnt unreasonable. As this is the case, Im not 
upholding Miss Ws complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Miss W. But I 
hope that shell at least feel her concerns  have  been  listened  to.
my final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Miss Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 July 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0452531