K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage which, until recently Miss M and Mr H held with HSBC  
UK Bank Plc. Theyre unhappy  at having to pay an early repayment charge (ERC) when they 
sold their property and redeemed the mortgage, whilst taking a new HSBC mortgage  to fund 
their new purchase.
background
In what follows, I have  summarised events in rather  less detail than theyve been presented, 
using my own words to do so, and rounding the numbers  involved. No discourtesys 
intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I dont  mention  
something, it wont be because Ive ignored  it. Itll be because I didnt think  it was material to 
the outcome of the complaint. 
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows  me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which, although presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral.  Another reason 
I have left out a lot of the detail is to avoid the risk of identifying Miss M and Mr H when my 
decision is published. 
Miss M and Mr H already  had an HSBC mortgage,  and wanted to move house. They put 
their home on the market  in spring  2017. The existing mortgage  was on a fixed rate until 
31 December 2020 and subject to an ERC if they repaid it during the fixed  period. As is the 
norm these days, the terms  of the mortgage included  a provision to port (that is, carry over 
to a new mortgage, assuming it was approved) the rate from the existing mortgage  and 
avoid paying the ERC.  If the port is partial (i.e. if the new mortgage  is for a lesser  amount 
than the existing one) then a pro rata ERC is payable on the difference  between the old 
balance and the new balance.
Miss M and Mr H repaid  the mortgage and took out a new one in 2018. As this was within  
the fixed rate period, an ERC of around £1,650  was payable.  However,  Miss M and Mr H 
expected this to be refunded because theyd taken  their new mortgage  with HSBC  as well. 
However, HSBC told them they werent  eligible for the refund because theyd taken the new 
mortgage on a different  fixed  rate product rather than port the existing one.
Our investigator didnt  think HSBC  had done  anything wrong.  Miss M and Mr H have  asked 
for their complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ill start with some  general  observations. Were  not the regulator  of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal  processes  or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct  Authority. We deal with individual  disputes between businesses  and their 
customers. In doing  that, we dont replicate the work  of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either  sides instructions on how we investigate  a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations  and reach our conclusions  without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have  to work  within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules  give us
Ref: DRN08895452Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive some disappointing 
news for Miss M and Mr H, as Ive come to broadly  the same conclusions  as the investigator 
and for much the same overall reasons.
The complaint is simpler  than its been made to look.  Miss M and Mr H have focussed on the 
notes in the redemption statement their solicitor  received. The thing is, the redemption  
statement isnt part of the underlying contract; its merely information for the conveyancing 
solicitor. The underlying contract was the mortgage  agreement from 2010. 
The starting point  is that, under the terms of the 2010 contract between Miss M and Mr H 
and HSBC, the ERC was payable on redemption of the mortgage before 31 December 2020.
The provisions for the ERC to be refunded in certain circumstances was also set out in the 
2010 mortgage offer; the relevant passage said
If you move  house and buy another house during the fixed rate period and we are 
satisfied with your credit  history, that you can afford  a new mortgage and that the 
property offered as security is acceptable  to us, we will lend you up to the balance  of 
your existing mortgage on a new mortgage at the same  fixed  rate for the 
remainder of the fixed rate period. 
The bold italics  are mine, and what they mean is that for an ERC to be refunded,  the 
customer has to be porting the rate from the existing mortgage to the new one. The problem 
for Miss M and Mr Hs ERC was that they hadnt  applied to port the same fixed rate from the 
existing mortgage  to the new one. Theyd  taken  a different fixed rate altogether  for the new 
mortgage. That was their choice, and not one over which HSBC had any input  or control.  
Miss M and Mr H had submitted their new application without taking any advice from HSBC 
(or from anyone else for that matter). 
Miss M and Mr H say they were told on the phone that theyd get their ERC  back  if they took 
a new mortgage  with HSBC. HSBC has provided recordings of several calls;  none of them 
include a passage in which  the ERC and the terms of any possible refund are discussed.  
But even if I accepted on face value  that another call took place during which HSBC said 
what its reported to have said, whether that constituted wrong information or not would beg 
the question of whether Miss M and Mr H made  it clear they werent porting their existing 
rate but were  taking a different one instead.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint. My final 
decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be 
engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M and Mr H 
to accept or reject my decision before 11 January  2020.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0889545