K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Clydesdale Financial  Services Limited (trading as Barclays Partner  
Finance) was irresponsible  when it agreed to lend him money.
background
In 2014, Mr S took out a fixed sum loan agreement with Barclays Partner Finance (BPF) to 
fund some work he had in his house. The loan was arranged through a credit intermediary. 
The loan was for £8,400  over 10 years with a monthly repayment  of around £109.
Mr S complains that BPF didnt carry out enough affordability checks. He explains that his 
disposable income wasnt high enough  and he is elderly, so it wasnt responsible  for BPF to 
lend him this money. 
BPF explained that it took into account the income  that Mr S declared on his credit  
application and ran through credit checks to ensure  that the amount was affordable.  It 
explained that Mr Ss circumstances passed  its automatic underwriting criteria. It did also 
say that it would carry out a retrospective  affordability check  if Mr S could prove  that his 
income wasnt what was declared  on his application.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He explained that BPF did enough to check  
whether the loan was affordable for Mr S. He also explained that his age isnt a reason to 
decline lending. He felt it was fair that BPF offered to carry out a retrospective affordability  
check  this was something that Mr S asked for it to do.
Following receipt of Mr Ss statements,  BPF said it considered his income but that it couldnt 
do the full check  as there were account credits  that werent explained  on the statements, so 
it couldnt take into account all of the income.  But from what it could see, it still believed  the 
lending to have  been affordable and responsible. As Mr S disagreed, the complaint has been 
passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint and Ill explain why.
I can see that Mr S took out this loan through  a credit intermediary  the company that was 
providing the goods and services that the loan was paying for. So it was the responsibility  of 
this intermediary to ensure it submitted accurate  information to BPF.
When the loan was applied for, BPF checked  how much Mr Ss income was, and it ran a 
credit check  to look at Mr Ss existing credit  agreements  and credit  history.  Based on this 
information, it agreed to lend to Mr S. We expect lenders to carry out proportionate checks  to 
determine affordability. But there arent set checks it needs to carry out. As I can see BPF 
checked Mr Ss credit  commitments  against the income he declared, I think it has done 
enough in the circumstances to determine  whether this loan was affordable for Mr S.
I do understand that Mr S has provided  statements  which  show  that he did have  other 
outgoings, but BPF has considered the affordability in line with the statements and has 
explained this would  still pass its underwriting criteria. And considering the regular payments 
Ref: DRN02213212Mr S receives into his account,  he does appear  to have  the disposable income to afford his 
repayments. I also note that he hasnt missed  any repayments to this loan, so I dont think 
theres anything to suggest,  at this stage, that BPF shouldnt  have agreed to lend to Mr S.
If Mr Ss circumstances have changed  since the point  of sale,  and he feels that he can no 
longer afford this loan then he should  contact BPF directly about this as they may be able to 
help.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 August 2019.
Charlotte Wilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0221321