K820x#14complaint
Mr A is unhappy Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe)  Limited  (Red Sands) has 
declined a claim he made on his pet insurance policy.
background
Mr A took out pet insurance for his dog in January 2018. His dog, E, was taken to the vet in
December 2018  with ear issues  which required surgery.  Mr A contacted Red Sands  after the
surgery and made a claim for the veterinary costs.
Red Sands  declined the claim. It said it had looked  at Es clinical  history, which showed ear
problems had been diagnosed previously.  It thought the conditions E was suffering from
were a result of pre-existing issues. And it explained  it wouldnt cover  any claim or costs
relating to a pre-existing  condition  from before the policy started. Red Sands also said,  had it
been aware of the clinical signs E had shown at the inception  of the policy,  it wouldve added
the relevant exclusions. These  wouldve been for ear, skin and allergy conditions  meaning
Mr As claim wouldnt have been covered.
Mr A brought his complaint to our service  and an investigator thought about what had
happened. He partially upheld the complaint. He said there  were  two separate  issues Mr A
had claimed for. One was a lesion  on Es ear, which he said Red Sands  hadnt fairly
declined. But he didnt think Red Sands needed  to do anything  more. This was because  he
was satisfied Mr A hadnt suffered a financial loss due to his policy  excess being higher than
the cost of the treatment.
The other issue was an aural haematoma, which he thought Red Sands reasonably
declined. The investigator said the haematoma was often related to issues  that E had been
treated for previously.  He asked for further  evidence from the treating vet, but Mr A couldnt
provide any. So, in the absence of anything further,  he couldnt agree the haematoma wasnt
related to previous issues, and he didnt ask Red Sands to do anything  more.
Mr A didnt agree, and in summary, he said:
its unlikely an ear infection diagnosed some years previously is causing the condition 
(the haematoma) hes claimed for;
previous issues are all related to in-ear conditions, hes claimed for a condition  on Es 
ear; and
hes unable to provide further evidence from the treating  vet because he no longer 
uses that veterinary  practice.
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint was referred for an ombudsmans final 
decision.
I issued a provisional decision saying I didnt intend  to uphold the complaint. I said:
The investigator said the claim for the lesion on Es ear wasnt  correctly  declined. 
But he said Red Sands  didnt need  to do anything more, because Mr A hadnt 
suffered a financial loss. And having thought about  this point, Ive reached  the same  
conclusion. The cost of treatment for the lesion was around £80 and Mr As policy  
excess was £99. So Im satisfied Mr A didnt  suffer  a financial loss for the treatment 
of Es lesion. As such, Ive not considered this aspect of Mr As complaint  any further.
Ref: DRN01580442When deciding this complaint, Ive thought about  whether Red Sands acted fairly 
when it declined Mr As claim for Es haematoma. First Ive looked at Mr As policy, 
and Ive seen  it excludes pre-existing medical conditions.  Specifically, it says:
Pre-existing condition  means:
any condition, symptom or sign of a condition occurring or existing in any form 
and at any time prior to the commencement  date
And given  what Red Sands has said about applying exclusions had it known about 
Es clinical history, Ive also considered  what the relevant law, the Consumer 
Insurance (Disclosure and Representation) Act 2012  (CIDRA) says. CIDRA  makes 
clear that insurers need to ask clear questions, and consumers have a responsibility 
to take reasonable care when answering.  This is so consumers take care not to 
make a qualifying misrepresentation when buying  an insurance policy.  A qualifying  
misrepresentation can be either deliberate  or reckless, or careless.
Ive looked at how Mr As policy was sold,  and I can see that he bought it using  a 
price comparison  website.  Ive been provided with screenshots which  show the 
questions Mr A would  have been  asked,  and one asks Mr A if E is ill or does 
he/she have any existing medical  conditions?. Ive also noted Mr As policy  
schedule, which outlines the basis on which Red Sands would offer cover,  asked him 
if hed ever taken E to the vet for anything other  than routine vaccinations? . I 
think both questions are clear enough  for Mr A to know hed need to think about Es 
clinical history when  answering.
Ive looked at the clinical notes for E. And Ive noted he had suffered from recurrent 
ear; skin and allergy problems previously. The vets clinical notes do mention several 
problems E has been treated for. Multiple ear and skin conditions  seem to have  been  
treated from 2015. These include inflammation,  head-shaking,  and different ear 
issues. So, on balance, I think if Mr A had been  taking reasonable care when 
answering the questions, he would have provided details of these treatments. But I 
cant see that he did.
For these reasons, regardless of whether the haematoma  was linked to a pre-
existing condition or not, I think  theres  a qualifying  misrepresentation under CIDRA 
due to a lack of reasonable  care. And on that basis, I think Red Sands is entitled  to 
do what it would have  done if Mr A had taken  reasonable  care.  Had it known about 
Es ear issues, Red Sands has said it would have applied the relevant exclusions to 
Mr As policy. And Red Sands has provided  me with evidence of its underwriting 
criteria which satisfies me thats the case.  So Im persuaded that Red Sands has 
acted fairly  in declining Mr As claim.
Mr A clearly  feels  strongly  about  this matter. Hes said the claim was made for an 
issue on Es ear, rather than in the ear, like the other  conditions  which  had been  
treated. But as Ive said above, Im satisfied theres  a qualifying misrepresentation. 
And from what Red Sands has said and provided, Im satisfied that it wouldve 
excluded all claims for the ears had it known about Es clinical  history.
So, while I appreciate this is disappointing  news for Mr A, I dont intend to require 
Red Sands  to do anything more.
Ref: DRN01580443Red Sands  said it accepted my findings. Mr A disagreed with what Id said and raised some 
further points  in response. He said, in summary, that:
insurers make questions  and clauses open  as a way of avoiding claims;
he feels let down  as a paying  customer; and
before  he made the claim, he called Red Sands for guidance  but he wasnt given 
any support around important information. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments already sent to us, in addition to 
any new points raised, to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
Mr A has mentioned the terms  pre-existing and ill or existing medical condition. He thinks  
leaving these phrases open  to interpretation  is a ploy for insurers to avoid supporting claims. 
I think, however,  that Mr A was asked clear questions when he took out the policy, and again  
in his policy schedule.  Specifically, he was asked if E had any existing medical conditions or 
been to a vet for anything other than routine vaccinations. Es clinical  history shows ongoing  
issues with the ears, skin and allergies, and because  Mr A wouldve been  aware  of this when 
he bought the policy, I think he should  have thought to provide this information.  
Mr A said he feels let down. Hes a paying  customer and thinks  Red Sands shouldve paid 
his claim.  However,  its up to Red Sands  to decide  how to settle a claim based  on the policy  
terms. What Im deciding here is whether Red Sands has acted fairly,  and because  I think  
Mr A shouldve taken reasonable care when he bought  the policy,  Im satisfied  it has.  
Mr A said he called Red Sands customer helpline before  proceeding with his claim, but he 
wasnt given any guidance  or advice on pre-existing conditions. I dont think its likely that 
Red Sands  wouldve thoroughly investigated the claim details at that point, or been able to 
provide detailed advice, given Mr A hadnt  yet submitted a claim. Insurers  are entitled to rely 
on what a customer says in response to the questions asked when the policy  is taken out. 
Its also entitled to investigate matters when a claim is made if it wants to do so, and thats 
what Red Sands did in this case.
Overall, I still think theres a qualifying mis-representation under CIDRA due to a lack of 
reasonable care. And if Mr A had provided details of Es clinical  history when he bought the 
policy, Im satisfied exclusions  wouldve been  added which meant  any claims for Es ears 
wouldnt have been covered. So it follows that I think Red Sands has dealt with Mr As claim 
fairly. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont uphold Mr As complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 July 2020.
Simon Louth
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0158044