K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mrs Q says Bank of Scotland  plc, trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Qs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Halifax has provided me with a copy of the credit  card application form completed at the 
time. I think its likely  the selection of PPI on the form was computerised  but I think its more 
likely than not that this was added following a discussion. Mrs Q has signed  the form which 
indicates she wanted the cover and agreed to it. As Mrs Q was taking out further credit, if 
she didnt want the PPI I would have expected her to raise this before she signed  the 
application.  
So having  taken everything into account,  I think Halifax  made  it clear  that Mrs Q didnt have 
to take out the PPI and she chose  to take it out  although I can understand why she cant  
remember this now many years later. 
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mrs Q so it had to check that the PPI was right for her  
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions  from or limits  to the PPI cover and she 
seems to have had a need for the cover. I say that because Mrs Qs told us she was only 
entitled to statutory sick pay and that she had no other means she could have relied on, 
such that she may have  had to rely on her family  for support. The PPI could have paid out 
for up to 12 months, in the event  that Mrs Q was too ill to work, or if she lost her job. So, as 
this could have  paid out in addition to any sick pay Mrs Q may have been entitled to and as 
this would have  reduced her reliance on any support her family may have been  able to 
provide, I think Mrs Q would have found the policy useful. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs Q about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks  like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful  for her if something went  wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the PPI would have put 
her off taking  out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mrs Q has said but these points dont change my decision.
I have looked  at all of the information available to me and for the same reasons as given  by 
the adjudicator,  and set out above,  I do not think the policy was mis-sold. So Bank  of 
Scotland plc doesnt need to refund  everything Mrs Q paid for it. 
But Bank of Scotland plc has already offered to give Mrs Q back some of the cost of the PPI. 
I dont think it needs to do anything more. 
Bank of Scotland plc will make arrangements to pay Mrs Q now Ive issued my final decision. 
Ref: DRN03015372my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint and make no award  against Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs Q to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 February  2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0301537