K822xcomplaint
Mr B complains about a loan he had with Clydesdale Financial Services  Limited,  trading  as 
Barclays Partner Finance  (BPF). He says the loan should have been settled in full in 2017, 
but it wasnt  and hes had to pay more  in interest as a result.
background 
Mr B had three loans  with BPF. He took out the first one in April 2016 to pay for a kitchen. 
No payments needed to be made  to the loan for the first 12 months. If the loan were  repaid 
in full within that initial 12-month period, Mr B wouldnt have to pay any interest.
The second  and third loans were for mobile phones.  Mr B took them out in June 2017 and 
April 2018. The loan which started in June 2017  was settled in full later the same month. 
In May 2018, Mr B got in touch with BPF to query his loans  with it. He thought hed paid off 
the first and largest  loan for the kitchen in 2017.  He said his bank manager had been helping 
him with his finances at the time, and something  must have gone wrong. He asked BPF to 
trace the missing  payment  and reimburse  him the interest he felt he shouldnt  have had to 
pay. He also made  a lump-sum payment to settle the loan.
BPF said Mr B had phoned it in June 2017  and settled the much  smaller loan hed taken out 
to buy a phone earlier the same month. But it said it had no record  of a payment to settle the 
loan for the kitchen  until May 2018.  It didnt think it had done anything  wrong.
Our investigator concluded that BPF hadnt  made any mistakes with the loan payments. She 
said Mr B could take the matter up with his bank  if he thought  it hadnt  followed his 
instructions. She sent Mr B recordings of his phone calls to BPF in June  2017,  when he 
settled the loan for the phone, and in May 2018, when he settled the loan for the kitchen.
Mr B had also said he hadnt received a response to the request hed made to BPF for the 
information it holds  about him, and it hadnt called him back  as promised. The investigator 
recommended BPF pay Mr B £200  by way of compensation. BPF agreed with that. It also 
said it would  send Mr B the information he was entitled to, and it was sorry for any 
shortcomings in its service.
Mr B still thought something  had gone wrong.  He said the call recordings BPF had provided  
were incomplete, and he had specifically asked  to settle the loan for the kitchen in 2017. He 
also said hed had a different model of phone  from the one BPF said hed taken the 2017 
loan for.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
overall conclusions  as the investigator  did, for much the same  reasons.
I can certainly see why Mr B might  have wanted  to settle the loan for the kitchen in 2017.  
That was by far the largest loan he had with BPF, and the sooner he settled it the less 
interest he would  have had to pay. However,  I can find nothing in BPFs  records to indicate 
that he  or anyone  acting on his behalf  paid that loan or asked BPF about  settling it until 
May 2018.
Ref: DRN01800692I have looked  very carefully at BPFs records of all three loans. I have also listened to the 
call recordings  BPF has provided. Im not persuaded that the recordings are incomplete.  
They start at the point  when Mr B got through to members of BPFs staff, and there are no 
gaps in the dialogue that lead me to conclude anything substantive  is missing.
There was no mention in the June 2017 call of the purpose of the loan Mr B was settling. But 
its clear from what was said that Mr B had gone  through BPFs automated system before 
speaking to a staff member. In doing  that, I think it most likely that he provided the account 
number of the loan he ended up settling   which was for the mobile phone. I take that view 
because those are the loan details discussed  during the call.
Mr B paid £669 to settle the loan in June 2017. He would have needed to pay more than 
£8,500 to settle the loan for the kitchen.  Thats a significantly higher amount. I accept Mr B 
wouldnt have known  exactly  how much  hed need  to pay, but I think  he might  reasonably  
have realised the payment he made  wasnt enough to clear  the much larger  loan. And BPF 
told him it would  send a letter confirming the settlement.
When Mr B queried the matter in May 2018,  BPF asked  him to check with his bank that 
payment for the kitchen loan had been made and send it proof of payment  so it could trace  
any missing payment. It didnt receive  anything to show the payment had been  made.  I find 
nothing in the available evidence which leads me to conclude the payment  was made in 
2017 and not credited to the loan. I dont think the model of phone  Mr B bought has any 
bearing on that.
In all the circumstances, I find no basis on which I might fairly require BPF to refund any 
interest or pay Mr B any compensation  because the loan for the kitchen wasnt settled in 
2017.
As the investigator  explained, Mr B can take the matter up with his bank if he wishes, if he 
thinks it didnt follow his instructions. Thats not a matter for BPF. However,  I agree  with the 
investigator that BPFs service could have been  better. I think  this caused  Mr B some  
unnecessary worry and inconvenience. I consider £200 a fair award  to reflect  that.
my final decision
My final decision is that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as Barclays Partner  
Finance, should  pay Mr B £200 compensation if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 February  2019.
Janet Millington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0180069