K820x#14complaint
Mr H says Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr H was sold the policy when he took out a loan in 1999. The cost of the PPI got added 
onto the loan as an upfront cost. This is called a single premium policy.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Hs case.
Having done that, I dont  think  Mr Hs PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Lloyds dont have  the original documents  from Mr Hs sale, which  is understandable given 
just how long ago it was, and given that the account  has long since  closed. But they have 
been able to give us sample copies of the documents that wouldve been  used in Mr Hs 
sale. From  what  I can see of Lloyds sales process  at the time,  the PPI wouldve been 
described as optional, and its cost wouldve  been  set out as separate  to the cost of the loan 
itself, rather than as something  that was necessarily included. Then  Mr H wouldve been 
given the choice to take PPI or turn it down  in order to get the policy, it looks  like he 
wouldve had to actively choose it. And Ive not seen anything that shows  Lloyd departed 
from their normal  sales  process here.  So I think its most likely that Lloyds made  Mr H aware 
he had a choice  about buying the PPI, and that he chose to take it out at the time  though  
I can understand if he no longer remembers doing  so after so long.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr H, so they had to check  it was right for him. And based 
on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think  it was. For example, Mr H doesnt 
seem to have been affected by any of the policys main exclusions or limitations. And while  
I understand he wouldve had some  benefits through work,  the PPI wouldve covered him for 
much longer  and paid out on top of those benefits.  So the policy  couldve  been useful for 
Mr H in case something went  wrong.
Mr H wouldve got back only a limited  refund of the PPI premium if he cancelled the policy  
early. But I havent  seen anything to suggest he thought hed repay the loan early   for 
instance, he didnt  have a history of refinancing loans early, and the loan was for a relatively 
short term. So I think the policy was still probably  right for him, and I dont think better 
information about the cancellation terms wouldve stopped him buying it.
Ref: DRN04884322Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr H about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. The question, then,  is whether I think better information was likely to have changed  his 
mind. But as I explained above,  Mr H wasnt affected by any of the main limitations on the 
PPI, and it couldve been useful for him in case he fell on difficult times. It looks like the 
policy was affordable for him, and given how long the PPI could have paid out for, if Mr H 
made a successful claim he couldve got back quite a bit more  than he paid for it. So I dont 
think that better information was likely to have put him off taking out the cover.
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0488432