K820x#14complaint
Mr K and Mrs K complain  that HSBC UK Bank  Plc closed their foreign currency account  
(FCA) and transferred their Dollars (USD)  to Sterling (GBP) against  their instructions. 
Mr K and Mrs K also complain they werent  contacted by their relationship  manager  about 
what was happening and that the options they were given by HSBC  werent  reasonable as 
they live abroad.  
background
Mr K and Mrs K had a FCA with HSBC with around $810,525 in it. In November 2017 HSBC  
wrote to its FCA customers and said it had decided to close that type of account. HSBC 
gave a range of options for customers to retain their funds in the currency  they were  held in. 
One of those was that they could  apply for a new currency account. 
HSBCs letter said that if it didnt receive  instructions from Mr K and Mrs K their funds would 
be converted to GBP  and paid into their joint account. HSBCs letter was sent to Mr K and 
Mrs K.
Ms K is the daughter  of Mr K and Mrs K and held a third party  mandate to operate  the FCA. 
Mr K and Mrs K live abroad and have  explained  that they were on an extended trip away  
from home due to a funeral when HSBC  wrote to them in November 2017. As a result, they 
say there  was only a limited amount  of time to act when they saw their FCA would close  on 
25 January 2018.  
Mr K and Mrs K wrote to HSBC on 24 December 2017 asking to open a new FCA account. 
But HSBC  hasnt got a record of receiving  that letter. Mr K and Mrs Ks daughter, Ms K, took 
a copy of the letter to HSBCs Oxford branch. She was told a new account couldnt  be 
opened for her parents  on the basis of the letter  she had with her. Ms K then sent the letter 
on to HSBC in London.  
No new FCA was opened for Mr K and Mrs K. That meant HSBC converted their USD to 
GBP and paid the funds  into their joint account  on 25 January 2018.  
Mr K and Mrs K complained and HSBC responded on 22 May 2018. HSBC said that it didnt 
receive any instructions  from Mr K and Mrs K regarding their FCA account so closed it in line 
with its November 2017 letter. HSBC also said that at the time,  Mr K and Mrs K wouldnt 
have been able to open a different currency account because they dont live in the UK. 
HSBC added that its relationship managers  didnt call every  customer affected  by the 
change and it took the step of writing  to them instead. 
Mr K and Mrs K asked our service to investigate what  happened  and their complaint was 
passed to an investigator.  The investigator  thought HSBC had dealt with their complaint 
fairly so didnt tell it to take any further action. Mr K and Mrs K are represented by their son, 
Mr K2, in bringing the complaint. In response to the investigator Mr K2 said:  
-Mr K and Mrs K dont live near a HSBC branch
-Mr K had attempted to answer security questions when he called HSBC  telephone 
banking but because of poor reception or a failure to understand him the account  
was locked. No follow up call from HSBCs fraud team was received
Ref: DRN07582162-It wasnt fair for HSBC  to close the FCA without  any contact from Mr K and Mrs Ks 
relationship manager
-Mr K and Mrs K had responded to HSBC in time and asked  to open a new currency 
account
-The option to open a new currency account wasnt actually available  to Mr K and 
Mrs K because at the time account holders  had to be UK residents
-If Mr K and Mrs Ks request to open a new currency account was declined  theyd 
have transferred the funds which were intended for a property purchase sooner or 
transferred the funds  to a family member
-Its unfair that HSBC  wouldnt accept  a hand  written letter  from Mr K and Mrs K with 
their instructions
Mr K2 asked  to appeal  the investigators view so Mr K and Mrs Ks complaint has been  
passed to me to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are a lot of issues in this case and I can understand why Mr K and Mrs K are so upset. 
Mr K2 told us that their money was converted to GBP and says thats  cost them  around 
£54,000 due to the exchange rate used. But I need to be fair to both sides  and my role is to 
look at whether HSBCs acted in line with the account terms and whether its treated Mr K 
and Mrs K fairly. 
The account  terms say HSBC could take the step of closing the FCA by giving account 
holders 60 days notice. HSBC wrote  to Mr K and Mrs K in November 2017 to tell them  about  
what was happening.  I appreciate Mr K and Mrs K were away for an extended period during 
this time so didnt receive HSBCs letter straight away. Mr K2 has told us that Ms K was also 
aware of HSBCs decision to close the FCA. HSBC wasnt aware  that Mr K and Mrs K were 
away for an extended period so I dont think it did anything wrong  by writing to them  at the 
address they had. 
Mr K2 says HSBCs  relationship manager  should have contacted  Mr K and Mrs K to talk to 
them about  the closure. But HSBCs told us it decided that contacting all account holders in 
this way wasnt practical so it chose  to write  to them instead. The account  terms say We 
(HSBC) can close your Accountfor any purposes  provided we give you two months 
notice. 
Whilst I understand why Mr K and Mrs K would  have preferred to receive a call from their 
relationship manager there is nothing in the account  terms  that says HSBC  will take that 
step. And its up to HSBC  to decide  how it communicates important information of this 
nature. I think writing to customers was a reasonable  approach.  
Ref: DRN07582163Mr K and Mrs K sent a letter to HSBC on 24 December 2017 and Ms K took a copy of it into 
the Oxford branch.  Ive read the letter and can see it asked HSBC to open  a new currency 
account for them. Mr K2 says that this options wasnt  actually available  to them because 
they dont live in the UK. But the November 2017  letter HSBC sent doesnt say opening a 
new currency account is guaranteed. It says Mr K and Mrs K could apply for a new currency  
account. So Im satisfied it told them there  would be an application process which  means 
HSBC would look at whether  they met the account criteria.  
In addition, HSBCs November 2017 letter said that customers  could apply for a new 
currency account in branch,  over the phone  or online. But Mr K and Mrs K sent a letter 
request which  wasnt  an option HSBC offered. HSBC says it has no record of receiving Mr K 
and Mrs Ks letter dated 24 December 2017 letter. But even if it had received it, I dont think 
it would  have been able to act on Mr K and Mrs Ks request. 
I note that the letter  also asked HSBC  to quickly confirm receipt of the instruction to open a 
new account and provided Mr K and Mrs Ks email  address along with that of Ms K. If Mr K 
or Mrs K didnt receive  a message or letter  confirming receipt  of their instructions I think  
HSBC could reasonably have expected them to check what  was happening. And I think  the 
absence of any information about a new account in the run up to the FCA closure date would  
have highlighted  the instructions in Mr K and Mrs Ks letter  hadnt been  followed. 
Mr K2 says that Ms K talked about  opening a new account for her parents when she visited  
the Oxford branch  of HSBC but was told that wouldnt be possible despite her being a third 
party mandate holder on the existing  FCA. Whilst Ms K was allowed to access  the existing 
FCA, that meant she was able to operate that specific account.  But the third party mandate 
doesnt give the holder the ability to act on the account holders behalf in all aspects of their 
banking relationship. They can only act on the account theyre named on. So I dont  think an 
error was made when  HSBC told Ms K she couldnt open a new account on her parents 
behalf.
I understand that Mr K and Mrs K dont have a branch  of HSBC close  to them. And I 
understand HSBC  operates around the world.  But there were  other  options  available to Mr K 
and Mrs K to discuss the FCA closure. They could have called HSBC  or gone online. Mr K2 
says his parents  wouldnt be able to open an account online and that they tried to call HSBC 
but their account  was locked. But HSBC has sent systems evidence to show  that Mr K and 
Mrs Ks telephone banking wasnt locked during the period leading up to its closure. So I 
havent found there was anything stopping them discussing the FCA closure  with HSBC. Its 
possible Mr K or Mrs K didnt pass the security questions but that doesnt mean the account 
was locked. And as Ms K held a third party mandate there was another family  member who 
could have contacted HSBC to talk about the FCA. 
Mr K2 says that when  they called Mr K and Mrs K werent able to pass  security and 
expected a text message as a result. But thats not a step Id expect HSBC to take in this 
instance. Id generally  expect  a call or text of that nature after a transaction  was blocked or if 
there were concerns about  fraud, which isnt the case here.
In response to the investigator, Mr K2 said as a last resort the funds held in the FCA could 
have been transferred to him or Ms K. But Ms K held a third party mandate on the FCA 
which means she was able to operate it on her parents behalf. The option to transfer funds 
out of the account was something  that was open to the account holders  as well as the third 
party mandate holder before the FCA was closed.  Its not clear why that step wasnt  taken.
Ref: DRN07582164Ive thought about everything said and provided on behalf of Mr K and Mrs K along with 
everything HSBC has given us. Having done  so, I havent found that HSBC  acted  unfairly by 
closing the FCA in January 2018  and converting  the funds held to GBP.  As a result, Im not 
telling HSBC to take any further  action in relation to this complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 August 2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0758216