K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC closed his classic account.
background
By letter dated 2 April 2015, Lloyds  wrote to Mr G saying that following a recent review of his 
account, it was unable to maintain a banking relationship with him. It gave him notice that his 
accounts would be closed on 1 June 2015.  Lloyds advised that he would need to make 
alternative banking  arrangements by that date.  
Mr G was away overseas from 3 April to 28 May due to a death in the family. So he didnt 
actually see the letter until 29 May.  He contacted Lloyds in person, on the telephone  and in 
writing to request  a reconsideration and an extension of time. But Lloyds proceeded to close  
the account on 1 June  2015. 
Mr G complained to Lloyds about  the closure of his joint accounts  as well as of this account.  
The complaint about the closure of the joint accounts is dealt with in another  decision.  
On 1 June, Lloyds wrote to Mr G, explaining  that it was unable to go into specific  detail about 
why the accounts were  closed, as the criteria  were  confidential. The letter  said it hadnt been 
possible to get agreement from the account  review team  to extend the time for closure and 
the account had been closed at around  noon that day. 
Lloyds apologised  for the account closure  letter  being issued  in his name alone, even though 
the main account  was held with Mr Gs wife. It offered compensation of £100,  which  Mr G 
didnt accept. But Lloyds  didnt specifically consider the position with the classic account  that 
was held solely by Mr G  its comments were concerned with his accounts  held jointly with 
his wife. 
In early August  2015 Mr G complained  to us. He wanted his accounts restored with the full 
benefits he had at the time of closure. He said the closure had drastically affected his credit 
score. He also wanted an apology and compensation.
Our investigator issued  her view on Mr Gs complaints about the account closures in October 
2018. The case had been on hold for some years  due to Mr Gs absence overseas ill. She 
didnt deal specifically  with Mr Gs classic  account, but concentrated her comments  on his 
jointly held accounts.
I issued a provisional decision dated 15 January 2019. My provisional  findings were:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I think  Lloyds was 
entitled to close  Mr Gs account in the way that it did and neednt pay any compensation. Ill 
explain why.
Mr G thinks his accounts, including this one, have been closed  because  of a Lloyds error in 
relation to his cheque  that led to the CIFAS  report.  As Ive said in another  of my decisions, 
Im unable to consider  that issue because I dont  have the power to do so. This is because 
the complaint  was brought  to our service  too late. But I can say that Lloyds have told us that 
the accounts werent closed because of the CIFAS  notice. Ive no reason to doubt  this. 
Ref: DRN02201332Lloyds is able to close accounts without giving  a reason, provided it gives  the appropriate  
notice. And in the case of Mr Gs classic  account,  it did give the necessary notice. It sent a 
letter addressed to Mr G. He didnt get it because he was overseas when the notice of 
closure dated 2 April 2015 was received at his house. But that isnt the fault of the bank. So 
Lloyds was entitled to close the classic  account  on 1 June. Because of this, I dont think  
Lloyds has done  anything wrong. 
Subject to any comments I receive from Mr G and Lloyds,  I wont  be asking  Lloyds to do 
anything further  in relation to this complaint.
Lloyds confirmed it had received my provisional decision but said it had no comments.  Mr G 
said he didnt think Lloyds  had behaved acceptably but that he had no choice but to accept 
my decision.  Mr G made this comment in relation to three decisions of mine  he received at 
the same  time. 
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I understand Mr G is disappointed  with 
my decision.  Thats  understandable  given I wasnt able to consider an aspect of his 
complaint because hed complained too late. But as hes accepted it, and Lloyds had no 
comment, I see no reason  to change my provisional  decision. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Helen Wheatley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0220133