K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains about ongoing adviser  fees he paid after Capital Professional Limited (aka 
Bellpenny) took over the servicing of his pension.
background
In 2015, Bellpenny took over the servicing of Mr Rs pension after acquiring his existing 
adviser firm. Mr R met with Bellpenny in November 2016 and he says that he understood 
from this meeting that he would need to pay £1,200  for a full financial review  of his 
circumstances in order for it to provide him any advice moving forward. Mr R didnt feel it 
was necessary to have  a full review at the time having had one a few years earlier,  and there  
was no further  communication between the two parties.
In 2017, Mr R complained  to Bellpenny  after learning that it had charged him ongoing  
adviser fees from August 2015 to August 2017,  despite not having  provided him with any 
advice. Bellpenny said, in response  to the complaint  that it could  not provide him with any 
advice as he refused  to complete a full financial review or enter  into a service  agreement.  It 
also said that the £1200 was an indication  of the amount  that may be charged if it was to 
offer any financial advice. 
One of our adjudicators investigated the complaint and said it should be upheld. He 
considered that as Mr R had been  with his previous  adviser for a number  of years and 
paying an ongoing servicing  fee, something  must  have changed in order for him to refuse  to 
pay the fee moving forward. He believes this was the fact that Mr R understood he needed 
to pay £1,200 for a full review before he would receive any advice. 
Given Bellpennys  apparent  failure  to explain its charging structure sooner, the adjudicator  
felt it was unreasonable for it to have  charged Mr R any ongoing servicing fees when he 
would not have received any advice.
Bellpenny didnt agree and said a fair outcome would  be for it to refund charges after 
November 2016  but not before.  
I considered the complaint and made a provisional  decision. I explained that Ive reached a 
slightly different conclusion to the adjudicator although  I believe  the complaint should  be 
upheld. Bellpenny took over Mr Rs advising  firm and at the time this happened that firm 
wrote to Mr R explaining  the transfer  and, apparently, offering reassurances  that nothing  of 
significance would change. Bellpenny continued  to receive the same servicing fees that had 
been paid to the previous  firm. Nothing changed in that respect. I think  this is what Mr R 
would have, or ought to have, understood would happen. He was not obligated  to transfer  to 
Bellpenny and could have  decided  not to if he had wished.
When Mr R met with Bellpenny he decided  not to take advice from them.  He was perfectly 
entitled to decide not to pay them for advice but its also true that his previous firm werent  
obliged to provide advice  without charge. I can understand that Mr R was surprised to find 
that servicing fees were taken after that meeting.  Regular  payments had stopped  in 
September 2016 but only because there was insufficient cash  to make them.  Fees were paid 
over to Bellpenny  later to make up for some of the outstanding fees that had then accrued.
Ref: DRN00373192As Bellpenny knew Mr R did not wish to take their advice, I think  there was some  onus  on 
them to clarify if he wanted them to continue  as servicing agent.  Had it done so, I think  its 
likely that Mr R would have ended  the agreement.
So I said that it would be fair if Bellpenny refunded to Mr R any fees it received after the 
meeting in November  2016. But I dont think it should refund any earlier fees as these were 
in line with the arrangement that was in place before and which  was transferred to them. I 
also said that Bellpenny should  pay Mr R £150 for the upset it caused when he discovered 
the fees were  being taken after he had refused advice in November 2016.
Bellpenny accepted the provisional decision  but Mr R did not. He said, in summary, that all 
the payments  he made should  be refunded. There was a lack of good  service and a lack of 
transparency about the fees payable.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive noted all that Mr R has said but I see 
no reason to change  my provisional conclusions and I confirm them here.
The fees Bellpenny collected were the same servicing fees the original adviser  had received. 
Whilst Bellpenny may have been slow to arrange  a meeting the fees were payable 
independently of that and Mr R could  have stopped them if he wished. I think it is fair that the 
servicing fees taken  after the meeting should be refunded. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  Capital  Professional  Limited (Bellpenny) must repay the fees it 
received after November 2016 together  with interest  at 8 per cent simple. The loss should  be 
paid into Mr Rs pension plan providing  it doesnt conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance. If it cannot be paid into the pension  plan it should be paid direct  to him taking into 
account any income tax that would have been  paid.  
In addition it must pay £150  for distress  and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0037319