K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that Bank of Scotland plc (when  it was trading as Leeds  Permanent Building 
Society) mis-sold  him payment protection insurance  (PPI) with his mortgage.
As Bank of Scotland is responsible for dealing with this complaint, to keep things simpler Ill 
just refer in my decision to it as the seller. 
background
Mr T took out a mortgage in 1993 and he was sold PPI around the same time.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold his mis-selling complaint. Mr T didnt  agree  with this view.  He 
says he didnt know the PPI was optional  and that he was led to believe PPI was mandatory  
with the mortgage. And he told us he wouldnt have needed PPI as he couldve relied on 
other means  to cover his mortgage  payments.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ts complaint.  Ill explain why.
Usually Id expect the paperwork to show whats likely to have happened  at the time and 
how the PPI was likely to have been  presented. Bank of Scotland  cant  provide anything  
signed by Mr T from the sale.  But this isnt surprising,  given how long ago this sale 
happened.
Although Bank of Scotland cant tell us how the policy was sold Mr T remembered  arranging 
his mortgage in a branch. So thats helpful to know. But I cant know  exactly what was 
discussed when  Mr T took out PPI. It wouldnt be reasonable to expect him to recall in detail 
precisely what was said at the time.  So what Mr T says now isnt enough on its own for me 
to be able to uphold this complaint. I must look at everything Ive seen and been  told and 
decide what I think is most likely. 
Overall, I dont  find the evidence is strong enough  for me safely to say that Bank  of Scotland  
didnt make it clear that it was open to Mr T not to choose PPI if he didnt want  to have it. His 
mortgage was a major financial commitment,  and his home wouldve been at risk if his 
mortgage payments  werent kept up to date. The policy offered him significantly better cover 
than he had otherwise.  So, I can see why he mightve felt PPI was useful  to have. On 
balance, I think its more  likely that Mr T was persuaded of the need to protect  his home  by 
taking out PPI and he decided to buy the policy. 
To be as fair as possible  to Mr T, Bank of Scotland has looked  at this complaint  on the basis  
that it advised him to buy the PPI  as Mr T says it did. If a financial business makes a 
recommendation about PPI it has to take reasonable steps to make  sure the cover it 
recommends is suitable as well as giving  important policy information in a clear way. 
Ref: DRN02759722I dont see any reason why a PPI recommendation for Mr T wouldnt have been suitable 
based on what Ive seen of Mr Ts circumstances  at the time.  Mr T was eligible for the policy. 
The policy wouldve covered his mortgage  repayments for up to 12 months per claim in the 
event of accident, sickness and unemployment.  This was longer than Mr T wouldve 
received full sick pay if he couldnt work. And the policy wouldve paid out on top of his sick 
pay from work, providing Mr T with a useful benefit at whats likely to have been a difficult 
time if hed needed  to claim  especially as he mightve had extra costs as a result of illness 
or disability.  
Repeat claims were possible which meant  the policy gave him long term protection  for his 
mortgage. 
Being entitled to a redundancy or termination  payment wouldnt have helped Mr T if he was 
off work sick. And PPI wouldve paid out in addition to any money he mightve got if hed lost 
his job, giving him some additional financial security in those circumstances.
I dont know if Mr T wouldve always had savings  he could  rely on if hed needed to make  a 
claim. PPI wouldve covered his mortgage  for longer than his savings wouldve lasted if hed 
had to use these  to make his monthly  repayments.  And having  PPI meant he could continue  
to keep his money  to spend on the things he was saving up for or so that it could provide 
financial security for the future. 
PPI provided more dependable  protection than relying on others to help out with money 
problems. So, looking at Mr Ts circumstances  at the time, and taking into account his 
employee benefits and savings, I dont think the PPI was unsuitable. I think the policy 
couldve been useful  to him. 
Some of the information Bank of Scotland gave Mr T about the PPI mightnt have been as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  So its possible there may have been some failings in the way this 
policy was sold. But the policy  gave him useful  protection in his particular situation  and Ive 
seen nothing to suggest the PPI was unaffordable  for Mr T. Taking everything into account, 
I think Mr T still wouldve decided to buy the policy even if hed been  given  clearer  
information. 
This means  I dont  find that Mr T has lost out as a result of anything  that Bank  of Scotland 
mightve done wrong. So it doesnt  need to do anything to put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 August 2019.
Susan Webb
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0275972