K820x#14complaint
Miss G has complained that Bank  of Scotland Plc trading  as Halifax  (Halifax) mis-sold her 
an Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA)  a paid-for packaged bank account  in 
2010. She paid a monthly fee for the account which provided several  benefits  in return.
background
Miss Gs account was opened as a fee-free account in February 2003. It was upgraded 
during a telephone call to an URCA in March 2010,  and downgraded to a fee-free account  in 
June 2018.
One of our adjudicators didnt think that Halifax mis-sold the URCA to Miss G and didnt 
recommend that Halifax should pay her any compensation. Miss G didnt agree so she 
asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint and make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website.  
Ive used this approach  to help decide what to do about Miss Gs complaint. 
Where evidence is incomplete and matters  are in dispute, as they are here,  I make  my 
decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened  keeping  in mind everything 
Ive seen and been told.
After giving Miss Gs complaint a lot of thought,  I dont think the packaged bank account was 
mis-sold to her. Ill explain  why.
Ive started by thinking about whether Miss G was given a fair choice when  she took her 
packaged bank  account.
Miss G took the packaged bank account by switching from a free account,  and I think  that 
Miss G had a choice about upgrading. Although  in her initial complaint Miss G said she was 
told she wouldnt be eligible for a fee-free account,  she held one for around seven years 
before the upgrade. She also explained  that she took the URCA at the same  time as 
applying for an overdraft, to benefit  from the URCAs interest-free overdraft benefit.
Miss G also says she was told about  the URCAs monthly fee. So having considered 
everything, I think she was aware  she had a choice  about whether  to upgrade to a paid-for 
account, and she chose to do so because  at least some of its features appealed to her.
I dont think that Halifax  recommended  the URCA to Miss G. So whilst it didnt have to check 
if the account was suitable for her, it still had to give her enough information  about it so that 
she could make that decision for herself.
Ref: DRN04077792Like our adjudicator, I think that Miss G was interested in some of the benefits of the URCA 
and chose it because  of these benefits.  One of the main benefits of the URCA was an 
interest-free and fee-free  overdraft of up to £300. And it looks  as though  Miss G applied  for a 
£300 overdraft  at the same time as the upgrade took place. Shes explained that she was 
told about this benefit, so I think  it was one of the main reasons she agreed to the account.
Miss G also says that she was told about the travel  insurance benefit  that came  with the 
URCA  although  I also note she says the information she was given about it was incorrect. 
Ive noted Miss G says she was told that the URCAs  travel insurance covered anyone  she 
was travelling with, rather  than just her family,  which she later found  out.
I cant be certain exactly what  Miss G was told when she signed up to the account, and 
theres no recording of the call available either  though thats  not surprising seeing as it 
happened over eight years ago. But in situations like this I need  to think  about what  I think is 
most likely to have happened.
I dont doubt Miss Gs recollections about  what was said, and I accept its possible that the 
information she was given wasnt entirely  clear  or complete. But having  thought  carefully 
about it, I find it unlikely  that Halifax wouldve sold the URCAs travel  insurance as a policy 
covering everyone  Miss G was travelling with. Its unusual for any travel insurance policy to 
provide such cover,  and even if that were the case,  I dont think  the cost of a policy  like that 
wouldve been covered by the URCAs monthly fee. 
In any case, I cant see that Miss G has lost out by believing she was given the wrong 
information. It doesnt look as though shes had any claims declined, and whilst I 
acknowledge its uncomfortable  to know that her travelling  companions  may not have had 
the insurance cover she thought they had, I cant tell Halifax  to put something right with 
hindsight, without Miss G having  lost out from it.
The URCA also include other  benefits such as mobile phone insurance and car breakdown 
cover. I think its likely that Halifax wouldve mentioned these benefits when it sold the URCA 
to Miss G  after all, it wouldve wanted the account to appear as attractive  as possible for 
the monthly fee. And I can also see from Halifaxs records that it sent Miss G a Welcome 
Pack  which wouldve detailed all of the URCAs benefits  on the day she upgraded. 
Miss G may not have paid much attention to, or relied on all of the URCAs benefits,  but this 
doesnt mean Halifax mis-sold the account.  
Its possible that Halifax didnt tell Miss G everything  it should have about the URCA. And I 
appreciate that with hindsight Miss G might not think it has been good  value  for money  to 
her. But I havent  seen  enough to make  me think that Miss G wouldnt still have taken the 
account, even  if Halifax had told her more about it. 
I want to reassure Miss G that Ive looked at all the information I have about  her complaint. 
And Ive thought carefully about  everything shes said. But having  done so I dont think  
Halifax mis-sold  the Ultimate Reward  Current Account to her. So I dont  think it owes her any 
money.
Ref: DRN04077793my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Miss G but for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold her 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 February  2019.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0407779