K822xcomplaint
Mrs C complains about Investacc Wealth Management Limited (Investacc).  She says shes  
suffered financial losses  and experienced significant emotional distress as a result of an 
Investacc adviser assisting her estranged husband to falsely  obtain enhanced annuity  
illustrations in her name without her permission.
background 
Mrs Cs estranged husband was an Investacc employee. He ceased  to be employed by 
Investacc in July 2018.
One evening in October 2018 Mr C visited a former colleague who was an existing Investacc 
adviser at his home. Ill refer to this adviser as Mr M. Mr C asked Mr M to send an 
Enhanced Pension Annuity Quotation Request Form to several pension providers in order to 
obtain enhanced annuity quotes for Mrs C. As it was out of office hours and Mr C said the 
quotes were needed for a meeting he was having with his solicitors the following day, Mr M 
agreed to help. Mr C provided  Mr M with a completed Enhanced Pension Annuity Quotation 
Request Form which appeared to be signed  by Mrs C. Accordingly Mr M sent the form off to 
the pension providers. When responses and quotes were received Mr M forwarded them to 
Mr C.
As part of the process of Mr C and Mrs Cs solicitors working to reach a mutually  agreeable 
divorce settlement,  Mr Cs solicitors disclosed  the enhanced annuity quotes Mr C had 
obtained in Mrs Cs name. It was at this stage Mrs C was alerted  to the fact Mr C had 
acquired the quotes without her permission. Deeply concerned by this, Mrs C complained to 
Investacc and the pension providers whod  provided quotes in her name. 
Investacc responded  to Mrs Cs concerns on 26 October 2018. In summary it said:
it had obtained  a copy of the form Mr C gave  to its adviser Mr M, enclosed this for 
Mrs Cs records  and confirmed it had no longer retained a copy  of the form or shared 
it with any party other than to the providers previously contacted for annuity quotes
Mr M had confirmed  the form had been supplied by Mr C fully completed and signed 
(by all appearances) by Mrs C
as the form included what appeared to be Mrs Cs signature, Mr M had no reason to 
believe he was acting  inappropriately and had acted  innocently
the quotes supplied were for generic purposes only and no contract had been or 
couldve been initiated
as Mrs C had advised she wasnt aware of the process taking place  it had contacted 
the providers the form had been  submitted to and requested  that her personal  
information be erased
it understood the matter had been distressing  and was sorry to learn of what  had 
happened
it took the protection of personal  data very seriously and confirmed she hadnt been 
placed in any risk of financial  loss or damage
Investacc colleagues  had been told not to respond or assist Mr C in any way going 
forward
it hadnt knowingly  or intention acted against Mrs Cs interests  or compromised  her 
personal data in any way so wouldnt  be upholding her complaint 
Ref: DRN03623592Mrs C replied to Investacc  and asked it to provide further clarification regarding the concerns 
shed raised. She also later raised her concerns  with the financial regulator  and made  the 
following points:
one of the providers which had been  provided with the form in her name  had said 
that as no annuity  policies  were  activated  there was nothing  else that could be done
shed never been a client of Investacc or given any instructions for annuity quotes to 
be obtained by anyone on her behalf
she believed the quotes (based on inaccurate medical information  as confirmed by 
her doctor)  gained  were used to her husbands advantage in order to make  unfair  
pension share  settlement offers as part of their divorce settlement
thered been  a serious breach of her personal  and medical data which  had caused  
her significant distress and substantial  financial  loss which  would leave her in serious  
debt
she wanted the matter to be investigated  further
Investacc responded  to the additional concerns  Mrs C raised and in summary  said:
it could only reiterate  that Mr M was simply assisting Mr C in forwarding the 
enhanced annuity  request form to annuity providers and forwarding quotes onto Mr C 
when these were received
Mr M had believed  Mrs C was aware  of and complicit in the request for quotes  as, to 
the best of his knowledge, Mrs C had helped complete the annuity request form as 
well as signed it
Mr M had not been acting on behalf of Investacc  in any professional capacity in this 
matter 
Unhappy with Investaccs  response Mrs C referred her complaint to our service.
One of our investigators  considered the matter and in summary said:
Mr M had acted  in his capacity as an Investacc adviser and his actions  had made an 
already difficult situation worse  and caused  Mrs C further stress
although Mrs C wouldve had to declare  her potential  eligibility  for enhanced  
annuities as part of reaching a divorce settlement this didnt justify  Mr Ms actions 
without speaking to Mrs C first. Mr Ms actions were negligent 
Investacc should  pay Mrs C £500  for trouble  and upset caused by what  happened
she didnt agree the annuity quotes Mr C was able to get in Mrs Cs name  were  the 
sole reason the judge had called a further  hearing.  And so she didnt agree Investacc 
was liable for any additional costs  Mrs C had incurred  as a result  of this
Investacc responded  to our investigator and agreed with her recommendation. Mrs C 
disagreed and said the compensation  recommended by our investigator wasnt  sufficient.
As no agreement could be reached  the matter was referred to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Im intending to partially 
uphold Mrs Cs complaint.  Ill explain why. But before  I do, I should emphasise that while  
Ive taken note of the extensive  arguments  and comments made by the parties  involved,  I 
Ref: DRN03623593have limited my response to the issues I consider to be central to this complaint. That is to 
say:
1.whether Mr M as an Investacc adviser failed to act appropriately  in the circumstances
2.whether Mr Ms actions caused  avoidable  delays in Mrs C reaching  a divorce 
settlement with Mr C
3.whether Mr Ms actions have caused  Mrs C any financial  loss
4.whether Mr Ms actions have caused  Mrs C any avoidable  trouble  and upset
For simplicity, Ill deal with each of these issues in turn and under separate headings. But 
before I do, I should firstly say I have real sympathy for Mrs C. From her submissions to this 
service its clear to me Mrs C has already been  through a great  deal and continues to face 
significant challenges not only because  of her health  issues  but also as a result  of what  I 
understand to be the incredibly challenging circumstances surrounding her divorce 
proceedings.
Mrs C clearly isnt raising the concerns she has lightly. Shes explained at length  how she 
feels what has happened overall has greatly impacted her physical and mental health.
Im very sorry to learn of what Mrs C is dealing with. But despite my sympathy, I must be 
clear that the purpose of my decision is to focus  solely on Investaccs specific  actions and 
the resulting impact.
whether Mr M as an Investacc adviser failed to act appropriately in the circumstances
Its clear to me Mr M was acting in his professional capacity as an Investacc adviser  when 
he agreed to send providers the annuity request form Mr C gave  him in Mrs Cs name.  It 
appears that Mr M agreed  to Mr Cs appeal for help in good  faith.  Indeed, hes said he did so 
in the genuine belief  Mrs C had completed  the form and agreed to the request  being made 
on her behalf. While this may be the case, I dont  think Mr Ms actions were  at all appropriate 
in the circumstances.
The form Mr M agreed to send to providers  included Mr Ms professional  details as an 
Investacc adviser and stated that he was advising Mrs C on the matter of annuities. We now 
know this to be untrue.  
It seems  odd to me that while Mr M has said he noted that the form provided by Mr C had 
apparently been  signed  by Mrs C, that he didnt also notice that hed been  listed as Mrs Cs 
financial adviser when  this clearly wasnt the case.  At best I consider it was careless  of Mr M 
not to recognise  this anomaly, and at worst negligent. 
Mr Ms failure to carry out most basic checks and ensure  the form he was submitting at Mr 
Cs behest was truthful  and accurate,  meant that Mr C was able to secure quotes in Mrs Cs 
name when  he wouldnt  and shouldnt otherwise have been  able to, were it not for Mr Ms 
help. This was a real failing in my view, the significance of which cannot be underestimated.
Ref: DRN03623594Had Mr M acted  appropriately in his capacity as an Investacc adviser I think the 
circumstances in which Mr C was able to get annuity quotes in Mrs Cs name (along with the 
subsequent distress this caused) could have  been avoided. 
Theres no doubt in my mind that Mr M as an Investacc adviser  failed to act appropriately in 
the circumstances. However,  I think its also important to note forget that while  Investacc is 
responsible for its adviser, Mr Ms actions and any resulting impact,  Mr C at the time of this 
incident was not employed  by Investacc. And so, I dont think  Investacc can be considered 
responsible for Mr Cs actions (for whatever purpose) as these were done  of his own volition. 
whether Mr Ms actions caused avoidable delays in Mrs C reaching a divorce 
settlement 
Extensive information  has been provided  regarding Mr and Mrs Cs divorce proceedings to 
date. From what  I can see the matter has been ongoing for some time now.  Indeed a petition 
for divorce  was filed with the Court  by Mrs C in June 2016  and divorce  proceedings have 
continued into 2019, with (as I understand it) further  negotiations and a hearing scheduled in 
November 2019.  A lot has happened  during this intervening period. I dont intend to make 
any specific comment on or detailed reference to these events and Ive done  this deliberately 
to ensure none of the parties are identified by this decision. However, Im mindful  that the 
main substance of these  events has related to Mr and Mrs Cs marital breakdown, a criminal 
trial, Mrs Cs deteriorating health and difficult financial  circumstances overall.
Mrs C has said Mr Ms actions caused  avoidable delays and specifically prevented  a 
financial settlement from being  agreed  and a pension sharing order reached ahead  of a 
Financial Dispute Resolution (FDR) Hearing that was scheduled  for October  2018.  She says 
that because of the quotes Mr C was able to get in her name (which werent based on 
accurate information), a financial settlement couldnt be reached  and the judge  effectively  
postponed the Hearing  so an independent  financial adviser (IFA) could get annuity  quotes 
for Mrs C that were  correct. This meant a Final Court Hearing was required as opposed to 
things being resolved at the FDR hearing.  Mrs C has said this has resulted in her incurring 
significant legal and personal  costs  which she wouldve otherwise avoided were  it not for Mr 
Ms actions.
Ive carefully thought  about what Mrs C has said and considered the available  evidence. 
While I dont doubt that Mr C being able to produce  inaccurate annuity quotes in Mrs Cs 
name caused great concern and meant  that the information provided wasnt considered  a 
sufficient basis on which to reach an agreement about pension benefits, I havent  seen  
anything which persuades me this was the sole reason a Final  Court Hearing was deemed 
necessary. I say this because the Financial Remedy  Order Ive seen stated that there  were  
remained outstanding  conduct issues that needed  to be addressed along with a requirement 
for further  disclosure and narrative statements regarding Mr and Mrs Cs financial situation. It 
seems to me that based on what the Order outlined, there was always  going to be a need for 
a further hearing.  Irrespective of the annuity  quotes Mr C was able to obtain.
I can see that the Order  did refer to annuity  quotes  and required  Mr and Mrs C to jointly 
instruct an IFA to obtain the best annuity quotations available to each party  having  regard 
Ref: DRN03623595for their respective health issues  (). But this requirement was in addition to the 
prerequisites outlined  above. It wasnt the sole reason for a Final  Court Hearing being 
scheduled. Indeed, Im mindful that the Court  Order makes no reference to the annuity  
quotes Mr C secured as being the reason the Final Court Hearing was required.
I understand Mrs C feels strongly that a settlement couldve been reached sooner  were it not 
for Mr Ms actions. But Im afraid I dont agree. Based on the available evidence  I cant  safely 
conclude with any certainty that Mr M helping Mr C secure annuity quotes in Mrs Cs name 
was the principal factor which prevented or caused avoidable delays in a divorce  settlement 
being reached. 
I should say however that I appreciate that the provision of annuity quotes which ultimately  
couldnt be used  to work out a settlement wouldve caused Mrs C avoidable distress and 
inconvenience at what was already a very difficult time. Ill comment  on this more  later.
whether Mr Ms actions have  caused  Mrs C any financial loss
Mrs C has said that as a result of Mr Ms actions and a divorce settlement not being agreed 
sooner, shes been left with an increasingly  large debt for which she considers Investacc 
wholly responsible  for. Shes explained that because of what happened her solicitor  fees are 
rising which  she doesnt have sufficient funds for alongside court fees, healthcare  costs  as 
well as travel  expenses. Mrs C also says shes lost out on monthly maintenance payments 
she wouldve received  from Mr C if a settlement was reached at the FDR Hearing.
I dont doubt the challenges of Mrs Cs financial situation. Indeed, Mrs C has outlined in 
great detail  the costs  associated with her divorce  proceedings as well as her own financial 
circumstances. Im very sorry to learn of how much  Mrs C is struggling financially but based 
on what Ive seen Im not persuaded that Investaccs advisers actions have caused her 
demonstrable financial loss. I say this because, as Ive already explained, I dont find that Mr 
M was the reason Mr and Mrs C couldnt  reach a divorce settlement sooner. Although Mr 
Ms actions certainly didnt help matters, I dont think the quotes Mr M secured for Mr C can 
be considered  to be the critical  factor that led to a continuation in divorce  proceedings and 
the costs associated with this. 
Mrs C has said the annuity  quotes Mr C presented to the Court  were to her financial 
disadvantage and that the inaccurate figures  effectively prejudiced her position  when it came 
to reaching a financial settlement. I understand what Mrs C is saying here and appreciate  
that this couldve  potentially been the case if the Court had relied on the annuity quotes  Mr C 
secured. But theres nothing to suggest  it did or has. Indeed,  as I mentioned  above,  the 
Court directed Mr and Mrs C to secure  independent  annuity quotes themselves before 
consideration would be given to any financial settlement regarding  pension provision. 
Because of this I still cant agree  that Investaccs adviser caused Mrs C any financial  loss. 
Im also mindful that although the annuity  quotes in Mrs Cs name were secured without her 
permission, no annuity policies were set up on the basis  of the information Mr C submitted to 
providers via Mr M. So, I dont consider that any financial loss has been  sustained by Mrs C 
in this respect. 
Ref: DRN03623596Overall I dont think theres sufficient evidence  which  adequately proves Mr Ms actions  have 
caused the financial losses for which  Mrs C is claiming. And because  of this I wont  be 
directing Investacc to pay Mrs C the compensation she feels  shes  entitled to in this respect.
whether Mr Ms actions have  caused  Mrs C any avoidable trouble and upset
In her submissions to this service Mrs C has highlighted the intense  mental  and emotional 
pain shes suffered  while dealing  with this matter. I dont doubt the level of distress Mrs C 
says shes endured while this issue has been  going on. But I think its important to 
distinguish between the pain and suffering Mrs C has dealt  with as a result of the continued 
difficulties shes had with her estranged husband  and harrowing nature of her divorce 
compared with the trouble and upset  caused  by Investaccs adviser,  Mr M.
Ive only considered and commented  on the impact  of Mr Ms actions because thats whats 
relevant here. But I hope that in doing so Mrs C understands that this doesnt mean Ive 
ignored any of what shes  said.
Like our investigator,  I do consider that Mr Ms actions caused Mrs C unnecessary  distress  
and inconvenience.  And I think its right that she receives compensation for this. 
Mr Ms agreement  to help Mr C secure  annuity  quotes in Mrs Cs name was deeply 
inappropriate and, in my view, showed  a real lack of care and sound  judgement.  As a result 
of Mr Ms actions,  Mrs Cs personal  details were sent to pension providers without her 
permission. This understandably caused Mrs C a lot of worry and anxiety. She thought her 
personal data had been comprised, that her medical records had been  accessed without her 
authority and that the annuity  quotes (based on inaccurate information) would potentially be 
used to her detriment in any financial settlement reached as part of her divorce proceedings. 
Investaccs advisers actions caused Mrs C very real concern, at a time when she already 
had a lot to worry about along with her ailing health.  
Mrs C has advised that the medical  practice  she attends has confirmed  the information it 
holds on her hasnt  been  breached or compromised  in any anyway following the annuity 
request form being issued  by Mr M. And as Ive already said, no annuity policies appear to 
have been set up in Mrs Cs name on the basis of the form. Although  I hope this provides 
Mrs C some reassurance,  I dont  think  it detracts  from the distress this matter will have 
caused her. 
Ive thought carefully about the level of compensation Investacc  should  pay Mrs C and I 
agree with the £500 our investigator recommended. Its a significant award and I think it fairly  
reflects the level of trouble and upset experienced by Mrs C as a result of Mr Ms actions. I 
understand Mrs C will be disappointed  with this and that she doesnt consider £500  enough.  
But I must respectfully  disagree and based on what Ive seen  Ive not been persuaded that 
increasing this award would be appropriate  in the circumstances. Although  its clear that 
Investaccs adviser failed to act appropriately and caused Mrs C significant trouble and upset 
as a result, I dont  think these actions led to Mrs C incurring costs she wouldnt otherwise 
have had to as part of her divorce  proceedings. Sadly, it appears Mr and Mrs Cs divorce 
proceedings have been  going on for quite some time and this has (as I understand it) largely 
Ref: DRN03623597been acrimonious. I cannot begin to imagine how difficult Mrs C has found this period. She 
has my deepest sympathies.
While Im not directing  Investacc to make the award I understand Mrs C would like, I should 
say that I do think its entirely reasonable for her to expect  Investaccs  adviser to act 
appropriately and with due care in the circumstances. And its unfortunate that in this case 
that didnt happen. I am genuinely  sorry to hear of the impact that this has had on Mrs C. 
I dont underestimate  or doubt Mrs Cs sincerity or strength of feeling in bringing  her 
complaint to this service  but for the reasons Ive explained I wont  be asking Investacc to do 
more than pay her £500 compensation.  This will hopefully go some  way towards helping 
Mrs C to move on (in as much  as she reasonably can) from this difficult  experience. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In order  to resolve this matter  I order  
Investacc Wealth Management Limited to pay Mrs C £500  for trouble and upset caused. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 December  2019.
Chillel Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0362359