K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that a motorbike he financed  through an agreement  with Billing Finance Ltd 
(Billing Finance) was faulty when it was supplied. Hed like to be allowed to reject the bike 
and terminate his finance agreement.
background
In April 2018 Mr M took receipt  of a used motorbike.  He financed the deal through  a hire 
purchase agreement  with Billing  Finance:  the bike had already completed 8,000  miles  when 
Mr M took receipt of it.
But only a few weeks later Mr M says he had problems with the bike. There  was a rattling  
noise and Mr M says the supplying  dealership  suggested it could be caused by the cam 
chain. He says they werent interested in fixing the problem but told him he should get it fixed 
himself and theyd reimburse him. So Mr M bought a cam chain and had it fitted by another 
mechanic. But this didnt fix the problem and Mr M says its clear  theres  been  a fault with the 
bike from the beginning and he should be allowed to reject it.
Billing Finance  arranged  for the dealership  to take a look at the issue  and they asked a third 
party garage to review the problem. The engineer  said the fault was most probably caused 
by the way in which  the cam chain  tensioner  had been fitted.  He said it had been incorrectly 
tensioned and had caused undue  loading on the crankshaft and associated bearings  and 
premature wear on the cam chain guides.
A further  independent report was commissioned by Billing Finance. This engineer concurred  
with the third party garages view and suggested the problem was probably caused  by the 
incorrect fitting of the tensioner and wasnt there at inception. So Billing Finance didnt agree 
with Mr M that there was evidence to suggest  the bike was faulty when supplied.
But Mr M disagreed and he referred  his complaint to this service where our investigator took 
a look at the evidence. He didnt  think there  was enough evidence to suggest the bike was 
faulty when supplied. He noted  that the engineers  had suggested  the fault had been caused 
by the subsequent fitting of the cam chain  tensioner  and that they hadnt suggested a fault at 
the point of supply. He said that Mr M hadnt provided any evidence that hed reported the 
issue to the supplying dealership or that they asked  him to fix it himself. He explained that he 
had viewed the video Mr M supplied showing the problem before the new cam chain was 
fitted but he said the experts suggested  the current problem was most likely  to be a result of 
the new cam chain  being fitted  inadequately,  so he didnt think Billing Finance needed to 
take any further action.
But Mr M disagreed. He said it was clear  from the videos hed sent in that the noise before 
the cam chain was fitted was the same as the noise after it was fitted and it was very clear  
hed been supplied with a faulty bike. He therefore asked for a final decision by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN09737042I know it will disappoint Mr M but I dont think theres  enough evidence  here to suggest the 
bike was faulty  when it was supplied. Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr M acquired his bike under a hire purchase  agreement. The relevant law says that the 
bike should have  been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Billing  Finance 
is responsible and Id ask them to put things right.
But their responsibility  for the bike is not unlimited. Whilst they are responsible for its 
condition at the point of supply they are not responsible for faults that develop afterwards.  
Mr M has provided a video that appears  to demonstrate  the rattling noise he says he initially 
complained of. 
But Ive not been provided with sufficient evidence that the dealership were allowed to 
inspect the bike to ascertain if there  was a problem and Im not persuaded, by the noise 
alone, that this is evidence  of a fault.
Ive also not been provided with evidence that the business sanctioned  a repair  elsewhere.  
The relevant  legislation  allows Billing  Finance an opportunity to fix any fault that was present 
at the point of supply  but Im not persuaded they were  provided with that opportunity and it 
would therefore  not seem reasonable to hold them responsible for the fault,  which is clearly 
now present, but which, there is consensus from the experts,  appears  most likely to have 
been caused by an incorrectly fitted,  non standard, cam chain tensioner.
There is consistency in the reports from the independent engineers.  Both suggest the 
current problem is most  likely  to have been  caused  by the remedial work Mr M has had 
carried out and I therefore dont think it would  be fair to hold Billing  Finance responsible for 
the issues or to ask them to take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN09737043
Ref: DRN0973704