K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  a delay in Barclays Bank UK PLC approving their mortgage 
application led to a loss of business and caused them distress and inconvenience.
background
Mr and Mrs M ran a bed and breakfast business. In November 2017 they approached 
Barclays for a loan to pay a tax bill and carry out a refurbishment of their property. They  
wanted to borrow  £150,000  over 15 years to be secured  as a first charge over their property.
Mr and Mrs M say Barclays told them it would take six to ten weeks  for them to receive the 
funds. Theyre unhappy the process  took much  longer than that - several months. Theyd  
started work  on refurbishing the property and had bills to pay. They were worried about the 
position they were  in. Mrs M says it affected her health. And they say they lost three months 
business because  of delays caused by Barclays.
Barclays agreed it had caused a short delay  at the end of the application process  and 
offered Mr and Mrs M £350 compensation for this and poor service  in dealing  with the 
complaint. They didnt accept this so brought the complaint  to this service. Our investigator 
felt this was fair compensation  in the circumstances and didnt uphold the complaint.
Since Mr and Mrs M are unhappy with our investigators view, Ive reviewed everything  
afresh to come  to a final decision. I agree with our investigators view, for broadly  similar  
reasons, as Ill explain. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs M first approached Barclays for a loan in November 2017. Sadly, the 
representative they initially spoke to passed  away. But another  representative took over their 
case in January 2018.
Mr and Mrs M say Barclays told them it would take six to ten weeks  for them to receive the 
funds. And they say they relied on this information  when they went ahead  and employed 
builders to start work.  Mr and Mrs M say they had to borrow  money from friends to pay bills 
and were under pressure  to meet a tax bill that part of the borrowing was for. I can 
understand it was a worrying time for them.
Barclays says the representative  Mr and Mrs M spoke to didnt tell them  funds would be 
available in six to ten weeks. The decision about  lending wasnt his to make and its more  
likely he said that money would be available six to ten weeks after a decision to lend to 
Mr and Mrs M had been made  by the banks credit  risk team.
On the balance of probabilities, I think this is what the Barclays representative is likely to 
have told Mr and Mrs M. Id expect Barclays to have needed information about  
Ref: DRN03132582Mr and Mrs Ms business finances and the property they wanted to borrow  against before it 
made a decision  about  lending. So I think Mr and Mrs M probably misunderstood what  the 
Barclays representative told them.
Barclays got a valuation of the property the loan was going to be secured against.  And it 
wanted to understand what Mr and Mrs M intended to spend on refurbishment so it could  
assess whether the loan theyd asked for was for an appropriate amount. I think it was 
reasonable for Barclays to have this information  so it could assess  its risk and the suitability 
of the property as security, and make  an informed lending decision. 
Barclays has explained there was a delay  in January 2018 when Mr and Mrs Ms 
accountants took over a week  to respond  to its request for financial information. I cant  
blame Barclays for that. I can see Mr and Mrs Ms solicitors prepared  a report  on title in 
relation to the property in mid-March 2018 identifying 23 March 2018 as the completion date 
for the loan. And from what I can see Barclays had come to a decision  to lend the money  to 
Mr and Mrs M before then. 
Barclays admits  there was a delay  at the end of the process when it asked for a certificate of 
occupancy to be signed by Mr and Mrs M and it took longer  for Barclays to sort this out than 
it should have  done. But the loan was eventually drawn down about two weeks  later.
Mr and Mrs M had planned to close their business to do the works between November 2017 
and March 2018. They began to spend money on the works as they expected the money  to 
be with them sooner. They got threatening letters from HMRC. And they say they lost three 
months income as a result of the delay in getting the money to enable them to finish off the 
works. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs M will have been worried.  But I think they ought to have 
realised that Barclays would need  some  time to process their application and there was no 
guarantee Barclays would lend them the money  once it had. They were therefore taking a 
risk in starting works  to the property before they knew whether Barclays was prepared  to 
lend to them. 
Barclays was in regular  contact with Mr and Mrs M as the application process went on, so I 
think they knew what was happening. I can see Mr M told Barclays  in April he needed to 
know if Barclays could speed up the final part of the process or theyd need  temporary  
funding to meet their obligations. But theres  no suggestion Mr and Mrs M were unhappy 
with the way they were treated up to that point.
Bearing everything in mind, I think the compensation Barclays offered Mr and Mrs M was 
reasonable in the circumstances and I dont uphold  the complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 May 2020.
Ref: DRN03132583Julia Wilkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0313258