K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained about their campervan  insurer Whittlesey  Insurance  
Services Ltd.
background
Mr and Mrs C arranged limited mileage insurance for their campervan  through Whittlesey. In 
July 2018 the policy lapsed and in August 2018 Mr and Mrs C contacted Whittlesey to 
arrange further cover. The same policy with the same terms was re-incepted. An email was 
sent to Mr and Mrs C containing policy documents. 
In October  2018 Mr and Mrs C cancelled the cover. They were disappointed to only get a 
small refund (20%) of the total premium, minus a deduction for Whittleseys  commission and 
administration charge. They complained and Whittlesey contacted the insurer. The insurer 
agreed to make a further reimbursement to Mr and Mrs C. Whittlesey  told Mr and Mrs C that 
a further amount would  be paid to them, likely at the end of January 2019 (once funds had 
been received  from the insurer).
At the end of March 2019 Mr and Mrs C complained to Whittlesey. They  hadnt received  any 
further refund and were still unhappy with the amount, even taking the further  promised 
payment into account. It equated to less than half of what  theyd  paid for twelve  months and 
yet theyd only had just over two months  of cover. Whittlesey said the initial refund had been 
paid by the insurer in line with the policy terms which allowed for only a 20% refund when 
cancellation occurs  more 60 days after the policy began.
Mr and Mrs C said they hadnt  been told of the cancellation charge when they called 
Whittlesey in August. They said it hadnt  featured  in any of the documentation they were 
sent. They said if theyd  been told they wouldnt have arranged  the policy as their intention 
was to sell the van. They  felt they wouldnt have got any further money at all if they hadnt 
complained and that it was unfair  that Whittlesey had held on to their money  for so long. 
Whittlesey didnt feel it had done anything wrong and Mr and Mrs C complained to us. 
Our investigator felt Mr and Mrs C had likely been aware of the cancellation terms and that 
Whittlesey had done nothing wrong when  it had arranged the cover.  Mr and Mrs C remained 
unhappy. They said it was unfortunate the call theyd had with Whittlesey wasnt  available as 
it would  show they werent told about  the cancellation charges. They said it appeared to be 
their word  against Whittleseys but the burden should be on it to show they were told of this 
important term (which  it couldnt do). 
The case  was passed to me and I noted  Mr and Mrs Cs concern about how long it had 
taken Whittlesey to provide the refund. I told Whittlesey  it should pay £50 compensation in 
this respect. It felt this was unfair.  Ive considered  everything and my final findings  are below. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whittlesey arranged this cover on an advised basis. So it was important for it to ensure it met 
Mr and Mrs Cs needs. Whittlesey doesnt record calls so I cant  hear what the parties  said to 
each other.  But Mr and Mrs C have  confirmed that they didnt  tell Whittlesey  they were 
intending on selling the van. And Whittlesey says this wasnt an entirely  new sale and it 
Ref: DRN03122192wasnt made aware of any changes  that had occurred, or were likely to occur in the 
short-term, that might  mean this cover was now unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs C.
The detail from both parties about  the content  of the call seems to broadly correlate. And 
even during an advised sale I wouldnt expect  a broker to go through  every  policy  term. 
Furthermore, as I understand it, terms like this are common to this type of cover, and so 
I dont think there was anything significant or unusual about the term that meant Whittlesey 
should have drawn it to Mr and Mr Cs attention regardless of whether or not it knew of their 
intention to sell the van. 
Moving on from the call, Whittlesey says it did provide all the relevant policy  details to 
Mr and Mrs C. Mr and Mrs C say this isnt the case. Ive seen the email that Whittlesey sent 
to Mr and Mrs C which listed and included attachments  of all the policy  documents.  
The email  contained  a key facts document  which  explained  what refund could be expected  
in the event of cancellation within 30 or 60 or 90 days after cover starts. Similar detail was 
also within the policy wording which was also attached. And Whittleseys  terms of business 
were attached too. These explained about  commission and what deductions would be made  
from premium  refunds in the event of cancellation.  
So Im satisfied that Whittlesey did adequately inform  Mr and Mrs C about what  would 
happen in the event  of cancelling  the policy. I dont  think it failed them in this respect. 
However, I do think Whittlesey held on to the second refund made by the insurer for too long 
before passing  it on to Mr and Mrs C.
The insurer  makes monthly payments to Whittlesey.  When Mr and Mrs C cancelled in 
October the next monthly  account was paid to Whittlesey at the end of November. The 
payment, minus commission and an administration charge was forwarded to Mr and Mrs C 
at the beginning of December. Im satisfied that was handled reasonably.  
By the point of that refund to Mr and Mrs C, Whittlesey had informed the insurer that they 
were unhappy  with the limited refund. The insurer confirmed  it would send  a further 
payment. Whittlesey,  at that time, informed Mr and Mrs C that a further payment was to be 
made and theyd likely receive this at the end of January.
Whittlesey did receive payment from the insurer towards the end of January but this wasnt  
forwarded to Mr and Mrs C. At the end of March, after Mr and Mrs C complained to 
Whittlesey, the refund was made. I cant see any good reason why the money  was withheld 
for so long and I can see this frustrated Mr and Mrs C. Im satisfied  that £50 compensation is 
fairly and reasonably due in this respect.
I know Whittlesey chose not to take an administration fee from the second refund amount.  
But I dont think that reasonably means it shouldnt have to pay compensation for the upset 
its delay in payment  caused. I say that particularly as Im also not persuaded that taking a 
second administration fee would have  been  reasonable  here. The fee is charged  against 
cancelling a policy. In this case the policy had already been cancelled and the administration  
fee obtained. 
I realise this will come  as a disappointment to Whittlesey, which is regrettable but I am 
satisfied that this complaint should  be upheld in part. Whittlesey delayed in making a 
payment to Mr and Mrs C and this delay  caused them upset.  Im satisfied that £50 
Ref: DRN03122193compensation is fairly and reasonably due. I do not give leave to Whittlesey  to charge  
Mr and Mrs C a further administration  fee.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Whittlesey  Insurance  Services Ltd to pay Mr and Mrs C £50 
compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 May 2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0312219