K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that Nationwide Building  Society didnt do enough to tell him when it 
changed the savings limit of its Loyalty Saver account from £50,000 to £100,000.  
background
Mr L has a Loyalty Saver account with Nationwide. Mr L used the full savings limit of 
£50,000. In October  2017 Nationwide increased the savings limit to £100,000. Nationwide 
posted information online and in branch about the new limit. It also sent an email about  the 
new limit to customers signed up to Savings Watch  an email service about  Nationwides 
savings products.
In October  2018 Mr L saw the limit had gone  up and increased the balance to £100,000. 
Mr L complained to Nationwide as he didnt  think it had done enough to tell him about the 
new limit. Mr L feels he missed out on interest  as he didnt  increase  his savings. 
Nationwide didnt uphold  Mr Ls complaint  and said there was no obligation for it to contact 
him about the new limit. Mr L asked our service to look at his complaint and it was passed to 
an investigator. She didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She thought  Nationwide 
had taken reasonable steps to inform  Mr L about  the new savings limit. 
Mr L didnt agree and said the essence  of his complaint is that as an online customer  
Nationwide doesnt  give him the important information he wants. Mr L asked  to appeal the 
adjudicators view so his complaints been  passed to me to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr Ls explained that the essence of his complaint is the information Nationwide  makes 
available to online customers. Mr L banks online and has lots of accounts with Nationwide.  I 
understand he would like information of this nature to be built into his online banking facility.  
But I dont think that means Nationwides treated Mr L unfairly here.  
Ive thought carefully about whether Nationwides done enough to tell Mr L about  the change  
in October 2017.  I wont repeat everything the investigators said but I note that Mr L was 
signed up to the Savings Watch service.  Mr L accepts  he may have received Nationwides  
message but because  of the number  of emails he gets wasnt aware  of the new limit. But 
Nationwide did send  Mr L an email  about the change to its Loyalty Saver  account which 
seems reasonable  for a customer  that banks online.  
Nationwide also displayed a notice about the new limit on its website for around two months. 
The new savings limit is also set out in the product information Nationwide gives online. Mr L 
wants the new savings  limit to be shown when  he looks at his online banking. But I think  
Nationwides decision to put the information  on its website is reasonable. Mr L wouldve had 
to look at the main  Nationwide website to find the details of the new savings limit, but I dont 
think thats unreasonable. Im satisfied that by emailing and putting  the information  online 
Nationwides given  fair notice of the new savings limit to Mr L as an online customer.
Ref: DRN07371002Nationwide says theres no rule that means it has to tell Mr L about the change before it 
goes through.  Its also pointed to its terms which say it will only tell customers about a 
change before it happens if its to their detriment. In his response to the investigator Mr Ls 
talked about The 1999 Consumer Contract  Regulations and says he feels Nationwides  
terms arent fair. But were not a court, were an informal dispute resolution service.  We 
decide cases based on what we think is fair and reasonable. That means  I decide  a 
complaint based  on what  I consider to be fair and reasonable in light of everything Ive seen. 
Ive read through the relevant terms but I havent  found theyre  unfair. The terms say 
Nationwide should  contact customers before making a change  thats  to their detriment. But 
increasing the savings limit isnt to Mr Ls detriment so Im satisfied Nationwide didnt have to 
contact him directly. 
Ive carefully considered  everything that Mr L and Nationwide have said and provided. Im 
satisfied Nationwide  sent Mr L information  about  its new limit by email  and displayed it 
online. I understand the information isn't given  when Mr L checks  his account  online. But I 
think Nationwide did enough  to tell him about  the new savings limit for the reasons I've given 
above. As I havent  found any evidence of a mistake by Nationwide and I think its dealt with 
Mr Ls complaint fairly, Im not telling  it to do anything else.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0737100