K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D are unhappy  with the how Admiral  Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited handled  a 
claim they wanted to make under their home  emergency policy. Any references made to the 
insurer include any agents  working on its behalf. 
 
background
In December 2017, Mr and Mrs D discovered two problems with their property. Mr D had 
discovered a leak in their roof, and a problem with one of the toilets   but theyve  only 
complained to us about the problem  with their roof. Mr D contacted Admiral to see what  they 
could do to help.  They said theyd send round a contractor to inspect the roof the following 
day. 
The contractor attended the property and inspected the roof; he told Mr and Mrs D that hed 
be back the following  day to complete  the repairs. However, having done so, the contractor 
told the insurer he thought the roof had been  poorly installed and had already been repaired 
on two occasions  in the last four years. Admiral subsequently declined  this part of 
Mr and Mrs Ds claim,  saying the home emergency policy  didnt cover  a claim for a roof 
where there  were maintenance  issues.
Mr and Mrs D were unhappy  with this. Mr D said he was told that if there was a delay in 
sending out a contractor to repair the roof then he would be reimbursed if he instructed and 
paid for their own repairs. He said hed purchased  this policy because it offered a higher 
level of cover, and he was expecting the claim to be met. 
This complaint was passed to one of our investigators. She considered what  both sides said, 
and concluded  Admiral hadnt  acted  unfairly in declining Mr and Mrs Ds home emergency 
claim on the basis it had. Mr and Mrs D werent  happy with this, and the claim has been 
passed to me to consider.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to put things  right Mr and Mrs D said they wanted Admiral to deal with their roofing 
claim or provide compensation for not providing  emergency cover,  and for wrongly being told 
Mr D would be reimbursed for the cost of arranging their own repairs. Admiral  hasnt 
confirmed it gave Mr and Mrs D incorrect information, and considers it was right to decline 
the claim.  
Where evidence is incomplete or contradictory,  as it is here,  I need  to decide what we think 
is most  likely  to have happened. 
Our usual  position  where someone  has been given incorrect information  is that wed expect 
them to be put back in the position they would  have been in if theyd been given the right 
information in the first place, not as if the incorrect information was true. While I dont 
discount Mr Ds account of what he was told during that call, I havent seen anything that 
clearly shows  Mr D was given  incorrect information.  And on that basis, Im not going to 
recommend it make  a payment for the trouble and upset  Mr and Mrs D say theyve 
experienced. 
Ref: DRN09268962However, even if Mr and Mrs D had been wrongly  told costs would be reimbursed for any 
costs he might incur in repairing the roof, they might only have been entitled to this if they 
had a valid claim under this policy. But I cant  see that they had a valid claim  because  the 
contractor found  the water  ingress was not due to poor weather (as the policy conditions 
say) but because the roof was poorly  maintained.
I say this because  the reports  provided  identified the sealant around the skylight  had failed, 
and this was why water ingress occurred. The terms and conditions  of the policy  say:
What is not covered
b Water Ingress due to poor roof maintenance or wear and tear
Based on what Ive seen,  Admiral declined Mr and Mrs Ds claim because  the roof had been 
poorly maintained.  I think it has declined  the claim in line with the policy terms, so I dont feel 
able to make  a recommendation that it honour the claim. 
Mr and Mrs D have also said that they want the claim struck from records  so it doesnt have 
an impact on any future premiums they might pay. But Admiral  has confirmed that, because 
this was a home emergency claim,  it didnt  record anything about this claim. And it didnt ask 
Mr and Mrs D to pay an excess.  So I dont  think it needs to take any action here.
With this in mind, while I recognise Mr and Mrs D feel very strongly  theyve been  let down by 
Admiral, I havent seen anything to suggest  its acted incorrectly. It follows, I cant  
recommend it needs to do anything to put things right in relation to this claim. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 April 2019.
Emma Hawkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0926896