K820x#14complaint
Miss H complains shes been unfairly treated by The Royal Bank  of Scotland  Plc (RBS). She 
says it made  her business current account  dormant in December 2012 without telling her, 
and also drove her into taking out a bridging loan with another  company. Miss H also 
complains RBS subsequently consolidated the overdraft on the current  account into a 
non-regulated loan without carrying out an affordability check. Shes unhappy  RBS reneged  
on its promise of writing-off a substantial  element  of her overdraft and on its offer of putting 
things on hold while her case  against the bridging loan company was being  reviewed.
background
Miss H had a business account with an overdraft facility with RBS since at least March 2008.  
By December 2012, due to account conduct, it had an overdrawn  balance of around  
£50,000. Miss H sought financial assistance from RBS but it wasnt  willing  to extend further 
lending. Miss H took out a bridging  loan with another company but faced several  problems 
with it. It appears this was the subject of another  complaint with us which  has already been 
considered.
In February 2015,  Miss H took out a loan for £58,000 with RBS to consolidate the overdraft 
and the interest  it had accrued. It was to be repaid, along with interest, in six months. When 
RBS didnt receive the payment, the loan defaulted and was transferred  to the banks 
Recoveries department. RBS sought immediate repayment but all interest was stopped from 
this point. When Miss H made  RBS aware  she had health issues,  was facing possible 
eviction, and was looking after elderly  relatives, it transferred her account to its specialist 
team. In January 2018, RBS instructed its solicitors to seek  recovery of the outstanding 
amount from Miss H.
Miss H complained to RBS as she was unhappy her account was made dormant without any 
notification and said the interest  charged  was excessive. RBS didnt uphold her complaint, 
explaining the terms and conditions of the loan (including the interest payable) were set out 
in the loan agreement.  When the terms of the agreement were  breached,  the loan defaulted 
and was moved to recoveries. RBS also explained it was its process to make  all accounts in 
recoveries non-operational. 
Miss H referred the matter to us. She also complained that RBS had forced her to take out a 
bridging loan.  She was also unhappy  it consolidated her overdraft into a non-regulated loan 
without carrying out an affordability check.  Miss H also complained that her account was 
moved back to the Recoveries department  when  RBS had previously told her it would be 
with a specialist  team due to her circumstances.  And that RBS had demanded repayment  
when it had previously  told her it would put things on hold whilst  she dealt with her complaint 
against the bridging loan company.  
Our investigator looked into Miss Hs concerns and concluded RBS hadnt acted unfairly. 
She didnt  find any evidence that RBS suggested Miss H took out a bridging loan. And she 
was satisfied it carried out affordability checks  before  agreeing to a consolidation loan. The 
investigator also thought RBS didnt act unfairly  in pursuing Miss H for the debt following 
putting matters on hold due to her extenuating  circumstances. And there was no evidence 
RBS had agreed to write-off some of the outstanding balance.
Miss H disagreed with the investigators findings and so her complaint has been passed  to 
me for a decision.
Ref: DRN04137012When asked if she wanted to provide any additional information, Miss H forwarded an email 
chain dating back  to November 2012 between her and RBS. She told us it served  as 
additional evidence  RBS breached rules in how it managed her account.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, I know itll come as a disappointment to Miss H, but Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ive explained why below.
Miss H says her account was made  dormant  in December 2012 without her knowledge. But 
looking at the available  information from the time,  I can see her business current  account 
had been near or at the agreed overdraft  limit for a long period of time. The account 
statements show direct  debits had been returned on multiple  occasions.  In fact, in her email 
dated 12 November  2012 to RBS,  Miss H lists all the payments that had been returned  
unpaid between 30 October and 7 November  2012.  Its also clear from this email that she 
was aware the account was going  to be defaulted  due to the account  conduct. In this email, 
Miss H also shows  awareness she will no longer be able to use her account. And that RBS 
wasnt willing to extend any further lending at that time. Also,  looking at bank  statements  
from the time, it seems  to me that regular credits  and payments were re-directed to a 
different bank account. Considering all this, Im not persuaded Miss H didnt know she could 
no longer use the current account until the outstanding balance had been  repaid.
Ive next considered Miss Hs concerns about RBS driving her to take out a bridging  loan at 
the time.  It is clear  RBS wasnt prepared to extend further lending to Miss H given how her 
business current account had been run. This was a matter of its commercial  judgement  and 
isnt something this service would  normally  interfere with. I understand a broker  was involved 
in arranging a bridging loan with a third party company. Im sorry to hear Miss H experienced 
problem with this loan but, like the investigator, I cant see RBS had any involvement  in 
arranging it. It follows it cant be held responsible for any concerns Miss H has about the 
bridging loan.
Miss H has complained RBS sold her a non-regulated loan and didnt carry out affordability 
checks. Given the loan was to consolidate  the overdraft liability  on her business  current  
account, Miss H was entering  the loan agreement  wholly or predominantly for the purposes 
of a business carried on by her or intended  to be carried on by her. Under  the Financial 
Services and Markets  Act 2000 (Regulated  Activities) Order  2001, such agreements  are 
exempt from regulation.  But this doesnt  mean RBS breached rules by entering into such an 
agreement. 
Looking at the loan documentation, I can see Miss H signed a declaration confirming she 
understood she would not have the benefit of the protection and remedies that would be 
available under a regulated agreement. By signing it, she also confirmed she was aware she 
could seek independent legal advice if she had any doubts as to the consequences of the 
agreement not being regulated. So I dont think RBS did anything wrong in this respect.  And 
I havent seen  sufficient evidence to say proper affordability checks  werent carried  out.
In relation to RBS agreeing to write-off some of the overdraft balance, I can see our 
investigator asked Miss H to provide evidence supporting  her assertion, but this hasnt been 
Ref: DRN04137013forthcoming. So Ive considered the information that is available  and I havent seen anything 
that leads me to think RBS agreed  to this.
Finally, I know  Miss H feels strongly about RBS moving her account back  to its Recoveries 
department and engaging  solicitors to pursue the outstanding balance.  Ive carefully 
considered what  shes  told us and RBS about her circumstances. I acknowledge she was 
suffering from poor health had to look after her elderly relatives. I can also see RBS took 
Miss Hs circumstances  into account  and withheld seeking repayment. And I see it had 
discussions periodically with her to understand how things were going with her health and 
financial situation. 
I can also see RBS allowed Miss H time to deal with her complaint against the bridging 
company.  But,  during  the course of 2017, system  notes suggest that it wasnt able to make 
contact with her for an extended period of time. The notes indicate call and voicemails 
werent being returned. Whilst RBS was sympathetic to Miss Hs situation,  ultimately it was 
looking for the debt to be repaid. And a considerable time had passed since the contractual  
repayment was due. Having given this a lot of thought,  I dont agree RBS acted unfairly  in 
invoking the terms and conditions of the loan agreement and seeking  immediate repayment.
Im sure this situation has been extremely stressful for Miss H, and Im sorry to hear about  all 
the difficulties  shes been having.  But having  considered the overall circumstances  
surrounding this complaint, I dont think RBS treated her unfairly.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 January 2020.
Melanie Roberts
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0413701