K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Caversham Finance Limited (trading as BrightHouse) treated him 
unfairly when he was unable to make  payment on the day set under a hire purchase 
agreement.
background
Mr S took out two hire purchase agreements for items from BrightHouse. Under the 
agreements Mr S was to make fortnightly payments. 
Mr S has a number of serious  health complaints and unfortunately, in December 2018, due 
to his health he wasnt able to make  the payment on the date that been  set.
Mr S phoned  the store  to explain  that the payment  wouldnt be made. He says he found  the 
person he spoke to was unsympathetic and the conversation to be humiliating. He was told 
that a £12 late fee would be applied.
Mr S phoned  Head Office  and complained  at the way he was treated. BrightHouse cancelled  
the £12 late fee and sent Mr S £10 as compensation for the distress  caused.
Mr S was unhappy at the amount of the compensation and complained to this service.  Our 
adjudicator didnt recommend his complaint was upheld. She said she thought  that 
BrightHouse had dealt  with Mr S fairly. 
The adjudicator said that unfortunately there wasnt a recording of the phone  call to the store  
so it wasnt clear what had been said. It also appeared that BrightHouse hadnt been  aware  
of Mr Ss health issues until hed called about  missing the payment date. Once  it was made  
aware BrightHouse  took steps to note his account  and refund the late fee that had been 
charged. 
The adjudicator said that the £10 compensation was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances and she didnt think BrightHouse should do more.
Mr S disagreed with our adjudicators view and the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S says that when  the December 2018  payment  had been due he didnt have sufficient 
funds in his account to clear the payment that had been set under the hire purchase 
agreements. He says he had enough  cash to make the payment  but as he was feeling too 
unwell to travel was unable to physically  go into the store and make the payment. He called 
the store to explain  his circumstances. As this was an incoming call there isnt any recording 
of it. Mr S says the person  he spoke  to was rude and uncaring.
BrightHouse says it has spoken to the staff at the store concerned.  It says that shortly  after 
Mr S spoke with the store Mr Ss account  was noted to show that he had health issues. So 
the staff had acted  appropriately after learning  of Mr Ss difficulties.
Ref: DRN04142592Under the hire purchase agreements £12 late fees are applied if we do not receive  a 
payment in full or before your payment date.  So I accept  that BrightHouse  was entitled to 
add this fee to Mr Ss account. However it then waived this charge once it had taken into 
account his personal  circumstances. I think  this was a fair and reasonable step for it to have 
taken.
Mr S feels  strongly that £10 isnt enough to compensate him adequately for how he was 
dealt with and the stress  it caused  him. BrightHouse disagrees and says it has dealt with his 
complaint appropriately.
I appreciate Mr Ss disappointment  with the amount of compensation but I dont agree that a 
larger figure would be reasonable.  I understand Mr S felt humiliated by the conversation but 
without being  able to listen to the call I dont know what was said by the store to Mr S or vice 
versa. Ive seen that the store noted Mr Ss account that he had health  needs so it did take 
appropriate action  afterwards. And Ive also seen that the £12 late fee was cancelled within a 
short time of it being imposed. So Im satisfied  that the issues he raised were dealt with 
quickly.
So looking  at the evidence Im satisfied that BrightHouse responded reasonably and fairly  to 
Mr Ss complaint and Im not going  to ask it to do more.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 June  2019.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0414259