K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken in 2003  when    
Mrs C applied for a credit  card. Mrs C says Bank of Scotland plc  trading as Halifax 
(Halifax) - mis-sold  her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Cs case.
Having done this, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
Mrs C says she doesnt remember  there being  any mention of the PPI on the application  
form when she completed it. Halifax doesnt  have any paperwork Mrs C would have 
completed at the time but it has provided a sample copy  of the application  form Mrs C is 
likely to have completed.
Looking at the sample copy, I can see it asks applicants to tick a box if they want the policy. 
Ive thought about what I know  about  how Halifax sold these types of policies at the time, 
alongside what Mrs C has told us. And having  done  this, I think its unlikely Halifax would 
have added the PPI without Mrs C indicating she wanted it. But I can understand why Mrs C 
cant remember taking the policy now.
Halifax says it recommended the PPI to Mrs C so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
her  and based  on what  Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think  that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover.
Mrs C says she was working  for less than 16 hours  at the time.  Ive carefully reviewed  the 
terms of the policy  but it isnt a requirement  for someone to be working  a certain  number of 
hours to make them eligible to claim. So the fact Mrs C was working those hours wouldnt 
have made  it any more difficult for her to make  a claim. 
Mrs C says she had sick pay benefits from her employer. The PPI would have paid out 
alongside her employee  benefits, as well as covering her repayments if she became 
unemployed. And I cant see that she had any other means  such  as savings  to make her 
repayments. So I dont  think Halifax was wrong to recommend the policy to her.  
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But it seems  like it would have been  useful  for her if something went wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the PPI would have put 
her off taking  out the cover.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mrs C paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mrs C back  some  of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mrs C now Ive issued my final decision. 
Ref: DRN02032752my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs C to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 February  2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0203275