K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains that National  Savings and Investments has started  using the Consumer 
Prices Index (CPI) instead of the Retail Prices Index  (RPI) when calculating interest on 
savings certificates. 
background
Mrs H says shes had savings certificates with NS&I  for many years. NS&I has previously 
index linked the interest payable on savings certificates to RPI but in October 2018 it wrote  
to customers and said it would switch to using CPI instead. NS&I  explained  that the change 
would only affect  savings certificates  maturing from 1 May 2019 that holders wanted  to 
reinvest. 
Mrs H complained as she feels this will lead to lower returns  on the savings certificates she 
holds. NS& responded on 15 November  2018  and gave some  further  information  about its 
decision to switch the index it uses. NS&I confirmed the change  would  only impact savings 
certificates that matured  from 1 May 2019. 
Mrs H referred  her complaint to our service and an investigator looked  at it. He didnt think  
NS&I had made a mistake  or acted  unfairly  as the terms  for savings certificates  say it can 
decide the terms for index linking for savings certificates that are being renewed. Unhappy  
with his response, Mrs H asked to appeal so her complaints been passed  to me to make  a 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs H says shes held savings certificates with NS&I  for many years  and uses  the income  
she receives on maturity to support her. I understand why shes  upset and that theres a risk 
that by switching from CPI to RPI she may receive less. But I need to be fair to both sides 
and I think the terms of the savings certificates are important. 
The relevant  conditions were quoted in full by the investigator so I wont  repeat them here 
other than to say that they allow NS&I  to decide  on what  terms it will index link savings 
certificates. Theres nothing in the terms that says NS&I has to use RPI indefinitely. Having 
checked the terms, Im satisfied they allow NS&I to decide what index to use for new and 
renewed savings  certificates. 
Mrs H says that the change in index is a breach of contract but Im not persuaded thats the 
case. The contract for each saving certificate  is for a specific  term. Once  the term ends 
savings certificate holders  can decide  to renew.  But thats a new arrangement  for a new 
term. Im sorry to disappoint Mrs H but I havent  found theres any obligation on NS&I  to 
continue to use the same index for renewed  savings certificates  as the previous ones held. 
I understand Mrs H has raised concerns regarding the information given to customers  on 
maturity and whether  its clear enough  that CPI will be used. But we look at complaints 
individually and Im satisfied, from what Ive seen, that Mrs H was aware  of the new 
arrangements in advance of 1 May 2019  when they came  into effect. 
Ref: DRN01127612Whilst I understand Mrs Hs concerns, Im satisfied NS&I is allowed to switch  the index it 
links to savings certificates. As a result, Im not telling  it to take any further action to resolve 
this complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 August 2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0112761