K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains that delays in switching his current account to The Royal Bank of Scotland  
Plc (RBS)  meant that he missed  out on an incentive it was offering.
background
Mr N applied to switch  his current account to RBS in November 2018. At the time, RBS was 
offering an incentive  of £125 if the account  was applied for between  specific  dates; a non-
RBS current account  was transferred to it; and £1,500  was deposited and the customer  had 
logged in to its online or mobile banking service by 7 January 2019.
RBS received Mr Ns application and sent him an application form to sign and return. He 
gave the details of the account be wanted  to be switched to RBS. Mr Ns new account  was 
opened from 5 December 2018  and it began the switching process but this request was 
rejected by the other bank. Mr N then gave  the details of a different account to be switched 
and complained about the length of time the process was taking. He said he felt that RBS 
had not replied to him when hed contacted it.
RBS apologised  that Mr N had been caused any trouble but said it had responded to him. 
And it needed more  information from him to proceed with the switching of his account. 
The switch  of Mr Ns account went through and he paid £1,500 into his RBS account  with 
this showing on his statement on 11 January 2019.
But RBS said that he hadnt met all of the eligibility rules for the switching incentive as the 
£1,500 hadnt been paid into the account  before 7 January and hed not logged in to either  
the online or mobile banking.
Mr N said that these  timescales hadnt  been given to him  hed assumed he had three 
months from the account opening to do this. He felt RBS had delayed in completing  the 
switch and then introduced a cut-off date for the incentive. He said hed tried to log on for 
internet banking but encountered problems as he didnt have a mobile  number for an 
activation code  to be sent to him. He thought  RBS should pay him at least  half of the 
incentive amount.
One of our adjudicators looked  at the complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld.  She 
didnt think RBS had made any error or had delayed in the switching process  as it hadnt 
been able to go ahead with completing this until it had all the information from Mr N and it 
had contacted him about this. 
She said Mr N hadnt met the criteria for the switching incentive but these were clearly  set 
out in the terms  of the offer. She also said that although Mr N didnt have a mobile number 
for the activation  code, RBS couldve sent this to him by post. 
Mr N didnt accept the adjudicators findings and asked for his complaint to be reviewed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN09129042I can appreciate that it will have been frustrating  and disappointing for Mr N to have missed 
out on the incentive RBS had offered for switching  is current account, particularly if he 
thought hed done all that was needed to receive the £125.
However, I dont think that RBS made  a mistake  or delayed in completing the process  to 
switch the account which  directly  caused  Mr N to miss this offer.
I say this because  it initially need more information  than Mr N had given in applying  for the 
account and it also needed his signed application form for it. Mr Ns new account was then 
opened for him on 5 December 2018, which seems to be a reasonable time frame  from his 
initial application. 
Part of the criteria to be eligible for this switching incentive was that a non-RBS account 
should be transferred.  But when RBS applied using the original bank  details Mr N had given 
it, the switch request was rejected by that bank. Mr N then gave details of another  bank 
account elsewhere which meant the switch request had to be re-entered.  
Mr Ns RBS account was set up a month before the two other  parts of the eligibility criteria 
needed to be met  the credit of £1,500  and the logging onto the online or mobile banking. I 
appreciate that Mr N may not have realised  that there was a date that these had to be 
completed by, but, as the adjudicator said, this was specifically detailed  in the terms of the 
switching incentive  as being by 7 January 2019.
I can also see that it wouldve been  difficult for Mr N to meet the step in the logging  onto 
online banking process of entering an access code  received by text message  when  he didnt 
have a mobile phone. But RBSs guide for completing this process  does say that the access 
code can be sent to the customer  by post if theres no mobile  number.
Overall, I dont  think RBS caused  delays  with the switching of Mr Ns current  account. And 
he didnt meet all of the criteria set out in the terms of the switching incentive criteria as his 
credit of £1,500  and logging onto to online banking wasnt completed by the set date.  So I 
dont think it should  be required to pay him this incentive, either in full or in part.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 July 2019.
Cathy Bovan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0912904