K821x#15complaint
Miss F has complained about short-term loans granted to her by CashEuroNet UK LLC 
(trading as QuickQuid). Miss F says she couldnt afford these loans and that QuickQuid didnt 
take appropriate steps to check whether she could afford them when she took them out. 
background
QuickQuid agreed seven short-term loans for Miss F between April 2016 and March 2018. 
Each loan was repayable over between two and three months.
Miss F re-financed loan 2, this is where  she borrowed further funds, extending  the term of 
the original agreement, agreeing a new repayment schedule. She also took out top-ups on 
loans 4, 5 and 6. This is where she took out further  borrowing under the same  agreement,  
before paying  back the initial amount borrowed.  Ive set out a summary  of the lending below. 
loan no. applicationprincipal 
amount (£)no. of instalments 
duehighest monthly  
repayment  due (£)
1 30/04/2016 100 2 126
2 30/06/2016 100 3 126
2a 02/09/2016 25 3 143
3 16/12/2016 100 2 124
4 03/03/2017 100 2 125
4a 04/03/2017 150 2 312
5 13/05/2017 200 2 253
5a 20/05/2017 100 2 379
6 09/02/2018 100 3 122
6a 10/02/2018 50 3 184
7 08/03/2018 50 3 61
One of our adjudicators has looked into Miss Fs complaint already and recommended the 
complaint be upheld in part. She felt the checks QuickQuid carried out on loans 1 to 2a and 
loans 6 - 7 were  proportionate, but that the checks carried out on loans 3 to 5a werent  
proportionate. 
She thought  that had QuickQuid carried out proportionate checks  on loans 3 - 4, it wouldve 
likely concluded these  loans wouldve  still been affordable for Miss F. But she thought that 
the information QuickQuid obtained  from the checks it did carry out for loans 4a  5a, gave it 
sufficient information  to have realised these loans would not have been sustainably  affordable 
for Miss F, and therefore should not have agreed to them. 
She also thought  that while the checks QuickQuid  carried out when  Miss F applied for loans 
6, 6a and 7, were proportionate.  That it shouldve realised from these checks that she had 
insufficient disposable income available  to be able to meet the repayments on these loans in 
a sustainable  manner, and therefore should  not have agreed to them.  
QuickQuid disagreed with the findings. So as no agreements been reached at this stage, 
the case has come to me, as an ombudsman, for a final decision. Miss F raised no new 
arguments in response  to the adjudicators assessment. So it would seem that loans 1  4 
Ref: DRN02282722are no longer appear in dispute. Therefore, my decision will focus on QuickQuids decision to 
lend from loan 4a onwards. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and   
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time.  
Our adjudicator, having looked  at everything, found  that QuickQuid didnt carry out 
proportionate checks for some of Miss Fs applications. And based on her review, she 
thought that QuickQuid should refund the interest and charges on loans 4a through  to 7. 
These findings were  set out in some  detail in a view letter  to the lender. 
QuickQuid initially said it carried out appropriate and proportionate affordability assessments, 
including validation of Miss Fs income  and expenses before funding all these loans. Its said 
it started implementing changes to affordability assessments in June  2014  and all the 
changes were completed by 28 February  2015.
It said that starting 1 March 2015, before Miss F borrowed her first loan, it had implemented 
an affordability review that was consistent  with the FCA (Financial  Conduct  Authority)  
Handbook and was in place at the time it received authorisation  by the FCA. And that its 
assessment was conducted properly and individually  for each of these applications.
QuickQuid raised this argument in both its initial submissions, and in response  to the 
adjudicators assessment.  However,  our job is to look not only into the rules and regulations  
set by the regulator at the time of borrowing but also the law, good industry practice  and all 
the available  evidence and arguments  to help us decide whether we think  what  the business 
has done is right or not. And in this case I dont think QuickQuid was right to provide Miss F 
with some of the loans  she borrowed  from 2015  onwards.
This service has responded to QuickQuid on the above generic argument directly and 
through earlier final decisions. So Im not going to expand on this point any further here, 
though I have considered it alongside everything else in making my decision. 
I would remind QuickQuid  at this point of the FCA guidance in how complaints are to be 
dealt with promptly and fairly (my emphasis) by businesses. In particular DISP 1.3.2A [G] 
which says that businesses procedures for complaint handling should  
ensure that lessons learned as a result of determinations by the Ombudsman are effectively 
applied in future complaint handling,  for example by:
(1) relaying a determination by the Ombudsman  to the individuals in the respondent who 
handled the complaint and using it in their training and development;
(2) analysing any patterns in determinations by the Ombudsman concerning  complaints 
received by the respondent and using this in training  and development of the individuals  
dealing with complaints in the respondent; and
(3) analysing guidance produced by the FCA , other relevant regulators and the Financial  
Ombudsman Service and communicating it to the individuals dealing with complaints  in 
the respondent.
Ref: DRN02282723So my decision will focus on the specifics of Miss Fs complaint and what  both parties have 
said about this.
QuickQuid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss F 
could repay  her loans  in a sustainable  manner. 
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and Miss Fs income and expenditure. With this in mind, 
in the early stages  of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks  might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that a lender should fairly and reasonably have  
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These would 
include where:
a consumers income is low or the amount to be repaid takes up a substantial portion 
of their income 
the amount,  or amounts, due to be repaid are higher 
there is a larger number and/or frequency of loans 
the period  of time during which a customer has been provided with borrowing is long.
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Bearing all of this in mind, I think that there  are three  key questions  for me to consider in 
order to fairly and reasonably determine Miss Fs complaint. These  questions  are:
1.Did QuickQuid, each time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate checks to 
satisfy itself that Miss F would be able to repay  in a sustainable way?  If not, would 
those checks have  shown that Miss F would have been able to do so?
2.Taking into account the short-term purpose of the loans provided, did the overall 
pattern of lending  increase Miss Fs indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or 
otherwise harmful?
3.Did QuickQuid act unfairly or unreasonably  in some other way?
1. Did QuickQuid, each  time it lent, complete  reasonable  and proportionate checks to satisfy  
itself that Miss F would  be able to repay in a sustainable way?  If not, would those checks  
have shown that Miss F would have been able to do so?
As loans  1 - 4 are no longer in dispute, I havent  reconsidered the proportionality of the 
checks QuickQuid carried out on these loans as part of my assessment. And I havent 
recreated individual, proportionate affordability checks for loans 4a to 7 either, because 
I dont think that it is necessary to do so. Ill explain why.
2. Taking into account the short-term purpose of the loans provided, did the overall  pattern of 
lending increase Miss Fs indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise 
harmful?
Ref: DRN02282724Ive looked at the overall pattern of lending. Ive looked to see if there was a point at which 
QuickQuid should  reasonably have  seen that further lending was unsustainable, or 
otherwise harmful. And so QuickQuid should have  realised  that it shouldnt  have provided 
any further lending.  Given the particular circumstances of Miss Fs case,  I think that this 
point was reached by loan Miss F took out loan 4a. I say this because:
the amount  Miss F was borrowing was steadily increasing, and QuickQuid ought to 
have realised it was likely her indebtedness was increasing unsustainably 
Miss F wasnt  making  any real inroads  to the amount she owed QuickQuid. And was 
in effect paying large amounts of interest to service this debt over an extended period
Miss F had rolled over repayments on previous loans. 
I think that Miss F lost out because QuickQuid  continued to provide borrowing  from 
loan 4a onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Fs indebtedness by allowing  
her to take expensive  credit over an extended period of time
the sheer number  of loans (loans  and deferrals) was likely to have had negative 
implications on Miss Fs ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the 
market for these high-cost loans
So Im upholding  Miss Fs complaint about  loans  4a to 7 because  the overall  pattern of 
lending increased  her indebtedness  in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful  
and she lost out as a result.
Did QuickQuid act unfairly  or unreasonably  in some  other way?
Ive carefully thought  about everything provided.  Having done  so, Ive not seen anything here 
that leads me to conclude QuickQuid acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss F in some 
other way.  
Gaps in lending
There was a gap of just over six months between when Miss F repaid loan 5 (and the top-up 
on this loan) and when she took out loan 6. And I can see that QuickQuid asked Miss F 
about her regular income and outgoings when she applied for loan 6. So Ive considered 
whether or not this gap in itself, is enough constitute a break in the chain of lending.
However at the time Miss F came back to borrow loan 6, her declared  income  had decreased 
by around £100  a month to around  £450, and her declared monthly expenses had increased 
to over £300. Given the significant drop in her resulting disposable income,  and the fact she 
was now returning  again to borrow for a sixth time,  I think it shouldve been  clear to 
QuickQuid that Miss F had not been able to free herself of the need to continue  to take out 
short-term loans throughout this time.  So this gap doesnt change my mind from the fact that 
I think it was irresponsible  of QuickQuid to have continued to lend to Miss F from loan 4a 
onwards.    
Ref: DRN02282725what QuickQuid  should  do to put things right
I think QuickQuid was wrong to have  approved  loans 4a onwards. So it needs  to refund all of 
the interest and charges Miss F paid on these loans.
Specifically, it should:
-refund  all interest and charges Miss F paid on loans 4a to 7;
-pay interest on these refunds at 8% simple  from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement*;
-remove any negative information  about loans 4a to 7 from Miss Fs credit file;
*HM Revenue & Customs requires QuickQuid  to take off tax from this interest. QuickQuid  
must give Miss F a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold Miss Fs complaint in part. 
And I require  CashEuroNet UK LLC to put things  right as described  above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2019.
Brad Mcilquham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0228272