K820x#14complaint
Mrs K complains that Vitality  Life/Forces Mutual  (PMGI Limited) wrongly  pressurised her 
son, Mr K, to take out unnecessary insurance in 2017.
background
Mr K started the second phase of his Army training, during  which time he was sold life and 
injury insurance costing just over £30 a month. He also paid nearly £4 for an app and 
received a watch as part of the sale (neither of which  hes never used  according  to Mrs K). 
He cancelled the policy 18 months  later.
Mrs K said that as an 18 year old living away from home for the first time her son was 
vulnerable and was subjected to inappropriate pressure selling. She said PMGI should 
refund the premiums  because the risks of a serious  illness were greatly exaggerated. We 
should look at the questionable  sales tactics.
An adjudicator at this service  felt unable to conclude that Mr K was put under  undue  
pressure to take out the policy.
He said that as Mr K was single with no dependents he had no need  for life cover  but felt the 
policy was suitable  as a standalone critical illness policy would have been more  expensive. 
So he hadnt  lost out as a result of the unnecessary life cover.  While Mr K didnt use the two 
products this wasnt sufficient to uphold the complaint.  
He also didnt feel that the extra costs  for Kit/Contents  Insurance and Personal Accident 
Cover were  unsuitable given Mr Ks job.
Mrs K didnt agree and said:
Her son had no idea about  life insurance. He was signing lots of things when he 
arrived at the army  base for his training and didn't know  what  this was about
These young people had just spent 13 weeks training to do what  they are told by the 
armed forces and were  in a vulnerable position. They  were  taken into a lecture  
theatre and left believing this is a product they needed
Mr K didnt  understand  there  was a cooling-off  period  and was preoccupied with the 
second phase of his training. The advisers  drive to gain commission  far outweighed 
Mr K needing or wanting any financial product. The recruits  had just been paid, 
having a regular income was new to them and they were  preyed upon
As a parent, she would have directed him to a cheaper product if she thought  it 
necessary; a comparison offered covered at £26 a month with other providers
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN03393292Its important to make clear that my role is to assess whether a business clearly  did 
something wrong, and if their customer suffered as a result. In this case  while I fully 
understand Mrs Ks concerns I dont  think there  is enough evidence to uphold  this complaint.
Firstly, I cannot  reasonably say that a business is not entitled, with the armys permission, to 
speak to recruits  and recommend they take out life insurance. So while this clearly needs to 
be done at a suitable time and place its not for me to specify  how or when such  sales take 
place.
While I also accept that Mr K may have had many other things on his mind during this crucial 
phase of his training, Ive seen no evidence to fairly  conclude that he was subject to 
excessive pressurised selling. I accept  that this does  sometime occur  but it is difficult to 
prove and in the absence of any evidence suggesting recruits  were told they had to take out 
cover or would be penalised  in some way for not doing so I cannot  uphold this part of the 
complaint.
Given this, my role is limited to assessing whether the recommended  insurance  was 
reasonably appropriate and if Mr K was given sufficient information  to decide whether to go 
ahead with the recommendation. As the investigator  it is not unreasonable,  in principle to 
recommend that an 18 year take out serious/critical illness cover (the life insurance  
effectively being  free) even where they are in a job with some life/disability protection.  
The advisor set out the basis for their initial recommendation so the quote was designed to 
meet Mr Ks alleged objectives of buying  a house  and having some  replacement income. To 
this extent it seems likely that he took part in a detailed discussion of what was being 
proposed.
The fact that Mr K rejected the proposed  cover  and monthly premiums demonstrates, in my 
view, that he was aware of what was being recommended and did not passively agree to 
whatever was put forward.  So I dont think there  is enough evidence  to say he was not fully 
aware of what he was buying.
The fact that other  providers may offer similar cover  for a lower cost is also not sufficient  to 
uphold this or any other complaint. It is in the nature of things that different companies  
charge different prices for various products.
I think it is extremely disappointing  that the advisor  did not spell out the significant 
drawbacks to this policy in the long run i.e. that the cost of premiums  were eventually due to 
rise very substantially, and at a time when Mr K would be more likely to need to make  a 
claim. This meant the policy was set up more along the lines of a reviewable whole of life 
policy than a term policy, with all the attendant disadvantages as a form of long term cover.
But as Mr K only held the policy for 18 months he did not suffer  as a result of this issue  so I 
dont think it is appropriate to uphold his particular  complaint.
From what  Ive read Mr K took out the other two policies referred to in the original  complaint  
directly and without any advice and that Mr K has not disputed  this. I have therefore not 
considered these in this decision  as PMGI Limited  were not responsible for the sales.
Ref: DRN03393293my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 November 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0339329