K821x#15complaint
Mrs F has complained about the advice provided  by Precise Protect  Ltd to cancel an existing 
term assurance policy in favour  of two new policies and the subsequent decline of a claim 
following the death of Mr F.
background
Mrs F had a joint term assurance policy with the late Mr F, which started  on 14 June 2013. 
The policy was underwritten by an insurer Ill call V and provided initial  cover  of £39,500 
over a term of 14 years. The sum assured was subject to increases in line with the retail 
price index.
In March 2018 Mrs F says they were visited by the same adviser, who informed them  he 
now represented Precise Protect and had access to a wider range of insurance  providers.  
Mrs F says they were  persuaded to change their existing joint policy in favour of two term 
assurance policies  (one each). Mrs Fs policy had a sum assured of £50,000 over a term of 
14 years  and Mr Fs policy  had a sum assured of £30,000 over a term of 12 years.  Each 
policy was underwritten by an insurer Ill refer to as A.
Sadly, Mr F passed away in July 2018 following a brief illness. Mrs F made  a claim under 
Mr Fs policy, but A told her Mr F hadnt  completed  his application form correctly. It said Mr F 
had experienced kidney  problems in 2016  and had been seeing  a doctor for a lung condition  
at the time of his application, which he needed  to tell A about. As he didnt, A had cancelled  
the policy from inception  and returned the premiums. For this reason, it wouldnt be 
considering the claim further. 
Mrs Fs son complained to Precise Protect on her behalf. He said the adviser had turned  up 
unannounced and had persuaded Mr and Mrs F to change  their cover.  He also said theyd 
made the adviser aware  of their health conditions  but he had ignored  them  and hadnt 
included them in their application forms. Mrs F had since provided  details  of her medical 
conditions to A, which had resulted in an increase to her premium.
Precise Protect didnt  uphold the complaint. It said the adviser  had made a recommendation 
that was suitable for Mr and Mrs Fs needs, which was accepted  at the time.  It said the 
adviser wouldve  recorded any medical  conditions  but in any event, A sent Mr and Mrs F a 
copy of their application forms to check. So, if they felt medical  information  was missing, they 
should have updated it then.
Mrs F referred her complaint to our service and our investigator upheld it. He didnt think  
there was sufficient evidence to conclude that the adviser had failed to record  medical 
information that had been disclosed to him. He also recognised that Mr and Mrs F each had 
an opportunity to correct  any mistakes  before  the policy was put in place.
However, the investigator didnt think the adviser  had identified  any specific need that 
wouldve warranted Mr and Mrs F changing their previous  policy. So, he didnt think the 
recommendation was reasonable.  The investigator believed  Mr and Mrs Fs policy with V 
wouldve most likely still been  in place at the time of Mr Fs death but for the poor advice. So, 
to put things right, he recommended Precise Protect should pay the sum assured that 
wouldve been payable  by V when  Mr F passed away. V confirmed  this wouldve been 
£40,030.35. He didnt  think  any adjustment should  be made for the premiums as he noted 
Mr and Mrs F were  paying similar amounts for the new polices.
Ref: DRN07813682Precise Protect didnt  agree.  It felt the adviser had identified a new need, which was that 
Mr and Mrs F wanted to leave a legacy  for their children and cover funeral expenses. 
However, as a gesture, it offered Mrs F £10,030.35  this represented the difference 
between the sum assured under the joint policy  and the sum assured payable  under Mr Fs 
policy.
Mrs F didnt  accept this offer. She added  that shed been struggling to pay her mortgage 
since Mr F had passed away. The investigator  referred Mrs Fs response to Precise Protect;  
he said the fact Mrs F had a mortgage raised further  concerns with the sale. This was 
because the fact find and suitability letter recorded  that Mr and Mrs F lived in a rented 
property and didnt  have a mortgage.
Precise Protect said Mr and Mrs F couldnt have told the adviser about their mortgage  as he 
wouldnt have had any reason not to record it. However, as a further gesture, it increased the 
offer to £20,551.99 as this was the amount outstanding on Mrs Fs mortgage  at the time of 
Mr Fs death.  Mrs F also didnt accept the increased  offer.
As no agreement could be reached  the complaint has been passed  to me to make  a final 
decision on the matter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding it for 
largely the same reasons  as the investigator.
Following the decline  of the claim  by A, Mrs F complained that the adviser  failed to record 
any of her late husbands medical conditions, as well as her own,  when setting up the policy. 
I havent seen  enough evidence to say Mr F definitely told the adviser all of the relevant 
medical information and that he failed to record it in their application  forms. Im also mindful  
that A sent Mr and Mrs F a copy of their application forms to check  that they had been 
completed accurately.  These included warnings about the consequences  of providing 
incomplete or inaccurate information. So, even if the adviser left out some details, Im 
satisfied Mr and Mrs F had an opportunity  to correct this before the new policies went  ahead 
and they cancelled their existing policy.
Mrs F says the adviser called on them unannounced  and persuaded them to change their 
existing insurance.  She said he claimed  they could  pay less and the change would benefit 
them overall. The adviser doesnt dispute that he initiated the meeting with Mr and Mrs F. As 
they werent actively looking to change their insurance, Ive considered  whether the 
recommendation to change  their existing insurance was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
When Mr and Mrs F took the policy with V in 2013,  they were  around 60 and 57 years old 
respectively. The policy was taken for a term of 14 years.  Life assurance is generally taken 
out for the long term and I wouldnt expect policyholders, particularly at Mr and Mrs Fs age, 
to change their life assurance  regularly. The reason for this is that insurance becomes more 
expensive with age and policyholders may have developed  medical conditions  that could 
hinder or make an application for new insurance more expensive.  In March 2018,  the policy 
with V had been in place for less than five years  and had over nine years left to run.
Ref: DRN07813683Given the policy had been in place  for five years,  I dont think  it was unreasonable  for the 
adviser to conduct  a review. However, I have to consider whether the advice to replace the 
existing policy was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Precise Protect says it was reasonable for the adviser to recommend new cover because 
Mr and Mrs Fs needs had changed. It says Mr and Mrs F wanted cover  for funeral expenses 
and to leave a legacy for their children. The advisers discussions and recommendation to 
Mr and Mrs F is captured in the fact find and suitability letter. Ive reviewed these carefully.
The fact find notes that Mr and Mrs F both intended  to retire at age 70, that they didnt have 
any dependents and they didnt have a mortgage. The adviser  noted  the details of the 
existing policy and that this was for family protection. The adviser recommended  that 
Mr and Mrs F take individual policies as Ive set out above.
Towards the back of the fact find there  are several  pages that have pre-populated  objectives 
and reasons for recommending the cover. The adviser made the following selections:
There is no mention of Mr and Mrs F wanting  to leave a legacy for their children. The adviser 
then made  the following additional selections:
This information is repeated in the suitability letter.
I havent seen  any notes either in the fact find or the suitability letter that are specific  to 
Mr and Mrs Fs circumstances at the time of the advice. The fact find as presented  (the 
options circled) does  fit the advisers recommendation. However,  that doesnt mean it is what 
Mr and Mrs F told him they wanted.  There doesnt  appear to be any change in Mr and 
Mrs Fs circumstances  that would render their existing policy unsuitable  to meet  their needs. 
The policy with V provided cover  of around £40,000  and I think  it met all of their stated 
objectives.
Precise Protect says that Mr and Mrs F wanted  to increase the level and term of the cover  so 
this explains why new cover was recommended. I accept the adviser has circled  these 
options in the fact find, but I havent  seen any justification of why Mr and Mrs F wanted this. 
The advisers note simply says, as discussed and agreed upon.
Mr and Mrs F didnt  have  any dependents  and they hadnt taken on any new debts that 
meant they wanted  cover for an extended  period of time. And in fact, Mr F ended up with 
25% less cover than he had originally. If this was truly the motivation for Mr and Mrs F 
wanting new policies,  I wouldve  expected  each of them to have  had their cover increased 
and the term extended  significantly,  even if this meant an increased cost.  In this case, 
Mr and Mrs Fs combined premiums were almost  exactly  what  they were paying  for the joint 
cover. So, it seems more  likely to me that the adviser was trying to arrange new cover for the 
same cost, which he thought would have no negative impact on Mr and Mrs F, but would  
result in him receiving commission  for the sale. However, because  of Mr Fs age, he wasnt 
able to achieve a higher level of cover  for him.
Ref: DRN07813684Precise Protect maintains  that Mr and Mrs F got an increased level of cover  because the 
combined cover was £80,000.  But the adviser  hasnt identified any reason why this was 
appropriate. Again, he has circled  that this has been recommended to ensure some cover  
remains in place if either died, but there  is no explanation of why this was important to 
Mr and Mrs F. As they didnt have any dependents, the only family they needed to protect 
was each other  overall, I think their existing policy provided that cover  as the lump sum 
would be payable to the surviving  spouse. Furthermore, a joint policy wouldve been cheaper  
for them.
I dont think any specific need  was put forwards by Mr and Mrs F and the advice was 
unsolicited  the adviser contacted them. In the absence of any explanation as to why new 
insurance was necessary,  I believe the only advantage to changing their arrangements was 
that the sale of new policies  would  result in commission for the adviser. I appreciate  that 
Mr and Mrs F appear to have accepted the recommendation at the time, but I think they 
trusted the adviser  was acting in their best interests.  For the reasons Ive set out above, 
I dont think he was.
Overall, I think Mr and Mrs Fs existing  policy met their stated needs and objectives. So, 
I think the advice  to cancel their existing policy and take out two separate policies was 
unsuitable. If the adviser had made  it clear  to Mr and Mrs F that their existing policy already 
met their needs, I think they wouldve kept their policy with V and this wouldve  been in place 
at the time of Mr Fs sad passing. V has confirmed it would have accepted the death claim, 
as the conditions that led to Mr Fs death arose after the policy  was taken in 2013.
So, to put things right, I think Precise Protect needs to pay Mrs F compensation equivalent to 
the sum payable under  the policy with V had it remained in place.  This would be a sum of 
£40,030.35. I dont think any adjustment should be made for the premiums  payable, as Mr 
and Mrs F were  paying very similar sums towards the new policies.
During the investigators review it became apparent that the adviser had incorrectly  recorded  
that Mr and Mrs F didnt have a mortgage. The investigator thought  this was further evidence 
that the sale was flawed.  However, Precise Protect says this showed Mr and Mrs F failed to 
make adequate disclosures to the adviser. As I wasnt in the meeting I cant know  what was 
said for certain. But having a mortgage isnt something Id expect Mr and Mrs F to have 
forgotten or deliberately withheld  from the adviser.  On balance, I think its most likely a 
mistake on the advisers part rather than anything sinister. But I dont  think  this really  makes 
a difference to my decision on this complaint. Even if it could be said that Mr and Mrs F 
required cover  for mortgage protection, their existing policy covered the full mortgage debt 
and wouldve left a sufficient sum to cover the remaining bills.
Precise Protect has made comments that it is unreasonable to rely on Mrs Fs testimony  
over the documentary evidence, including the fact find, which it says demonstrates why the 
recommendation was suitable. But I havent  upheld this complaint based  on Mrs Fs 
testimony. Instead, Ive considered whether it was reasonable  for the adviser to recommend 
that Mr and Mrs F should replace their existing policy. As Ive said above, the adviser hasnt  
recorded any change  in Mr and Mrs Fs circumstances or needs that wouldve resulted in 
their existing policy becoming unsuitable. For this reason, Ive upheld the complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im upholding this complaint.
Ref: DRN07813685I require Precise Protect Ltd to pay Mrs F £40,030.35 in full and final settlement of this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 July 2019.
Hannah Wise
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0781368