K821x#15complaint
Mrs D complains that DJS (UK) Limited (trading as Piggybank)  didnt carry out appropriate 
checks before lending to her. She says if it had, it would have realised she couldnt afford the 
loans.
background
Mrs D had three loans from Piggybank between December 2017 and June 2018. Loan  1 
was taken out on 21 December 2017 for £250  repayable over three  months. Loan 2 was 
taken out on 4 February 2018 for £940 repayable over 5 months. The final loan was taken 
out on 29 June  2018 for £1000 repayable over 5 months.  Mrs D says she was struggling  
with debt and the loans  werent affordable or sustainable.
Our adjudicator thought Piggybank should  have  carried  out more  thorough  enquiries  about 
Mrs Ds circumstances before lending loans 2 and 3. She thought that because the amount 
of the loans were  significant and the repayments  on the loans were a high proportion  of Mrs 
Ds disposable income Piggybank should  have asked about any other short  term loans Mrs 
D had outstanding. She thought that if it had done this it would  have discovered  that Mrs D 
couldnt afford to repay loans 2 and 3. She recommended  Piggybank  refund  any interest and 
charges associated with the loans and remove any negative information from Mrs Ds credit 
file.
Piggybank says it undertook appropriate  checks at the time including  asking  Mrs D about her 
income and expenditure. It says that the level of Mrs Ds short  term lending  wasnt  evident  
on the results of the credit search  it carried out. It did agree  that by the point of loan 3 it 
should have asked further questions  and agreed  to refund the interest and charges 
associated with that loan.
Mrs D didnt accept that offer and so Ive been  asked to look at the complaint  again.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before Piggybank lent to Mrs D it had to check that she could afford to repay the loans from 
her income and any savings she might  have had. Whilst theres no set list of checks it should  
undertake, they would normally reflect the amount and frequency of the borrowing and what 
Piggybank already knew about Mrs D. Id also expect Piggybank  to take note of information 
it received and ask further questions if necessary.
Piggybank says it recorded Mrs Ds income  as £1,800 for loan 1, and that Mrs D said her 
normal living  costs were  about £1190. This would  leave  £610 in disposable income. The 
repayments for the first loan were  £134.09. This was Mrs Ds first loan. The repayments  
looked affordable  on the figures Mrs D gave and there was nothing  to suggest further checks 
were needed  at this stage. I agree  with the adjudicator that it was reasonable for Piggybank  
to approve this loan.  
Mrs D took out the second around  a month  after repaying the first loan. Mrs D asked to 
borrow £940. This was a large increase. Mrs D said she had income of £1900  and outgoings 
Ref: DRN02821402of £1190 leaving a disposable income  of £710.  The repayment on this loan was £329.93 
over 5 months.
 
I think this amount is a significant proportion of Mrs Ds disposable income that she was 
committing to repaying  over five months,  so I think Piggybank should have been asking Mrs 
D for some more information before it lent. And I think the results of the credit  check  it did 
should also have  prompted it to ask for more  information given the size of this loan.
I say that because the check  shows  that Mrs D had a default on her credit file and a 
delinquent account. That by itself might not stop Piggybank from lending,  but I think it was 
enough to alert Piggybank to the need  for additional  information. I think if had carried out 
proportionate enquiries it would have  asked Mrs D if she had other short  term lending   and I 
cant see that it did that.
If it had, then I think Mrs D would most likely have told Piggybank what  shes told us  that 
she was struggling  with money and borrowing from other payday lenders. Mrs D was so 
heavily in debt with her other short term commitments she simply didnt have enough  money 
to repay  Piggybank. Piggybank could  easily have asked for this information at the time.  
I appreciate that Piggybank didnt see this level of short term borrowing on the credit  check it 
had. But the nature of short term borrowing is such that it isnt always evident  on a credit  
check. It is because  of this I think that Piggybank should have asked Mrs D about  any short 
term lending she may have had to make sure she could afford the borrowing. Her borrowing 
pattern and credit results suggested  that it wasnt safe to rely on the figures she had given.
Overall, I think that if Piggybank had carried out proportionate  checks  it wouldnt have lent 
loan 2 to Mrs D. Piggybank agrees that it should have done further checks for loan 3 and 
has agreed to refund  the interest  and charges on that loan. I agree, so I dont think  it is 
necessary for me to say anything further  about  that loan.
Piggybank should now put Mrs D in the position shed have been in if it hadnt lent her loans 
2 and 3. So it should refund all interest  and charges  associated with those loans and remove  
any adverse entries  about them from her credit file. As Mrs D has had the benefit of the 
money, its fair that she should  repay the amount she borrowed.  
my decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. DJS (UK) Limited should refund any interest and 
charges paid on loans 2 and 3. It should  also:
add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum  to each  of these amounts from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement. *
Ref: DRN02821403remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mrs Ds credit file in relation to the 
refunded loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires DJS (UK) Limited to take off tax from this interest.  
Piggybank must give Mrs D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for 
one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 May 2019.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0282140