K820x#14complaint
Mr S says Santander UK Plc (when it was trading as Alliance & Leicester) mis-sold him a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
From now on Ill just refer to Santander  in my decision as it is responsible for dealing  with 
this complaint. 
background
In 1989 Mr S took out a joint mortgage. He later took on responsibility on his own for that 
mortgage. In 2002  Mr S took out a PPI policy when he applied for additional borrowing on 
the mortgage account. He paid a monthly  amount for the policy  and it protected his 
mortgage repayments against accident, sickness and unemployment.  
Mr S mainly  complains that during this application nothing was highlighted or mentioned 
about PPI and he wasnt aware that hed taken out PPI. Mr S told us he wasnt  given  the 
policy details and he says PPI isnt something he wouldve requested.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Ss mis-selling complaint. 
Mr S disagrees with the adjudicators opinion  and hes asked  for a review. So this complaint 
comes to me to make a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ss mis-sale  complaint.  Ill explain my reasons.
Ive seen a written record of a meeting  that took place  between Mr S and one of Santanders 
advisors. This record has been signed  by Mr S - so Im happy to rely on what  it says.  It looks 
like Santander discussed PPI with Mr S and explained that This policy will cover  your 
existing mortgage  plus further advance. 
Although I havent  seen  how he applied  for PPI, Santander then wrote  to Mr S setting out full 
details of the cover it said hed chosen. He was given  a contact number to call if he had any 
questions. So I think its likely that if the PPI hadnt been  something he wanted at the time,  then 
Mr S wouldve been able to query this with Santander.  Ive seen nothing to suggest Mr S 
contacted Santander  at that stage with any queries  or concerns about the insurance. 
So, it looks like Mr S chose to take out the PPI to protect his mortgage  monthly  repayments.  
He wouldve been  aware that the mortgage had been running  for some years already without 
PPI and so I think he wouldve known it was up to him to say if he wanted  it. I think its likely 
that Mr S was persuaded of the policy benefits, especially as he was by now responsible on 
his own for making  the monthly repayments  and he was borrowing some  extra  money. On 
balance, even though hes forgotten this now,  I think  Mr S decided to buy PPI to protect his 
home. 
Ref: DRN04104892Santander says it recommended the PPI to Mr S, and it seems to have  been  right for him 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances.   
The policy wouldve paid out for up to 12 months per claim in the event of accident and 
sickness. PPI wouldve also paid out for up to 12 months for any one claim if Mr S lost his 
job and became unexpectedly  unemployed. Mr S couldve made repeated claims on the 
policy,  giving  him long term protection for his mortgage.
Relying on other  people to help out in the event of money problems  isnt as dependable as 
taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly.  And Mr S told us he 
was only entitled  to statutory sick pay. So it doesnt appear that Mr S had any other 
dependable way of making the monthly  repayments if he wasnt working. Looking at his 
circumstances at the time, I think the PPI was suitable. 
Its possible Santander didnt point out some  things the policy didnt cover.  But Mr S doesnt 
appear to have been affected by any of those. So I dont  think its likely that knowing more 
about the policy exclusions and limitations wouldve made any difference to his decision to 
take out PPI.
I dont know if the PPI cost was made  clear to Mr S when he took it out. But the monthly  cost 
of the policy  was shown in the welcome  letter  sent to him and Mr S couldve queried  it then if 
he decided this wasnt something he wanted to pay for. 
Mr S had signed an instruction form to his bank  to cover the cost. So, it seems  he was happy 
at the time to pay for PPI. And as he was paying for it monthly, he could cancel the policy  at 
any time without further cost, if his circumstances changed or he no longer wanted it.
Overall its possible there  may have  been  some failings  in the way this policy  was sold.  But 
I think Mr S still wouldve  decided  to buy the policy even if hed been better informed as it 
gave him useful protection in his particular situation.  His mortgage  was a big financial 
commitment and his home  wouldve been  at risk if his mortgage payments  werent kept up to 
date. So, I can see why Mr S mightve  felt PPI was useful to have. And, on balance, I dont 
find it was mis-sold.
Ive thought about everything Mr S has said in response to the adjudicators view. For the 
reasons Ive set out, these points dont  change my decision.
But Santander has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr S because:  
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr S about that. Because  Santander didnt tell 
Mr S, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Santander has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN04104893my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander  UK Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr S any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 November 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0410489