K821x#15complaint
Mr P has complained about advice he received from National Westminster Bank Plc 
(NatWest) in October 2001 to invest £5,000 in a Guaranteed Capital Bond (GCB).
Hes represented by a claims  management  company (CMC),  which  says:
while the GCB was guaranteed to return the original sum invested, theres a risk of a nil 
return which reduces  the value of the original  investment in real terms.  Mr P was 
approaching retirement and this risk wasnt warranted at his age;
the GCB  could produce a return of up to 25 per cent after three-and-a-half years. But 
theres no explanation given as to how its final value was calculated  for Mr P to see what 
increase in the FTSE 100 Share Index was necessary to give this return  other than the 
key features document confirms that this return could only be achieved in very 
favourable investment  conditions;
at the time, NatWest  was offering a five year, fixed rate bond  that paid interest of 5.55 
per cent per annum gross, which would have given Mr P almost the same return without 
any risk as the maximum return the GCB  might  achieve;
the adviser should have compared the return Mr P might realistically have expected from 
the GCB  and the guaranteed return from a fixed rate bond so he could make an informed 
decision.
background
In October  2001, Mr P was in his early 60s with just over four years to retirement. He was 
self-employed, earning, on average, £20,000  per annum, which  gave him a disposable 
income of more than £400 per month.  He was generally a basic rate taxpayer. 
Mr P had made provision  for his retirement  through a contracted-in personal pension policy,  
as well as basic state pension of less than £4,000  per annum at the time. But no details  are 
given of the policys fund value or the benefits  it would provide at retirement. 
Mr P held deposit savings  of £24,000, of which he wished to pay £6,280 into a maxi-ISA he 
held with another provider  and £4,800 to a maxi-ISA  held by his wife. But no value is given 
for these  ISAs at the time. Of his remaining savings of almost  £13,000,  he wished to retain 
£8,000 as an emergency fund and to invest the balance  for capital growth.
So, Mr P was advised to put £5,000 in a GCB, which guaranteed  to return his capital after 
three-and-a-half years, plus a return of up to 25 per cent according to the increase (if any) in 
two FTSE 100 Share  Index readings - the index  at the start date of the GCB and a closing 
index equal to the average daily readings  over the last six months.
NatWest allocated 95 per cent of the original investment  to the GCB.  So, the Index needed 
to grow by more than 5.3 per cent over the term of the GCB before  Mr P could expect to 
receive back more than his original  investment.  As it was, he received back £5,000 in April 
2005; i.e. a nil return after three  and a half years.
In response to his complaint, NatWest thought the advice to take out the GCB was suitable 
for Mr P. He retained over 30 per cent of his total savings as an emergency fund and was 
prepared to commit a further 20 per cent to the GCB which  guaranteed  his capital and could 
give him a return of up to 25 per cent that exceeded the fixed  rates offered by NatWests  one 
and two-year bonds at the time. It could not find any reference to a fixed  rate bond it offered 
Ref: DRN07643732that paid 5.55 per cent per annum over five years which,  in any event, didnt coincide with 
the term of the GCB. NatWest also pointed out that Bank of England  base rate in October 
2001 was 4.5 per cent (or 3.6 per cent net) and the GCB could  provide  a return of up to 6.5 
per cent per annum with no tax to pay for a basic rate taxpayer. 
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators, who thought  it should be upheld. 
While he felt it was reasonable to advise Mr P to invest  £5,000 (or 20 per cent)  of his total 
savings, he didnt think Mr P was provided sufficient information to appreciate  the nature of 
the product he was being recommended. And, as Mr P wasnt sure whether his ISA was a 
maxi-ISA or a mini-ISA,  the investigator  didnt think he was an experienced investor.
The adviser should have explained to Mr P that alternative products guaranteed  him a 
return, whereas  the GCB did not. He acknowledged  there was mention of the one or two-
year fixed  rate bonds NatWest offered at the time.  But it wasnt emphasised enough to Mr P 
how charges applied to the GCB  affected  the return it could provide and the rate of growth in 
the FTSE 100 Share Index that was needed  to achieve the maximum possible return of 25 
per cent.  Also, there was little warning of a nil return reducing the value of his capital in real 
terms.
In response, NatWest  disagreed with the investigators assessment and said that:
based on the financial climate at the time and Mr Ps objectives, the recommendation 
to invest around 20 per cent of his savings in a GCB was reasonable;
as he already held a Maxi ISA which carried a different type of risk, the GCB 
provided a degree of diversification for him;
with regard to the lack of comparative  information provided between a fixed rate bond 
and the GCB, there was no specific requirement for this to be evidenced  in 2001. An 
adviser was required  to establish a customers objectives and provide a suitable  
recommendation based on his circumstances at the time;
Mr Ps net income more than covered his outgoings, leaving him with over a third of 
his earnings as disposable income.  He had no debts and was able to invest for three 
and a half years to retirement knowing his capital  was safe;
he already held an ISA, so he would have been  familiar  with the concept of risk;
Mr P wanted potential for capital growth. But theres  no mention of him requiring a 
certain level of growth, or one that exceeded deposit rates. He wanted the capital 
protection offered by the GCB  which carried the risk of a nil return  in return  for the 
prospect of a maximum return of 25 per cent;
the key features document (KFD) shows the increasing performance of the 
FTSE100 Share  Index  over the preceding  15 years,  particularly  over the last four 
years before  Mr P invested. In that economic climate, it wasnt unreasonable to 
expect the FTSE Share Index to grow by the amount required to produce the 
maximum return;
the KFD illustration gave returns based  on growth  rates in the Index of two, four and 
six per cent per annum. As these figures were discussed, it should have been 
evident to Mr P that the rate of growth  needed  to produce the maximum possible 
return would have  been more than six per cent and this wasnt  an unreasonable  
expectation at that time;
its a matter of opinion whether or not the issue  of inflation risk was sufficiently  
pointed out to Mr P at the time. And the availability of alternative  products was 
recorded as being  discussed. Although  NatWest  didnt offer a fixed  rate bond with a 
similar term, the adviser did discuss  the one and two year bonds  it did offer;
Ref: DRN07643733the investigators assessment is largely  based on speculation as to Mr Ps 
understanding of the product he was recommended, and not on hard facts. Without  
being at the meeting in 2001,  it cant be known exactly  what was discussed or the 
degree of explanation  Mr P was given;
on the balance of probabilities, and on the written evidence  the does exist, its 
reasonable to expect that a qualified adviser provided proper disclosure. 
Unsupported speculation as to what might, or might not, have happened is not 
evidence;
while the investigator comments that the stock  market would have to perform very 
well for the GCB  to achieve greater returns than fixed  rate deposit  accounts, theres 
no evidence to show how he came  to that conclusion. In fact, the stock market  didnt 
need to perform exceptionally for the GCB  to achieve its maximum return;
a fixed rate of 5.55 per cent per annum Mr Ps CMC says was available from a fixed  
rate bond (albeit with a five-year term) would have  provided  a net return  of 4.33 per 
cent, or 16 per cent over three-and-a-half years.  So, the GCB  had the potential to 
provide significantly  greater returns. The long term historic growth in the FTSE 100 
Share Index before 2001 would have produced a return  from the GCB  of 16 per cent 
over the same period.  But this growth  in the Index  was compromised by a sharp fall 
in the FTSE in the two years  before the advice was given. Otherwise, the average 
growth in the Index would have been around  8.6 per cent per annum, which  was 
more than sufficient  for the GCB to produce its maximum possible return;
its not suggested  that the adviser  discussed, or was expected to discuss, these risks 
with Mr P in the same level of detail.  But these figures serve to show  it was 
reasonable for the adviser to recommend the GCB as a product that offered the 
genuine prospect of a better  return than fixed rate bonds  if Mr P was prepared  to 
accept the risk of no gain.
As the investigator  wasnt inclined  to change his view, this complaint it has been referred to 
me for review.
findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I fully appreciate the points made  by NatWest that, based on past performance of the FTSE 
100 Share Index  prior to 2001, it was reasonable to expect that the GCB  could provide 
optimum returns that exceeded the rates then currently available  from fixed rate bonds. Even 
so, the GCB still came with the proviso  that: it would take very favourable  investment 
conditions for you to receive the maximum amount.
So, in my view, it was important to put this likelihood in context with the rate of interest  Mr P 
was then receiving  on his deposit  savings  and guaranteed rates that were also available  
from fixed rate bonds at that time. While the adviser has recorded that he discussed the one 
and two-year bonds being offered by NatWest  at the time, he doesnt quote the rate of 
interest they were offering  or the rate of interest  Mr P was already receiving on his savings at 
the time.  Its therefore  difficult  to see how Mr P could have made  an informed decision 
without knowing what rate of growth a fixed rate bond was guaranteed to give him and the 
increase in the FTSE 100 Share Index that was required for the GCB to provide  a greater 
return.
Ref: DRN07643734And the merits of recommending  the GCB  also need to be judged against  Mr Ps financial  
position at the time and when the GCB  was due to mature  to provide a capital sum as he 
approached retirement.
According to the advisers financial report, Mrs H was intending to retire approximately  six 
months after the GCB matured. As he was self-employed, Mr P contributed to a contracted-
in money purchase  pension scheme.  But its fund value wasnt given, so its not possible to 
know what level of pension (and tax-free cash sum) Mr P was expecting  to receive in 
around four years time other than his pension was likely to be much less than his earnings 
at the point of sale. 
So, while Mr P enjoyed  a healthy disposable  income  in October 2001, Im not sure that 
would be the case in 2005.
In my view, it was essential that Mr P made  maximum  use of his savings in October 2001 as 
its probable he would be relying  on this money to supplement a modest pension in four 
years time. I think Mr P could ill-afford for this money  to have given him no return. The GCB 
carried that real risk.
NatWest says it marketed one and two-year fixed rate bonds in October  2001,  and that Mr P 
was made  aware  of these products. But its not evident the adviser confirmed the rate of 
interest they offered at the time.  Although the adviser confirmed that fixed rate bonds  were 
mentioned as an alternative  (which Mr P rejected),  there was comparison made between the 
GCB and other products  that guaranteed his capital  and a return.
The GCB would give a return of between nil and the maximum of 25 per cent.  The adviser 
didnt explain to Mr P how the return from the GCB  was determined  other  than to refer him to 
the key features document  (KFD) for further details.
Based on the projections given in the KFD, the GCB needed to have  shown an annual 
growth rate in the FTSE 100 Index of just under the upper illustrative  rate of six per cent per 
annum to produce a return of 13 per cent Mr P would have been guaranteed  over three and 
a half years from a fixed rate bond offering Bank of England base rate of 4.5 per cent per 
annum.
But the KFD didnt  confirm the growth rate in the Index  that would be required for the GCB to 
achieve a greater return up to the maximum of 25 per cent, other  than to warn  that: It would 
take very favourable investment conditions for you to receive this amount.
Given the KFD confirms that a six per cent growth  in the Index  would give the GCB a net 
yield of 3.8 per cent, its likely that the rate required to produce a net yield of 6.5 per cent per 
annum (i.e. the maximum return of 25 per cent) needed to be in excess of 8.5 per cent. The 
GCB also carried a real risk of a nil return unless the Index grew by more  than 5.3 per cent 
over the whole term.
So, I must decide whether Mr P would still have  accepted this advice if the adviser had 
quoted the net return a fixed rate bond  might  guarantee after three-and-a-half years. In other 
words, would Mr P have been prepared to take the risk that the FTSE 100 Share  Index 
needed to grow by six per cent per annum  or more for the GCB to give him a maturity  value 
greater than he was he was guaranteed from fixed rate bonds on offer at the time?
Ref: DRN07643735Even then,  it would still be difficult for Mr P to assess the chances of the GCB  achieving a 
return of more than (say) 13 per cent to decide  if that was a degree of risk he was prepared  
to take.
On balance, given  the extent to which Mr Ps income was likely to reduce on retirement, he 
would have been reliant on his capital savings by then.
So, I dont think Mr P would have agreed to an investment that might  give him no return, or 
that otherwise  needed the FTSE 100 Share Index to increase year-on-year by at least six 
per cent to give him a return of more than 13 per cent he would have been guaranteed from 
a fixed rate bond.
In other  words, I dont  think Mr P should have  been recommended  the GCB  in favour of a 
product that gave  him a return that was guaranteed  almost  to match  the highest illustrated  
return of six per cent per annum given  in the KFD.
In my view, Mr Ps prospective financial position on retirement in 2005  wasnt  suited to the 
risk presented by the GCB that it could provide him a nil return  or, on the balance of 
probability, a return that was less than he was guaranteed from a fixed rate bond.
Mr P was being asked  to risk the prospect  of the GCB providing a nil return for the potential 
of a return up to 12 per cent more than he would have been  guaranteed from a fixed  rate 
bond. Given the maximum return of 25 per cent could be achieved  only in very favourable  
investment conditions, Im inclined to believe that this risk was more than he probably 
appreciated.
NatWest has pointed  out that the cumulative average of the FTSEs growth rate from 
inception in 1984 to the point of sale was 8.1 per cent, and that this was sufficient to provide 
the maximum return. As such,  there was a possibility that its growth could exceed the higher 
illustrated value of six per cent, or a total net return of 14 per cent.
But it would be difficult for Mr P to know the chances  of the GCB  giving him a return  of more 
than 14 per cent. And I dont think he would have been prepared  to take out the GCB that 
might give him no return, or that needed the FTSE 100 Index  to increase year-on-year by 
more than six per cent per annum to give him a return  greater than he would have been 
guaranteed from a fixed rate bond, especially when he had already committed almost 50 per 
cent of his total savings to ISAs.
This GCB was taken out to provide  funds  just before Mr P was due to retire. Given his likely 
financial situation in four years time,  I dont think he would  have  taken the risk of receiving 
no return if he had known  that a fixed rate bond  would  have guaranteed him a return of at 
least 13 per cent.
fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr P 
as close to the position he would  probably now be in if he had not been  given unsuitable  
advice. 
I take the view that Mr P would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely  
what he would have  done differently. But I am satisfied that what  I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given  Mr Ps circumstances and objectives when he invested. 
Ref: DRN07643736what should  NatWest do?
To compensate Mr P fairly,  NatWest  must:
Compare the performance of Mr Ps investment with that of the benchmark  shown  
below and pay the difference between the fair value  and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual  value  is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
NatWest should also pay interest as set out below.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end  
date)additional 
interest
Guaranteed 
Capital  
Bond III maturedaverage rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsdate of 
investmentdate of 
maturity8% simple per 
year on any loss 
from the end 
date to the date 
of settlement
actual value
This means  the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date. 
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  NatWest 
should use the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months maturity 
as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown  as at the end of 
the previous month. Those rates  should be applied to the investment on an annually  
compounded basis.  
why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method  of compensation because: 
Mr P wanted to achieve  a reasonable return without risking  any of his capital. 
The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  given Mr Ps 
circumstances and objectives. It does not mean  that Mr P would have invested only in 
a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer could have obtained  
with little risk to their capital.
The additional interest is for being  deprived  of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date.
decision 
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that National Westminster Bank Plc should pay the 
Ref: DRN07643737amount calculated as set out above.
National Westminster Bank Plc should  provide details  of its calculation to Mr P in a clear,  
simple format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr P either to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 November  2019.
Kim Davenport
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0764373