K821x#15complaint
Mr Ws complaint  is that MACKENZIE  INVESTMENT STRATEGIES  LTD. (MISL) transferred 
his Standard Life (SL) fund to a new platform,  Old Mutual Wealth (OMW), in early 2017 as 
agreed but liquidated it into and held it in cash without his knowledge or consent. He says 
MISL failed to rectify this despite his repeated requests/complaints from February  2017.
background
I issued a detailed  provisional decision (PD) for this complaint  on 15 April 2019. A copy is 
attached below, so I will not repeat its contents.  The abbreviations  used in this decision are 
as defined in the PD. Both parties  were invited  to comment on the PD.
In the main,  Mr W said:
Equal  weight should not be given to MISLs  account of events. It has made 
misrepresentations in the case which give him concern about its lack of credibility.
Reference in the PD to a statement  he made on 11 June  2017  must be clarified. The 
ISA mentioned in the statement had/has  no correlation with the SL fund. This 
confusion was caused by MISL and must  be corrected. The inference drawn in the 
PD in relation  to the statement is therefore wrong.
It is unjust  to reduce,  because he did not chase MISL for action soon after 22 
February 2017, the period for which compensation should  be due. The key points are 
that MISL was wrong to liquidate the SL fund on or around 13 February  2017  without  
his knowledge  or consent; he was proactive in contacting it in the same month in 
order to repair the matter; he arranged and attended the meeting on 22 February for 
this purpose and reiterated his clear position  on the matter; he telephoned MISL  
between February and May 2017  on several  occasions to chase up progress; he may 
not have done this chasing in writing but that does not mean inactivity on his part; he 
had done enough  to have the matter remedied,  the onus was on MISL to progress 
the matter and it is harsh , in the circumstances,  to say his compensation should be 
reduced because  he did not continuously chase MISL for resolution.
At no time did MISL  inform him of termination of its business  relationship  with him.
The basis of compensation should  revert to what the investigator proposed.
In the main,  MISL said:
It provided Mr W with an advisory  not discretionary  service, so it could only 
facilitate action where it had given advice  and where there  has been a clear 
acceptance of advice.
The PD appears to have rejected  Mr Ws original complaint, upheld  its investigation 
of that complaint and put in its place a new complaint that it should have used its 
discretion to reinvest on Mr Ws behalf after his letter of 7 May 2017. However, that 
letter did not give sufficient details for it to implement any such reinvestment and its 
efforts to engage  with Mr W were  frustrated by his reluctance to do the same.
The PD is wrong to say there  was no agreement  with Mr W before the meeting of 22 
February to move  the fund to cash. There was, and evidence of its internal 
records/notes supports this.
The PD is wrong  in terms of the end date for the calculation of compensation  to 
extend its relationship  with Mr W artificially by three months after it was terminated. It 
believes he was already in contact with a new adviser around the time and he had 
access to the fund, so he could  have  made  his reinvestment decision(s) at any time.
Ref: DRN03178402my findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments  including the parties 
responses to the PD  in order to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
this complaint. Having  done so, I have not been persuaded to depart from the conclusion in 
the PD and I retain that conclusion, in terms of merit and redress. But for the correction 
below about Mr Ws statement of 11 June  2017,  I also retain the overall findings in the PD.
I address MISLs main  points as follows:
The conclusion in the PD was/is  not based  on MISL  having a discretionary role in the 
SL fund and the PD reflected its position  that its service was an advisory  one. It is 
irrelevant to argue that MISL could only take action where  it had given advice and the 
advice had been accepted. The issues  in this case are about  MISL allegedly 
liquidating the SL fund without Mr Ws instruction or consent to do so and then about 
its alleged failure to reinvest the fund after he instructed it to do so. As reflected in the 
PD, its advice  in 2016 preceded  the problems in 2017 that led to the complaint and 
the problems relate  to what it allegedly did and then did not do without and then with 
instruction. This is what the PD addressed.
The PD provisionally upheld Mr Ws complaint, it did not reject it. It reduced, with 
reasons, the compensation period. The PD did not uphold MISLs  investigation  of the 
complaint, it provisionally found  that it had wrongly liquidated the SL fund and that, 
from May 2017,  it had failed to reinvest  when  it was instructed to do so. In this 
respect, the PD did not put in place a new complaint about the reinvestment issue.  
That issue was/is inherent in the complaint. Mr W has always alleged  that MISL  did 
not reinvest the SL fund when it had been  instructed to do so. The PD provisionally 
upheld this point,  but concluded that evidence suggests, on balance,  that his 
instruction was more  likely to have  been  given in May than in February. 
The letter in May made it clear that Mr W sought reinvestment of the SL fund to 
reverse its liquidation  earlier in February 2017; it was MISLs responsibility to execute 
the instruction;  I appreciate that MISL could have considered the elements of 
reinvestment afresh and that it could have required final approval from Mr W before 
execution; however, it was already aware of Mr Ws profile, it also knew  the type of 
contents of the fund before it was liquidated  so, as a minimum, it ought reasonably  to 
have first issued its recommendation for reinvestment; had it done so, it could then 
have been Mr Ws responsibility  to reply to the recommendation before  any further 
action was taken;  MISL did not do this, so there does  not appear  to be reasonable 
ground for it to say it was waiting for engagement with Mr W; after the letter  in May 
(and the message to reinvest  within it) a need  for his engagement would have arisen 
after a reinvestment  recommendation was issued to him, not before.
The PD addressed  MISLs argument  as of when the PD was issued  that there 
was an agreement with Mr W at the meeting of 22 February 2017 to liquidate  the SL 
fund. The PD did not say there  was an agreement before that meeting. The PD did 
not uphold the assertion about an agreement at the meeting because  there  is 
evidence that the liquidation  took place around  a week  before  the meeting  so it 
could not have been based on an agreement from the meeting.
Ref: DRN03178403The end date proposed in the PD did not seek to artificially  extend the period in 
which there was a business relationship  between the parties. It sought to establish,  
not precisely but within reason, a point in time at which Mr W and his new adviser  
ought reasonably  to have been  in a position  to address the issue(s) with the SL fund. 
I have noted, above,  Mr Ws assertion that he was never notified about  termination of 
his relationship with MISL.  Nevertheless, evidence suggests that after August 2017 
he sought assistance elsewhere.  I retain  the view that MISLs responsibility for the 
matter (starting from May 2017) should  continue until the point at which, on balance,  
Mr W would  or ought to have been in a position to reinvest  the fund. I am persuaded 
that this point is as stated in the PD (for the reasons given  in the PD)  that is, 30 
November 2017. I understand MISLs point about Mr W having access  to the fund 
and ability to implement  reinvestment decisions. However, this was a matter in which  
he sought to reverse  the effect of the liquidation that took place in February  and I am 
persuaded that the assistance  that he sought from MISL  would  have been  
comparable to the assistance he sought  elsewhere, for the same purpose, after 
August 2017.  An allowance  of reasonable time for him to have  obtained such  
assistance and to have actioned the reinvestment with such  assistance is fair.
I address Mr Ws main  points as follows:
Overall, I consider that I have given reasonable weight to evidence  that appears  to 
be credible. I note the strength of Mr Ws feelings towards MISL and it would appear 
that MISL has its own feelings  towards Mr W. However, my role is to determine the 
complaint on the balance  of evidence and probabilities and I consider that I have.
I have reconsidered  the statement of 11 June  2017 in the light of Mr Ws clarification 
and he appears  to be correct that the statement does not relate to the SL fund 
featured in this complaint.  Despite  this, and for the reasons given below, I retain the 
conclusion reached in the PD.
The problem(s) in this case  arose from MISL wrongly liquidating the SL fund around 
15 February 2017. At that point,  it was responsible for that wrongdoing. Mr W 
became aware  of it around a day or two thereafter and he met with MISL on 22 
February during  which the matter was discussed. As I said in the PD, both parties 
have conflicting  versions of what  the discussion was or of what the agreed action 
was. I accept Mr Ws point that the statement of 11 June 2017 does not lend itself to 
resolving what,  on the balance of probabilities, was agreed at the meeting. The PD 
did not rely on that statement alone. It also referred to wider evidence, including 
events after the meeting.
The balance of evidence  suggests that neither  party acted in a manner that suggests 
there was an agreement,  on 22 February, to reinvest the SL fund. The aim is not to 
be harsh or to impose a responsibility on Mr W that was not fairly his. As I said 
above, in terms  of responsibility, after his instruction to MISL it would have been 
MISLs responsibility to advice on or execute the reinvestment. The aim is to 
determine whether  (or not), on balance, his instruction was given on 22 February.  I 
note Mr Ws argument that MISLs initial wrongdoing should not be ignored. I agree, 
but without first establishing that, on balance and on 22 February,  he instructed 
reinvestment of the SL fund, it is arguably just as possible  that he agreed to retain  
the cash holding   which nullifies or waives the initial  wrongdoing  as it is possible 
that he instructed  reinvestment. Such  an even  split of possibilities is not enough to 
Ref: DRN03178404determine the matter on the balance of probabilities. Hence the need to consider all 
relevant evidence about what  was more probable (than not).
As I mentioned in the PD, it is Mr Ws express evidence that he routinely and strictly  
manages his affairs  on the basis of written  record. It is also his evidence that he had 
negative experiences with financial firms prior to appointing MISL and that he was 
sceptical about  relying on such firms  given significant losses he had incurred from 
problems he faced with them   up to the point of appointing MISL. The PD refers to 
evidence of him contacting OMW  directly  in March 2017 to arrange the investment of 
pension contributions and his statement  to MISL  in this respect  said he did this 
after he waited for but did not receive a portfolio  report from MISL at the time. He 
planned to use the report to inform  his decision on the contributions but because he 
did not receive it he made his own arrangements to contract OMW  directly.
In the above context, the absence of Mr Ws written instruction  to reinvest  the SL 
fund immediately or shortly after the 22 February meeting cannot reasonably be 
ignored. As I said in the PD, the absence of his instruction in this respect should be 
given weight, just as the absence of his instruction to liquidate the fund has been  
given weight. The balance  of evidence, especially what I noted in the paragraph 
above, is that if an instruction to reinvest  had been given during the meeting he was 
more likely (than not) to have confirmed it in writing  thereafter or, at least, he was 
more likely (than not) to have made a written request for confirmation or an update  
from MISL soon after the meeting. There is no evidence of him giving  such  a written  
instruction or making such written requests for confirmation or an update. He gave 
the investigator a chronology (Key Timings ) of key events  and his summary of the 
next key contact he had with MISL  after 22 February refers to his letter in May  no 
key contact in between is mentioned in the chronology.
Overall and on balance,  I do not consider there is enough evidence to conclude that 
Mr W instructed  reinvestment of the SL fund in the meeting of 22 February. In 
contrast, his letter in May expressly gave the reinvestment instruction  and it 
provides sufficient evidence of an instruction in May. 
MISLs attention could be drawn to the matter I mentioned above about  Mr W 
contacting OMW directly  to arrange  the investment of his pension contributions.  It 
could argue that this supports its assertion that he was able to reinvest the SL fund 
directly soon after August  2017, when it says it terminated its relationship  with him. I 
have considered this and I acknowledge that the matter  does  suggest  a level of 
capability that Mr W had to make  some investment decisions himself. However, I am 
not satisfied that his decision on the investment of his pension contributions is 
sufficiently comparable to the matter of reversing a funds liquidation. As I said 
above, he sought and appears to have needed MISLs  assistance for the 
reinvestment and then sought  assistance  elsewhere after August 2017.  On balance, I 
do not consider  it a matter that he could  have resolved as independently  as he 
appears to have done for the pension contributions issue. 
redress
As I said in the PD, redress relates to the SL fund and  
Evidence suggests that Mr Ws position  about the reinvestment remained consistent and 
unambiguous from 7 May onwards. Giving an allowance of a fortnight, during which such  
Ref: DRN03178405reinvestment could  reasonably have  been advised upon and/or  executed,  I consider that 
MISLs responsibility for redress  for the failure to reinvest Mr Ws SL cash holding  should 
begin from 22 May 2017.
The premise for Mr Ws complaint is that [the SL fund] should  have  remained  broadly  
unchanged when  transferred to OMW.  That would  suggest a somewhat natural  redress  
benchmark based on the contents of the SL fund before it was liquidated. However  the 
part of his complaint that has been upheld begins  from May 2017 and is based on the 
finding, on balance,  that he waived the liquidation that took place in February  2017.  As such,  
the appropriate basis for redress is that fresh reinvestment should  have  taken place in May 
2017. For reasons  given  below, it appears  that the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total  
Return Index will broadly reflect what would have happened to the SL fund if it had been 
reinvested from 22 May 2017 to 30 November 2017.
what must  MISL do?
To compensate Mr W fairly, MISL must:
Compare the performance of Mr Ws SL fund with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay him the difference between the fair value and the actual  value of the 
investment. Mr W could be required  to assist MISL in determining  the actual value(s) 
of the SL fund, if so he is expected to cooperate in this respect.  If the actual value is 
greater than the fair value, no compensation for financial loss is payable. If 
compensation is payable, pay Mr W interest as set out below. Income tax may be 
payable on any interest awarded.
Provide Mr W with the calculation of redress in a clear  and simple format.
investment 
nameStatus Benchmarkstart 
dateend date additional interest
Mr Ws 
Standard Life 
FundUnknownFTSE UK Private  
Investors Income 
Total Return Index22 May 
2017 30 November 
20178% simple  per 
year on any loss 
from the end date 
to the date of 
settlement.
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark. Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the 
fair value  calculation from the point in time when it was actually paid in. Any withdrawal, 
income, fund removal (from the advisory  portfolio service) or other  payment  out of the 
Ref: DRN03178406investment should  be deducted from the fair value at the point  it was actually paid so it 
ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on.
why is this remedy suitable?
MISLs letter in late 2016, which recommended the transfer of the SL fund to OMW,  
says Mr W had an adventurous risk profile.  This does  not appear  to be in dispute, 
however I am also mindful that the fund was in a Self-Invested Personal Pension so, 
on balance, I do not consider  that his profile would have extended to being 
speculative, as it is arguably not common  to be speculative  with a pension.  A 
balanced benchmark like the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total  Return Index 
 which  is a mix of diversified indices  representing different asset classes, mainly  UK 
equities and government bonds  would be a fair measure for calculating  redress for 
Mr W. This does  not mean  that his SL fund would have been reinvested  in some kind 
of index tracker  fund, but I consider  this benchmark to be a reasonable compromise 
that broadly reflects the sort of return he could have  obtained from suitable  
reinvestment of the SL fund.
The additional interest is for Mr W being  deprived of the use of any compensation 
money since the end date.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my decision is that Mr Ws complaint should be upheld with 
regards to the failure by MACKENZIE  INVESTMENT STATEGIES  LTD. to reinvest  his SL 
fund in May 2017. I provisionally order MACKENZIE INVESTMENT STATEGIES LTD.  to 
pay him redress as detailed above  and to provide him with a calculation of redress in a clear 
and simple format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 June  2019.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Copy of Provisional  Decision
complaint
Mr Ws complaint  is that MACKENZIE INVESTMENT STATEGIES LTD. (MISL) transferred  his 
Standard Life (SL) fund to a new platform, Old Mutual Wealth (OMW),  in early 2017 as agreed but 
liquidated it into and held it in cash without his knowledge  or consent. He says MISL failed to rectify  
this despite his repeated requests/complaints from February  2017.
Ref: DRN03178407background
MISL provided  an advisory and, it appears, investment management service  to Mr W. It has stressed 
that there was no discretionary element within  its service   this does  not appear  to be in dispute and 
available evidence supports this assertion. Mr Ws complaint began  on a wider basis,  extending  to his 
assertion that two other funds were transferred  to OMW in 2017 upon the agreement that they would  
be liquidated and reinvested in phases, but the phased reinvestments did not take place as he 
expected. However, he confirmed to this service  that his present complaint is limited to the description 
above. He said:
 I wish to make clear  the very specific  issue which  lies at the heart of and which  prompted this 
complaint, i.e., the transfer of monies from Standard Life to Old Mutual  Wealth  which resulted  in all 
funds being sold to cash without my knowledge and or consent.
 what I seek  as an outcome to this process is ; (i) an acknowledgement that my Standard Life 
funds were sold to cash in error; (ii) that a calculation  be carried out to establish  whether  and to what  
extent, this has been to my detriment; and (iii) appropriate recompense in the event that the 
calculation shows that the said error  has been to my detriment.
Mr W has maintained the above position, in correspondence with this service, to date. As such, this 
decision addresses  only the matter described  in the complaint section above.  The background  to the 
matter can be summarised as follows:
In late 2016 advice was given by MISL to transfer the SL fund to the OMW platform.  Evidence 
shows that broadly speaking the transfer was to take place in specie, albeit with some minor  
adjustments. There is no evidence  of a recommendation to encash the fund following transfer 
and it appears to be common ground between the parties that MISL  did not recommend such  
encashment at the time or thereafter. 
The transfer was completed around late January 2017. Around the middle of February  Mr W 
learnt that the SL fund had been liquidated into cash after the transfer. He contacted MISL to 
query this and a meeting  between both parties took place later in the same month (22 
February), in which  the matter was discussed. MISL says the meeting concluded on the 
understanding that Mr W was prepared  to retain the cash holding, however Mr W says the 
understanding and agreement was that MISL  would  reinvest  the cash holding.
On 7 May 2017 Mr W wrote to MISL and, in relation to the SL cash holding, he referred to the 
encashment taking  place without his knowledge or instructions and said he had extreme  
concerns that the matter  remained  unresolved.  MISLs response  of 11 May 2017 sought  to 
placate Mr W but it also argued that the encashment had been instructed by him during the 
meeting of 22 February; that thereafter  he had been concerned about  the encashment but 
only in relation  to fees; that his concern about fees had been  allayed and he agreed to retain 
the cash  holding; that it did not  see any short  term problem in continuing to hold cash  
but it invited Mr W to confirm if he wanted investments to be re-introduced to replace the 
case. Mr W replied on 11 June 2017, explained that his response was delayed due to the 
demands of his business and, in relation  to the SL cash  holding, said   Id suggested  I 
wanted to cash this in and use the monies  for investments where Id incur no fees and ensure 
returns greater than those  being  secured through the ISA. There would be no reason  for me 
to put this into a Cash Account when  the markets  are continuing  on an upward trajectory 
Further correspondence  took place between the parties, featuring  affirmation and 
reaffirmation of the complaint by Mr W and MISLs conclusion that it had done  nothing  wrong 
in the matter. MISL has also confirmed  to this service that its business relationship  with Mr W 
was terminated in August  2017  and it believes that he appointed a new adviser in November  
2017.
The complaint was referred to this service and addressed  by one of our investigators.  He noted  the 
absence of telephone  recordings and referred to available  documentary evidence. He concluded that 
by the meeting of 22 February Mr W had made it clear that only the other two funds  were to be 
Ref: DRN03178408liquidated, not the SL fund, so MISL had liquidated  the SL fund in error  and should  calculate  any loss 
to Mr W (and compensate him for any such loss)  from 10 February 2017 to the date of settlement.
Mr W accepted this outcome  but presented some queries  and points of clarification to the investigator. 
MISL did not accept  this outcome and it too presented  queries and points of clarification  to the 
investigator. The matter was then referred to an ombudsman.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties queries  and comments about the investigators view were reasonably detailed  and even 
though I have  not listed their points I assure them that I have considered  all that they have said.  Their  
responses were based  on the investigators findings. I can understand the rationale behind his 
findings, but my reasoning  differs in key parts  hence this provisional decision   so, in the course  
and context  of my reasoning both parties comments will be addressed if and where  relevant. My 
considerations are as follows:
Both parties agree that the arrangement in late 2016  was to transfer the SL fund to OMW 
broadly as it was  not to encash it  and the transfer completion notice from OMW to Mr W in 
January 2017 shows that this is what happened initially.
MISLs assertion (or suggestion) that Mr W instructed  liquidation of the SL fund during the 
meeting of 22 February is not supported by evidence. There  is a switch contract  note from 
OMW to Mr W dated 15 February 2017 which details the encashment of the fund and creation  
of a cash holding within it. MISL  is stated as the Financial Adviser in the note and the switch 
is stated  as having taken  place  between 13 and 15 February. The switch happened before 
the meeting of 22 February, so there appears to be no merit  in MISLs suggestion  that it was 
instructed on 22 February. The implication that arises is that, like Mr W says, the 
switch/encashment happened without his knowledge  and/or consent.  As I said above,  the 
plan in late 2016 did not include encashment  and the transfer to OMW up to January 2017 did 
not include encashment.  I have  not seen evidence of encashment  of the SL fund being 
instructed by him, before or between the transfer to OMW  in January 2017 and the switch  
contract note he received around 16 February. MISLs client  attendance notes, on which it 
appears to heavily  rely, includes two entries for 8 February which suggest Mr W mooted the 
idea of encashment of the fund but the first entry does not go as far as to confirm his 
instruction to do so and the second  entry which mentions encashment appears to relate to the 
liquidation and phased reinvestment of the other fund(s), not the SL fund. In the context of the 
advisory relationship in which MISL required  Mr Ws express  instructions  to act, this absence 
of evidence supports  Mr Ws assertion that the liquidation of the SL fund in February was 
done without his instruction or awareness.
Having said the above, I consider that a crucial turn of events appears to have taken  place at 
the meeting of 22 February. Up to that point  MISL was at fault by encashing the SL fund 
without Mr Ws authority  to do so. The meeting  served as a basis to address and rectify  the 
matter. However, both parties have presented themselves  as leaving the meeting  with 
different understandings of what  had been agreed and what was to happen  thereafter. Each 
party disputes parts of the others  account of the meeting.  In such  circumstances it is within 
my remit to draw a conclusion(s) as to what happened  on the balance  of probabilities.  This 
meeting is important because it is the point where  either Mr W agreed to retain the cash 
holding as MISL asserts,  or MISL was instructed to and/or undertook to reinvest  it as Mr W 
asserts  and/or something in between  or combined. If Mr W agreed to retain  the cash 
holding, it is arguable that MISLs fault (in encashing the fund) was waived by him and it was 
not obliged to do anything further.  If he did not and instructed reinvestment,  it is arguable that 
MISLs fault continued and it was obliged to repair it by reinvesting the cash.
Ref: DRN03178409First  overall, on balance and in light of wider available evidence   I consider it more  likely 
(than not) that MISL  reasonably understood, as of 22 February, that the cash  holding at the 
time and in isolation  was no longer an issue for Mr W. It does not appear reasonable to 
conclude otherwise.  I quoted above a statement from Mr W in which  he said he wanted to 
encash the SL fund.  My reading of the context  which surrounds this statement,  in his letter of 
11 June 2017, is that it appears  to reflect his agreement in the meeting of 22 February  to 
retain the cash holding. This supports  the conclusion  that Mr W arguably waived MISLs 
previous fault (in encashing the fund about a week before  the meeting).  The question  that 
arises is whether (or not) MISL committed a fresh wrongdoing,  in relation to reinvestment of 
the cash  holding, from 22 February  2017 onwards.
Mr Ws statement goes on to say he expected such reinvestment   which I consider to be his 
expectation arising from the 22 February meeting. MISL disputes that such reinvestment was 
agreed. It says the concern about  the cash holding at the time was the generation of fees in 
the course of encashment,  that the matter of fees was addressed and that no further action 
was instructed or agreed at the meeting.  Mr Ws statement also refers to fees, but in the 
context of reinvestment   not encashment.
Overall, on balance and in light of wider  available  evidence I am not quite persuaded that Mr 
W gave MISL, during the meeting of 22 February, a definitive instruction  to reinvest the cash  
holding. This might  be considered to be a finely  balanced conclusion, but it is supported by 
the following evidence   
Mr W has relied on the lack of evidence  of his instruction to encash the SL fund in February 
2017 and I agree with his assertion in that respect. The same approach should fairly  apply to 
the idea of him instructing reinvestment of the cash holding on 22 February or soon 
thereafter. No such evidence appears to exist until his letter of 7 May 2017. 
I appreciate that Mr W appears  to have been conducting a demanding business  at the time 
and that towards  the end of March 2017 he was due to travel abroad.  However, I am not 
persuaded that he lacked the time or opportunity to either confirm his instructions expressly  in 
writing to MISL soon after the 22 February meeting or to chase MISL for an update on 
reinvestment of the cash holding. 
In his letter  of 7 May, Mr W refers to contacting  OMW directly in March in order to arrange the 
investment of pension contributions. This suggests he had capacity  and opportunity to contact 
MISL earlier than 7 May  within March  and arguably  within April too (from abroad by email or 
telephone). He did not. Such inaction on his part  whereby he did not, at least, chase  for an 
update from MISL   over two and a half months does not support the notion of him giving a 
definitive reinvestment instruction to MISL in February and expecting feedback of its 
execution soon  thereafter.
It is Mr Ws evidence that he routinely and strictly operates on the basis of written record,  so it 
is reasonable to expect  that written instructions or chasers from him to MISL  would have 
occurred from 22 March  and much earlier  than 7 May. Especially as it is also his evidence  
that he considered the encashment of the SL fund to have  been a matter  of extreme 
concern for him.   
Overall and on balance, the idea that Mr W gave verbal reinvestment  instructions during the 
meeting on 22 February is disputed  by MISL and there is not enough  evidence directly from 
the meeting to determine the dispute, but wider evidence  showing the absence of record of 
Mr Ws instruction  supports the conclusion  that it was not given at the meeting or soon 
thereafter  until his letter  of 7 May.
I am satisfied that the contents of Mr Ws letter of 7 May 2017 made  it sufficiently clear that 
his instruction was to reinvest  the SL cash holding  and, in straightforward terms,  I have not 
seen evidence to justify MISLs inaction thereafter.  MISL was obliged,  following receipt  of that 
Ref: DRN031784010letter, to advise on and/or execute the reinvestment. I appreciate that its attention might also 
have been drawn to defending itself against the part of the letter that suggested  its fault went 
beyond 22 February, but even if it sought to debate that point it nevertheless  remained 
obliged to follow the reinvestment instruction in the letter and remained able to execute  it. 
Evidence suggests that Mr Ws position about the reinvestment remained consistent  and 
unambiguous from 7 May onwards. Giving an allowance of a fortnight, during which such 
reinvestment could reasonably have been advised upon and/or executed,  I consider that 
MISLs responsibility  for redress for the failure  to reinvest Mr Ws SL cash  holding should 
begin from 22 May 2017.
I note MISLs point about termination of its business  relationship  with Mr W in August 2017 
and its belief that he appointed a new adviser  in November. The former creates reason to 
apply an end point to the calculation  of redress. Three months, from such termination of 
service, is a reasonable  period of allowance  for Mr W to have appointed a new adviser, to 
have reviewed his investments with his new adviser (which is usually  within the course of a 
change of servicing  agency for investments) and to have addressed any issues he had with 
the cash  holding. In addition or in the alternative, it would  not be fair or reasonable  for MISL to 
retain responsibility for redress  beyond when  Mr W was obliged and in a position to mitigate  
the matter and to execute  the reinvestment (with or without a new adviser). Overall, I 
conclude that Mr W either was or ought to have been in this position by the end of November  
2017 so the end point  for calculation of redress will be 30 November  2017.  
Redress should relate only to the SL fund.  The premise for Mr Ws complaint is that it should  
have remained  broadly unchanged when transferred  to OMW.  That would suggest  a 
somewhat natural  redress benchmark based on the contents of the SL fund before it was 
liquidated. However, as I provisionally concluded above, the part of his complaint that has 
been upheld begins from May 2017 and is based on the finding, on balance, that he waived  
the liquidation that took place in February 2017. As such,  the appropriate basis for redress is 
that fresh  reinvestment should have taken place in May 2017. For reasons given below, it 
appears that the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index will broadly reflect  
what would have happened to the SL fund if it had been reinvested from 22 May 2017 to 30 
November 2017.
what must  MISL do?
To compensate Mr W fairly, MISL must:
Compare the performance  of Mr Ws SL fund with that of the benchmark shown below and 
pay him the difference between  the fair value  and the actual value of the investment. Mr W 
could be required to assist MISL in determining the actual value(s) of the SL fund, if so he is 
expected to cooperate  in this respect. If the actual value is greater  than the fair value,  no 
compensation for financial loss is payable. If compensation  is payable,  pay Mr W interest as 
set out below. Income tax may be payable  on any interest awarded.
Provide Mr W with the calculation  of redress in a clear  and simple format.
investment 
nameStatus benchmark start date end date additional interest
Mr Ws 
Standard  Life 
FundUnknownFTSE UK Private 
Investors Income  Total  
Return Index22 May 
2017  30 November  
20178% simple per year 
on any loss from 
the end date to the 
date of settlement.
Ref: DRN031784011actual value
This means  the actual  amount payable  from the investment at the end date. 
fair value
This is what the investment  would  have  been  worth at the end date had it produced a return using the 
benchmark. Any additional sum paid into the investment  should  be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually  paid in. Any withdrawal, income,  fund removal (from  the 
advisory portfolio service) or other payment out of the investment should  be deducted from the fair 
value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that 
point on.
why is this remedy suitable?
MISLs letter in late 2016,  which recommended the transfer  of the SL fund to OMW, says Mr 
W had an adventurous risk profile.  This does not appear to be in dispute, however I am also 
mindful that the fund was in a Self-Invested Personal Pension so, on balance, I do not 
consider that his profile would have extended to being  speculative. As such, a balanced 
benchmark like the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total  Return  Index  which is a mix of 
diversified indices representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities  and government 
bonds  would be a fair measure for calculating redress for Mr W. This does not mean  that his 
SL fund would have  been  reinvested in some kind of index tracker fund, but I consider this 
benchmark to be a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return he could  
have obtained from suitable reinvestment of the SL fund.
The additional interest is for Mr W being deprived  of the use of any compensation money  
since the end date.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given  above, my provisional  decision  is that Mr Ws complaint should be upheld with 
regards to the failure by MACKENZIE INVESTMENT STATEGIES LTD. to reinvest his SL fund in May 
2017. I provisionally order  MACKENZIE INVESTMENT STATEGIES LTD.  to pay him redress as 
detailed above and to provide him with a calculation of redress in a clear  and simple format.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0317840