K820x#14Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2003 
alongside a credit card. Mr D says HSBC UK Bank  Plc, trading  as First Direct, mis-sold him 
the PPI.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ds case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Based on the evidence  Ive seen I think HSBC made it clear that Mr D didnt have to take out 
the PPI and that he chose to take it out. I say this because the PPI policy was taken out via a 
postal application   so Mr D was free to complete this in his own space and time and without 
any influence from anyone from HSBC  at the time. Ive looked  closely at this form and I can 
see there is a tick in the box to agree to the PPI. But there  was also the option to tick another 
box to decline the cover. Mr D then signed the application  form so I think this reflected what 
he wanted at the time.
HSBC didnt recommend  the PPI to Mr D so it didnt  have  to check  if it was right for him.
But it did have to make  sure Mr D got the information he needed to decide if it was right for 
him.
Its possible the information HSBC gave Mr D about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But he chose  to take out the policy - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like he was affected 
by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been  useful  for him if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.
Mr D told us he was entitled  to six months  full followed by six months  half sick pay from his 
employer, so he didnt  need the PPI. The policy however wouldve covered 10% of his 
outstanding monthly  balance  for up to 12 months.  And this wouldve been in addition  to his 
sick pay entitlement, so these funds couldve been  used for other expenses. I havent seen 
any evidence Mr D had any other savings or insurance to help him keep up his repayments. 
So I think the PPI wouldve  been  useful for him and overall I dont think better  information  
about the policy would have put him off taking out the cover.
My final decision
For all the reasons set out above,  I dont  think the policy was mis-sold. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 August 2019.
Ref: DRN02038182Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0203818