K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Santander UK plc wont refund a cash withdrawal from his credit  card,  
which he says he didnt  make or authorise.
background
Mr R told Santander that he didnt withdraw £50 in cash using  his credit card. He said that it 
he never uses his credit  card to make cash withdrawals because he is well aware that hed 
incur charges. 
Santander investigated but has declined  to refund the money because  Mr R still had his card 
and there  was no opportunity for his PIN to be compromised.
Our investigator didnt  think this complaint  should  be upheld. He thought  it was most likely 
that Mr R had authorised  the disputed cash withdrawal.
Mr R disagreed. In summary, he said he wasnt in the area where  the disputed  withdrawal  
took place on that day and asked  whether it was possible to see the CCTV footage.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
relevant considerations
The disputed transaction was made in May 2018.  The regulations  relevant  to these are the 
Payment Service Regulations 2017.  In short, the regulations say that Santander can hold Mr 
R liable  for the disputed  item if the evidence suggests that he most likely made or authorised 
it himself. Mr R says he didnt make the cash withdrawal of £50 and is seeking  a refund of 
that amount,  plus interest. So my primary concern is to come to a view about whether or I 
not I think Mr R authorised this withdrawal.  But for me to be satisfied that it was authorised, I 
first need  to determine  whether it was authenticated.
Authentication is the use of any procedure by which  a bank is able to verify the use of a 
specific payment instrument, including its personalised security features. 
Im satisfied from the evidence that Santander  has provided that whoever made the cash  
withdrawal had both the genuine card and PIN. There were no incorrect  PIN attempts. I say 
this because Santander has provided  evidence  to show that the withdrawal was made and 
authenticated at a cash machine (ATM) where the genuine  chip in the card was read and the 
correct PIN was entered.  Because of this, Im satisfied that Mr Rs card wasnt  cloned.
So Ive gone  on to consider whether Santander has enough evidence  to suggest Mr R 
carried out the transaction. The possible explanations for how the disputed transaction was 
made using  the genuine  card and PIN are:
Mr R used the card himself
Someone with Mr Rs authority used the card and PIN to withdraw the cash
Someone was able to intercept Mr Rs card and PIN and used them  to withdraw the 
cash, without  his knowledge, authority or consent.
Ref: DRN00633842Mr R says that he wasnt in the habit of withdrawing  cash using his credit card. His wife was 
with him that day and she had her own cards so he didnt consent to anyone else using  his 
card. He hasnt lost it and didnt notice it missing  at any stage.
Ive looked at the card usage  record provided by Santander for that day. Mr R used the card 
for a genuine transaction just 10 minutes  prior to the one he is disputing. He used it again 
that day about 5 hours later.
The banks records shows that Mr Rs genuine  card and PIN was used to withdraw  the cash. 
The regulations relevant  to this case say that it is not, on its own, enough for Santander to 
hold Mr R liable. So I also need to consider whether  the evidence suggests  its more likely 
than not that he consented to the cash withdrawal being made.
From what  Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Santander  to conclude that Mr R 
authorised the transaction. I say this because: 
The card was used  for the cash withdrawal at a cash  machine (ATM),  which was most  
likely on the same retail park closest to where Mr R had last used the card himself. 
Mr R has said that he authorised the transaction that took place just 10 minutes earlier  at 
a store  located  about a 5 minutes walk away. For the disputed  transaction to have been  
carried out by a third party without Mr Rs authorisation,  the fraudster would have needed 
to take  and replace  Mr Rs card without  him noticing.
I dont think its plausible  that a fraudster could  have successfully taken Mr Rs card and 
replaced it without him noticing so that Mr R could  use it again later that day. And theres no 
convincing explanation for how the third party could have got hold of his card or known  his 
PIN. He said he hasnt shared it with anyone other than his wife. 
Mr R says that CCTV would show that it wasnt him that made the withdrawal. Santander  
hasnt provided  CCTV  so I cant consider this. But CCTV wouldnt have helped in 
determining if the withdrawal was made using the card and PIN by someone  else with Mr Rs 
authority.
Based on everything  Ive seen, I find on balance that Mr R carried out, or authorised, the 
disputed transaction.  It follows  that its fair and reasonable for Santander to hold him liable  
for it.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2020.
Karen Wharton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0063384