K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Santander UK Plc wont refund cash withdrawals he disputes from his 
bank account.
background
Mr K disputes 18 cash withdrawals made from his account between  November 2014 and 
January 2015  and which totalled over £5,000. He says that the genuine card was in his 
possession during the period and he thinks that it was cloned.  He didnt tell anyone  else his 
PIN. And he is unhappy that Santander  didnt investigate this and obtain a report  from the 
police about who used the cash points  to withdraw the money.
Santander said it wouldnt be refunding this money.  The genuine card was used  and there 
was no explanation of how an unknown third party  was able to obtain  the card and PIN. It 
had told Mr K to report the matter  to the police  and said it would  have co-operated with any 
inquiries.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint be upheld.  She said that thered been 
some confusion about whether Mr K had used  the card for genuine transactions  during this 
period. She accepted he hadnt but there was still no explanation for how someone  else had 
made the withdrawals.  The chip on the card couldnt be cloned. And we hadnt received any 
information or evidence from the police about the use of the cash  machines.
Mr K didnt agree. He confirmed he hadnt made any withdrawals himself during the period 
and said that the initial  analysis showing he did was incorrect. He would never  have made 
withdrawals in the pattern shown and he still thought that police evidence would assist. He 
was unable now to get any information about  any police inquiry from 2015 and was 
disappointed that Santander hadnt obtained this. Mr K also thought  that we should  be 
considering expert reports about the cloning of cards  as he thinks that this is possible.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment  Services  Regulations 2009 in considering  this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with a card and PIN. And if the payments werent 
authorised Mr K wouldnt generally  be responsible  for them.
So I will be thinking about  the following areas  in looking at his complaint:
-What is the most likely explanation of what happened to the card and PIN used for these 
payments?
-Did Mr K either authorise the payments on the account, or allow someone else to use 
the card?
Im going  to start by looking at authentication because Mr K is disputing  that and believes 
that the card used  was only a clone of his. Ive seen the payment logs for these transactions 
from Santander and these confirm that the chip on the card was read and the PIN entered.  
This service hasnt seen  any evidence  of the chip being cloned for everyday use. And I dont 
Ref: DRN00898042have any technical  evidence to show otherwise. I find based on all the available evidence 
that the payments were authenticated.
So I need to think  about whether Mr K consented  to the payments. I know hes already had a 
list of all the transactions from our investigator. And I dont intend to repeat that detail here. I 
do want to make some observations about the pattern of actual and attempted payments.
I understand that Mr K has raised  concerns  about the pattern of withdrawals and that this 
means they werent genuine. A significant  amount of money was withdrawn over a period  of 
around 40 days meaning that almost every other day a withdrawal of the maximum possible 
(for the relevant  type of cash machine) was made.  And I can see that unsuccessful attempts 
were made to take more than the maximum daily limit on three of those days including  the 
date of the first withdrawal  on 29 November 2014. The withdrawal attempts stopped when all 
the money available in the account had been  taken out and there were balance enquiries  
made including on the last withdrawal  date. This could  be interpreted  as the actions  of a 
fraudster who knew the PIN and had access to the card systematically  taking all the money 
out. 
Mr K says that this wasnt his main account. And that the low balance on the account came 
to his attention  when  he visited  a branch in June 2015. His card was then blocked. And 
when he received his statement in July 2015 he reported the disputed  transactions as fraud  
to Santander.  There are no recordings of his calls about this at that time now.  Santander 
made some case notes and these  state that Mr K still had his card and this was confirmed 
when he provided  both the expiry  date and CVV code correctly.  Santander then told him it 
wouldnt be refunding  the payments but recommended he contact the police to see if 
photographic evidence of the person using the cashpoints could be obtained. Santander 
notes that it said to him it would co-operate fully with any police investigation and 
prosecution.
I know Mr K has disputed  whether Santander did tell him to contact  the police and as I 
understand it thought Santander  would be taking  action  and obtaining police reports. I note 
that on 6 October  2015 Santander  made a record of the action fraud number when  Mr K 
called. This ends in 6020. Thats the same  number that Mr K quoted  to this service and he 
showed to us that he had updated his address recorded against that number in November 
2019. As has been set out above  its not been  possible  to get any information  about  any 
investigation that was carried out. And Santander  has said that it never received a police  
report.
Im afraid we wouldnt expect Santander  to carry out a criminal investigation but only to co-
operate as it indicated  it would. Unfortunately there  is no more evidence  including of CCTV. I 
also have to mention  that given Mr K reported  this at least  four to five months after the 
withdrawals it would in my view have been  highly  unlikely that any of the relevant CCTV was 
retained by the owners of the cashpoints involved. And thats  especially by the time police 
could likely  have been in a position to request this. Additionally CCTV evidence even where 
available doesnt  always help to resolve whether  the person making the withdrawal  was 
acting with authority  or not.
Mr K has explained that due to illness and being abroad he didnt  get back  in touch with 
Santander until October 2018  when he raised  a formal complaint. That unfortunately means  
that it hasnt been possible for him to obtain any more evidence either. And I think hes now 
had a reasonable period  of time to do so.
Ref: DRN00898043my assessment
I know Mr K wanted a better analysis of the possible scenarios here.  In going through  them  
Im going  to note that he agrees he had the card in his possession and didnt give it to 
anyone and nor did he disclose his PIN. I consider these as follows:
-The card was cloned  Ive already said what I think about that explanation.
-An unknown third party obtained  his card and PIN. To think  this most  likely somehow 
that person would need to have  obtained his card and then at some point replaced it. 
Given Mr K didnt  use his card during the period  himself it may only have to have been 
taken and replaced once. But that person would also have needed  to find out his PIN. 
There is no way I can see that this had likely happened. The last genuine transaction  on 
the account using chip and PIN verification before  the disputed  ones I can see took 
place on 14 November 2014. Even  if say Mr Ks PIN was then observed  over his 
shoulder I still think its unlikely  someone could later obtain and use the card.
-A person known  to him used it without his consent. Mr K told our investigator he lived 
alone at the time.  He had some  family  members  staying  with him. It wouldnt have been 
impossible for someone with free access to his property to obtain his card and use it 
without him knowing. But Mr K says that couldnt have happened and that hed never  
disclosed his PIN to anyone. So I dont have a basis to find that this is the most  likely 
scenario.
Having ruled other scenarios out Im afraid Im left on the evidence available to me with Mr K 
consenting to the payments and authorising them. I fully understand that he totally refutes 
this. And having listened to a recording of a call he had with a manager  in this service  I can 
see how strongly he feels about this. I cant say exactly what happened  and need  to 
consider what is most likely. And my primary focus is on Mr Ks complaint  about Santander 
and whether it can hold him responsible for the withdrawals. I am sorry to have to tell him 
that for the reasons Ive given I think it can and I wont be asking it to refund this money  to 
him.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0089804