K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about a mortgage with Pepper (UK) Limited  trading as Engage  Credit.  He 
says the loan, which was in the joint names of himself and his late wife, was taken out by her 
alone, fraudulently  and without his consent.  He says he had no knowledge of the loan, the 
lender didnt carry out proper checks and he shouldnt be held liable for it now.
background
This mortgage was taken  out, in the names  jointly  of Mr M and the late Mrs M, in 2006. It 
was taken out to repay a previous mortgage and various other debts, as well as raising over 
£40,000 in cash. By 2007 the mortgage  was in arrears and the arrears have continued, off 
and on, ever since. The mortgage  was originally with another lender, but has since  passed 
into Peppers ownership.
Mrs M recently  passed away and Mr M says it was only then that he learned of the existence 
of a mortgage. Mrs M had taken  it out without his knowledge and had concealed it from him 
during her lifetime. 
Mr Ms representative says that the original lender didnt carry out proper checks.  No attempt 
was made  to contact  Mr M or verify his involvement.  The income details on the application 
were wrong and not checked. The lending was irresponsible. There  appears to have been 
no valuation of the property. And the lender didnt check the credentials of the broker  who 
arranged the mortgage. Mr M also complained that Pepper couldnt tell him where the 
mortgage funds  went.
Pepper said it couldnt investigate an alleged fraud  that was a matter for the police. It said 
it no longer had records of the account  the cash advanced was paid into.
Our investigator didnt  recommend upholding the complaint, so it comes to me for a decision 
to be made.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of the Financial  Ombudsman Service is to investigate complaints against  financial 
services businesses. I have no power to investigate or make findings about  the conduct  of 
third parties. I cant therefore investigate  whether  the late Mrs M defrauded either Mr M or 
the lender.
But Mr Ms representative also says that the original lender didnt carry out proper checks 
before the mortgage was taken out. Thats a matter I can investigate,  and which Pepper  as 
the current owner of the loan  is responsible for.
Due to the passage of time and the change of lender, theres limited information available.  
Pepper doesnt know, and cant now tell, which account the mortgage funds were paid into. 
The application does  survive, as does the mortgage offer.  They confirm that the mortgage 
was advised on and arranged via a broker  which, it seems,  no longer exists. As there was 
a broker involved,  the lender wouldnt have had any direct contact with Mr or Mrs M. It was 
Ref: DRN08159402the brokers responsibility to carry out checks such as confirming identity and gathering  
information  including  information  about  finances and requirements.
A mortgage broker acts as the agent  of the borrower,  not the lender. That means  Pepper,  or 
the original lender, isnt responsible for what the broker did. The broker  wasnt  regulated  in 
its own right,  either. But it was the appointed representative of a network which  was. That 
means the network was responsible for answering  complaints about the broker.  The network  
no longer exists either, but the Financial Services Compensation  Scheme  is accepting  
complaints about  it.
The original  lender was required to lend responsibly   which  includes carrying  out 
appropriate checks and making sure the loan could be repaid. This was a self-certification  
mortgage, which means that the lender could accept what it was told without the need for 
obtaining evidence   unless there were grounds  for doubting it. It was entitled to rely on what 
it was told by the broker, and nothing in the application the lender  received suggests there 
were reasonable grounds (the test set out in the mortgage rules at the time) on the face of 
the application for doubting its contents.
I havent seen  a valuation report.  But the value in the application form accords  with what Mr 
Ms representative says was the likely value of the property at the time. Obtaining  a valuation  
was standard  practice and I dont have  any reason  to doubt one was obtained  at the time.
Our investigator made  the point  that even if Mr M is right,  this was still a loan taken out by 
Mrs M and secured over their jointly owned property  and Pepper would still have a charge  
over that property to recover the debt. Whether or not a third party  committed  fraud, and the 
legal and equitable validity of Peppers charge  as a result, is not something that I can decide  
 those are matters better suited to the police and the courts.  
As I say, theres limited information available now. But given the nature of the mortgage 
product  a self-certified  mortgage sold through an intermediary  I dont think  theres 
evidence the lender  failed  to carry out the checks required at the time, or that it lent 
irresponsibly. And so I dont uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 January 2021.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0815940