K822xComplaint
Mr and Mrs D are unhappy  with the response  of Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), 
following a claim against it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act (CCA)  1974.
Background 
Mr and Mrs D were contacted by a company, Ill refer to it as G, which supplied and 
installed solar panel systems. Following  a meeting, Mr and Mrs D agreed  to enter into a 
contract with G for it to supply and install a solar  panel system costing about £12,000. To 
fund this, they also agreed  to enter  into a 15 year fixed sum loan agreement  with 
Shawbrook.
Mr and Mrs D made  a claim under  section  75 (s75)  of the CCA via their representative. The 
representative said that G had told Mr and Mrs D that the solar panels  would be self-funded 
and that the monthly loan repayments would be more than off-set  by the feed-in-tariff (FIT) 
income. But that hadnt happened. Instead, their monthly loan repayments had been much  
higher.
In its final response letter,  Shawbrook agreed  that the benefits of the solar panel  system had 
been misrepresented  to Mr and Mrs D. To put things  right it offered  to calculate the potential 
savings and income to Mr and Mrs D, from the solar panels, over the 15 year term of the 
loan. It then offered  to restructure the loan to ensure that they would pay no more  than that 
over the 15 year term. By recalculating the loan this way Shawbrook had worked out that 
Mr and Mrs D had been paying more each month than they should have been.  Because  of 
this, Shawbrook said it would use the overpayments to reduce the outstanding balance  of 
the loan. It also offered  to pay £200  to reflect the trouble and upset that had been  caused. 
Unhappy with this response,  Mr and Mrs D referred  their complaint to our service.
Following our involvement, Shawbrook made a slight  change  to the offer it had made to 
Mr and Mrs D in its final response  letter.  It agreed to restructure the loan as described above  
as well as pay £200 for the trouble and upset. It also now offered  Mr and Mrs D four options 
to choose from as to how they would like their overpayments to be used:
1.any overpayments to be used  to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and 
Mr and Mrs D continue to make  their current monthly loan repayment resulting in the 
loan finishing early,
2.the overpayments to be used to reduce the outstanding balance  of the loan and 
Mr and Mrs D pay a new, lower monthly  loan repayment until the end of the loan 
term,
3.the overpayments to be returned  to Mr and Mrs D and they pay their current monthly  
loan repayment  resulting  in the loan finishing early,  or
4.the overpayments to be returned  to Mr and Mrs D and they pay a new,  lower monthly 
loan repayment  until the end of the existing loan term.
Mr and Mrs D, via their representative, didnt accept the new offer.  In response the 
representative said:
if Mr and Mrs D had known that it would have taken them 15 years  to recoup the cost 
of the solar panel system they wouldnt have entered into the contract and the current 
offer means they have to be tied to the property  for more  than 15 years  to receive 
any profit, rather than the 10 years they had been led to believe.
Ref: DRN03622242Mr and Mrs D are reliant on the estimates being  used by Shawbrook to calculate  the 
future benefits from their solar panel system.
The offer doesnt take into account any ongoing maintenance costs  they may incur.
As an agreement couldnt  be reached the complaint has been  passed to me to review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs D say that they were cold-called  and during a subsequent sales  meeting told 
that the solar  panel system  would be entirely  self-financing. Neither Shawbrook nor 
Mr and Mrs D dispute that the benefits of the solar panel system were misrepresented and 
as a result  this decision will deal with what I consider to be fair compensation.
The role of this service is to help settle disputes between  consumers and businesses  
providing financial services fairly  and reasonably  with minimum formality. In cases  like this 
one, determining fair compensation isnt an exact science. My role is to arrive  at a fair and 
reasonable outcome taking account of the particular  circumstances.
Mr and Mrs Ds representative has said that the paperwork they were  given  at the time 
showed that the solar panel  system would pay for itself within 10 years.  Therefore, 
Shawbrooks offer to make the solar  panels self-funding over the 15 year term of the loan 
financially disadvantages them as they have to be tied to the property for more  than 15 years  
to receive any profit  from the system.
Ive thought carefully on this point. When considering cases about misrepresentation my role 
isnt to put the consumer in a situation where the misrepresentation is true, rather  it is to put 
them back  into the position they wouldve been  in if there had been no misrepresentation. 
Throughout the complaint Mr and Mrs D have been consistent with their testimony of what  
they were told by the salesperson for G  that the solar panel system would be self-funding 
and come at no additional  cost to them. And as part of their complaint  Mr and Mrs D have 
said that if they had known  the solar panels wouldnt be self-funding  then they would never  
have gone ahead with them. Taking this into account, Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs D 
entered into the contract with G on the understanding that the solar panel  system would pay 
for itself and come at no additional financial cost to them. 
To pay for the solar panel system, Mr and Mrs D decided to enter into a 15 year fixed sum 
loan with Shawbrook  on the understanding that the benefits from the solar panel system  
would meet their contractual monthly loan repayments. Therefore, my view is that 
Mr and Mrs D were expecting the solar panel system to be cost neutral over the 15 year 
term of the loan and come  at no additional financial cost to them.  
Taking the above into account, I dont think it would be fair or proportionate to require the 
removal of the solar panels from the property. Rather, I think  the fair outcome here is to put 
Mr and Mrs D in the position where their solar panel system is self-funding over the original 
term of the loan. By allowing  Mr and Mrs D to keep the solar  panels Im satisfied that they 
will likely benefit from lower electricity bills and FIT payments going forward (i.e. after the 
term of the loan has finished) and they arent  financially disadvantage as the system  will be 
cost neutral. 
Ref: DRN03622243Ive carefully considered  the methodology Shawbrook has submitted to this service to 
calculate the total benefits of the solar panel  system.  Shawbrook has also shared this 
methodology with Mr and Mrs Ds representative.
This methodology is based on the actual performance and estimated future  performance  of 
Mr and Mrs Ds solar panels.
Shawbrook has outlined  that when calculating estimated  future performance of 
Mr and Mrs Ds solar panel system it will use a number of assumptions. These include the 
self-consumption rate (the percentage of electricity generated by the solar panels that 
Mr and Mrs D are expected use, or self-consume,  rather than buying electricity from their 
energy provider),  electricity price inflation,  the degradation rate and the estimated retail price  
index (RPI). Im of the view that these appear  reasonable  taking  into account the actual 
known figures. As an example, the actual average RPI for the last four years  doesnt seem 
to be far from the assumed figure. In summary, Im satisfied that the assumptions that have 
been used by Shawbrook provide a fair and reasonable  basis  for calculating  fair 
compensation.
Ill now turn to the ongoing maintenance costs. Mr and Mrs Ds representative says that the 
offer proposed by Shawbrook doesnt take into account any ongoing maintenance costs and 
if the system were  to breakdown this would financially disadvantage them.  
Ive looked at the current information available from the Energy Savings Trust. It says that 
solar panels  dont need a lot of maintenance but usually the inverter  will need replacing 
sometime during  the lifetime of the solar  panel  system at a cost of around £800.
I accept that Mr and Mrs D could have some maintenance and repair  costs  over the lifetime 
of the solar panel  system. The proposed offer from Shawbrook is to make  the panels  self-
funding over the original  term of the loan. Once the loan has been repaid  Mr and Mrs D are 
highly likely  to enjoy  significant benefits from the solar panel system by way of savings and 
FIT income going forward. In addition, Mr and Mrs D have the flexibility to be paid a lump 
sum to cover  their overpayments  together with the interest.
Based on the available information Im satisfied  that the potential  benefits will more than 
cover any future maintenance costs and Mr and Mrs D have the flexibility  to be paid their 
compensation payment as a lump  sum if necessary, to pay for any maintenance and repairs  
costs if necessary.
Shawbrook has also confirmed it is willing to honour  the warranty  that was provided by G 
when the solar panels were installed. Although this doesnt guarantee the outcome of any 
future claims, it means that if Mr and Mrs D experience any system issues within the original  
warrantee period,  theyd  be entitled to raise  a claim under the warranty  and Shawbrook  will 
consider it under the warranty terms.
Because of these  reasons  Im not persuaded that Shawbrook should  make an award  for 
maintenance and repair  costs.
In summary  Im satisfied  that the offer put forward to make Mr and Mrs Ds solar  panel 
system self-funding over the 15 year term of the loan is fair and reasonable. By making the 
solar panel  system self-funding, Shawbrook has calculated that Mr and Mrs D have  been  
paying more each month than they should have been. So, its offer includes adding  8% 
Ref: DRN03622244simple interest to any overpayment amount and this is in line with what I would expect it to 
do. Shawbrook  has given Mr and Mrs D the following  four options as to how theyd  like their 
overpayments and associated interest  to be used:
1.any overpayments to be used  to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and 
Mr and Mrs D continue to make  their current monthly loan repayment resulting in the 
loan finishing early,
2.the overpayments to be used to reduce the outstanding balance  of the loan and 
Mr and Mrs D pay a new, lower monthly  loan repayment until the end of the loan 
term,
3.the overpayments to be returned  to Mr and Mrs D and they pay their current monthly  
loan repayment  resulting  in the loan finishing early,  or
4.the overpayments to be returned  to Mr and Mrs D and they pay a new,  lower monthly 
loan repayment  until the end of the existing loan term.
Im satisfied that these  options are fair.
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information  available at the time that Mr and Mrs D first 
contacted Shawbrook that means  that their claim should have been upheld and that the offer 
of £200 from Shawbrook reflects the trouble and upset this would  have caused  the.
My final decision
My final decision is that Mr and Mrs Ds complaint  should be upheld.  In full and final 
settlement of it, Shawbrook Bank Limited should:
allow Mr and Mrs D to keep the panels,                     
estimate the potential  savings and income  to Mr and Mrs D from the solar panel 
system over the 15 year term of the loan and rework it so they pay no more  than this. 
Where possible, it should use Mr and Mrs Ds electricity bills and FIT statements to 
do this.
add 8% simple interest* to any overpayment  made from the date of the overpayment  
until the date of the settlement,
allow Mr and Mrs D to choose  how theyd  like their overpayments to be used, using 
the four options described above; and,
pay Mr and Mrs D £200 for the trouble and upset  caused. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 May 2020.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
*If Shawbrook Bank Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take 
off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs D how much its taken off. It should 
also give them a certificate  showing this, if they ask for one, so they can claim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs.
Ref: DRN0362224