K821x#15Complaint
Mr C complains about the way Creation Financial Services Limited handled his credit  card 
application. 
Background
Mr C applied for a credit  card with Creation on 27 December  2018 and says he was told the 
process should take between seven and ten working  days to complete. 
On 17 January 2019 Mr C called Creation  to ask about the progress  of his application. Mr C 
was told that his application had been referred  to underwriters. During the call Mr C asked 
whether he could cancel his application  and what the effect  would be on his credit file. The 
call handler agreed to contact Mr C after she found out about his application. She also 
agreed to register a complaint for Mr C and said the relevant department  would email him. 
Mr C called Creation back  on 24 January 2019.  He was told that due to systems problems 
there was a delay  in reviewing applications  which meant Mr Cs hadnt  yet been reviewed. 
Mr C was told Creation would look at his application  shortly and let him know  its decision. 
The call handler also advised  that the complaint  Mr C had previously made  had been  
classified as an underwriting query  so no response had been issued. Another complaint was 
raised on Mr Cs behalf. During a later call on 24 January 2019 Mr C withdrew  his 
application. 
On 20 March 2019 Creation responded to Mr Cs complaint and apologised  for the delays 
with the application. Creation went on to send Mr C a cheque  for £50. Over the following 
weeks Mr C had further calls with Creation and raised concerns over the length of time it had 
taken to respond to his questions and complaint. Creation agreed to increase the 
compensation from £50 to £100  and said Mr C could refer his case  to our service  if he 
remained unhappy. 
Mr C asked us to look at his complaint and it was passed to an adjudicator. The adjudicator 
agreed that the service provided  to Mr C had been  poor and recommended Creation 
increase the total award to £150 and remove the credit search from his records.  Mr C got in 
touch to say he wouldnt  accept that level of compensation and asked  to appeal. Creation 
also didnt feel the adjudicators recommendations were fair. As a result, Mr Cs complaint 
has been passed to me to make a decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr C is upset. He applied for a credit card in good faith and was led to 
believe the process would take between seven to ten working  days to complete. After  no 
contact was received  Mr C chased the progress of the application. Despite being advised a 
complaint would be raised and his application  reviewed Mr C wasnt  contacted again by 
Creation. Given the delays and service provided  up to that point, I think Mr Cs decision to 
cancel his application was reasonable. 
The adjudicator asked Creation to remove the credit  search it completed from Mr Cs credit 
file. But Creation refused and said the credit search  wouldve shown on Mr Cs credit  file 
Ref: DRN04815542whether the application was successful or not. But Creation  told Mr C his application was 
never actually considered.  And, because of the poor service and delays, Mr C chose to 
withdraw his application. The question I need to consider is whether Mr C would have 
applied for the Creation credit card if he was aware  of the true timescales and delays. Im 
satisfied, from what  hes told us, that he wouldnt have made an application on that basis. 
That would have  meant no credit search  from Creation on his credit file. So I agree with the 
adjudicator that the fairest  approach is to remove any trace  of a credit search by Creation 
from Mr Cs credit file. 
The adjudicator recommended an increase in the settlement from £100 to £150 as he felt the 
level of service provided by Creation was poor. Creation said it thought  the existing offer of 
£100 was fair but Mr C said he wanted  more because of the delays he experienced. Ive 
considered everything  that Mr C has told us about the delay,  the service  he received and 
how the way the application and complaints were handled impacted him. I wont respond to 
the individual points hes raised  by want to assure Mr C that Ive considered everything hes 
told us. Ive also taken  everything that Creation has said into account. 
I agree  the service  was poor and that Creation took too long to review the application and 
update Mr C. Its clear from the calls that Mr C became very frustrated with the service he 
received and lack of contact from various  people  at Creation. Ive thought  about the impact 
of all the issues raised by Mr C. Having done  so, I agree with the adjudicator that £150 fairly 
reflects the impact of problems Mr C faced. I know my decision is likely to disappoint Mr C 
but Im satisfied £150 is fair in all the circumstances. 
My final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and direct  Creation Financial Services  Limited to 
do the following: 
-Remove any information reported to the credit  reference agencies  about Mr Cs 
credit card application
-Pay Mr C £150 for the distress  and inconvenience caused
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0481554