K820x#14complaint
Mr C is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd didnt  attempt to recover a payment he made to a third 
party when he asked  it to.
background
Mr C purchased a car for £2,450 from a private  seller. He paid for it by making a faster  
payment from his Monzo bank account  on the 31 December 2018. 
There were numerous  problems with the car from the outset, and Mr C feels  it was not sold 
as described. He requested his money  back from the seller, but they refused to refund him. 
So on 3 January 2019 he contacted Monzo  and asked it to raise a chargeback. 
Monzo initially told him that it could attempt to recover his money,  and then that itd done  this 
by contacting the sellers bank and asking them to return it. It said it hadnt heard back from 
the sellers bank, so there was nothing more  it could do. Mr C asked for evidence Monzo had 
contacted the sellers  bank, but it didnt  provide  this to him. So he brought  his complaint to 
our service.
Monzo then explained itd made a mistake  when it told Mr C it had tried to recover  his 
money. It explained that when he originally asked it to raise a dispute  about this transaction 
it should have  let him know that this wasnt possible, either by chargeback or through credit  
payment recovery.  
Monzo paid Mr C a total of £350 compensation to apologise for the incorrect  information and 
poor service it provided to him. Our investigator agreed it wasnt possible for Monzo to 
attempt to recover his payment,  and felt this was a fair and reasonable way to resolve his 
complaint. But Mr C is unhappy that it took Monzo over three  months to confirm  it hadnt 
taken any steps  to try and recall his money.  He feels that he would have had a good chance 
of getting it back  if his complaint had been  acted on immediately. So the case  has been  
passed to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I know  Mr C will be disappointed,  but I 
wont be asking Monzo to do anything further.  Ill explain  why.
Theres no dispute Monzo made mistakes here. When Mr C asked for help recovering the 
money hed paid to the car seller  it led him to believe that it could take steps  to try and do so. 
Two and a half months later it told him chargeback  isnt applicable  to faster  payments. And 
in the same letter it said it had instead  attempted to recover his money by contacting the 
sellers bank and asking them to return the payment.  But it then confirmed it hadnt in fact 
done this either  and that it wouldnt have been  possible to recover Mr Cs money in this 
way as it had been  correctly paid to the intended beneficiary.
I understand Mr C is frustrated that Monzo havent taken any steps  to recover his money.  
But in this situation I agree that it wouldnt have been possible for it to do so. Its correct that 
the chargeback  process is not applicable  to faster payments, and that they cannot be 
recalled where no error has been made.  
Ref: DRN09934472Mr C feels Monzos  terms and conditions should  explain  chargeback is only applicable  to 
card payments and not to faster payments. The chargeback process isnt defined  by Monzo. 
Its governed by rules  set by the relevant card scheme - determined by the debit or credit  
card used to make a payment - for example Visa or MasterCard. So I dont think  its unusual 
or unfair that Monzo hasnt set out details  of this process in its terms and conditions. And I 
dont think the terms and conditions contain  any misleading information  about chargeback.
Mr C has explained hes lost contact  with the seller,  but believes he would have had time to 
try and pursue  other options  to recover his money  had Monzo  given him the correct 
information sooner.  I appreciate his frustration,  and Im sorry to hear hes had problems with 
the car he purchased. But I dont feel I can fairly and reasonably  ask Monzo  to refund him 
the money he paid to the seller. Although Monzo  incorrectly told him theyd tried to recover  it, 
they didnt at any point promise they would be able to get the money back.  And I dont think  
there was any guarantee Mr C would have successfully recovered it by other means.
I appreciate Mr C will be disappointed by my decision. But I think that Monzos offer of £350 
compensation to reflect  the trouble and upset caused by their mistakes  and the poor service 
they provided to him here is reasonable. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Monzo Bank Ltds payment of £350  compensation to Mr C is fair and 
reasonable to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 August 2019. 
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0993447