K821x#15complaint
Mrs P is unhappy with the way a kitchen supplied through a point  of sale loan wasnt fitted  
correctly. Shes unhappy with the way Clydesdale Financial Services  Limited  trading as 
Barclays Partner Finance  (BPF)  has handled a claim she made  under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974  (S75). Shes  also unhappy BPF released  funds for the kitchen 
even though she said she wasnt happy with its installation.
Mrs P is represented by her husband  Mr P  in this complaint. Mr P has also been  
represented by a solicitor  firm. But for ease of reference I shall refer to any comments that 
the solicitor made as being made by Mr P.
background
In September  2018 Mrs P ordered a new kitchen to be supplied and installed by a kitchen 
supply company  W. The work to install the kitchen  was scheduled  to start on 
8 October 2018 and paid for by a loan through BPF. Mrs P paid an initial  deposit  of 
£1,822.33 to W and would then make  59 further  payments  of around £270 per month  once 
the loan was activated. Under the terms of the loan agreement, BPF wouldnt  activate  the 
agreement and pay W for the kitchen  until it was satisfactorily installed. 
On 10 October 2018 W started the installation of the kitchen. But Mrs P was unhappy with 
the way it was installed. Mr P says W initially allocated  only two and a half days  to fit the 
kitchen, but he says he was told it should have taken five days  to install it. Mr P says that 
this meant  the fitter had to move on to another fitting  after the scheduled time was up  and 
the kitchen was only around 40% fitted. 
W then arranged for another fitter to come, but Mr P says this second fitter explained that he 
hadnt fitted a W kitchen  before. Mr P says that this meant a number of items werent  fitted 
correctly and some fell off from their fitting.  He also says that some  other  items  were also left 
unfitted. 
But, while he says the kitchen wasnt fully fitted, Mr P says that Mrs P was forced into 
signing a certificate of completion  because he says the fitters said they wouldnt get paid if 
Mrs P didnt sign it. And Mr P says that the fitter didnt  have  a paper copy of the form to sign 
so he says Mrs P had to sign the form on the fitters phone. He says that this means that    
Mrs P couldnt see what she was being  asked  to sign. BPF then released payment for the 
kitchen under the terms of the finance agreement.
Mrs P complained that BPF had activated  the loan as he said the kitchen wasnt  fully 
installed. Mr P considers  the loan to be invalid as he said it was activated  by BPF under 
false pretences. And he says he asked for a copy of the agreements terms and conditions  to 
be sent to his work email address. 
Mr P says that BPF told him that he had to pay £1,000  towards the loan, which  he did. But 
he hasnt made any other payments towards it. And he says,  under guidance from his 
solicitors, Mrs P cancelled the loan agreement within the 30 day cooling off period. BPF says 
that, under the terms of the finance, Mrs P still owes around £15,000 on the loan.
Mr P then complained to W and raised a number of concerns with the kitchen. W arranged  
for an inspection to be carried out on the kitchen which confirmed that there  were  
outstanding issues  to be resolved.
Ref: DRN07747982Following this Mr P called BPF on 14 November 2019 and hes unhappy with the way the 
call was handled. Mr P says that the call handler  said that the loan agreement  and terms and 
conditions had been sent to the wrong email address. And he says the call handler 
frequently tried to maintain  that it was the correct email address for Mr Ps company. Mr P 
said he had to advise  on a number of occasions  that it wasnt  his company that the 
documentation had been sent to.  
Mr P then sent a further complaint to BPF about  how this matter  was being handled. And he 
said he estimated that there were still about at least 40 items still to be fitted  or corrected. 
And he highlighted that he considered there to have been a number  of breaches of the 
Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA)s treating customers fairly principles in respect  to what 
had happened  up to this point  in particular:
1.Mrs P never received copies of the loan agreement and terms and conditions. He thinks  
BPF has sent this to another  person;
2.Mrs P was forced into signing to say she was happy with the installation  under false 
pretences. He considers BPFs reliance on this to activate the loan agreement to be 
fraudulent;
3.The installation contract  had dubious dates on it  in particular the incorrect  signature 
date  and W hadnt adhered to the installation dates as the kitchen wasnt installed 
within the contracted timeframes.
BPF responded to Mrs Ps complaint about  the activation of the loan and it offered her £25 in 
compensation because it didnt initially register the complaint Mr P raised on her behalf. But 
it said it was entitled  to activate the loan because it said W was entitled to ask for the loan to 
be activated once  the goods  were delivered and installed. And it said that W didnt have to 
wait for rectification  work  to be carried out. It also said that the finance  was activated after 
Mrs P signed the certificate of completion.
Mr P says that BPF said that it was pleased to uphold your [Mrs Ps] complaint. And he 
said that the only interpretation  from this is that BPF has accepted that the loan was invalid.
Mr P also asked this service to step in and investigate the complaint  as he was unhappy with 
the way BPF was handling it.
On 22 December 2018 W completed the installation of the kitchen and Mrs P signed to 
confirm she was happy with the installation.
In January 2018, BPF responded to Mr Ps complaint about the way that its call handler  
handled the call with him on 14 November  2018.  It said that it had been unable to locate  a 
copy of the recording  of the call. So it said that it would uphold this complaint and it offered 
him £50 in compensation for the way that the call was handled. Mr P is unhappy with BPFs  
response to this. He thinks its looking to bury the call recording  due to the severity  of what 
was said. He said there were some  significant  FCA breaches on the call and he doesnt  think  
BPF has considered this accurately.
W has since offered Mrs P £1,000 in compensation for the losses its caused in the 
installation of the kitchen. Mrs P hasnt accepted that as she thinks  its significantly short  of 
the compensation due, taking into account  the number of regulatory  breaches Mr P says 
Ref: DRN07747983hes demonstrated. And she thinks £5,000 is a fairer level of compensation. The total 
contracted cost of installing  the kitchen was £4,307.12.
I issued a provisional decision in October  2019 upholding this complaint. And I said the 
following:
I should  first explain  that Im only considering the actions of BPF in this complaint   i.e. in 
respect to the way that its handled  Mrs Ps S75 claim. Mrs P has also complained about the 
way that the finance agreement was arranged and the information she was given at the time. 
But this complaint is being considered under a separate complaint reference, so I wont be 
commenting on these  issues in this decision.
Mr P says that both W and BPF have carried out a number of serious regulatory breaches 
and he thinks there  should be serious ramifications for this. I think it would be useful to first 
set out this services  role. We are not the regulator  thats  the Financial Conduct Authority. 
We take into account what a business  has done  (or not done) but we dont fine or punish 
businesses and our role is to look to put things right where things have gone wrong and 
consider the impact on the individual customer.
Mr P says that Mrs P is seeking significant compensation to reflect  the regulatory breaches 
and, in effect, I think he seems to be seeking  punitive damages for whats happened. But 
thats outside of this services remit. My role in this decision is to assess  BPFs handling of 
Mrs Ps S75 claim and  in particular  assess whether there are any breaches of contract 
that BPF is responsible for under  S75. And where, if I think there are, to assess  whether  
reasonable steps have been taken to put things  right. In looking at this complaint  Im not 
deciding the outcome of the S75 claim but how BPF handled Mrs P's claim whilst taking into 
account the relevant law, including S75.
Further to this, I should also state that I can only look at the impact this matter has had on 
Mrs P as shes  the consumer in this complaint. I recognise that Mr P has spent a lot of time 
in handling this complaint  and a large  number of the issues hes raised  are in respect to 
things that have impacted him. But hes not an eligible consumer on this complaint so I cant  
take any impact this matter has had on him into account.
Mr P has raised a number  of issues that he wishes this service  to investigate and I shall 
address them separately.  Ive taken everything  Mr P has said into account. Ive not 
commented on each  and every point Mr P has raised. No discourtesy is meant by this, but 
simply reflects the informal nature of this service. Instead Ive focussed on what  I think  are 
the key issues  that have  been raised.
breach of contract by W
Mrs P entered into a contract with W to supply and install  a kitchen. Under  S75 in certain  
circumstances BPF can be held liable for any breach of contract or misrepresentation by W. 
The terms and conditions  for the installation  of the kitchen sets out that W will on installation 
and for a period of 5 years thereafter (subject  to the other provisions of the Terms) the 
installation services shall be performed with reasonable  skill and care.
I understand that the installation of the kitchen was due to start on 8 October 2019. The 
terms of the contract  dont  specifically state  how long the installation  should take, other than 
to say:
Ref: DRN07747984We [W] will endeavour to complete the installation services as soon as possible but time for 
completion is not of the essence  of this Contract and we will not be liable for any reasonable 
delays.
Mr P says that he was told that the installation  was expected to take around  five days. I 
havent seen anything to make me doubt  what he was told. And this seems a reasonable 
time scale in the circumstances.
But, irrespective of this, the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) implies a term into the 
contract where the contract doesnt specify a specific time frame for the contracted service  to 
be performed that the contract is to be treated as including a term that the trader  must 
perform the service within a reasonable time.
I understand that W initially arranged for the installation  of the kitchen to start on 8 October 
2018 but he wasnt able to complete the installation as he had to move onto another job. W 
then arranged for some different fitters to complete the installation,  but Mrs P 
understandably wasnt happy  with the quality of the installation.
W arranged for an inspection to be carried out on the kitchen  which revealed at least 14 
issues that needed to be rectified.  Its clear from this and Mrs Ps own testimony that there 
were a number of items poorly fitted  or not fitted at all. I dont think  a reasonable person 
would have expected these issues to have been  outstanding  on the kitchen, especially given 
Mrs P paid around £4,300 to install the kitchen. So I dont think the kitchen was fitted with 
reasonable care and skill.
Further to this, the rectification work  wasnt completed on the kitchen until 22 December 
2018  76 days  after the installation started. And I think  this is considerably  more  than what 
a reasonable person would expect  for W to install the kitchen. So I dont think  that the 
kitchen was fitted within a reasonable time either.
Given this, Im satisfied that there was a breach  of contract and, under S75, BPF is liable for 
certain losses that Mrs P has suffered. However, given the kitchen is now satisfactorily fitted, 
theres nothing further for BPF to do in this respect.  
Ive thought about the impact that this has had on Mrs P. It appears that she didnt  have 
access to water in the kitchen for 51 days due to the fact that the waste  on the sink wasnt  
connected and the hot water supply wasnt working  correctly. So Im satisfied that there was 
a significant period of time where she wasnt able to sufficiently use the kitchen. And I do 
think she should be compensated for any losses she suffered  as a result  of this.
The CRA sets out remedies  available to Mrs P where the kitchen wasnt  fitted within  a 
reasonable time. And it says that Mrs P may be entitled to a price  reduction from the price 
contractually agreed for the service.  Mrs P paid W around £4,300 to install the kitchen. W 
has offered Mrs P £1,000 in compensation for the losses that Mrs P has incurred due to its 
breaches of contract. But I have to think to what extent  W fulfilled its contractual 
responsibilities. 
I note Mrs P wants  a full refund of the installation costs, but I dont  think  this is reasonable as 
W did ultimately  provide the service it was contracted to provide  i.e. it did ultimately  
Ref: DRN07747985satisfactorily fit the kitchen. So Mrs P has received  some of benefit of the contract and I think  
its reasonable she pays for some of the contract.
But, as I said, part of the contract  is to fit the kitchen  with reasonable care and skill and 
within a reasonable time.  W clearly didnt do this. And this ultimately led to Mrs P not having 
water in the kitchen  for 51 days. I dont think £1,000  is adequate compensation to reflect the 
Ws breaches  of contract,  taking into account the cost price of the contract. Taking 
everything into account  in particular the significant  issues Ive highlighted  above   I think 
Mrs P should only be required to pay 50% of the installation cost  i.e. £2,153.56.  And BPF 
should refund the remaining 50%.
I further recognise that Mrs P says that shes suffered a lot of distress  and inconvenience  as 
a result of whats happened. But I think thats as a result of Ws handling of the claim and not 
something I can take into account in this respect.  As I said, BPF is only responsible for any 
losses arising from a breach of contract  and in particular for remedies set out under the CRA 
and what may be awarded  by a court. But, under S75, BPF isnt responsible for any distress 
or inconvenience caused to Mrs P by W.
Mr P has highlighted that our rules  set out that this service can award  compensation for 
distress and inconvenience. And I dont dispute  that. But we generally only award  distress  
and inconvenience  for the way that BPF has handled Mrs Ps S75 claim. And I havent seen 
anything to show that BPF has treated  Mrs P unfairly in this respect.
BPF can offset the amount  that it owes her against the outstanding balance on the finance. 
W has already offered  Mrs P £1,000 in compensation. I dont know  if W has already paid this 
to Mrs P. But if it has, BPF can take this into account when compensating Mrs P. 
activation of the loan
The terms of Mrs Ps contract with W say:
lf you have opted for a finance  option,  this will be activated on completion of the dry fit. 
(Completion means the installation of all items listed in document 13C). In the unlikely event 
there are any minor defects that need  addressing, these will be handled by our warranty 
department after the finance has been activated.
Further to this the finance agreement with BPF sets out the following:
How and when credit would be provided.
We will pay the amount of the loan to the retailer once  we approve the loan and receive  the 
signed agreement  or when  the supplier has supplied the goods or services  to you, if this is 
later.
So under the terms of the contracts with W and BPF, BPF was entitled to activate the loan 
once W had supplied and fitted the goods.  Mrs P signed  a certificate of completion to 
confirm she was satisfied  with the installation  of the kitchen, although  I note that Mrs P also 
wrote on the note that signing this form was subject  to the earlier  email  to you dated 
19/10/2018. Further to this, the certificate says:
Ref: DRN07747986If I have taken the option to pay for my service  using  Barclays Partner Finance Agreement,  I 
am satisfied  that our service is now complete to my satisfaction.
W and BPF relied upon this in activating  the loan. And I think  it was contractually entitled to 
do so. I note Mr P says that Mrs P was induced  into signing this because  the fitter said he 
wouldnt get paid if she didnt do so. And she says that she was asked to sign on his phone 
because he didnt have  a copy of the certificate.  So she says this meant she didnt 
understand the implication of what she was signing.  But, ultimately, I cant say that BPF 
acted unfairly in activating the loan and paying the proceeds to W when it did.
Mr P says that he was advised by his solicitors  to withdraw from the loan agreement.  Under 
the terms of the finance agreement, Mrs P had the right to withdraw from the finance  
agreement within 14 days. And she exercised this right.  But the terms of the finance also 
specified that Mrs P still owes  the outstanding balance  on the finance as BPF has paid the 
finance to W. And the terms  set out that this must be paid within 30 days. So I cant  say that 
BPF has acted unfairly in pursuing Mrs P for this balance.
Ultimately, BPF didnt act unfairly in activating the loan agreement and paying W for the 
kitchen. So Mrs P owes the balance of the loan. The original term of the loan set out that it 
was interest free over 60 months. But, given Mrs P withdrew from the agreement,  the 
remaining terms set out that the balance was payable within  30 days. So I cant say that its 
unfair that Mrs P is no longer entitled to the interest free period.  If Mr P doesnt  think he 
should have been told to withdraw from the loan, hell need to raise this with his solicitors  
separately.
BPFs handling of Mrs Ps S75 claim and complaint
Mrs P initially contacted BPF to raise a S75 claim shortly after BPF activated the loan. BPF 
responded to say that it would discuss the matter with her after the rectification work was 
started on 29 November 2018, which I think was fair. Ive looked at BPFs  file notes and I 
havent seen anything to show that BPF handled Mrs Ps claim unreasonably.
However, BPF acknowledged that it didnt initially log Mrs Ps complaint when she explained 
she was unhappy  with what had happened. And it paid Mrs P £25 in compensation for this. I 
think this is fair compensation as I dont think Mrs P has lost out as a result of this.
Mr P is particularly  unhappy with the way BPF handled a call he had with one of its agents  
on 14 November 2018. In particular he says that he told the call handler that Mrs P hadnt 
ever received copies  of the loan agreement. And he says that the call handler repeatedly 
told him that the paperwork had been  sent to Mr Ps work  email  address. Mr P said that he 
continually had to affirm that the email address the paperwork  had been sent to was for a 
different company, before the call handler  eventually accepted  that. Mr P says that this had 
made him and Mrs P concerned that another company  received  his paperwork.
BPF has told us and Mr P that it doesnt have a copy of the call recording.  Mr P thinks that it 
does have this call recording  and that BPF is looking to bury the complaint. But I havent 
seen anything to support  this. Theres no requirement to record telephone calls and Im 
satisfied that BPF doesnt have a copy of the call recording. I appreciate Mr P is unhappy 
with how the call was handled, but as I said above, I cant  take any impact this has had on 
him into account.
Ref: DRN07747987I recognise that Mrs P will be concerned that the paperwork was sent to another  company. 
This was sent by W on BPFs behalf. Mr P says that this is a serious regulatory breach. But 
as I said above,  its not this services role to fine and punish businesses, but to look to put 
things right where somethings gone  wrong. I recognise that this has been worrying for 
Mrs P. But I also havent seen anything to show that shes lost out specifically as a result  of 
this. BPF has paid Mrs P £50 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience its caused  
Mrs P. And I think thats fair.
BPF accepted my provisional decision apart from it queried where I said that if it If W has 
already paid Mrs P the £1000.00 In compensation it had already offered, Clydesdale  will only 
have to pay Mrs P £2,153.56.' And it queried if I meant  it only had to pay £1,153.56. 
Mr P didnt accept my provisional  decision for a number of reasons.  And, in summary, 
theyre as follows:
1.He says that I said there were 40 items still remaining to be fitted.  But he said that 40% 
of the items were not unpacked and nothing had been fitted.  
2.He remained of the belief that BPF were  looking to bury the complaint he made  about  
the way BPF handled a call he had with one of its agents  on 14 November 2018. 
3.He also maintains that the finance  was activated  fraudulently. He said the fitters were 
distressed and under immense pressure from W. He highlighted that the kitchen wasnt 
completed until 22 December 2018  with a completion certificate signed by W on that 
date. And he doesnt think its right that Mrs P is being held responsible for the actions of 
the fitters. He said while  Mr P signed  the completion  certificate, it was annotated.  So he 
doesnt think its fair that BPF activated the loan off the back of that.
4.He said he had a telephone call with BPF on 1 November 2018  where  he says BPFs call 
handler was confused  about  when the loan should have  started. And he provided  a copy  
of the call recording. He says he was advised  on the telephone call that they could 
cancel the loan as they were  under statutory protection.  He says he raised  a complaint 
and was told hed get a response within five days,  but he didnt. And he says he thinks  
this was another attempt by BPF to bury a complaint.
5.He reiterates that BPF sent the loan documents to the wrong email address and asked 
that I listen to the telephone call he had with BPF where  he discussed this.
Mr P provided a number  of telephone  calls that hed since been provided  for telephone calls 
he had with
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken all of Mr Ps comments into account, but I dont think hes provided  anything,  other 
than the call recording, that he hasnt  provided  before.  And Im satisfied that my provisional  
decision does address the comments hes raised.  So I dont intend to reiterate  in detail what  
Ive said above,  other  than to make the following comments.
Im still of the opinion  that BPF didnt act unreasonably in activating the finance agreement  
for the reasons I set out in my provisional  decision. And Im satisfied that my provisional 
decision explained why I came to this conclusion.  Mr P hasnt raised anything that he hasnt 
raised before.  So I dont  intend to comment on this further.
Ref: DRN07747988I havent seen  anything to suggest that BPF has sought to bury complaints. Im satisfied that 
it doesnt have  the call recording of 14 November 2018, but theres nothing that required 
BPF to retain call recordings.
I have listened  to the telephone call that he had with BPF on 1 November 2018. The call 
handler fairly  advised Mr P against Mrs P cancelling the direct debit because of implication 
of defaulting on the loan.  She explained that Mrs P was still within  the initial  two week right to 
withdraw from the loan.  But she also explained  that how this would work is that W would give 
BPF the money back  and Mrs P would  then have to pay W in full directly. So BPF did tell her 
that she could  withdraw  from the loan without penalty and impact. But it appears this didnt 
happen because  BPF has continued  to pursue Mrs P for the outstanding balance on the 
finance and record  defaults on her credit  file. 
However, two days after this call  and before they chose  to terminate the agreement  
Mr and Mrs P spoke  with BPF again and the agent looked to explain how the right to 
withdraw from the agreement worked.  The agent  explained to them  both that Mrs P would be 
required to settle  the balance in full within 30 days. Mr P responded to say his lawyers 
understand that. And he said hed downloaded  the terms and conditions.  Im satisfied from 
this that Mr and Mrs P did understand she would have to settle  the finance within 30 days of 
it being activated. So I think BPF did take fair steps to explain what  she needed to do to 
terminate the agreement.  And Im satisfied  Mrs P was aware she was required to pay it 
within 30 days.
BPF has highlighted  that I said If W has already paid Mrs P the £1000.00 in compensation it 
had already offered, Clydesdale will only have  to pay Mrs P £2,153.56.'  And it queried  if I 
meant it only had to pay £1,153.56 if W had already paid £1,000.  And I confirm my 
statement was a typing  error and, if W has already paid Mrs P the £1,000 in compensation it 
had already offered, BPF will only have to pay Mrs P £1,153.56. I apologise for this 
confusion.
Ultimately, taking everything into account, Im satisfied that my provisional  conclusion over 
how BPF should look to resolve this complaint was fair.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. And I 
require Clydesdale  Financial Services Limited  to do the following:
1.Refund £2,153.56 of the installation cost. If W has already paid Mrs P the £1,000 in 
compensation it had already offered, Clydesdale will only have to pay Mrs P £1,153.56. It 
can offset the amount that it owes her against the outstanding  balance on the finance;  
and
2.Pay Mrs P £50 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience its caused Mrs P if it 
hasnt already paid this.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 June 2020.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0774798