K820x#14complaint
Mrs T says that UK Insurance Limited (UKI for short) has treated her unfairly by cutting the 
water supply to her bath when it attended  her property as part of the cover under her home 
emergency policy.
background
UKI uses representatives and agents  to carry out work on its behalf.  I shall refer to these 
representatives and agents as UKI for simplicitys sake.
Mrs T says that UKI has treated her unfairly.  She says it cut the water  supply to her bath 
unnecessarily and without permission in December 2017. She says this left her without 
running water to that bath until 23rd January 2018. She says that when the water  was 
reconnected to the bath the associated shower mixer tap leaked. So she had to get UKI to 
return to cap the shower mixer leaving the shower  in that bath not working. Mrs T says shes  
elderly with mobility issues and this has caused much inconvenience.
UKI says it inspected the bath because it had found cross leakage  whilst trying to repair  
other issues (dealt with in separate complaints at this Service) so it needed  to investigate all 
possible sources of the cross leakage between hot and cold water. UKI says Mrs T gave  
permission to cap the piping under the bath. It says this was a temporary  solution  which  
allowed the proper  flow of water to the rest of the house including Mrs Ts other bathroom. It 
attended again in January and reconnected the pipe but had to isolate the associated 
shower to stop it leaking. It says it again  advised the shower  needed a new mixer tap (this 
mixer tap having been a significant issue in one of the other complaints  Mrs T has made  to 
this service about UKI). So it doesnt think it has treated Mrs T unfairly.
Mrs T wasnt happy so she complained. UKI didnt agree. So she complained here and the 
investigator didnt  uphold her complaint. Mrs T remains unhappy, so this complaint  has been 
passed to me for a decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
UKI and Mrs T dont agree to some  of the key issues here. So I can only make  my decision 
based on the evidence provided to me by the parties. In short  I must  decide what is most  
likely to have happened. Or in other  words,  what happened on the balance  of probabilities.
Having considered the entirety of the matter I dont think this complaint should  be upheld. I 
say this for the following  reasons.
Im satisfied from what UKI say there  was sufficient  cause  for the UKI representatives  to 
explore further  when  they discovered  cross  mixing  of water.  And its clear by capping as they 
did they fixed the issue of the mixing of the water.
Its clear from the terms and conditions that this was an emergency  cover type policy. Such 
policies in essence only cover the essentials.  The policy  Mrs T has covers  temporary  repairs 
rather than being  a maintenance policy. And has limits  on replacement part costs. It seems  
Ref: DRN09204812likely to me Mrs T is unhappy that some of the parts needing replacement  cost more  than 
the limit and thus wont be covered  by the policy. 
UKI has noted that Mrs T had a separate bathroom and once the pipes  were  capped (and 
thus the cross mixing stopped) the presence  of the other bathroom meant that further work 
wouldnt be covered  by the policy  as the situation  was no longer an emergency as per the 
terms of the policy. Considering the matter in the round I think  this position  by UKI is fair.
UKI has stated that its representatives ensured  Mrs T had hot water  flowing properly  to the 
rest of the premises and she had the full use of the other bathroom. Ive seen photographic 
evidence supporting showing water flowing. Its records on the matter from the time are 
detailed and are persuasive to me as to the situation when it was at the premises.  So 
although Mrs T says UKI are wrong about this, I think on balance  that Mrs T did have  full use 
of the bath and shower in the other  bathroom  when UKI left her premises.
I appreciate that the temporary work done in December wasnt completed to until January. 
But it did solve the issues Mrs T was having in a safe and appropriate manner. Bearing in 
mind the terms of the policy  and the presence  of the second bathroom I think any 
inconvenience to Mrs T was insufficient to warrant UKI having to do anything further now or 
pay any further compensation.  I say this having  thought about  what  Mrs T has said about her 
age, mobility, medical circumstances and situation generally.
As a consequence of all of the above  I think UKI has treated Mrs T fairly  with regard to this 
complaint. As such I wont be asking  it to do anything more.
I appreciate Mrs T will be disappointed by this.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against UK Insurance Limited.  
So it needs  to do nothing further about this particular complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs T to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 February  2019.
Rod Glyn-Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0920481