K822xcomplaint
Mr B complains that the start date of his annuity was delayed and caused him to be 
financially disadvantaged. He says that Legal  and General  Assurance  Society  Limited 
(Legal and General) was responsible for some of the delays, and he wants it to either  
backdate his annuity start date or compensate him from the time he thinks  it should have 
been set up.
  
background 
Mr B held a pension plan from which he wanted  to draw his benefits. On 20 April 2018 Mr B 
wrote to his plan provider  to ask to draw his pension as an annuity with no tax free lump 
sum. He was told an annuity starting from 9 May 2018 would have a guaranteed annuity rate 
(GAR) of 8.75%. 
But the provider  had previously engaged Legal  and General  to provide its annuities. So 
when Mr B received  a letter  telling him to contact Legal and General he did so on 
9 May 2018.  During the call Mr B discussed  the options available  to him and was made  
aware of the various risks involved. It was confirmed that his application would be referred to 
a separate actuarial team and may take a bit longer to process for that reason. This 
information was summarised in a letter he received  afterwards. The letter  also confirmed a 
quotation  with an application form  would be sent separately.  
But by 22 May 2018  Mr B hadnt received the quotation so he contacted Legal and General. 
The quotation was sent out the following day and noted that, based  on the GAR, Mr B would 
receive £79,888.92 per annum. This figure was guaranteed until 27 June 2018.
On 29 May 2018 Legal and General confirmed receipt of Mr Bs application form.  Mr Bs 
pension provider then confirmed that the funds, recalculated to a higher amount, were to be 
sent to Legal and General. The increased annuity  amount  of £81,092.64 per annum was 
confirmed as starting from 7 June  2018   to be paid a year in arrears. 
On 3 July 2018 Mr B wrote to Legal and General complaining that he hadnt received a final 
quotation or cancellation rights. He wanted the start date of his annuity  to be confirmed as 
he believed  he may have been disadvantaged  by delays.
On 5 July 2018 Legal  and General said it had previously referred Mr Bs application to its 
actuarial team  but it hadnt received a reply. So it agreed that it had delayed  the 
implementation of his annuity but confirmed it would still be paid on the date it originally 
stated (7 June 2018) and as it was to be paid in arrears Mr B wouldnt be disadvantaged. It 
paid Mr B £100 for any inconvenience the delay in issuing paperwork had caused.
Legal and General then confirmed the annuity details but Mr B remained  unhappy with what 
he saw as delays  in the process and asked for Legal and General to look into the matter  
further. He wanted Legal  and General to either backdate the start date of the annuity or to 
compensate him for the delay.
Legal and General said it wasnt  able to backdate the plans start date and also said it didnt 
think it had delayed matters unnecessarily.  So Mr B brought his complaint to us where  one 
Ref: DRN00293032of our adjudicators looked into the matter.   He didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
He said that:
Hed only considered  this complaint against  Legal and General and if Mr B thought 
the provider also had some responsibility  for the delay he should register a complaint 
against it.
The annuity was set up within one month of Mr B contacting Legal and General. He 
didnt think this was an unreasonable  timescale taking everything into account.
Legal and General  did explain that Mr Bs application would need to be referred to 
the actuarial team and confirmed the likely timescales involved. He didnt think  the 
timescale was unreasonable or that Legal and General had misled Mr B.
He thought Legal and General  had delayed the issuing of the plan documentation  but 
thought the payment of £100 for that was fair and reasonable.
But Mr B didnt agree and made the following points:
The annuity took seven weeks to set up which he thought was unreasonable,  
especially when he only had to give one months  notice  to the plan provider of his 
intention to draw benefits.
The delay was caused by the providers decision to outsource  the annuity provision to 
Legal and General   which he wasnt made  aware  of. He didnt think this 
arrangement was fit for purpose.
The referral to Legal and Generals actuaries caused much of the delay and should 
not have been allowed to disadvantage  him.
The provider sent a cheque to Legal  and General which  also delayed matters. He 
thought either the provider should have a quicker method of transferring funds or 
Legal and General  should have set the plan up whilst it was waiting for the funds to 
clear.
He thought it was reasonable  to expect the annuity to be set up within one month.
As he remained unhappy Mr B asked  for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman, so 
its been passed to me for a review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, I agree with the 
adjudicators assessment  and for broadly the same reasons.  I know this outcome will come 
as a disappointment  to Mr B, and I have some  sympathy for his position  here,  so Ill explain 
my reasons.
Mr B initially  wrote to his plan provider  on 20 April 2018, but didnt speak to Legal and 
General about  his annuity until 9 May 2018.  Mr B says he wasnt  made  aware of the 
relationship that existed  between the two businesses and that Legal and General would 
provide the annuity. 
I dont dispute  what Mr B has said but I cant say Legal and General has done anything  
wrong there.  It wasnt in a position to explain the relationship until Mr B contacted it, I think  
any initial explanation  would have come from the plan provider. 
Ive listened very carefully to the telephone  conversation  that Mr B had with Legal and 
General on 9 May 2018, when he completed an application process and advised it that he 
wanted to draw his benefits as soon as possible,  without taking a lump sum, and without 
Ref: DRN00293033looking at other alternatives. At the end of the process Mr B was advised  that he would 
receive an email confirming the answers hed provided and hed receive a quotation 
confirming the amount  of income he would  receive. 
But Legal  and General  also confirmed  that it would need to pass the information to another  
team  which was an actuarial team  before it would issue the quotation  and application 
form. It confirmed  this process would take between five and ten days. 
So I think Legal and General did make  Mr B aware  of the process  it needed to follow  when 
he spoke with it. And Ive seen that the quotation and application was sent to him on 
23 May 2018  which was nine working days after the telephone conversation, and within 
the five to ten days Legal and General had suggested. I can understand Mr B would have 
liked the information to have been provided  to him sooner, but I cant say Legal and General 
has acted unfairly as it supplied the quotation  within the time scale  it said it would.
Legal and General has explained that it needed to refer Mr Bs application  to its actuarial 
department in order to calculate the value of the fund required to provide the GAR. It said it 
had to do the calculation manually. 
But it has said thats its usual process in such cases and we wouldnt normally  interfere in a 
businesss commercial decision.  I know that Mr B doesnt see the need for the referral  to 
have been made as it caused unnecessary delays, but I dont think its unreasonable for 
Legal and General to take steps to ensure it calculated the correct annuity payment  
especially when there were GARs involved with the plan, and a high fund value, as was the 
case here. But I would have expected Legal  and General  to have explained  the implications 
of its decision and to confirm any additional  time the referral would have taken  which  I 
think in this case it did.
Ive also taken into account the consequences  the referral might have had on Mr Bs final 
annuity income. And Ive seen that the quotation that was issued was based on the value of 
his plan on 9 May 2018 and was guaranteed  for over a month. So any delays wouldnt have 
impacted Mr Bs income  as long as the annuity was finalised before 27 June 2018  which  it 
was. And I note the final fund value was higher than had previously been stated, so Mr Bs 
annuity payment  was also increased  accordingly.  So I cant  say the delays that Mr B has 
complained about disadvantaged him financially.  
Following Legal  and Generals receipt of the paperwork it applied to the provider for the 
funds which  were paid a few days later. Looking at the start date of Mr Bs annuity I dont 
think Legal and General  caused any delays from when it received his application and I think  
the plan was set up within a reasonable time scale. So Im not going to ask Legal and 
General to backdate the annuity start date.
Mr B identified some other reasons  that he thought might  have  caused  delays and also 
which he thought  demonstrated the process wasnt fit for purpose. 
He said that the provider  sent the funds by cheque instead of bank transfer, that he wasnt 
made aware  that his provider used another company to deal with its annuities,  and the 
overall time it took to complete the process  was longer than necessary. But I dont think  any 
of these things  were Legal  and Generals responsibility. 
If Mr B considers  that there  were  still delays caused by these actions, or that the he wasnt  
advised about the relationship between the two businesses then he should complain to the 
Ref: DRN00293034other business as well. If hes dissatisfied  with the response, then he can refer the complaint 
to us. 
However, Mr B did complain to Legal  and General that he hadnt received his final quotation 
or his cancellation rights,  which he said concerned him as was due to travel  extensively soon 
after and wanted  the matter resolved. And in its letter  of 29 May 2018 Legal and General 
said Once  we have  received the funds from (the provider), we will send you a final quotation 
before we authorise your annuity. So I think that Legal and General did delay issuing  these 
documents and this would  have caused Mr B some concern as he wasnt  aware the matter 
had been completely finalised.
But Legal  and General  has acknowledged  this delay and has made a payment to Mr B for 
any inconvenience it caused. I think that payment of £100, for the impact this had on Mr B, is 
fair and reasonable and is broadly in line with what I would have recommended  in the 
circumstances.
my final decision
For the reasons  that Ive given, I dont  uphold Mr Bs complaint, in as much as I think  the 
payment Legal  and General Assurance  Society  Limited made to him is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 December  2019.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0029303