K822xcomplaint
Mr A complains that American Express Payment Services Limited (AmEx) gave  him a poor 
service after he cancelled  his card account.
background 
Mr A cancelled his AmEx card and asked that the pro-rata refund for the annual fee be sent 
to him as a cheque. AmEx didnt do this and he had to chase  it up. It promised to phone  him 
back and didnt do so. It then paid his refund into his bank account. He complained  but didnt 
get the final response letter. And then AmEx paid £50 compensation into his bank account 
without his consent. He wants a formal  apology and £500 compensation. 
Our investigator wasnt able to listen to the phone  calls Mr A had made about this refund but 
she thought it likely  that hed asked for a cheque. She could see it hadnt returned  his phone 
calls when itd promised  to do so. And it had given him the wrong information about the final 
response letter. Looking  at the overall effect  she thought this wouldve had on Mr A she 
recommended AmEx should pay him a further £50 making  £100  in total. 
AmEx accepted this. But Mr A wasnt happy  with her opinion. He said hed incurred costs 
while waiting for his refund and he lost access to the card benefits even though he hadnt 
had the refund. And AmEx ignored his complaint  and it paid him £50 without his consent.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AmEx has accepted  it didnt deal with Mr A very well so the issue I have to decide  is the 
level of compensation  it should pay to him for the trouble and upset its caused him.
AmEx didnt  make it clear  to Mr A that it couldnt issue  the refund by cheque.  And it accepted 
it didnt call him back when it promised to do so. It confused a previous complaint with this 
one and so it thought  itd issued the final response  letter. 
But AmEx told Mr A when he cancelled the card he wouldnt be eligible for any of the 
benefits of it with immediate effect.  And I can see that AmEx had a process for the pro-rata 
refund of the fee hed already paid which meant that he didnt receive it immediately. But the 
way AmEx processes  this type of refund is a commercial decision and not something we can 
look at. We cant comment on processes which apply to all its customers. Thats the role of 
the Financial Conduct Authority. 
AmEx has acknowledged the poor service it gave  to Mr A. It paid him £50 compensation 
which he didnt want. I appreciate he found that irritating and I have taken that into account 
when coming to my decision about compensation.
We dont fine or punish financial institutions. But we try and put consumers back  into the 
position they wouldve been  in had the bank  not made any mistake. Mr A says he lost money  
while waiting for his refund. But I cant see that any financial loss that was the fault of AmEx. 
Ref: DRN05504492Its clear AmExs actions have caused  Mr A some  annoyance and inconvenience. It didnt 
give him the right information which meant  he had to phone it to find out what  happened to 
the cheque he was expecting. And it confused this complaint  with an earlier one hed made.
It paid £50 compensation into Mr As account  when  he asked it not to. I can see that this 
caused him some irritation  but I cant see its caused  him any inconvenience.
Looking at the level of service  as a whole I think Mr A suffered reasonably  minor  irritation 
and inconvenience.  So, although I know Mr A will be disappointed with my decision, I agree 
with our investigator that £100 is fair and reasonable.
my final decision
My decision  is that American  Express Payment  Services Limited should pay Mr A a further 
£50 making £100  in total.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2019.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0550449