K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about a training course  he paid for using a Fixed Sum Loan  provided by 
Carnegie Consumer  Finance  Limited. 
background
Mr M looked online for a work-related course. He set up a meeting  with a course provider 
and enrolled on a course in September 2017. Having secured funding through  Carnegie, he 
was supplied with the necessary course  materials by a representative of the course provider.  
In May 2018, Mr M says he discovered  the course was not suitable and decided to cancel it. 
He says the sales representative had told him he was free to leave the course at any time 
and was led to believe this meant  the course  was paid for on a rolling basis, so hed not 
have to pay any more  if he chose to leave. 
Mr M complained to Carnegie  and said the course  was mis-sold for a number  of reasons. He 
said (in summary):
English isnt his first language but the wasnt given any additional explanation of 
the terms of the agreement. 
The course content wasnt explained adequately at the point of sale;  he says he 
wasnt told the course would be completely online. He tells us that he tried to 
contact the course provider for assistance  several  times  before deciding to cancel 
the course. He says theres been a breach of contract by the training provider. 
He was in minimum  wage temporary  employment and lived with his partner (who 
didnt work) and their young  daughter. He says a proper affordability assessment 
wasnt carried out for the loan and the assessment  didnt meet the requirements  
of CONC 5.3.1.
Carnegie have  harassed him with phone calls for repayment of the loan.
Carnegie looked into his concerns. They said theyd seen no evidence of any 
misrepresentation of the course or breach of contract by the provider. But said theyd look 
again if he could  provide  evidence of attempting to get help from the course  provider that 
wasnt acknowledged. They said Mr M had signed  a declaration  to confirm hed discussed 
the affordability of the loan with the advisor and confirmed  he could afford the repayments  as 
he had a disposable income  of £610. Carnegie reviewed their communications with Mr M 
and said they didnt think their contact with him had been excessive. They didnt uphold his 
complaint.
As Mr M remained  unhappy, he referred  his complaint to us and one of our adjudicators 
looked into it. He said Mr M had been  given the chance to review the course  information  and 
was given 14 days to cancel the agreement  if hed been unhappy with it. But that period had 
passed by the time he raised his concerns. He said the paperwork Mr M had been given 
about the course had set out what he could expect. There was nothing  to suggest Mr M had 
been misled when he entered the agreement.  
The adjudicator said hed seen evidence of the affordability check  being carried out. He said 
based on the income and expenditure document Mr M had signed, there was enough 
disposable income to meet the repayments.  He didnt feel Carnegie had been  wrong  to lend 
Ref: DRN09919792to Mr M based on the information hed given them. He also said hed seen no evidence of 
harassment by Carnegie since  Mr M had cancelled the course. 
The adjudicator gave Mr M the chance  to provide further information regarding any of the 
points hed raised in the complaint, but Mr M didnt do so. Instead, he asked for a review of 
the complaint  by an ombudsman, so it has been  passed  to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ms claim  for breach  of contract  and misrepresentation  fits with the provisions of 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.  This says that in some circumstances the 
borrower under a credit agreement has an equal right to claim against the credit provider if 
theres either  a breach  of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier of goods  or services. 
Im satisfied the required circumstances for Mr M to make a claim are present here. 
My role isnt to decide whether  Mr M has a valid claim under section 75, as that is for a court. 
Instead, Im required to decide  whats  fair and reasonable  in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In doing so, Ive taken account  of what the law says,  including  section 75. 
What I need to consider is whether there  was a misrepresentation of the course  or a breach 
of contract  by the provider. That is to say did they give false information that induced Mr M 
into accepting the contract that he wouldnt have if hed been  given the correct  information, 
or have  they not fulfilled part of the contract. 
I understand that Mr Ms first language isnt English, but I wouldnt necessarily expect the 
course provider or Carnegie to provide all the documentation in his first language. But I 
would expect them to support him to ensure he has time to understand what  hes signing up 
for. While I cant say for sure what was said at the time, Mr M did meet face to face with an 
adviser to discuss the course and the finance, and he had the chance to question anything 
he was unsure of. He was given 14 days to review  everything (and seek advice if needed) 
and could cancel  the course and the finance agreement if he was unhappy with it. 
Ive seen the paperwork provided  and think it is clear about what can be expected  from the 
course. It sets out that in addition  to paper-based  learning, it also has the unique benefit and 
support of the latest computer based technology in the form of e-learning and virtual reality 
scenario simulation. The literature also sets out how the course works and the support 
available. So Im satisfied  that its clear  there  would be online work to be done and Ive not 
seen anything that shows it was misrepresented to Mr M. 
Mr M says theres been a breach  of contract  because he wasnt given the support he needed 
despite asking  for it. Carnegie have said the course  provider told them  theres no record  of 
Mr M ever telling them he was struggling  with the course or asking for additional support. I 
note that Carnegie  and our adjudicator each offered to look again at this point  if Mr M could 
provide evidence that hed tried to contact  the provider, but hes not provided  any.
The literature and welcome letter provided by the course provider give details of how to 
contact them  for help, so Im satisfied that Mr M will have known how to contact them if 
needed. But Ive not seen  anything to show he asked for help, although he has been given 
the chance provide that evidence on more than one occasion. So on balance,  Im not 
Ref: DRN09919793persuaded that the course provider failed to respond  to his enquiries.  It follows  that I dont 
think theres been a breach of contract by the course provider. 
Mr M says there was no proper affordability  assessment carried out for the loan that meets  
the requirements of an affordability assessment as per the FCAs CONC 5.3.1..  
CONC is the Consumer Credit Sourcebook  which forms part of the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys handbook. The handbook  says that the purpose of CONC is to set out the 
detailed obligations  that are specific to credit-related  regulated activities  and activities 
connected to those activities carried on by firms. 
Section 5.3 of CONC was in place when  Mr M signed up for the Fixed Sum Loan but was 
deleted in November  2018. It set out that a business  was required to assess  the 
creditworthiness of an applicant and refers to CONC  5.2 for how that should be assessed.  
At the time,  CONC 5.2.1(2) and (3) said:
(2) A firm carrying out the assessment required in (1) must consider:
(a) the potential  for the commitments  under the regulated credit agreement  to 
adversely impact the customer's financial situation, taking into account the 
information of which the firm is aware at the time the regulated credit agreement  is to 
be made; and
(b) the ability of the customer to make repayments as they fall due over the life of the 
regulated credit agreement
(3) A creditworthiness  assessment must  be based  on sufficient information obtained 
from:
(a) the customer, where appropriate; and
(b) a credit reference agency, where necessary.
CONC 5.3.1 (4)(b) went on to say it is not generally  sufficient  for a firm to rely solely for its 
assessment of the customer's income  and expenditure,  on a statement of those matters 
made by the customer.
Carnegie say they reached their decision using the income and expenditure form, the 
application form and the results of a credit check.  They say Mr M confirmed the information 
was true and accurate. The application form includes details of Mr Ms employment, salary,  
living arrangements  and shows he has two dependents. The credit check Carnegie carried  
out, captures  the details from the application form and includes £610 as the affordable 
amount. That information  then gave  a score which allowed the application  to be accepted.   
I need to decide if I think  Carnegie completed reasonable and proportionate checks as 
required by CONC to ensure the borrowing was affordable and sustainable  for Mr M. If they 
did, was their lending  decision  fair? If I dont think they completed sufficient checks, would 
such checks have been likely shown  Mr M could afford the borrowing?  
The income and expenditure form completed  shows Mr M had a monthly  income of £1,100 
and expenses of £490, leaving £610 available for training. The repayments  for the loan 
were £165  per month.  The form was signed by Mr M along with an affordability declaration 
confirming the course  advisor had discussed the question of affordability  and I confirm I can 
afford to undertake  the training programme. He confirmed  hed shown  a salary slip and that 
the income and expenditure  statement showed  £610 per month available to fund the course. 
Ref: DRN09919794But it does  seem unlikely  that someone  cohabiting  and earning  £1,100  per month would 
have £610 disposable income.  I note that Mr M says his partner wasnt working and he had 
a young child to support. Looking at the income and expenditure statement completed as 
part of the affordability assessment, several  of the expenses are lower  than Id expect. For 
example, it lists £100 per month for food for three  people.  
So, while the form showed there  was over £400 unaccounted for in his budget after payment 
for the course was deducted, I think  further questions should  have been asked to ensure it 
was accurate. Ive asked  Carnegie to provide a copy of the salary  slip they say they saw at 
the time and what further steps they took in reaching their decision to lend. Theyve said at 
the time,  they didnt keep copies of salary slips so theyre unable  to provide that. They  tell 
me they relied  on the information provided  by Mr M to assess  the affordability and the £610 
excess income gave  them  sufficient comfort that the loan was affordable.  
I dont think I can say that Carnegie completed  reasonable and proportionate checks  prior to 
lending to Mr M. I say this because the income and expenditure  form appears unrealistic in 
several areas and Carnegie dont appear  to have taken any steps to verify  the information.  
They appear to have simply accepted what Mr M told them and input  that in their credit score  
system. So, I think theyve failed to comply  with CONC 5.3.1 (4)(b) as I think its evident that 
theyve relied solely  on what Mr M told them and its unlikely hed have had a disposable 
income of £610  per month. 
While I cant say whether that would  have led to a different outcome in the decision to lend,  I 
think Carnegie should have made more effort to check  what Mr M had told them.  So I need 
to think about  whether  reasonable and proportionate checks would have shown  Mr M could 
afford the borrowing. 
Ive asked Mr M several times to provide more information about his circumstances so I can 
see what Carnegie may have found  if theyd carried out reasonable and proportionate 
checks. Unfortunately, Mr M hasnt  responded to any of my requests. I cant therefore, say 
its likely  Carnegie would  have found  the loan to be unaffordable as I dont know what  
information would have been  available to them. So I cant  reasonably  conclude  that 
Carnegie acted  unfairly in providing the finance  for the course. 
Mr M also complains  that Carnegie have  harassed him since May 2018. He refers  to 
CONC 7.3 which sets out how businesses should  treat customers  in default or arrears.  He 
says he was contacted 10 times in one day in June 2018. 
In his assessment  of the complaint, our adjudicator said the contact notes provided by 
Carnegie didnt  show this level of contact, and not more than once a day. He asked Mr M to 
provide evidence of the calls he feels show harassment and hed look into it again.  Mr M has 
provided no further evidence, so Ive looked at the complaint based on the evidence we 
have. 
Ive looked carefully  at the contact notes  Carnegie  have provided.  They  show when theyve  
tried to contact Mr M. They have tried to do so on lots of occasions  via phone, text and in 
writing, but Ive not seen anything showing the level of contact Mr M has stated. It is also 
evident that on many occasions, Carnegie  have  not been able to get hold of Mr M to discuss 
the situation. I dont  think  the level of contact Ive seen could be considered  harassment and 
Ive seen nothing  that demonstrates a breach of CONC 7.3. 
Ref: DRN09919795Mr M says he is unable  to afford  repayments on the loan. Id encourage him to speak to 
Carnegie about his situation. And Id remind Carnegie of their obligations  to treat consumers 
in financial difficulty fairly.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 December  2020.
Richard Hale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0991979