K822xcomplaint
Mrs J complains that she was given the wrong  information when she asked 
HSBC UK Bank Plc about transferring  funds  from abroad into her account. 
background 
In May 2018  Mrs J used  HSBCs live chat facility  to ask questions  about transferring funds 
she held abroad  in euros to her UK sterling  account.  During  the live chat she asked about  
charges and how many euros shed need  to send to ensure  £60,000 was received by HSBC. 
HSBC gave details  of the fees it charges and advised Mrs J to contact the bank that would 
be sending the payment  to find out what its exchange rate was so she could check how 
many euros were needed.  
Mrs J contacted her bank and checked  its exchange  rate. However, she went  on to send  the 
funds in euros, not sterling, so HSBC  had to convert it before it was paid into Mrs Js 
account. After converting the funds Miss J was left with less than shed expected  and raised 
a complaint. 
HSBC looked  at what had happened  but didnt agree  it had made a mistake. Mrs J went on 
to refer her complaint  to this service  and an adjudicator looked at her concerns but felt 
HSBC had provided the appropriate information  when Mrs J had discussed her transfer. As 
Mrs J doesnt agree shes asked for her complaint to be appealed and its been passed to 
me to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And looking  at whats happened,  I think  
the complaint  centres on Mrs Js live chat with Kayleigh on 26 February 2018. I say this 
because it was following  this exchange that Mrs J went on to make her transfer. 
In hindsight, I can see that Mrs J was asking about  what exchange rate HSBC  would apply if 
it received euros from her bank abroad. But Mrs Js question can be read in more  than one 
way. She said I need to send money  from my account (held  with a bank abroad) to my 
account in HSBC. The amount I need in pounds is £60,000. How many euros do I need and 
what is the current exchange rate today?
Kayleigh responds and says At this stage we cannot advise  the exact exchange rate for the 
payment as this will be set by (your  bank)  when setting up and sending  the payment. You 
will need  to kindly check with the sending bank what their rates  will be
When someone sends  funds from abroad  theyll  generally ask the sending bank to convert it 
to the currency they need. Thats because the sending bank can confirm  what rate will be 
used before the conversion takes  place. And thats why Kayleigh  asked  Mrs J to check  
conversion rates with the sending bank   she was under the impression that the conversion 
would be completed  before  the funds reached  HSBC. 
I appreciate thats  not what happened but Ive carefully thought  about  the information  
Kayleigh had available when talking to Mrs J. And I think  the information  she provided was 
correct on the basis  that it would be the sending bank that would complete the currency 
Ref: DRN09625192conversion. As Ive said above, in hindsight, I understand Mrs J wanted to know what  HSBC 
would charge to convert the funds  once theyd been  received but I dont  think  its 
interpretation of her live chat questions was unreasonable. 
I think Kayleighs response does indicate she expected Mrs J to send sterling to her account 
following a conversion  by her sending bank.  
I also need to consider  what  Mrs J wouldve done  differently if HSBC had told her what its 
exchange rate was when she made  contact.  It appears Mrs J always  intended to send euros 
to HSBC for it to convert to sterling. So shed always have been liable to pay HSBCs 
exchange rate at the point  her transfer  was received. 
I understand the sending bank may have given details of more  competitive rates  but that 
doesnt mean HSBC  wouldve had to match what was offered. As Mrs J used HSBC to 
convert the currency of her funds shes liable to pay the exchange  rate at that time and 
charges applicable to her account. And Ive not seen any evidence to show  shes  paid too 
much or a mistakes been made. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs J as I think this issue has arisen due to a genuine 
misunderstanding between her and HSBC. But Im satisfied  HSBCs interpretation  of the 
questions Mrs J asked was reasonable and the information it provided was correct, based on 
what it thought  she was asking. 
HSBCs offered Mrs J £50 for the service she received while  trying to discuss what  
happened and Im satisfied thats  fair in all the circumstances. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint  beyond the £50 HSBC  Bank  UK Plc has 
already offered. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required  to ask 
Mrs J to accept  or reject  my decision before  7 February 2019.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0962519