K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that he was advised  to invest in various film partnership  schemes  operated 
by Ingenious Group  by an adviser  for Coutts  & Company who had a personal  relationship  
with someone at Ingenious Group  and that he wouldnt  have invested in the schemes if he 
had been made aware of this. 
background
Mr J invested in various film schemes  in 2005 and 2006 to mitigate  his tax liability.  The 
specific schemes he initially  invested  in with Ingenious were recommended by an adviser 
(the original  adviser) whom Mr J says had a close personal relationship with someone  at 
Ingenious, which he says created a conflict of interest. He complained  to Coutts,  through  his 
solicitors, when he says he became aware  of the conflict of interest. 
Coutts didnt uphold the complaint. In its final response letter (FRL)  it said that approvals for 
any Ingenious scheme were obtained by it as a whole before any scheme  was introduced  to 
a client and the adviser had no direct involvement in that approval  process.  It also said that 
the initial decision to invest in such a scheme was taken by the client  wealth manager and 
that the adviser only provided tax advice  once a client had expressed an interest.  
It pointed out that the tax advice contained  standard warnings including  that HMRC may 
challenge the schemes effectiveness for tax purposes and that it was normal  practice for a 
second adviser to review  suitability letters. Coutts said that any potential risks were entirely 
mitigated by the various measures it had set out. 
Mr Js solicitors responded and suggested  that Coutts hadnt really  dealt with the complaint 
and asked questions  relating to its knowledge  of the conflict of interest and asked it to 
confirm that the adviser wouldnt have been appointed to advise Mr J if she had notified her 
employer that she had a relationship with someone  at Ingenious. Coutts  provided  a further 
response largely repeating what it had said in its FRL. Mr J then referred his complaint to us.
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. In short he made  the 
following findings:
He didnt have  enough information about  the relationship to know that this affected 
the behaviour  of the adviser.
Even if there was a conflict  of interest  he didnt think  there  were  grounds for Coutts to 
be asked to cover his losses.
Coutts had controls in place - which it has detailed in its correspondence  with Mr J - 
that ensured any conflict of interest was managed effectively. 
With those controls in mind it doesnt  appear that the adviser had any involvement  in 
the approval process of the Ingenious  schemes.
It appears the schemes  were recommended after Mr J had already indicated his 
interest in film schemes  and other options  had been rejected.
There is little evidence  that the recommendations were impacted by any relationship 
between his adviser and someone  at Ingenious, particularly  as recommendations to 
invest in schemes continued  after the adviser  left Coutts.
It is difficult to know  what Mr J wouldve done if he was made  aware of a conflict  of 
interest but it is possible he wouldve ended up in a similar  position  even if he hadnt 
invested through Ingenious.
Ref: DRN01395132Another possible difficulty for Mr J is that Coutts have said that the penalties HMRC 
have imposed relate to additional contributions to the schemes  Mr J had made  which 
they hadnt advised on.
Mr J responded to the investigator and, in summary,  made the following points:
Coutts shouldve  known of the relationship  between the adviser and an Ingenious 
Director by 2000, or latest 2005.
The ombudsman must ask Coutts  to explain what it knew  and when.  If this shows  
that there was a close personal relationship he must surely  conclude it didnt have a 
conflict policy in place  and that he wouldnt then have invested  with Ingenious if he 
had been made aware of the conflict.
The adviser not being involved  in the approval  process of the schemes - if she wasnt  
- isnt the point.  It is the faith he had in the adviser  that led him to invest in the 
schemes that is important.
He was only given  a barebones introduction to tax schemes by his wealth manager 
before being passed on to the adviser.
Once it is established there was a conflict of interest there  is no need to consider 
what wouldve happened if he hadnt  invested in the Ingenious schemes.
The investigator could  ask the adviser  what the relationship was between her and the 
Director of Ingenious.
As Mr J didnt  agree with the investigator the matter  has been referred to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think it is important for me to make clear that I have to make findings on a balance  of 
probabilities  what is more likely than not  based  on the evidence provided by the parties. 
It is for me to decide what weight to give any piece  of evidence, and also to decide if I need  
a party  to provide any further  evidence. 
I note that Mr J thinks that I need  to obtain  further information from Coutts as to its 
knowledge of a conflict of interest arising from a relationship between his adviser  and 
someone at Ingenious.  Having  considered this Im not satisfied that I need  information from 
Coutts about this as I dont think this will help me make a fair and reasonable decision in this 
complaint.
Mr Js argues that if Coutts was aware  of a close personal relationship  between  the adviser 
and someone at Ingenious  it would show it didnt have a conflict of interest  policy in place 
and that he wouldnt  have invested  with Ingenious.  But even if Coutts had failed  to manage a 
conflict of interest between the adviser  and someone at Ingenious it does not follow  as he 
suggests - that he wouldnt  then have gone  ahead with investing in film schemes  promoted  
by Ingenious.  And I am not satisfied that he wouldnt be in exactly  the same position  
regardless of any conflict.
From what  I have  seen, I am satisfied that Mr J wanted to mitigate his tax position. At the 
time film schemes were an acknowledged way to do what  Mr J wanted  and there is no 
reason to think he wouldnt have wanted  to invest in such schemes as long as they were  
suitable for his needs  which I think they were.
Ref: DRN01395133A conflict of interest between the original adviser  and someone  at Ingenious does not mean 
Coutts wouldnt have  been able to recommend  any scheme promoted  by Ingenious. Coutts 
has said that its approval of any scheme  promoted by Ingenious wasnt something  that the 
adviser was involved  in. I have seen no evidence  to suggest this wasnt  the case so I think  it 
is more likely than not that the various  Ingenious film schemes that Coutts were happy  to 
recommend to clients wouldve been  available  through it regardless of who was providing  
the advice. 
If there was a conflict of interest and Coutts  decided that the original adviser couldnt advise 
any client about a film scheme involving Ingenious I think it is more likely than not that this 
wouldve meant that the email sent by Mr Js wealth  manager to the original  adviser dated 
21 March 2005  wouldve  been sent to a different tax adviser. They wouldve then sent a 
similar letter  to that sent by the original  adviser, also dated  21 March  2005, which  explained 
about film schemes  and then led to the advice about  investing  in the Ingenious  film schemes 
in 2005.
In other  words I think it is more likely than not that that a different adviser wouldve advised 
Mr J along the same  lines as the original adviser. I note in this regard that in 2006 another  
adviser also recommended a film scheme  promoted by Ingenious after the original adviser 
had left  which advice Mr J accepted.  
I have seen no evidence  that the original advisers recommendation  was influenced by any 
relationship she had with someone  at Ingenious. It was the wealth manager who asked  her 
to contact Mr J and provide information about  film schemes in his email of 21 March 2005. 
He asked the original adviser to send an introductory letter  to Mr J as he wanted to enter  into 
an FF scheme (meaning a Film Financing Scheme) before the end of the tax year and that 
he was interested  in seeing the schedules for S42/48   being a reference  to section 42 of 
the Finance Act 1990 which also related to investments in film and provided similar tax 
advantages. This supports what Coutts  said in its FRL about the wealth manager discussing 
film schemes initially with Mr F and him wanting advice on these.
There is no reason to think that Mr J would  not have gone ahead  with the film schemes he 
invested in if the advice  had been  given by a different adviser. Mr J has said that he had faith 
in the original adviser. But given he invested in 2006  when  advised  to invest  in a film scheme 
by a different  adviser I am not persuaded he wouldnt also have invested  in the film schemes  
recommended by the original adviser  in 2005 if someone else had recommended these.
Mr J has said that if he had been made aware  that there was a relationship  between  the 
original adviser and Ingenious  he would  not have invested. Firstly,  given I have accepted 
that the original  adviser wasnt involved in Coutts  accepting any scheme  promoted  by 
Ingenious, I dont  think it necessarily needed to inform  him of any such  relationship if she 
wasnt providing him with advice. Secondly, even if he had been informed of this there is no 
persuasive evidence  he wouldnt have invested  in film schemes  anyway given he wanted to 
mitigate his tax  it is possible he may not have  gone ahead  but I dont  think it is more likely, 
than not, he wouldnt  have done  so. He has provided no explanation as to why he would 
have been put off from investing in any film scheme when he clearly  wanted to mitigate his 
tax position simply because there was a relationship between one adviser and someone at 
Ingenious.
my final decision
Ref: DRN01395134I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons that I have explained. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0139513