K820x#14complaint
Miss H and Mr W are unhappy with Allianz Insurance  Plc. It provides the buildings insurance 
for a block  of flats they live in, the roof of which was damaged by a storm. Miss H and Mr W 
think Allianz treated  them poorly during its handling  of the repair  claim. 
background
There was a storm on 23 January 2018  which damaged the roof of the block  of flats Miss H 
and Mr W live in. Allianz was notified and a loss adjuster was appointed to deal with the 
claim. Its report  was issued on 6 February  2018.
The loss adjuster hadnt offered to move Miss H and Mr W into alternative  accommodation.  
But Miss H has a health condition which meant she couldnt stay in the damp, wet property. 
The loss adjuster, when requested, said they could stay in a hotel and they moved there on 
16 February 2018. When Miss H and Mr W asked about a food allowance the adjuster  said 
they should go home to cook.  When Miss H and Mr W objected it was agreed they could  
receive a disturbance allowance. The first instalment of this was paid on 26 February  2018.  
Further payments  had to be chased.  But an allowance for all 80 days  the couple stayed in 
the hotel was later paid by Allianz.
During the stay in the hotel the loss adjuster called Miss H on 6 March and left a voicemail.  
The adjuster  said if quotes werent received shortly the hotel stay wouldnt be extended 
beyond the 16 March 2018.  Miss H and Mr W, via a representative, tried to call the adjuster. 
No contact was made and, on 16 March 2018 Miss H and Mr W did have to leave  the hotel. 
Allianz were informed that day and the accommodation was reinstated  but one night had to 
be spent in a different  hotel.
Miss H and Mr W were  also unhappy  about the meetings and appointments they had to 
attend at their property.  All of which they had to take time off work for. Whilst Allianz  dried 
the property the repairs  were  to be undertaken by Miss H and Mr Ws contractor. Allianz then 
delayed making  payment  and the contractor  threatened  Miss H with debt recovery  action. 
Miss H spoke to her broker and the broker said Miss H should  pay the outstanding money 
herself to avoid debt recovery  as the claim payment likely wouldnt be made in time. When 
Allianz heard what was happening it arranged to pay the contractor direct.  This unfortunately 
resulted in a duplicated payment to Miss H and Mr W.
Allianz paid Miss H and Mr W £3,755 which it had also paid to the contractor. Allianz asked 
Miss H and Mr W to return £3,000 of that sum. It said Miss H and Mr W could keep the 
remainder as it owed  them £204 for electricity used to dry the property and the remaining 
£551 could be kept as compensation as it accepted  it had failed them  at times.
Miss H and Mr W were  still unhappy. They felt £551 wasnt  enough given  what  theyd been 
through; the way the loss adjuster had treated them  and the lack of empathy theyd been 
shown. They also noted that when they spoke to Allianz about their complaint  which  theyd 
initially raised with the loss adjuster   Allianz wasnt aware of all of their complaint points. 
They felt this further showed  the lack of communication that had been prevalent throughout 
their claim and which had caused multiple  disappointments. They  complained to us.
Our investigator felt that Allianz had failed Miss H and Mr W. But noted  that Allianz had 
accepted that and had offered  £551  compensation. In the circumstances  our investigator felt 
this was fair and reasonable. 
Ref: DRN03145932Miss H and Mr W didnt  think  theyd  been  sufficiently compensated. They didnt feel their 
feelings had been taken  into account or the major impact the claim had on their lives for four 
months. They said, with chasing the accommodation bookings and other payments had 
been vexing, their working days were constantly  interrupted by all the claim activity, most of 
which could have been avoided if communication had been  better  and they hadnt had to do 
the adjusters/Allianz job for it. Their complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, with regret for any upset 
this causes Miss H and Mr W, Im not going to require Allianz to pay them  anymore 
compensation.
Im satisfied Allianz did fail Miss H and Mr W during this claim; a number of times and in a 
number of ways.  I can fully understand why they became frustrated with it. But I do think that 
Allianz reactions  to its failures; the action it took to mitigate further upset and the 
compensation it offered, were fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  
Allianz loss adjuster should have taken  a more reasoned view of the tenants needs for 
accommodation. It was clear Miss H and Mr W couldnt stay in the property despite the fact it 
wasnt uninhabitable in the common meaning  of the term. And the adjuster shouldnt  have 
tried to insist that the couple return home to prepare,  cook and eat food. That wasnt  a 
reasonable response in the situation.  A disturbance allowance was agreed though and 
Allianz should have ensured payments for this were updated regularly. That clearly  didnt 
happen though and Miss H and Mr W had to fund their own extra expenses until Allianz  
arranged further  payments.  
All of this was unacceptable and I note that Allianz has accepted that. 
Allianz also accepts  it didnt handle the accommodation situation well when its adjuster tried 
to progress the claim when quotes for work were outstanding. Im satisfied that it was 
reasonable for Allianz to make an ultimatum to Miss H and Mr W regarding accommodation 
ending if quotes  werent provided.  But it probably  shouldnt have left a voicemail to that 
effect, and the adjuster should  have tried to contact  Miss H and Mr W or their representative  
on more than that occasion before the current booking  ended on 16 March 2018.  I think  the 
adjuster could have  been  more proactive as well to ensure the booking  was extended as 
soon as  the quotes were received.
I accept that being  left homeless for a time on 16 March 2018  was upsetting and worrying for 
Miss H and Mr W. 
Following all of this upset  in the early part of the claim, it would have been better if Allianz  
had ensured the claim had completed without further incident or cause for complaint. 
However, further delays  and upset occurred when contractor payments werent made  on 
time. I accept it was upsetting for Miss H and Mr W to receive  demands for payment.
Ref: DRN03145933Its unfortunate that the adjuster didnt pass all the complaint details to Allianz. But I think  
Allianz would have become aware  of the issues once it reviewed the file properly, even if 
Miss H and Mr W hadnt told it. I understand why this frustrated Miss H and Mr W so though  
 theyd had issues  of communication all the way through and this was still occurring even 
during their complaint. Im not surprised they didnt feel as though they could trust Allianz or 
any of its agents.
All of that noted and said, Im satisfied that £551  fairly and reasonably  compensates  Miss H 
and Mr W for the upset caused by Allianz  failings.  In saying  that I take into account  that they 
would always have  faced  some distress and inconvenience following the incident and the 
need to move out of their home. There would also always  have  been  a need for them to 
meet with Allianz  and its agents so as to progress the claim  and repairs.  
I know they had time off on 16 March when the accommodation ended  and had to be 
rebooked, and I have  factored that inconvenience  into my findings on the compensation 
payment Allianz  has made. This is the only time-off that I can reasonably attribute to Allianz 
failures, and given Allianz reason for setting the ultimatum  was reasonable even if its 
execution of it wasnt, Im not going to make Allianz  reimburse any lost wages. Also the 
matter was resolved  that same day and I think Miss H and Mr W could still have worked  that 
day whilst  the issue was resolved in the background (although I appreciate it would have  
been difficult and inconvenient to do so).
This was clearly an upsetting time for Miss H and Mr W, and Allianz poor claim handling  has 
clearly exacerbated  the situation,  rather than assisted  in smoothly overcoming it, as 
insurance cover should do. I know Miss H and Mr W think that their feelings havent been 
properly taken into account but I can assure  them I have understood the points theyve  made 
and how they say they felt during the claim. But I have to balance  what they felt against  what 
Allianz did and should have done,  as well as against  the awards we commonly make for 
distress and inconvenience caused by an insurers failures. Having done all that I think  £551  
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against Allianz Insurance Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 26 March 2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0314593