K821x#15complaint
Miss B complains  TSB Bank Plc (TSB) have  given her confusing  and unclear information 
about the changes to her account  and overdraft.
background
TSB upheld  the complaint but Miss B brought her complaint to us as she was unhappy with 
the response she received from TSB overall.  
TSBs initial response was a call to Miss B on 9 March 2018  in which they told her that from 
12 March 2018  her full overdraft would be subject to interest and usage fees rather than just 
the first £1000 as had been the case with her graduate account. And they wrote to her on 
10 March 2018  setting this out along  with the compensation payment  of £8 travel  costs and 
£10 for the distress  and inconvenience  caused.  Miss B contacted  TSB again  on 
13 March 2018  as she was unhappy with the situation. TSB responded in writing and said 
theyd look into her concerns about  the advice  given about the changes  to her account. 
Miss B contacted TSB again on 14 April 2018  and then referred her complaint to us on 
8 May 2018.
Our adjudicator thought TSB couldve done more to clarify what happened  to Miss Bs 
account and overdraft. From the notes provided  by TSB he could see two appointments to 
visit branches and telephone  calls to TSB by Miss B. Although the adjudicator  was unable to 
confirm what was said during the visits and calls he could see Miss B had contacted them on 
more than one occasion. So under the circumstances he thought it reasonable to conclude  
the information provided was unclear and didnt answer her concerns. He thought that 
wouldve been worrying and have caused inconvenience so he recommended TSB to pay 
Miss B £150 compensation.
Miss B accepted  the view but TSB didnt and asked for an ombudsmans decision. TSB felt 
their records  showing  the letter  of 12 February 2018 was sent and the template detailing 
what wouldve been in the letter was sufficient to support that they sent a clear and not 
misleading letter about the changes  to the account.  TSB also said this was the same letter 
that we send to all overdraft letters and a letter  that we dont appear to have any known 
service issue with. And they asked for Miss Bs call records to evidence that shed made  
numerous calls to them as their records only showed two calls on 17 February 2018 and 
14 March 2018.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
As with most accounts, under TSBs General  Terms  and Conditions, this overdraft is 
repayable on demand. Miss B has never  disputed  her responsibility to repay the overdraft.  
What shes unhappy  about it how the changes were communicated in February/March 2018. 
She thinks it was unclear  and, from everything Ive seen, I agree with her. Ill explain why. 
No one disputes TSB wrote to Miss B on 12 February 2018 about  this overdraft, their 
records show a letter was sent and it was what caused Miss B to contact them on 
17 February 2018 for more information.  But I dont  know what  was in that letter. Neither  TSB 
nor Miss B now have  a copy. And the template wording TSB have sent - although referring  
Ref: DRN07898122to the expiry date of a planned overdraft  - doesnt assist me. TSB told us  and it would 
seem from the entry in their complaint case notes they told Miss B in a call on 9 March 2018 
 there  were  changes  to how interest  and usage  fees would be charged on the overdraft on 
this account in the third and final year as this account moved from graduate status to a 
standard account. And they said at least 60 days notice of the changes would be given. But, 
on the information before me Im not persuaded the letter sent on 12 February 2018 gave 
that information and Ill explain why I think that. 
Firstly this letter was sent on 12 February  2018  and the changes  to Miss Bs account appear  
to have been effective by 13 March  2018 when she next phoned TSB to reopen  the 
complaint as she said she couldnt  access funds  from it. That was significantly shorter than 
the minimum 60 days notice TSB told us about.
Secondly the pattern of contact between  Miss B and the bank suggest to me the letter  was 
unclear both to Miss B and members of staff in TSB branches.  TSBs own records - both the 
complaint case notes and contact notes  show Miss B making multiple  contacts with the 
bank. There are inbound calls on 17 February,  13 and 14 March  2018. And thats  along  with 
the online complaints she lodged. The first of these  dated 8 March  2018 - refers to two 
branch visits both of which the bank accept occurred as theyve refunded  Miss Bs travel 
costs and passed on her positive  feedback  about a member of staff who tried to resolve  her 
concerns in branch but was unable to do so. So, like the adjudicator,  Im satisfied the 
records of all the calls,  appointments and online contacts suggest confusion  on Miss Bs 
part. And, it would appear,  on the part of the branch staff that Miss B asked to help her.
Overall, based on everything  Ive seen, I cant be satisfied the 12 February  2018  letter  was 
clear and not misleading as TSB say. TSB upheld  the initial complaint and awarded a small 
amount of compensation. But I think the award now suggested of £150 compensation more 
accurately reflects  the distress and inconvenience Miss B has suffered. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. TSB Bank Plc must pay Miss B £150 
compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 July 2019.
Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0789812