K822xcomplaint
Mr M complains that Santander UK Plc wont refund  money  lost, following a scam. 
background 
The background to this case is known  to both parties, so I will only summarise  events  here.
In April 2018 Mr M was looking to purchase a property. Following email  correspondence, 
with who he thought was his solicitors,  Mr M went ahead and made the following payments 
in a branch of Santander, to the account  details  provided within the email;
25/4/2018  £60,601.80
26/4/2018 £68,758.02
But unknown to Mr M at the time, the email  was from a fraudster and the payments Mr M 
had made,  were to an account controlled  by the fraudster. 
Later in the evening  of 26 April 2018,  Mr M spoke to his solicitors to confirm  that the 
payments had been made. It was then that the scam  came to light.
Mr M raised  the matter  with Santander  on 26 April 2018. It issued its final response on 7 July 
2018. It said that while it understood this was a very distressing  time for Mr M, as he willingly 
made the payments, it could not be held liable for the loss. Santander said that it had been in 
contact with the receiving  bank, who had confirmed that no funds remained from the first 
payment that Mr M had made,  for £60,601.80. And that the receiving bank  had indicated  it 
needed more  time to investigate the second transfer that was made. 
Santander added that, while it had been  investigating Mr Ms complaint, it could see that 
nobody had informed  Mr M about there being no funds recoverable  from the first payment he 
had made  - despite  that information  being available. In recognition  of this it credited Mr Ms 
account with £100. 
After Santander  had issued its final response, the receiving bank informed it that partial 
funds remained,  from the second payment Mr M made. Mr M took things  up directly with the 
receiving bank and following  this received £51,000 that had been recovered.
Mr M then brought his complaint  to our service,  as he was unhappy the full amount had not 
been recovered. He believed Santander ought  to have  checked the bank details, which he 
provided to ensure they were genuine.
One of our investigators  began to look into things. While  it was being investigated, 
Santander made an offer to refund Mr M the outstanding amount of his loss, being  
£78,359.82 and pay 8% interest on top of this. Santander also initially agreed to make  an 
additional payment of £150 for the trouble and upset caused  (in addition to the £100 it had 
already paid).  
Our investigator asked  Mr M if he had suffered any other direct  financial loss that he could 
evidence. Mr M told us he couldnt  evidence anything but explained the impact the fraud  had 
on him. Our investigator thought Santander  should pay an additional £650 for the distress  
Mr M had experienced.  But our investigator  also recognised that it was the fraudster who 
was the main cause  of the misery Mr M had suffered.
Ref: DRN07608472Santander agreed to our investigators recommendations. But Mr M disagreed  and didnt 
think this went far enough.  But he said, if Santander  would  agree to provide him with a loan 
for c £300,000, to enable him to push himself to recovery  and undo some of the damage  
inflicted by the scam, then he would agree to settle.  Our investigator explained to Mr M that 
under no circumstances would we ask a business to offer any lending  as part of a 
settlement.
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. In 
the meantime,  Mr M asked if Santander  would refund the offer it had proposed  straight 
away. Our investigator explained  to Mr M that ombudsman  decisions can at times differ  from 
an investigators recommendations,  so a business  wouldnt  be obliged  to do this, but he put 
Mr Ms request to Santander who agreed  to release the funds,  ahead  of the decision 
outcome. 
I reviewed the case and gave Mr M my initial thoughts, explaining that I thought  the offer 
Santander had made was fair and reasonable. Mr M did not agree  with my initial  thoughts, 
so I have set out my findings below. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been  
provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on 
what I think is the heart of the matter here. If theres  something Ive not mentioned,  it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment  on every  individual 
point or argument  to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules  allow  me to 
do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts.
Mr M has raised some complaint points in his arguments that relate  to the receiving  bank, 
which was not Santander. At the outset,  I should  make it clear that this decision solely 
focuses on Santander,  in its capacity as the sending bank.
In this case Santander has offered to refund Mr M the remainder of the amount he lost 
through the scam, so the only issue I have to decide is whether the level of compensation its 
offered Mr M is fair and reasonable. 
There isnt a set formula  to decide the level of compensation  which would be appropriate. 
And we cant punish banks  as were not the regulator. When deciding whether or not to 
award compensation, and if so, how much, I think about the impact  a business actions or 
omissions have had on the individual(s)  involved. Here Santander, alongside the refund of 
the remainder of the money lost to the scammers plus interest,  has offered a further £650 
(on top of the £100 it has already paid). 
In reaching my decision Ive considered what Mr M has told us about the emotional strain 
this has had on him, and I dont  underestimate this. Im also mindful  Mr M didnt provide any 
evidence of additional costs hed incurred.  I do appreciate that its difficult  to put a price on 
someones feelings and on the emotional impact  a scam can have, as it is subjective and 
there is no exact science.  However, I consider Santanders offer of a further  payment for 
Ref: DRN07608473£650 is a fair and reasonable  amount  in the particular circumstances of this case. That level 
of compensation  is within our substantial bracket  as its over £500. And I think its a 
reasonable amount of compensation and fairly reflects the circumstances.
Ive also thought about what  Mr M has said regarding Santander facilitating a loan for him as 
part of its settlement. But it is not for this service  to recommend that a lender provides a loan 
 any decision on a loan would need to be made  by the lender based on their lending 
criteria.  
Mr M has re-iterated his concerns to me regarding Santander not checking the bank details 
he provided, to ensure  they were genuine. As Ive mentioned previously, Santander has 
offered to refund Mr M the entirety  of his loss, but for completeness and to explain the banks 
responsibilities on the point Mr M has raised,  Ill comment below.  
At the time the payment was made, the relevant  regulations   the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSR 2017) set out that payments are sent according to unique 
identifiers (typically the account number and sort code).
In particular, section  90 of the PSR 2017  states: 
(1) Where  a payment order is executed in accordance with the unique identifier, the 
payment order is deemed to have been  correctly  executed by each payment service 
provider involved in executing the payment order with respect to the payee  specified  
by the unique identifier 
The impact  of this is that the payment was correctly processed if it went  to the account 
number and sort code  instructed by the payer. There was no regulatory requirement  for 
Santander to check the beneficiary  account any further.
I am sorry  that Mr M lost this money, to what was a cruel and highly sophisticated  scam and 
that he was without his money  for some  time.  In paying 8% interest, that Santander  has 
included as part of its settlement, it reflects  that Mr M hasnt had that money available  to use.
I dont underestimate  Mr Ms strength of feeling, nor that this has been a very difficult  time for 
him. But all things considered and on balance,  Im satisfied that what Santander has already  
agreed to do to put things right for Mr M is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of his 
case and Im not requiring it to do anything more.
Ref: DRN07608474my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im satisfied  that what Santander UK Plc has already agreed 
to do to put things  right for Mr M is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of his case.  
So, Im not requiring it to do anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 June  2021.
Stephen Wise
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0760847