K820x#14complaint
Mr H says Lloyds Bank  Plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr H bought the policy to protect  his repayments when he took out a loan. It was at a 
meeting in 1997 in one of the banks branches. The loan included an amount to pay for the 
policy. And it provided Mr H with cover for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr H disagreed so the complaint was passed to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete  (as 
some of it is here),  I have based  my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other  words,  
on what I consider is most likely given the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Our general  approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive followed 
it here.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr H says the PPI was added without his knowledge and he would not have agreed 
as he wanted  to keep costs down.  Lloyds no longer has a copy of his credit  
agreement but thats not unreasonable given how long ago the sale was. It has 
provided a sample of the form that was in use at the time. Ive found no reason to 
think this wasnt the form Mr H would  have seen and signed.  On this the cost of the 
PPI was set out separately under the heading  Optional Loan Repayment Protection . 
And lower down the form, under  the heading  Optional Loan Protection, the options to 
select or decline PPI were set out with equal prominence.  Ive thought carefully  about  
Mr Hs comments  but I also have to consider how long ago the sale was and how 
that might affect what he recalls.  Overall I think its most likely Lloyds made Mr H 
aware he had a choice about  buying PPI, and he chose to take it out.  
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr H. And it seems to have been suitable for him 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time. Mr H cant  recall his sick 
pay entitlement but the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to any work benefits  - for up 
to the term of the loan for accident  and sickness claims and for up to 12 months for 
unemployment. Overall, I think the PPI wouldve  been useful for Mr H if he was sick 
or lost his job. 
The cash  price of the policy and the monthly  cost were shown on the sample of the 
agreement its most  likely  Mr H used  but the interest payable wasnt  set out 
separately. But as the PPI was competitively priced and apparently  affordable, I dont 
think Mr H wouldve  made a different decision if hed been  given  clearer  cost 
information. The missing interest payment was under  £3 a month, so it seems  
unlikely knowing this would have made  a difference to Mr Hs decision. And given 
how long the policy couldve  paid out for, if Mr H made a successful claim he couldve 
got back quite  a bit more than he paid for it.
Ref: DRN07126372Mr H wouldve only got back a limited  refund of the PPI premium if he cancelled the 
policy early.  But I havent seen  anything from the time the policy  was sold to suggest  
he thought hed repay the loan early.  So I dont think this meant the policy wasnt  
right for him.
Its possible Lloyds didnt point  out the main things the policy didnt cover.  But Mr H 
doesnt appear to have  been affected by any of those things (such  as type of 
employment contract or pre-existing medical conditions). So I think its unlikely he 
wouldve made a different  decision if better  information had been provided   overall, 
I think he would still have taken  out the policy.
It follows I dont think Mr H has lost out because of any problems with the sale.
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 June  2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0712637