K820x#14Complaint
Mr E complains that Calpe Insurance Company  Limited (Calpe)  didnt handle his claim fairly. 
He thought the excess charge was unfair  and they settled for too high a value with the third 
party.
Background
Mr E had a motor insurance  policy with Calpe that had an excess of £3,000. The named 
driver on Mr Es policy had an accident,  colliding with a parked  car. This caused damage to 
both vehicles.
Mr E reported the accident to Calpe and says that he only became aware that his policy had 
a £3,000 excess when he made the claim. He thought that the excess was too high and was 
unfair. Mr E was also unhappy that Calpe settled  the claim for so high a value with the third 
partys representative (TPR). He argued  that the estimated cost of repair  was too high, and 
that the replacement vehicle was too expensive being a far more  expensive car than the one 
it replaced.
Calpe felt that theyd acted fairly. They said that the accident was a fault claim by the 
explanation of the named  driver. Theyd  responded to an engineers report  of the damage  to 
the third party  vehicle. The third party hire costs  had been negotiated to a level they thought 
was fair. They accepted  the estimated cost for the repair  of Mr Es car and deducted  that 
from the outstanding excess that they said he owed.
Mr E wasnt  satisfied and brought his concerns to our service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt think  that Mr Es complaint should be 
upheld. He felt that Calpe had dealt with Mr Es claim fairly in line with the terms of his policy.
Mr E didnt accept the investigators view so it was referred for an ombudsman decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked  through the evidence I wont be upholding this complaint for similar reasons 
as our investigator. Ill explain my reasons as follows:
Ref: DRN03050952Mr E was unaware that his excess was £3,000
Mr E has provided us with documentation  that he had from Calpe. His policy  schedule  is a 
one page document. In a section headed as excess, the policy  says it has a £3,000 all 
sections excess for all drivers.  The statement  of facts that he shared with us is a three page 
document, and on page one of that it also describes the excess in the same terms in a 
section headed  as excess.
Calpe have sent us the policy  document which is a 44 page document  explaining all the 
terms of the policy. Given  that Mr E has received  the other documentation relevant to his 
policy I think that he will have most likely  had the policy  document too. This document  
obviously contains greater  detail than the policy schedule  but on the first page  introduction  
explains, 
We hope  to provide you with all the cover  you need  at a price you will be happy  to 
pay. We do this by asking you to pay a larger excess  of the first part of the claim 
which is shown on your Schedule of insurance.  By you agreeing to pay this amount 
in the event of any claim even where  there is no damage or claim to your own 
vehicle, we can provide you with a cheaper  premium  for your motor  insurance.
The policy explains  in clear terms what the excess is and how it will be treated in the event 
of a claim.  So I think that all the information Calpe provided made it clear that this policy 
carried a high excess. In entering into a contract  of insurance its reasonable for the 
customer to read the policy documents. So Mr E should have known what his excess was.
That the third partys claim was settled  too high
The claim documents indicate that the driver  on Mr Es policy was at fault for the accident. 
Calpe therefore  had to settle the third parties claim for damages.
The third partys vehicle was valued at £633.75. An engineers report  estimated the cost of 
repairs to be considerably in excess of that which meant it was beyond economic repair.  I 
think it was reasonable  for Calpe to accept  the engineers opinion.
Mr Es policy  document explains how claims are dealt  with. It says, We can take over and 
conduct the defence  or settlement of any claim.  This is a common  condition in policies. I 
dont think that its unfair  providing Calpe acted in Mr Es best interests  in representing him.
The final settlement figure  for the third party claim was £3,356.16. The claim documents  
show that the TPR made an initial claim for £4,867. I have seen that this was challenged by 
Calpe because they thought the vehicle was hired  for too long, the class of vehicle was too 
high, and the third partys  vehicle storage costs were too high.  From what Ive seen I think  
that Calpe  acted in the best interest of Mr E in not accepting unreasonable  claims.
Because the cost of the claim  exceeded  £3,000, Mr Es policy  excess meant that he was 
liable for the first £3,000  of the claim. Mr E obtained a quote  of £642 for the damage  to his 
vehicle. This quote was accepted by Calpe. Mr Es policy document explained in what  I think 
was a clear way how the cost of damage  to his vehicle would be treated. The estimated cost 
of his damage was taken  from the excess.  So he needed  to pay Calpe £2,358 which  was his 
remaining liability for the claim. This was in line with his insurance policy.
For the reasons  Ive given I think that the way that Calpe have treated Mr Es claim was a 
fair and reasonable application of his insurance policy  terms and conditions.
Ref: DRN03050953My final decision
For the reasons  given  I dont uphold Mr Es complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 July 2020.
Gary Lane
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0305095