K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain  that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy with a mortgage.
background
I set out the full background to this complaint in my provisional decision which I issued in 
July 2019. That provisional decision is attached here and forms part of my final decision.
I invited both parties to make any further  comments or representations before I made my 
final decision.
BoS didnt have anything further  to add. Mr and Mrs E asked for evidence  that their 
premiums had come from the funding  account, which  was provided and they now accept this 
was the case.  They  maintain that they did not need  the policy because they had sufficient 
cover in place already.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr and Mrs E have  been very reasonable in accepting many  of my findings when provided 
with the evidence to support them. I can understand their frustrations that this wasnt  done 
automatically by BoS when their complaint was first reviewed.
Mr and Mrs E say that the exact benefits of the policy werent  known when they first made 
their enquiries. I dont think its unreasonable that BoS cant confirm  the exact  benefits  on a 
policy sold nearly three decades ago, and I am content that the benefits of the policy  are 
sufficiently understood  to enable me to make an assessment of whether  the policy was 
suitable. 
The benefits  are essentially the same as those seen in most PPI policies of this type  that 
the mortgage repayments are covered for a certain period of time  in this case  24 months.  It 
is not clear whether the benefit was split equally between Mr and Mrs E, or whether any 
such split was appropriate. But as no claim was ever made on the policy Mr and Mrs E 
wouldnt have lost out as a result  if the split wasnt appropriate,  or if the benefit  was for a 
shorter period of time than 24 months. And as I explained in my provisional  decision, I dont 
think Mr and Mrs E were  disadvantaged by any of the exclusions on the policy.
Mr and Mrs E reiterated that because  they say they didnt need  the policy there must have 
been an element  of coercion by the agent  for us to purchase a policy,  the like of which  we 
had never  done  before  or since.  
Mr and Mrs E have  no memories of the sale and they havent  been able to provide any 
evidence of unfair coercive behaviour  other than their assertion that they wouldnt have 
bought the PPI without it. It would not be reasonable to uphold the complaint on this basis.
So, on balance, Im satisfied that my provisional decision is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. I dont  think  Mr and Mrs E lost out as a result  of anything  BoS might  have  
done wrong.
Ref: DRN08753222my final decision
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Es complaint so it follows that Bank  of Scotland  Plc doesnt 
have to pay any compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 November  2019.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN08753223Provisional decision
background
Mr and Mrs E took out a mortgage with BoS in 1989. In 1991  they took out a further advance  on this 
mortgage and were also sold a PPI policy. 
The policy benefit is likely  to have covered the mortgage repayments, and was split equally between  
Mr and Mrs E  so if one of them  made a claim  it would cover half of the repayments, and if both of 
them claimed  it would cover all of the repayments.
Mr and Mrs E say they didnt know they had the PPI. They say it must have been added  without their 
knowledge or consent. They  say they didnt  need the cover. 
The adjudicator didnt think Mr and Mrs Es complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs E disagree, so 
their complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken this into 
account when making my provisional  decision. Having done so, Im not intending to uphold  Mr and 
Mrs Es complaint.  Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs E dont recall  agreeing to buy the PPI. They say it must  have been added  without their 
consent, and they think the cost of the premiums were rolled up into their mortgage  payment so they 
didnt notice it.
The sale took place nearly 28 years ago, so unsurprisingly  neither party has any documentation  from 
the sale.  BoS has provided  evidence  that the policy  started at the same time Mr and Mrs E took out a 
further advance on their mortgage. Although its not possible to know for sure its likely the sale took 
place at the same meeting  when Mr and Mrs E applied for their further advance. 
BoS says that PPI was optional. It says that Mr and Mrs E wouldve had to agree  to buy it for the 
policy to start.  Mr and Mrs E accept that the policy was optional, but they say they didnt agree  to buy 
it and it wasnt something they discussed with anyone. They say it was added  without their consent 
and have provided evidence they say shows  that the cost of the PPI was bundled up into their 
mortgage repayments so they didnt realise  they were paying for it.
I asked BoS to comment on this. BoS explained  that the cost of the policy  wasnt bundled into the 
mortgage repayments and doesnt appear on the account  summary Mr and Mrs E requested  from it to 
show their mortgage repayment history. The money for the PPI came from a separate  account  called  
a funding account. This was a different account to the one from which  Mr  and Mrs Es mortgage  
payments were made. Indeed,  the mortgage repayments  came from an account  not held with BoS. 
BoS explained that where a customer  doesnt already hold an account  with it, it would usually  set up a 
card cash  account  a basic bank account through which the premiums would be paid. But Mr and 
Mrs E already held a dormant savings  account with BoS, so this was resurrected through  which  to 
channel the premiums.  For this to work, Mr and Mrs E had to ensure that there was enough in the 
account to fund the premiums. BoS has provided evidence that regular  deposits were  made  to this 
previously unused account  by Mr and Mrs E after the PPI was sold and this is how the PPI was paid. 
On the information I now have I think its most likely that Mr and Mrs E did agree to buy the PPI  
although I understand  why they wouldnt  remember this nearly three decades  later. I dont think  the 
PPI couldve been paid for without Mr and Mrs Es direct engagement by making deposits into the 
Ref: DRN08753224otherwise unused funding account. And I think its likely they received statements for this account, so 
if, for any reason, they hadnt agreed to pay for PPI I think theyd have queried  why the £30 premiums 
had been taken each  month. 
On the balance  of probabilities I think its most likely Mr and Mrs E chose to buy the PPI knowing they 
didnt have to. So I am not upholding Mr and Mrs Es complaint on this point. 
I have looked at the rest of the sale to see if theres any other reason why the PPI might have been 
mis-sold.
Its not clear whether BoS gave Mr and Mrs E a personal  recommendation to buy the PPI. Ive worked 
on the basis that it did, as this places  greater  responsibility on BoS because it wouldve needed to 
take reasonable  steps  to make sure it was right for them. Looking at Mr and Mrs Es circumstances at 
the time of sale I think  that any such recommendation wouldve been suitable. I say this because:
Mr and Mrs E were  both eligible for the policy. And neither of them wouldve been affected by 
any of the terms which mightve made it more difficult for them to make a successful claim,  
such as those  related to existing medical  conditions  or self-employment;
Mr and Mrs E would both have received sick pay from their employers. But the policy 
wouldve paid out in addition to this and for longer than their sick pay wouldve  lasted  for up 
to 24 months at a time;
Mr and Mrs E would have both been entitled to some redundancy pay. But the policy wouldve 
paid out in addition  to this and for up to a year at a time, leaving any redundancy  pay to cover 
other uninsured  expenses.  Mr and Mrs E argue  that they were  both in a profession which was 
unlikely to result  in them  being made redundant. But I dont think this was guaranteed, and I 
think Mr and Mrs E wouldve understood that they were buying  redundancy  cover, even if they 
didnt understand all the finer details;
I think its likely that the policy covered their mortgage repayments as a minimum. On this 
basis I think the cost of the policy was comparable  to other  similar policies on the market  at 
the same time. It was flexible, as it could be cancelled at any time without a financial  penalty.
BoS also had to make sure that Mr and Mrs E had all the information they needed about the PPI. I 
dont know whether this happened  although Mr and Mrs E indicate that they didnt get the 
information they needed.  But even if Mr and Mrs E were given all the detail  about the policy I dont  
think its reasonable  to assume that they would have acted  differently and not bought the policy, 
because it was suitable  for the reasons  Ive already  explained. 
So I dont think Mr and Mrs E lost out as a result of anything  BoS might have done wrong.
my provisional  decision
I dont currently intend to uphold  Mr and Mrs Es complaint. But I invite all parties to provide any 
further information or evidence that they would like me to consider before I make my final decision. 
This should be provided by 26 August 2019.
Ref: DRN0875322