K820x#14Complaint
Ms S complains  on her fathers behalf  about a number of matters relating to the accounts he 
held until relatively  recently with The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS).
Background
Ms Ss father gave her permission to manage  his accounts via a general power of attorney 
which was registered  with the bank.  And hes also given his explicit permission for her to 
bring this complaint on his behalf.  Ms S says,  in summary, that:
The amount  of interest  thats  been  charged on her fathers  Select current  account 
overdrafts is inconsistent  and incorrect.
There was a period  of time when RBS wouldnt allow her to manage  the accounts  by 
phone.
RBS harassed her father. They called him out of the blue and also insisted on a branch-
based meeting  to discuss the accounts, threatening closure if the meeting didnt take 
place. 
A relationship manager should  have  been  allocated given that her father was party  to 
RBSs private banking service.
RBS didnt deal appropriately with her enquiries about a division  of the bank  being  
divested.
RBS hasnt always replied to the complaints  shes  made on her fathers behalf.
Our investigator recommended that RBS pay £100 compensation to Ms Ss father in relation 
to one matter, but otherwise didnt think the bank had done  anything wrong. Ms S disagreed  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, and while I appreciate  
this will come as a disappointment to Ms S and her father, Ive reached the same conclusion  
as the investigator, for much the same  reasons. I dont think RBS has acted unfairly in 
relation to the matters summarised  above  and Ill explain why.
But first I should say that the complaint weve been  asked to consider has evolved 
somewhat since Ms S first got in touch with us in October 2017. And one of the things she 
complained about latterly  was the banks  decision  to close her fathers accounts. The 
investigator who handled this complaint corresponded with RBS and Ms S on that particular 
point and tried to help them reach a mutually  agreeable  repayment plan. But, ultimately, that 
later complaint, which included the events leading up to the account closures, was split out 
from this one and dealt with separately. So I havent  considered those issues as part of this 
complaint.
Has RBS fairly calculated  the debit interest  on the overdrawn account balances?
Ms S hasnt pointed to specific incidents  when the wrong amount of interest was charged,  
her concerns  seem to have been  formed  more  generally by comparing the amounts charged 
from month to month and between the various  accounts with which she is involved. Ive 
similarly considered this point more generally.
Ref: DRN03084732Ive also borne in mind  that the Select  account terms and conditions explain interest is 
calculated on the daily overdrawn balance and will be charged once a month, a set period of 
time after the end of the relevant charging period. And Im aware thats fairly standard  across  
the banking industry.  The banks records indicate the same rate of interest has been  
charged on the accounts for many  years.  And its my understanding the monthly  interest 
calculation is an automated process. Ive taken all of this into account and can see the 
investigator performed  some example, approximate calculations  using  these parameters and 
came up with figures very close to what was actually charged.
Overall Ive not seen  enough to make me question further how the interest on Ms Ss fathers  
accounts was calculated. So I cant fairly  conclude  that the bank has done anything wrong in 
this respect or should refund any of the charges.
Has RBS denied  Ms S fair access to the accounts?
Ms S says RBS refused  to let her discuss her fathers accounts  over the phone.  But Ive 
seen little to support this assertion and, in fact, have listened to a number of calls when 
matters relating to the various  accounts  that Ms S manages were  discussed. 
Having said that, in some of the calls Ms S became quite frustrated and, on occasion,  this 
meant the bank was unable to help her. She also admits that her relationship  with the bank 
broke down  some time before she got in touch  with us about  this complaint (in October 
2017). So its possible,  as she says,  the bank refused to let her manage the accounts over 
the phone  at some point.
But whats  also apparent  is that Ms S has been  able to access  and manage  her fathers 
accounts online. And she hasnt pointed to any specific,  individual  incidents when the banks 
alleged refusal  to discuss matters over the phone has prevented her from doing  what  she 
wanted with the accounts.
In the circumstances I cant say the bank has unfairly limited Ms Ss access  to her fathers 
accounts or has caused her father to suffer any financial  loses by refusing to deal with her 
over the phone.
Has RBS harassed Ms Ss father?
As Ive already  said, this complaint has evolved  somewhat  since  Ms S first came to us. 
One of her more recent concerns involved RBS trying to arrange a branch-based meeting  to 
discuss her fathers accounts. Letters  were sent by the bank addressed  to her and her father 
about this. 
I dont think it was inappropriate  of the bank  to ask for this meeting given the activity on the 
accounts. I agree with Ms S that the accounts  were  being managed within  their authorised 
overdraft limits but the bank still had, I think,  understandable concerns. Overdrafts  arent 
intended to be used for long-term borrowing and the account with the larger overdraft limit, in 
particular, wasnt being used in the way the bank  would  normally  expect or tolerate. The 
activity tended to be limited to monthly  credits  sufficient only to cover  the overdraft interest. 
And little, if anything,  was being  done  towards  reducing the debt.
Ms S seems to have concerns that her father  was contacted  at all given that she has a 
general power of attorney in place. But this type of arrangement is used really for 
convenience and theres nothing to suggest her father lacked the mental capacity or was 
Ref: DRN03084733unable in some  other way to discuss or manage  his own accounts.  The overdraft debts were 
held in his sole name and were his responsibility  to repay. So I dont think  its unreasonable 
for the bank to have tried to involve him in discussions about  repayment of those debts.
I feel similarly about the call that Ms Ss father  received on his landline. The landline number 
doesnt seem to have  been held on his own profile but was held on his wifes, with whom he 
lives and held joint accounts.  So it doesnt  seem entirely unreasonable that the bank  tried to 
contact him on that number to potentially discuss all of the accounts he held.  
Ms S is unhappy the call came from an anonymous number and no record  of the call was 
made on her fathers account. That made it difficult for Ms S to work out, on her fathers  
behalf, who exactly had made the call and to what it related. And, having  listened to the calls 
Ms S made afterwards about the call that was made to her father, I dont underestimate the 
concern and frustration  that caused. But I can see the bank has already paid £100 
compensation to her father in recognition  of any trouble or upset he was caused.  And I think 
thats a fair way to put things right in this particular case.
Overall, I dont  think it was wrong of RBS to make  contact in the way it did and/or try to talk 
to and arrange a meeting with Mrs Ss father  to discuss his accounts.
Did Ms Ss father have  a private banking  arrangement?
RBS currently offers a premier banking service with one of the benefits  being a premier  
banking manager  to help with your financial plans or guide you through  more complex 
decisions. This seems akin to the private banking service Ms S has referred to and which  
she thinks means should have given her access to a relationship manager. 
Theres some indication  that Ms S might have  been  party to a private  banking  arrangement  
at some point in time. I can certainly  see shes had a number of conversations  with RBSs 
private banking  team.  But the bank says eligibility for a relationship or premier  banking 
manager has changed over the years. And, from what Ive seen, the type of accounts  her 
father held and the way theyve been  operated  in recent years  means  he wasnt  eligible  for 
private/premier banking.
In the circumstances I dont think Ms Ss father (and,  thereby Ms S) should have been 
allocated a premier  banking manager. 
Should RBS have done more in relation to Ms Ss enquiries about the proposed divestment?
Ms S hasnt been  specific about the problems she experienced when RBS originally got in 
touch with regards  to the divestment of one of their divisions. All shes  really said is that it 
was handled poorly. Weve  invited her to elaborate on this but she hasnt  done  so, so theres 
little I can usefully say without more detail about  her concerns
Having said that, I can see RBS dealt with a complaint related to this point in February 2017. 
There seems  to have been  a problem with information Ms S was provided about which 
accounts would be affected by the divestment. The banks  notes  indicate  she was given  
incorrect information but they corrected  this, it seems, fairly promptly after she raised her 
concerns. And the divestment didnt take place in the end.
In the circumstances I dont think that RBS needs  to do anything more.
Ref: DRN03084734Has RBS failed  to progress Ms Ss complaints?
In her response to the investigator, Ms S said RBS has repeatedly  failed to follow  due 
process when she raised complaints. She talks about there being factual evidence of this, 
but didnt provide any other detail. 
Ive listened to quite a number of calls between RBS and Ms S and I can see she often 
asked them not to raise a complaint and, instead,  deal with her concerns as an informal  
enquiry. And she became frustrated when the bank insisted that, what  she felt were, 
enquiries must be escalated to their complaints/care team. Ms S indicated she preferred for 
most mattes to be dealt with by the banks frontline call-centre. 
Its for the bank to decide how it deals with enquiries  that cant  be solved by frontline  staff. 
And Ive not heard  or seen anything which makes  me think RBS has failed to progress 
complaints that Ms S has made.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision   on behalf  of her father  before 26 August 2019.
Ruth Hersey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0308473