K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  which 
Mr and Mrs N say National Westminster Bank plc (NatWest) mis-sold to them  in 1994.  
background
One of our adjudicators has already assessed this complaint  and recommended that it 
shouldnt be upheld. Mr and Mrs N disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ns central  point of complaint is that Mrs N worked  in a job that had good sick 
pay and other benefits, and they therefore didnt need a policy  like this.
These events are obviously from some considerable time ago. So its not particularly 
surprising that NatWest hasnt been able to supply us with all the original documentation. 
Businesses arent required to keep  records  indefinitely and after 25 years, Im sure Mr and 
Mrs N wont be able to remember everything  that took place either. In situations such  as 
this, we think about what is more likely to have happened and Ive also used my extensive 
experience of these  types of MPPI sales to come to a decision.
However, its agreed the sale took place at a meeting and theres  no specific  allegation that 
Mr and Mrs N werent  aware such a policy had been set up for them. My experience  is that 
NatWest would have  probably sought  Mr and Mrs Ns agreement before adding  MPPI on to 
their mortgage. I also note Mr and Mrs N have been  paying the £15 monthly premium for 
many years. I think  theyd  have had to consent  to setting that payment up by way of a direct 
debit (or similar) and if they hadnt  ever agreed, theyd have wanted to know what  the 
payments were for. So on balance, I think Mr and Mrs N probably agreed to the MPPI at the 
time and were aware such a policy had been  set up for them.
Businesses that recommended MPPI as part of an advised  sale had a responsibility  to 
ensure it was right for the consumers particular circumstances.  Non-advised meant the 
seller only had to ensure  the information provided  was clear enough for the consumers 
themselves to make a decision about  whether or not they wanted MPPI.
Using what I know about how NatWest  generally sold mortgages  at the time, I dont think 
NatWest provided an advised sale. But I dont think the type of sale matters much  to this 
case, because  I think the policy was suitable  anyway.
This is because I think Mr and Mrs N were both eligible for the cover  and not caught  by 
any of the major exclusions we sometimes see in these types of policy. The cost of the 
policy seems affordable.
Ref: DRN01023532Ive carefully considered  what Mr and Mrs N have  said about Mrs Ns benefits from her job 
and I do understand  the point thats  being made. But I think Mr Ns benefits  would have  
been much  more moderate than Mrs Ns. I also think  that despite  their circumstances, the 
policy was suitable  for both of them.
This is because I think their mortgage  would have been an important and a long-term 
financial commitment and importantly, one which was secured against their home.  So I 
think the consequences of not being able to keep up payments if their income suddenly 
dropped, could have been serious.  The MPPI on the other hand, was there  to help in times 
of financial uncertainty  and to provide support  in the event of either  Mr or Mrs N not being  
able to work or losing  their job(s).  It wouldve  paid a monthly benefit  for up to 12 months in 
the event of a successful  claim and this wouldve been in addition  to any other means they 
already had in place.  
I think these things show the MPPI was suitable  in their situation. 
NatWest also needed to provide information  that was clear,  fair and not misleading. After 
such a long time I cant say that NatWest did everything right or that it told Mr and Mrs N 
everything it should have. But I think Mr and Mrs N would have been  given something  
explaining what and who the policy covered. 
So Im afraid  I dont have  enough evidence to say this policy was mis-sold. 
Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs N paid on their policy  and whether 
NatWest treated them fairly. NatWest has told us that the commission for the policy  was less 
than half of what they paid for each premium. Weve  looked at how NatWest has been 
working this out and based on what weve seen it looks like its right  the commission  was 
less than half the cost of the policy. As thats  the case, I dont think NatWest  needed  to tell 
them about  the commission and so I dont  think it treated them  unfairly. This means it 
doesnt need to pay Mr and Mrs N back any of the commission they paid for the MPPI.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. And I dont  direct  
National Westminster Bank plc to do anything further.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 February  2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0102353