K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2002 on a 
credit card. Ms S says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms Ss case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
When selling  the PPI to Ms S, Barclays had to make it clear the policy was optional. It also 
had to get Ms Ss agreement to take it out. Ms S says the PPI was added without her 
knowledge and she didnt ask for it. 
The credit card and PPI were taken  out by postal  application. Barclays  has provided  a copy 
of the application Ms S completed. The form had a separate section  relating  to Optional 
Benefits and a tick has been placed  next to the statement: Yes, please can I apply  for 
Barclaycard Payment Protection. If Ms S didnt want the PPI this box could  have been  left 
blank, and I can see Ms S hasnt  ticked next to another optional product.  
So I think Barclays made it clear  that Ms S had a choice about  taking the PPI, and I think 
she chose to take it knowing she didnt have to.
I dont think Barclays recommended the PPI to Ms S so it didnt have to check if it was right 
for her. But it did have  to make sure Ms S got the information she needed to decide if it was 
right for her.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Ms S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But based on what Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time it doesnt look 
like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. And Ms S didnt  
have any other means of covering the card repayments if she was unwell or lost her job. 
So it looks  like the PPI would have been  useful for her if something went  wrong. It also looks 
like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better  information about the PPI would have put 
her off taking  out the cover.
Ive thought about everything Ms S and her representatives have said,  including  their 
comments that as Ms S worked  part time she wouldnt  have  been  able to use the PPI. But 
Ms S was still eligible for the policy and it doesnt seem she would have been restricted from 
claiming because  she worked part time. So this hasnt changed my mind  about not 
upholding her complaint.
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms S.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms S because:  
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Ms S about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Ms S, that 
was unfair. 
Ref: DRN05585162To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Ms S.
But Barclays  Bank PLC does have to pay back  to Ms S any commission and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or
reject my decision  before 25 November  2019.
Chandni Green
ombudsman
.
Ref: DRN0558516