K820x#14complaint
Mrs Ms complaint is about an endowment policy she was sold in 1998. She said she was 
given incorrect advice  when she took out the policy, which caused her to lose money. 
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited is the business currently  responsible  for the actions of the 
previous product provider. I will refer to it throughout,  even  where actions were undertaken 
by one of its predecessors.
background
Mrs M took out an endowment policy toward  the end of 1998  over a 20 year term. The policy  
was designed  to act as a repayment vehicle for her mortgage. The advice she received was 
given to her by a firm of independent financial advisers (IFA). The policy was surrendered in 
2010.
Mrs M complained to Aviva  about the policy.  At the time she appears to have believed  it to 
be or have  an element  of payment protection insurance (PPI). That was not the case.  Aviva  
told Mrs M that as the policy had been  sold to her by an IFA it wasnt  liable for the issues she 
was complaining about. It explained that while the IFA was no longer trading, she could  
approach the Financial  Services  Compensation Scheme  for assistance.  
Mrs M didnt  accept that the IFA was solely responsible for her complaint. She said the 
policy was created and approved by Aviva  and so she continues to seek  financial 
compensation from it.
One of our investigators  considered the complaint, but agreed with Aviva   it was not 
responsible for the actions Mrs M was complaining  about. Ms M didnt accept  the 
investigators conclusions.  She said that she believes Aviva ultimately mis-sold the product 
as the policy  was its creation. She asked  that the complaint be referred  to an ombudsman.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs M is unhappy  that she lost money  on her policy when she surrendered it. I can 
understand that feeling. However,  that is the nature of the policy she had. Its value was 
linked to the performance of the financial markets  and the cost of the benefits it provided. 
There were no guarantees  about  how it would perform and there was always a risk that it 
wouldnt achieve the growth needed  to reach its target.  
It was Avivas predecessor that designed  the policy and Aviva is responsible for its actions. 
However, in order for Aviva to be responsible for an error,  one has to have occurred. I 
understand that Mrs M thinks  the loss she suffered is because  there  was a problem with the 
underlying product, but that is not the case.  The product behaved in the way it was designed  
to, but was, like most endowments,  affected  by the general downturn in investment returns.  
The issue  at the core of Mrs Ms complaint is not the design of the endowment policy, but 
rather its suitability for her, given her needs  and circumstances at the time of the sale. That 
isnt something that Aviva  or its predecessors can be held responsible for. It didnt 
recommend Mrs M take the policy and it isnt responsible  for ensuring it was suitable for her 
Ref: DRN03787592or that she was willing to accept the risks it represented. That was the responsibility of the 
IFA who recommended the policy to her.
In light of the above, I cant  find that Aviva is responsible for addressing Mrs Ms concerns 
about her policy.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs M to accept or reject my decision before 
18 November 2019.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0378759