K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  about how AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) has handled  their claim for 
the loss of a pedal cycle under their home insurance policy.  They dont think  the amount 
AXA is paying is enough.
Mr and Mrs M have  been helped with their complaint  by a third party representative. But for 
ease of reading, Ill refer only to Mr and Mrs M.
background
Mr and Mrs M made a claim under their home insurance policy for two pedal  cycles (bikes) 
that were stolen from their garden  in September 2018. Their policy  includes  personal 
possessions cover and one of the bikes (Mr Ms bike) was specified as having a value of 
£2,700. So when the claim was raised the AXA adviser explained that the policy would 
provide cover up to that amount for Mr Ms bike.
Mr M queried whether  the wheels he purchased separately for his bike would also be 
covered under unspecified personal possessions. AXA said that once the wheels were 
attached to the bike they would be covered under the specified  bike limit and not as a 
separate item. So the most they would  pay for the bike would be £2,700.
Mr and Mrs M complained to AXA about  this. They were unhappy about the amount AXA 
were paying  for Mr Ms bike.  They  explained the bike originally cost £2,700  but after 
upgrades were made to it, its value was about  £5,000. They thought  the upgraded parts of 
the bike ought to have  been covered under personal  possessions  as unspecified items as 
they were purchased separately.
AXA didnt change  their position as they considered theyd settled the claim correctly. They 
explained that as the parts  are permanent fixtures of the bike they become part of it  and so 
are included within the specified  bike limit. They also added that it is the responsibility of the 
policyholder to ensure that the sums insured  are enough to cover  the items  in full.
The complaint was referred  to our service.  One of our investigators looked  in to the matter 
but she didnt  think AXAs position, to consider the parts claimed for as part of the bike itself, 
was unreasonable. As she thought AXA had acted fairly when considering  the claim, she 
didnt ask them to do anything further. 
Mr and Mrs M disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ms policy provides cover for personal  possessions not specified  on the policy up 
to £2,500 per item. I understand Mr and Mrs M consider  the upgraded bike parts  should  be 
covered under this section. Ive carefully  considered this but I disagree and Ill explain why.
Mr Ms bike value  was specified on the policy but with a lower value than what it was worth 
when it was stolen.  Although  I appreciate  Mr M bought  the upgraded parts separately,  I think 
its reasonable for AXA to consider these parts to be part of the bike itself once they are 
Ref: DRN05384462fitted to it. This is because  the parts claimed  for were required for the bike to function. I 
therefore dont  think it is fair for these to be considered  as accessories or separate items  
given that the bike couldnt be used without them.  
Im aware that Mr M is a keen cyclist and that he changes his bike parts depending on the 
weather or his reason  for use. But while the parts might be interchangeable, I dont think  this 
changes what the value of his bike was worth when it was stolen. And the policy makes it 
clear that a bike will only be covered up to the specified policy  limit  in this case  £2,700.
It was also the responsibility of Mr and Mrs M to ensure they had sufficient cover in place for 
their personal circumstances. And so if they wanted  to cover Mr Ms bike for its full value 
(with the upgraded parts),  then they ought to have contacted AXA to increase the bikes  
specified value  on the policy. AXA wouldve then increased the level of cover, subject to 
accepting the additional risk. Its likely  this would  have resulted in a further premium 
becoming payable.
I also dont think it was necessary for Mr and Mrs M to have contacted  AXA on each 
occasion the bike was used to provide an accurate valuation depending  on the parts  fitted. 
The specified bike limit on the policy is the maximum  amount they can claim for following an 
insurable event. So they had the option  of increasing the level of cover to ensure they could 
claim for the highest  value the bike could  be worth depending on the parts  fitted. And if the 
bike was used with parts of a lower value  then it would be still covered to its full value.
I realise Mr and Mrs M will be disappointed by this outcome but Im satisfied that AXA has 
acted fairly,  and in line with the terms of the policy, by paying up to the £2,700  policy limit for 
the bike.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 September 2019.
Daniel ODell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0538446