K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that Aviva  Insurance Limited  is responsible for poor service in 
connection with a home emergency insurance  policy.
background
Mr S had a policy in the name of a home  assistance company. It covered breakdown of his 
gas central heating.  Mr S agreed to pay an annual  premium of £222.00 by monthly  
instalments of £18.50. As Mrs S shared the home, she also had the benefit of the policy.
Aviva was the insurer responsible for dealing  with claims. Where I refer to Aviva or the 
insurer I include the home assistance  company, its engineers and others for whose actions  I 
hold Aviva responsible.
On 1 October Mr and Mrs S called the insurer for help when their boiler malfunctioned and 
damaged the consumer  unit (or board)  for the electrics  in the house. Mr and Mrs S 
complained that the insurer wouldnt send an engineer until the next day  saying  that it was 
only an intermittent fault. They  also complained  that one of the engineers was rude and they 
were left without electricity until 4 October.
In a letter on 17 January 2019  the home assistance  company  apologised and offered £75.00 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  Mr and Mrs S suffered. 
our investigators opinion
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  that the 
home assistance company had dealt with the complaint fairly. He said that:
He couldnt  say that the home assistance  company did anything wrong by sending an 
engineer on 2 October.
The behaviour  of the engineer who visited on 2 October  2018,  and who also called 
on 4 October 2018, was unacceptable. But the offer of £75.00 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience was a fair offer.
He didnt think the company could reasonably have fitted the consumer unit any 
faster. So he couldnt  call for compensation for the inconvenience while Mr and Mrs S 
were waiting  for the part to be delivered.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr and 
Mrs S and to Aviva  on 23 May 2019. I summarise  my findings:
By supplying  a new electricity consumer  unit within  a few days (at a cost of abut 
£240.00), Aviva did more  for Mr and Mrs S than the gas central heating  policy  
required.
Subject to any further information from Mr and Mrs S or from Aviva, my provisional decision 
was that I wasnt minded  to uphold this complaint. I didnt intend to direct  Aviva Insurance 
Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Ref: DRN01548782Mr and Mrs S havent responded to the provisional decision.
Aviva says it has nothing further  to add.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen a welcome  letter, policy schedule and policy terms. Im satisfied that the 
documents made clear what was covered -  and  Mr S had an opportunity to cancel the cover 
if it wasnt what he wanted. 
The policy covered breakdown of Mr Ss gas central heating. The policy promised a 24-hour 
helpline. It didnt promise 24-hour call-outs. I wouldnt expect a gas central  heating  policy  to 
cover the electricity consumer unit. 
The section headed What is Covered'' included the boiler, boiler  controls, radiators, 
immersion heater etc. It didnt mention the electricity consumer unit. And one of the policys   
General  Exclusions was of any item not forming part of the policy coverage as detailed  in 
What is Covered''.
When the home assistance company  sent us its file, it said that the policy  didnt cover 
replacement of the consumer unit  which it had replaced as a matter of goodwill. Although 
the investigator didnt  mention this point,  I dont think that the policy covered replacement of 
the consumer  unit  even if caused  by boiler breakdown.
On the evening of Monday 1 October 2018,  Mr and Mrs S reported that the boiler had 
malfunctioned and affected the lights and other  electrics. At that point they were without 
central heating and hot water and they were concerned about losing frozen  food if it 
defrosted. They asked the insurer to send an engineer to fix the issue  that evening. But the 
insurer didnt offer to send  an engineer  that evening. 
I accept that even an intermittent fault might possibly cause a fire. But that didnt  happen. 
Keeping in mind  the policy terms, I cant say that the insurer  shouldve  sent an engineer that 
evening. I dont find it unreasonable  that it made an appointment for the following morning.
Its unfortunate that the engineer was held up that morning  and I think  the insurer 
shouldve been  more proactive in contacting Mr and Mrs S before  she rang that afternoon.
The engineer arrived at about  2:20.  So he was late.
He said the consumer unit needed to be replaced. He disconnected most  of the electricity 
supply. I dont doubt Mrs S was disappointed.  She also found the engineer  rude. And the 
insurer later apologised. The engineer made  an appointment  to fit the new consumer unit on 
Thursday 4 October 2018.
In the meantime the engineer left Mr and Mrs S and their family with no electricity  and no hot 
water. So they had to make other arrangements to get a shower. In addition  the interruption  
of supply disabled  the landline and caused their burglar alarm to keep going off.
Ref: DRN01548783But I accept that the engineer had to order  a new unit and it was going to take a couple of 
days to arrive.
On the Thursday morning the engineer rang Mr S while he was at work. I accept Mrs Ss 
statement that the engineer said Mr S should  get home if they wanted the electricity back on 
that day. So I think Mr S also found him rude.
In the event another engineer arrived at about 1pm. Mrs S found him polite and helpful. He 
fitted the consumer  unit and restored  the electricity.  Although the response hadnt  been as 
prompt as Mr and Mrs S wanted, I cant say that the policy  terms required a quicker  
response. Indeed I dont think Aviva had to provide the consumer unit at all.
And the gas central heating cover was still in place. So I dont  find it unfair that Mr S 
continued to pay the monthly instalment of £18.50. 
The home assistance company shouldve sent a final response letter  within eight weeks of 
the complaint.  But its lateness didnt seriously delay Mr and Mrs S bringing  their complaint to 
us. 
The company offered  £75.00 compensation. And I see no reason for Mr and Mrs S to deduct 
two months instalments amounting to £37.00  and to arrive at a net figure  of £38.00.  
As I dont think the policy terms required a quicker response, I dont hold Aviva responsible  
under the gas central heating policy  for the consequences  of interruption in electricity 
supply such as loss of freezer contents  and all the inconvenience.
Overall, I think that by supplying a new electricity consumer unit within a few days (at a cost 
of abut £240.00),  Aviva  did more for Mr and Mrs S than the gas central  heating  policy  
required. So I dont  find it fair and reasonable to order Aviva to pay them any compensation 
or to do anything further in response to this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  explained, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint. I 
dont direct Aviva Insurance Limited  to do any more in response to this complaint.
Ref: DRN01548784Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 July 2019.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0154878