K820x#14complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Aviva Insurance Limited  (Aviva)  restricted  cover on his travel  
insurance policy as a result of a change in Mr Hs health. 
background
Mr H had an annually renewing  travel insurance  policy with his bank  underwritten  by Aviva. 
The policy renewed  on 21 July 2017. 
Mr H booked a family  holiday in January 2018,  due to depart in the following September. He 
paid for the complete trip in January apart from the final accommodation in which  settled in 
August 2018.  
In March 2018 Mr H saw his GP because his heartbeat was irregular. Mr H says initial 
investigations revealed high cholesterol and borderline pre-diabetes but no further  treatment 
was recommended at that time.  In April 2018 Mr H developed some shoulder pain and this 
prompted further investigations. Mr H was referred  to see a cardiologist, who he saw in July 
2018. He had a cardiogram which was clear but he was referred  for further tests  including  a 
CT angiogram scan and a treadmill test.  
Mr H contacted Aviva in August 2018,  a few weeks before he was due to travel,  to advise 
them of his medical situation.  Aviva  carried out a Medical Risk Assessment and informed 
Mr H that it wouldnt cover his undiagnosed medical  conditions relating to his heart  and 
shoulder as he still hadnt  had the results from the tests with the consultant.   
Aviva offered to pay for the full cancellation  cover  for any money Mr H had paid up until 
when he saw his GP in or around April 2018.  It said this was because Mr Hs medical 
records showed that he was under investigation  at the time he paid the balance of the 
holiday cost and had been referred to a consultant cardiologist. Aviva said that Mr H should 
have declared  that he was having investigations in April 2018  - and it would have offered to 
cover his cancellation costs at that time.
Our investigator felt that Aviva hadnt done  anything wrong  as they were unable to 
reconsider the risk they were insuring against. They also felt that Aviva had been fair in 
giving Mr H the option to cancel his holiday on medical grounds  if he wished to do so. Mr H 
disagreed and asked that an ombudsman look at this matter.  He said it was unfair and 
unreasonable, as the terms would allow insurers to effectively withdraw cover after an 
agreement was in place. And it was also unreasonable for Aviva  not to maintain cover as he 
hadnt been told by his consultant that there  was any restriction on his travel activity.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. I explain why below.
Aviva agreed to refund the deposit and cost Mr H paid when he booked  his holiday in 
January 2018  up to any cost he incurred until April 2018. So this disputes  about whether 
Avivas should do more and if it was reasonable for Aviva to restrict cover on Mr Hs 
undiagnosed medical conditions.
Ref: DRN00265062The relevant  terms in this case are in the medical declaration section of Mr Hs policy.  The 
policy document was sent to Mr H when he took it out. Mr H was also sent renewal notices 
yearly and I have seen a copy from July 2017  which included a medical declaration.   It 
contains the following statements:
If you or any insured person has received advice, treatment or medication for any
serious, chronic or recurring  illness, injury  or disease in the last 12 months,  you'll
need to call the Medical Risk Assessment Helpline on 08000 517 463 before booking
your trip. This includes any investigations or referrals  for any medical conditions or
undiagnosed symptoms and any changes to any previously  declared conditions. You
should also tell us before you travel if you are referred to a consultant  or specialist,
attend A&E or are admitted to hospital.
You also need to tell us about any serious Illness, Injury or disease suffered by 
anyone whose health may cause  you to cancel or abandon your travel plans e.g. a 
close relative or travelling  companion.
Pre-existing medical  conditions aren't covered at any time under the policy unless 
they've been disclosed  and accepted in writing  by our Medical Risk Assessment 
team.
The policy itself included the following terms: 
Page  2:
Do you need to know about  any medical  conditions?
Yes. Please  call the Medical Risk Assessment Helpline to tell them  if you, or any 
other insured persons,  have  received  advice,  medication or treatment for any 
serious, chronic or reoccurring illness, injury or disease, which  includes investigations 
or referrals for any undiagnosed symptom or conditions. Failure  to disclose before 
booking trips or travelling  will result in no cover for claims arising from undisclosed 
conditions. Please see the Your  Health  section on page 19 for full details of when 
and what you must  declare.
Page 19:
Medical Declaration 
1.
2.If between booking  a trip and the departure date, you are referred to a 
Consultant/Specialist or outpatient  clinic for test or investigations, attend A&E or 
are admitted to hospital, this policy will cover you for cancellation of your trip.
Please note however, that if you still wish to travel  you must contact the Medical 
Risk Assessment Helpline immediately and they will advise you if you will be 
covered for any claims relating to this condition
3.
Ref: DRN002650634.If, after you have booked your trip but before paying any final balance due for 
your trip you, or anyone upon whose good  health your trip depends, is referred to 
a Consultant/Specialist or out-patient clinic  for tests  or investigations,  attends  
A&E or is admitted  to hospital you must call the Medical Risk Assessment 
Helpline immediately. We will advise  you if you will be covered for claims relating 
to this condition.  
The annual renewal  notices and policy document clearly sets out the policyholders  
responsibilities. And I am satisfied, therefore,  that Mr H was aware, or ought reasonably to 
have been aware,  of his ongoing  obligation to declare changes in health  that was relevant to 
the risk being underwritten by Aviva. In fact Mr H has confirmed that he knew  he had to 
declare this information but says he was waiting for the outcome of the remaining tests.  So, 
I think it was adequately highlighted to him.
The purpose of this term is to allow Avivas  medical  assessment team  to have an input if 
something of potential concern arises. Mr H doesnt  think this is a fair approach  to take as 
Aviva can avoid paying for any claims by excluding any medical conditions, either diagnosed 
or not, that may develop.  
But this wasnt a policy where Mr Hs individual circumstances had been considered. So the 
onus fell on Mr H to keep  Aviva informed. And Mr H has told us that he was aware of the 
need to do that.
I appreciate that Mr H wanted to see what happened following the further  investigations. But 
the policy does  explain what  Mr H needed to do. It was of course his decision not to contact 
Aviva until the holiday  was fully paid, but that left Mr H potentially vulnerable to not fulfilling 
his side of the contract with Aviva.  
As it happens, the holiday passed without incident. But I think Mr H should have, and was 
aware that he should have, contacted Aviva around  April 2018.
I do believe that Aviva would have paid all costs Mr H had paid until April 2018. This is 
industry practice. And had Mr H contacted Aviva in April he would have  known not to pay the 
remaining money due for the holiday if he wanted  to cancel  the trip.
Mr H says that he had no reason  to believe he was seriously unwell or that they might  not be 
able to travel. I dont  doubt thats  the case. But the terms  required Mr H tell Aviva  if he had 
been referred to a consultant or under investigation.  So, while  he might not have thought it 
was serious, there was still a risk that he couldve been unwell and that this might have 
prevented him from travelling. So, I think he ought  to have known he should  tell Aviva about  
it sooner than he did in August 2018.  
I know this left Mr H in a difficult position  insofar as he went  on holiday not knowing if he 
would be covered. But in the circumstances, I dont think  Aviva  has treated him unfairly  or 
did anything wrong.  Aviva offered to pay the cancellation costs  up to April 2018, so he 
wouldnt have lost out financially but it was Mr Hs choice not to cancel the trip.  
I also note that Mr H has referred to other decisions issued by the service and felt they were  
a precedent to be followed. The decisions referred  to say it was unfair  of the business  to 
change the policy terms after the policy has been  taken out. We consider each case  on its 
individual merits and facts  within that case.  In this case Aviva have applied  the right terms in 
Ref: DRN00265064relation to Mr Hs circumstances and didnt change  the terms set out in its policy so these 
points dont change  my decision.   
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above my final decision is not to uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 October  2019.
Jag Dhuphar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0026506