K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 2002. Mr L says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS)  mis-sold  him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ls case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
BoS has provided information that shows that Mr L took out PPI when  it sold it to him over 
the phone, several years  after hes taken out his credit card.  Mr L says he cant  remember  
much about  the sale of PPI, but this isnt surprising for a sale that took place so long ago. He 
also says that in 2002 his English  was limited and he wouldnt have been able to fully 
understand the policy.
Ive carefully thought  about what Mr L has said, but I also have to consider that Mr L had 
already taken out several financial products previously, which  suggests he was confident 
enough in his ability to enter in to financial agreements. And as hed already  had and used 
his credit card for a number of years, I think its likely that Mr L wouldve known he didnt 
need to have PPI, and that he chose to take it out.
BoS recommended the PPI to Mr L  so it had to check  that the PPI was right for him  and 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time,  I think that it was. For example he 
wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover and he seems  to have 
had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr L about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. But it seems  like it could have been  useful  for him if something went wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the PPI would have put 
him off taking out the cover. 
This means  BoS doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr L.
But BoS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr L because:  
When the policy was sold, BoS expected  to get a high level of commission and profit 
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have  told Mr L about that. 
Because BoS didnt tell Mr L, that was unfair. 
To put that right, BoS has paid back the amount of commission and profit  share  that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr L has said, but the points raised dont  change  my decision, 
and for the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
my final decision
Ref: DRN03679652The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr L.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr L any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 May 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0367965