K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that PayPal Europe  Sarl & Cie, SCA (PayPal) declined his request for a 
refund.
background
Mr H bought an item online through an auction website and made payment using PayPal. 
But he says he didnt  receive the item so he asked  PayPal to refund  the payment. The seller 
provided tracking information which PayPal say confirms that the item was sent and signed 
for. So they didnt  agree  to Mr Hs request for a refund.
Mr H complained to this service. He says he hasnt received the item and he doesnt think 
the tracking information provided by the seller is genuine. Our investigator  upheld the 
complaint because he wasnt satisfied that the item posted by the seller  was the same item 
Mr H had paid for. He also wasnt satisfied that anything was received by Mr H. So he 
recommended that PayPal refund  the payment to Mr H and remove any associated costs  
and charges from his account.
Mr H was happy with our investigators findings.  But PayPal werent, so the case has been 
referred to an ombudsman for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I think PayPal do need to refund the 
payment to Mr H and Ill explain why below.
The claim Mr H made  to PayPal was based  on him not having received  the item. The seller 
provided a proof of posting print-out which shows Mr Hs post code and a tracking number. 
The proof of delivery  shows the same tracking  number,  part of Mr Hs post code and the 
signature of a third party (who Ill call B). PayPal  say the seller  has provided reasonable 
proof that the item was shipped to Mr H and delivered. They rely on their User Agreement  
which says they may find in the sellers favour in this situation, even if the buyer didnt 
receive the item.
But our investigator wasnt satisfied that the item Mr H had paid for was sent to him. He 
thought that the weight stated on the proof  of posting meant the parcel it related to was 
much too light to have  contained the item Mr H had bought. So he didnt think  the parcel 
could have contained the item. I think thats  a reasonable assumption.
PayPal have offered  a possible  explanation for this. They say that, in order to pay less 
postage, the seller may have placed a different item on the scale. I dont think  thats likely. 
The difference between the stated weight and the likely actual weight  of the item Mr H paid 
for is significant. I dont  think the postal service would deliver  a parcel  in the usual way if it 
were significantly  heavier than what the sender had paid for. What I would expect in that 
situation is for the recipient to be asked to pay the additional postage, or for the parcel to be 
kept at the depot until the correct postage  was paid. Theres no suggestion  of anything like 
that here.
PayPal say that the item was delivered.  Based on what Ive said above,  if something was 
delivered I dont think  its likely  it was the item which Mr H paid for. In any event, I dont think  
Ref: DRN00919062anything was delivered to Mr H. Theres nothing in the delivery information which specifically  
links the parcel to Mr H. For instance, it doesnt show  his name or address. It shows  the 
same tracking number as the proof of posting.  But, as Ive said above, Im not satisfied that 
the proof of posting relates to the item Mr H bought.  The information provided by the seller  
shows that a package was signed  for by B. But Mr H says he doesnt  know anyone  called B 
and that the postal service told him no-one  with that name lives in his block of flats. Mr H 
also says that none  of his neighbours have received a parcel for him. So Im satisfied that 
nothing was delivered to Mr H.
PayPal say they have acted within the terms of their User Agreement by declining  the claim. 
The section of the agreement which they rely on says that they may ask the seller to provide 
evidence that the seller  delivered  to/performed  for the buyer  the purchase as agreed with 
the buyer. PayPal  say there is proof  that an item was sent and received. But, for the 
reasons above,  I dont  think  the documents provided by the seller  prove  that the item Mr H 
bought was delivered to him. So I dont  think its fair that PayPal decided the claim in the 
sellers favour.
In addition, when  Mr H first contacted PayPal, he provided copies of messages hed 
received from the seller  in which the seller  said that the item had been damaged and 
couldnt be sent. They told Mr H to open a PayPal case stating  Item Not Received and said 
they would  send a refund. This message was sent two days after the date on the proof  of 
posting. So I find it very unlikely that the seller  sent the item to Mr H. And, if they had sent it, 
it wouldnt have been as described anyway  because the seller said it was damaged.  
PayPal say that, if Mr Hs complaint had been that he received a different item, they would  
look into the matter  differently.  Under the User  Agreement,  PayPal may reimburse a buyer if 
either they didnt  receive their purchase  or it is Significantly Not as Described . The non-
exhaustive examples given of purchases which are significantly not as described include the 
condition of the item having been misrepresented  or the item being damaged during 
postage.
Here, I dont  think Mr H did receive  the item. But if he had, it seems  it would have been 
significantly not as described due to being damaged. I think it likely that PayPal would have 
refunded the payment if a claim  had been made by Mr H on that basis, particularly in light of 
the evidence from the seller  that the item was damaged. So Mr H is in the position where 
PayPal wont refund him for non-receipt of the item but, if he had received it, they likely  
would have refunded him. Thats not a fair situation  for Mr H to be in. And it means he has 
nothing to gain by saying he didnt receive the item unless its true. 
For these reasons, I think PayPal should  refund the payment.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I uphold this complaint. PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA should  
refund Mr Hs payment  and remove any associated costs and charges from his account.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2019.
Katy Kidd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0091906