K820x#14complaint
Mrs T has complained about the way Society  of Lloyds (SOL) handled a flood claim under 
her home insurance policy.
background
Mrs T made a claim to SOL after a flood  damaged  an outbuilding at her property in 
July 2017. Mrs T used the building to store clothing  and other possessions. SOL accepted  
the claim and appointed  a company to remove, clean and store  items  that were  damaged.
Mrs T says she was told her belongings would be safely removed, photographed, an 
inventory list prepared and sent to her. After SOL sent Mrs T an inventory, she complained 
that some  items were missing. Some of these,  including a rocking horse, were of great  
sentimental value. SOL asked her to produce  a list of the missing items and forward  any 
evidence such as photos to support her account.  The rocking horse was later found in 
storage.
Mrs T was also unhappy that SOLs agent  asked her to accept the return of her belongings 
without inspection.
She brought  her complaint to this service.  Our investigator didnt uphold it. He said without 
further evidence  he couldnt say that Mrs Ts complaint was justified.
As Mrs T didnt agree, the matter  has been  referred to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
One of the things Mrs T has complained  about  is that SOLs agent didnt itemise her 
belongings as soon  as they arrived at its depot.  I can see that work started on the lists 
almost straightaway.  However there was some delay in providing itemised lists and when 
they were available, it wasnt immediately clear to Mrs T how they related to each other.  But 
bearing in mind that there were over 2,000  items to be sorted, evaluated and restored, I can 
understand that this process would  take some  time and that the way SOLs  agent had 
approached the task might not have  been  obvious  to Mrs T at first. Im satisfied that SOL has 
been able to explain its approach and that it was reasonable in the circumstances.
Mrs T has alleged that various items are missing  and arent  on SOLs  lists. Some of them 
have since been  found. Some of the missing items are shown in photos as being  in the 
outbuilding before it was cleared by SOLs agent.  But SOL says Mrs T was taking things out 
of its agents van as it was loading them. It also says that other items (such  as a board 
game) werent listed because they were  just wiped down and returned.  So I cant be sure 
that the missing  items were actually  removed by SOL in the first place or that they were  later 
lost by SOLs agent. 
In terms of the complaint that SOLs agent asked Mrs T to accept the return  of her 
belongings without  inspection, SOL has explained that its agent just wanted  to know  whether 
she would  be happy to accept the boxes without inspection or if she wanted to inspect every 
item in each  box taking  into account  how time consuming the second  option would be for 
Ref: DRN03296372her. In view of the large number  of items  to be returned, I dont think  it was unreasonable  for 
SOLs agent  to ask this.
I have to decide what was most likely to have happened given all the evidence. In response 
to all the allegations made by Mrs T, SOL has given an explanation which clears its agent of 
wrongdoing and she hasnt been  able to provide further evidence to counter what  its said. 
So based  on the evidence available Im not persuaded  that Mrs Ts been treated unfairly or 
unreasonably by SOL.
my final decision
For the reason  explained above I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 November  2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0329637