K820x#14complaint
Mr Q says Vertu Motors (VMC) Limited  mis-sold him payment protection insurance  (PPI) 
when he took out a hire purchase agreement  in 2005.
background
Mr Q took out a hire purchase agreement in 2005 to buy a car. Mr Q took out PPI with the 
loan at the same time. The loan was for £4,999 and was to be repaid over 48 months. The 
premium for the PPI policy was £1081.23. It was added to the main loan and would attract  
interest.
The PPI policy covered Mr Qs hire purchase  repayments for up to 12 months  if he lost his 
job. And if Mr Q became too unwell to work it would cover his loan repayments for up to 24 
months. Itd also have cleared the outstanding balance of the agreement if Mr Q had died.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr Qs complaint should be upheld. Mr Q disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion so his complaints  been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Where there is limited information, I will make  my decision based on whats  more likely to 
have happened, taking  into account  the evidence  available,  what  both parties have told me 
and what we know about these types of sale.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Qs complaint. Ill explain why. 
The loan and the PPI were arranged  during  a meeting. Mr Q has told us the PPI was added  
to the hire purchase  agreement without his knowledge.
VMC has shown us a copy  of the original  credit agreement. I can see the PPI premium has 
been set out separately from the main  loan. The PPI is also described as optional on the 
agreement. I can see a box has been  ticked to purchase the PPI and Mr Q has signed  for 
the PPI separately  to the main hire purchase  agreement. 
Taking into account everything  Ive seen, I think its most likely VMC made  it clear  Mr Q 
didnt have to take out the PPI and that he chose  to buy it - although I can understand why 
he might  not recall this after so many years.
Because the PPI was sold in a face to face meeting, I think its most likely VMC 
recommended Mr Q buy it. That means it had to make  sure it was right for him. And from 
what Ive seen it looks like it was.
I can see Mr Q was eligible for the policy. It didnt cover some things. But it doesnt  look as if 
these wouldve affected Mr Q. For example he didnt have any medical  conditions  that 
wouldnt be covered.
Ref: DRN00135432Mr Qs employer would have paid him sick pay if he became too unwell to work. Hes told us 
hed receive up to six months full pay followed by six months half pay. But the PPI sold to   
Mr Q could have paid a monthly benefit  for up to 24 months, much longer than Mr Qs full 
sick pay would last. So I think Mr Q would have  found the benefit useful, particularly if he 
was unable to work  for a prolonged period. 
The PPI could also have  paid a monthly benefit  for up to 12 months if Mr Q had lost his job. 
And Mr Q told us he had no savings or other  resources he could have relied on.
The PPI policy was paid for with a single premium upfront which  was added to the loan.        
If Mr Q cleared the loan early he wouldnt have got a proportionate rebate of the PPI 
premium, so he may have  lost out. But Ive not seen any evidence  that Mr Q intended to 
repay the loan early  at the time he took it out. And Ive not seen any evidence  that he had a 
history of doing so in 2005. So I dont think the early cancellation terms made  the policy 
unsuitable for him.
 
VMC should also have  given Mr Q clear information about the policy  so he could decide 
whether to buy it. Its possible VMC didnt give Mr Q all the information it shouldve  done.   
But I think its likely he agreed to buy the policy and was interested in this type of cover.    
And as the policy appears to have been right for him, I dont think any clearer  information 
wouldve put Mr Q off taking it out. So I dont think hes lost out because of anything VMC 
mightve done wrong. 
In summary,  I think it most likely  VMC made Mr Q aware that the PPI policy sold to him in 
2005 was optional. And I think he chose  to buy it. I think the policy  was right for him and 
would have been useful if Mr Q couldnt work or lost his job. And even if VMC had given      
Mr Q all the clear  information it should  have, I still think he would have taken out the PPI 
policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Qs complaint, and I make no award  against  
Vertu Motors (VMC)  Limited
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 August 2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0013543