K821x#15complaint
Mr E complains that ActiveQuote Limited  mis-sold him an income protection policy.  He says 
the policy was unsuitable and he would  like a refund of the premiums  he paid. 
background
Mr E is a director  of his own business. He undertakes contract work via his business, and 
wanted a policy which would protect  his income.  
ActiveQuote sold Mr E an income protection policy. The sale was advised,  and that meant 
ActiveQuote needed  to make sure the policy it recommended was suitable  for Mr Es 
circumstances and needs at the time.  
When Mr Es business lost its only contract, around  a year after taking out the policy,  he 
contacted the insurer  to make a claim. Mr E said the insurer told him he wasnt eligible  to 
claim  it said the terms of the policy required  Mr Es business to have ceased trading due to 
financial insolvency. 
Mr E complained to ActiveQuote and it turned down the complaint. It said it had informed 
Mr E during  the sales  process; to make a claim for unemployment he would need  to disband 
his business. ActiveQuote  said it had selected  the policy based on the demands and needs 
advised by Mr E, and had provided him with the policy documents.  
Unhappy with ActiveQuotes response, Mr E brought his complaint to us. An investigator 
here looked into the complaint. She said she didnt think the policy was suitable for Mr E as 
he had told ActiveQuote  he wanted to protect his income as a contractor. She thought  that if 
ActiveQuote had explained Mr E could only make  a claim if his business  ceased trading due 
to financial insolvency,  he wouldnt have taken out the policy.  She said ActiveQuote  should 
pay Mr E the equivalent of the amount hed paid towards the policy premiums, plus interest.  
Mr E said he thought ActiveQuote should pay the equivalent value of his claim, as he had 
been relying on the policy to pay him a monthly income. However  he said he accepted the 
investigators view. 
ActiveQuote disagreed. It said it didnt think the policy had been mis-sold.  It said it had 
outlined the circumstances in which a claim could  be made.  And said Mr E had attempted  to 
claim for a contract which didnt renew,  which it said was not covered  under the policy. It 
also said that Mr Es business was still trading,  and that hed not followed the advice it had 
given around disbanding the business. 
ActiveQuote asked for a decision from an ombudsman, so the case has now been  passed to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr E said that he didnt go ahead with his claim after the insurer  told him he wouldnt be 
eligible to claim in his circumstances. 
Ref: DRN01896032The policy states  the following requirement and exclusion: 
Your business ceased trading because it became financially  insolvent  (was unable 
to pay its debts) and this has been  confirmed by a qualified,  certified  or chartered 
accountant and formally  confirmed to HM Revenue and Customs 
You cannot claim for unemployment  if: 
your employment is temporary  or, as self-employed, you simply have no work 
available for a period or periods or the income from your business  drops  to a level 
where you feel it is inappropriate  to continue your business, unless the drop is as the 
result of a clear and unexpected event.
Having reviewed the terms of the policy, and in particular the terms highlighted above, Im 
satisfied that Mr E wouldnt have met the criteria of the policy.  
Ive listened to the call between Mr E and ActiveQuote  in which  the policy was sold. Mr E 
said he was a contractor  and wanted to protect his income. ActiveQuote  said it understood 
Mr E was looking  for unemployment cover,  and said it was aware  Mr E was a director of his 
own company and could advise on a policy which would cover both the salary and dividend  
payments Mr E received from his business.  So, based on this I think  its clear that 
ActiveQuote understood Mr Es situation  and what he was looking for in terms of income  
protection cover. 
ActiveQuote said in order to make a claim, Mr E would need to disband  his business and file 
papers with HMRC.  Mr E said that he knew it could take some time to fully close his 
business. He told ActiveQuote  his accountant  had told him the process could take three 
months, and he asked about how this would impact the start of his income protection 
payments in the event of a claim. Based on this part of the conversation,  Im satisfied that 
ActiveQuote had made it clear that Mr E would need to disband  his business in order  to 
claim, and that Mr E understood this. 
ActiveQuote specifically said in order to claim as a self-employed company director, you 
must file papers  with HMRC and show  via your certified accountant  that your business  has 
ceased to trade.  However, at no point during the call was Mr E advised that he could only 
make a claim if the reason his business had ceased  to trade  was due to financial insolvency.
I think the fact that Mr E could only claim if his business was disbanded due to financial 
insolvency was an important factor which ActiveQuote should  have  highlighted to Mr E. If it 
had done so, I think its most likely  this would have led to further questions  from Mr E. And 
he and ActiveQuote  would likely  have gone on to establish that the policy  didnt provide the 
cover he was looking for. And had that happened,  I dont think Mr E would have taken out 
this policy. 
ActiveQuote has said that it provided  the policy documents to Mr E and encouraged him to 
read them. Both the policy and key facts documents sent to Mr E reference the requirement 
for a business to have been  disbanded due to financial  insolvency. However I also note that 
towards the end of the sales call, before Mr E agreed to go ahead  with the policy, 
ActiveQuote gave the information  about  disbanding the business  again. It said the following:
what  Im going to do is open the policy document and read specifically what  it 
says with reference to being self-employed 
Ref: DRN01896033in order to claim as a self-employed company  director you must file papers with 
HMRC and show via your certified  accountant  that your business  has ceased  to 
trade.
ActiveQuote told Mr E that it was reading directly from the policy document, but the 
information it gave  omitted the requirement for the business to have been  disbanded due to 
financial insolvency. 
Mr E was relying on the advice provided  by ActiveQuote, and I accept that based on what it 
said, Mr E thought he would be eligible to make  a claim as long as he disbanded his 
business and provided the required evidence that he had done so.
I think ActiveQuote had a responsibility to explain the limitation  around  the reason for closing  
the business to Mr E when advising on making  a claim. And I think in the circumstances it 
was reasonable  for Mr E to rely on the information  he was provided  by ActiveQuote, 
particularly after it had told him the information it gave was being  read to him directly from 
the policy. 
ActiveQuote has said that Mr E has not followed  its advice, as his business has not been  
disbanded, so he would have been ineligible to make a claim. Mr E has said that because  
the insurer told him that he was unable to make  claim, he didnt see any point in closing  his 
business. I accept  what Mr E has said here as I think its reasonable. If Mr E had been told 
by the insurer  that he could  make  an eligible claim,  I think its most  likely he would have 
disbanded his business. 
These are unusual circumstances. The policy documentation is clear and ActiveQuote gave 
Mr E advice that was correct. The problem was that advice  was incomplete. The omission  of 
the point regarding disbanding due to financial  insolvency  was key. As Ive explained,  I dont 
think Mr E would have purchased this policy if hed been given that information.  However,  
Ive seen no evidence  that he would have  been  able to purchase a policy that would  have 
covered him in this situation.  Accordingly,  to put things  right,  ActiveQuote should make Mr E 
a payment equivalent to a refund of the premiums he paid for the policy. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, its my final decision that I uphold  this complaint. I direct 
ActiveQuote Limited  to pay Mr E the total amount he paid in premiums for the policy,  
together with interest at 8% simple from the date each payment was made. 
If ActiveQuote considers it should deduct income  tax from any 8% interest element of my 
award it may do so, but should give Mr E the necessary certificate. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2020.
Gemma Warner 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0189603