K822xcomplaint
Mr Is complaint is about the level of compensation paid by Tickmill  UK LTD (Tickmill) 
following an error on its trading platform which affected his trading on 15 June 2018.
background 
Tickmill acknowledged the error  and responsibility for it. On 20 June 2018 it gave  and Mr I 
accepted/received  redress  of around £116 in order to put him back  to the position he 
would have been in, but for the error.  Tickmill says his acceptance  of the redress was on the 
understanding that it was a full and final resolution of the issue.  
Mr I disagrees.  He suggests he was coerced to accept the payment and says he thereafter  
continued to pursue Tickmill for payment of more compensation. He refers  to his 
correspondence in this respect  in June, August and September  2018  as evidence of his 
pursuit.
Mr I says additional compensation is due for the following:
Tickmills delay in making  the payment between the event  on 15 June and the 
payment on 20 June.
Loss of potential trading profit he could have  earned during  the delay, given that he 
was too distressed to trade  at the time.
After the payment he resumed trading and found that his distress,  caused  by Tickmill, 
persisted and caused him to make  trading losses. Tickmill is responsible for this.
After a period  of loss making  trades, he stopped trading and found that his trading  
confidence and ability had been  significantly affected by the error and Tickmills  
handling of the matter.  He considers that he has lost additional potential trading profit 
in this respect, for which Tickmill  is responsible.
Tickmill was not persuaded  to offer additional  compensation. The matter was referred  to this 
service and considered  by one of our adjudicators. She concluded as follows:
Tickmills redress payment for and resolution  of the trading error  in terms of putting 
Mr I back to the position he would have been, but for the error  was fair and 
reasonable.
In addition, Tickmill should  pay Mr I £100 for the trouble and upset caused by the 
matter. [Tickmill agreed to do this.]
The redress payment  was not unreasonably  delayed.
There is no evidence that Tickmill  stopped Mr I from trading at any time  after the 
error, whilst it sought to redress it and/or after it made the redress payment to him.
Mr Is evidence suggests  that he consciously chose to stop trading whilst he sought  
correction of/compensation for the error,  chose  to resume  trading thereafter and then 
chose to stop trading in response  to the losses he was making.
There is no evidence to support Mr Is assertion that he would have made  the sort of 
(or any) profit from trading, but for the error.
Mr I disagreed with this outcome and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
Ref: DRN00500062my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
conclusions as presented by the adjudicator.
I consider as follows:
I do not wish to be dismissive of Mr Is strength of feeling about  the complaint. I 
appreciate and understand that he is unhappy  about the trading  error that occurred 
and about what  followed thereafter. However,  my task is to consider what Tickmill  is 
reasonably and fairly responsible for.
Tickmill already concedes that it is responsible for the trading error  on 15 June 2018. 
I endorse this. It appears to be settled that the amount paid to Mr I on 20 June 
directly redressed the consequence of the trading error  in order to put him back  to 
the position he would have been,  but for the error.  I endorse  this too. Furthermore,  it 
does not appear  that he was coerced to accept the payment.
I agree  with the adjudicator that the five days that passed before the redress  
payment did not amount to an unreasonable delay.  In any event,  I agree with and 
endorse the adjudicators proposal that Tickmill pay Mr I £100  for the trouble  and 
upset caused  to him by the error. If he disagrees  with me in terms of the five days 
that passed before the redress payment, I am satisfied that this payment of £100 
would also cater for any feeling he has that the period amounted  to a delay. This 
payment is broadly  consistent with the sort of award this service would give for the 
trouble and upset  caused by a matter  such as the trading error in Mr Is case.
There is no evidence that Tickmill  prevented Mr I from trading at any time. There  
appears to be no evidence that his account  was in any way unable to cater  for 
trading at any of the time periods  he has mentioned. Furthermore, there  appears  to 
be no evidence of the likelihood of the sort of trading profits, if any, that Mr I says he 
could have made when he did not trade.  His claim appears to be theoretical in this 
respect.
The error was corrected and redressed  by 20 June. I am not persuaded that 
Tickmill can reasonably be held responsible  for the level of distress that Mr I has 
described. I do not suggest  that his description should be doubted, but I do 
consider that the trading error incident, which was resolved in five days, does  not 
appear to have  been significant enough to warrant  the reaction he has described. 
I accept that Mr I was entitled to react  as his feelings dictated, but that does not 
automatically mean Tickmill  is at fault for the manner in which  he reacted. As the 
adjudicator said,  he appears to have made  the informed choice to return to 
trading after 20 June  and then to stop trading in reaction  to the losses  he was 
making. I do not consider  that Tickmill played  any role in this. It had resolved and 
concluded the matter  on 20 June. The fact that Mr I sought to reopen it thereafter 
and continued  to seek further  compensation was also his choice.  I am not 
persuaded that it was what  the situation  called for.
Ref: DRN00500063my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mr Is complaint but only in relation to the £100 
payment which  I order Tickmill  UK LTD to make to him for the trouble and upset caused to 
him by the trading error.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0050006