K820x#14complaint
The estate  of Miss W complains that HSBC  UK Bank Plc wrongly charged the late Miss W 
for keeping  an item in safe custody.
background to complaint
Miss Ws executors wrote to our service to tell us that Miss W had been charged  for several  
years for keeping an item in safe custody, which the executors didnt think Miss W had ever 
wanted kept safe. They said shed  placed three expensive rings in safekeeping with HSBC  in 
1974. They  thought that shortly after that, HSBC  had put an insurance  policy with those 
rings, although they thought this shouldve been  sent to Miss W instead.
Miss W took the rings  out of safekeeping around  April 1990. She didnt return them to the 
bank. HSBC still had Miss Ws 1974 insurance policy in safekeeping, so it apparently  kept 
charging her for the safekeeping service. 
Miss Ws estate  said that HSBC wrote to Miss W in April 1995, to say that safekeeping 
charges were going up, and Miss W replied in May 1995 that she hadnt used this service  
since 1990, so she wanted HSBC to make sure she hadnt been charged  for it since then. 
Miss Ws executors said that they only found  out in 2018, after Miss Ws death, that HSBC 
was holding this document  for Miss W and had been  charging  her for this every  year.  They 
didnt think shed ever known this.
Miss Ws executors wanted all the charges  that Miss W had paid for safekeeping since 1990 
to be refunded. They also wanted an ex gratia  payment  of £100 to make  up for the additional 
interest that Miss W wouldve paid over the intervening  years, because she was paying  
interest on these charges  too whenever she used her overdraft. 
HSBC paid the estate the last six years of safekeeping fees, which  adds up to £110.34. It 
didnt think that our service could  consider  this complaint before then, because  the complaint 
looked at charges going back 28 years, and the most the bank could go back  was six years. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think our service could consider all of this complaint. She said that we 
could consider the complaint about charges applied to the account in the last six years, but 
not right back to 1990. HSBC hadnt consented  to our service  considering  a complaint 
further back than that. And the executors hadnt  shown  any exceptional circumstances which  
prevented Miss W bringing  a complaint earlier.
HSBC didnt think that our service  could consider bank charges applied  in the last six years 
either. It said a Supreme  Court case in 2009 meant  that our service shouldnt  investigate 
those. Our adjudicator  didnt agree. She said the court case was about unauthorised 
overdraft charges, and didnt apply to the fairness  or otherwise of safekeeping charges. 
The executors sent a detailed reply, disagreeing with our adjudicator. The executors set out 
the relevant rule, which is as follows  
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service:
Ref: DRN03679682(1) more than six months after the date on which the respondent sent the 
complainant its final response, redress determination or summary resolution 
communication; or
(2) more than:
(a) six years  after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or 
ought reasonably  to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint;
unless the complainant referred the complaint  to the respondent or to the 
Ombudsman within that period and has a written  acknowledgement or some  other  
record of the complaint  having been received
The executors thought  the natural reading  of this text was that the complaint must either 
qualify under subparagraph  (1) or (2). The executors said this complaint had been made 
within the time limit set out in (1), so it was in time. 
The executors also said that the event complained of was the unauthorised holding  of an 
insurance document in safekeeping for Miss W. That event continued from 1974 to 
July 2018, when the executors were  given the papers  by HSBC (although while  the 
insurance document was held with Miss Ws rings  there was no loss to her, because Miss W 
was paying for safekeeping for the rings  anyway). And the executors said this complaint had 
been made within six years of them being given the papers, so it satisfied the time limit set 
out under  (2)(a).  They  said that the time limit set out in (2)(b) had no relevance to this case.
Our adjudicator didnt  change her mind, so the case was passed to me for a decision on 
which parts  of this complaint, if any, our service can consider.
my first provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I thought  our service 
could consider some parts of this complaint. This is what  I said then: 
-I explained that my decision  was only provisional. And I said that, given the nature of this 
decision, Id also look at the merits of Miss Ws complaint. 
-First, I said Id look at which parts of this complaint were  in time.
-The executors  raised two objections to the view of our adjudicator. They  said that the 
jurisdiction rule which I set out above was an either/or  provision.  They  took the view 
that they only needed to meet one of those two deadlines to be in time. 
-I explained that isnt how our service understands this provision.  And I didnt think  it was 
the natural reading  of this text. 
-The jurisdiction provision sets out that an ombudsman cannot consider a complaint,  if a 
six month deadline isnt met, or if a six year deadline  (with a possible three year 
extension) isnt met. So, if either of those deadlines wasnt  met in this case, then the 
starting point would be that our service doesnt  have  the power to consider this 
complaint. I thought  that was the natural reading of the text. 
-The executors  met the first of those two deadlines. I thought  about  whether the six year 
deadline (with a possible  three year extension)  was met, for some  or all of the charges.
Ref: DRN03679683-The executors  thought  that the event being complained  about  was the unauthorised 
holding of a document by HSBC, for Miss W. I didnt think that was quite right. I didnt 
think that the holding of this document, which the executors quite reasonably  suggested 
that Miss W probably  didnt intend  for HSBC to hold,  was the problem. Miss W wasnt 
any worse off, just because the document was held by HSBC, and she didnt  have it. 
-But I did think Miss W was worse  off because she was being  charged for a document  
holding service by HSBC. And that meant that the event thats  really  the subject of this 
complaint was the annual charge by HSBC for this safekeeping service. 
-So this complaint wasnt about one event, it was about a series of recurring events, 
happening every  year, when Miss W was charged. I needed  to think  about which of 
those events were in time (under  the six years  with a possible extension  rule).
-Some of those charges were  applied in the six years before this complaint  was made. I 
agreed with our adjudicator that any charges applied within the six years before the 
executors complained  to HSBC (which they did in July 2018) were in time. I thought  our 
service could consider  this part of Miss Ws complaint.
-Then I thought about whether the annual charges that Miss W paid before July 2012  
were in time. It was clearly over six years  since  those events happened.  
-Our rules allow complaints to be brought later than six years,  if it was only after this that 
the complainant  became  aware (or ought reasonably to have become aware) that he 
had cause for complaint. As the rule above  sets out, theres a three  year deadline  for 
making a complaint.  And, crucially,  the clock for that deadline only starts running once 
someone is aware, or ought  reasonably to have  been aware, of the cause for complaint. 
-So I needed to think about whether Miss W was aware, or ought reasonably to have 
been aware, of the charges applied to her account,  each  year, at the time that they were 
applied to her account. And if not, I needed  to think about  whether there  was some other 
trigger event that meant she either did realise,  or should reasonably  have realised, that 
she was being  charged.  Put another way, did anything that HSBC sent Miss W start the 
clock for this three year deadline?
-Usually, someone will either  know  at the time that theyre  being  charged, or they should 
know, because their bank will tell them. But I wasnt convinced that was the case  here.
-I looked at the statements that HSBC had been  able to supply for this account.  HSBC 
confirmed that Miss W paid for the safekeeping service annually,  around 6 May.  But the 
charge on the statements just showed as Pre-notified fees & charges to 14 April [year]. 
It wasnt clear  from those  statements that this was a payment for a safekeeping service.
-I didnt think that Miss W wouldve been aware,  or that she ought reasonably to have 
been aware, that she was still paying for safekeeping, just because this unidentified  bank  
charge for a modest amount appeared on her statements once a year.  So I didnt think  
that this note on her statements started  the clock  on the deadline for complaining  about  
each of the annual charges she paid for the safekeeping service.
-We did know that Miss W got a letter about safekeeping charges in 1995. And she wrote  
a reply to HSBC to check that she was no longer being  charged for safekeeping then. 
Ref: DRN03679684-I thought that at this point, Miss W either was aware, or, as was perhaps more  likely, 
reasonably ought to have been  aware, that she was still being charged for the 
safekeeping service. So, for any safekeeping  charges applied before 10 May 1995, I 
thought Miss W ought reasonably to have  been  aware of those  by 10 May 1995.  I 
thought that, for charges up to early May 1995,  the clock started then. 
-That would mean that her executors  were  out of time, under both the six year and three 
year deadlines,  to complain now about charges applied  before 10 May 1995.  
-I hadnt seen  any reply to Miss Ws letter of May 1995. So I needed  to think about  what  
was likely to have  happened when Miss W wrote her letter. 
-It was possible that Miss W was told in 1995 by HSBC that she still had a document in 
safekeeping, and she agreed to pay for that. But I didnt think  that was very likely. Miss 
Ws letter  told us she didnt have any idea, in May 1995, that HSBC  was still keeping 
something for her. If HSBC had replied to her letter,  and said it was still keeping 
something for her, then I thought she wouldve asked what it was. And I didnt think  it 
was likely she wouldve agreed  to pay HSBC for the ongoing  safekeeping of a policy 
which wasnt valid once she took her rings out of the bank, and which apparently  expired 
in 1975. 
-In any scenario where HSBC received the letter Miss W sent in May 1995, and 
responded to it, I thought it was unlikely  that the safekeeping arrangement  wouldve 
continued. So I thought it was simply more  likely  that the letter (of which we had only a 
copy kept by Miss W) was never  received at HSBC, but that Miss W then assumed that 
her wishes  had been carried out. That wouldnt be unreasonable. 
-I said if either side had a reply or other acknowledgement  of the letter  that Miss W sent 
to HSBC, then my decision on this might  change.  But otherwise my decision was likely to 
be that the executors complained too late about charges applied  before 10 May 1995.  
-I then needed  to think about charges applied after 10 May 1995. 
-Miss W then presumably  continued to get an annual statement, with an unspecified 
charge that we now knew was for safekeeping. Id already  said I didnt think that was 
enough to make  Miss W aware  of what she was paying for. 
-So I asked HSBC  if there was any other way that Miss W wouldve known what this 
charge on her statement was for. It said that a pre-notification breakdown letter  wouldve 
been attached to the statement, which included a breakdown of fees, showing what they 
were. But HSBC  hadnt shown us this letter. It said it couldnt, as they werent  kept. 
-I hadnt seen  this pre-notification  breakdown letter.  And I didnt think  I could  assume, 
without seeing  it, that Miss W ought  reasonably to have been  aware  of what this charge 
was for, on the basis of this letter. I said I might change my mind about this, if HSBC 
could show me a copy of this letter.
-So I asked HSBC  to tell us more about  whether any other correspondence was sent to 
Miss W about  these charges after 1995.
-HSBC also said it had written  to all customers who used its safeguarding service  in 
December 2011, saying that the service was only free if HSBC  had been appointed as 
Ref: DRN03679685an executor, and the document  in safekeeping was a will. It showed us a letter  that it 
sent then. But that letter addressed itself only to those who had wills in safekeeping at 
HSBC. There was nothing  to explain to someone  who had a different  sort of document  in 
safekeeping at HSBC, why they would be receiving this letter.
-I didnt think that I could decide  that Miss W ought reasonably  to have been aware that 
she still had a document in safekeeping,  and was paying an annual charge for that, on 
the basis of the December  2011  letter. 
-I didnt think that Miss W (or the estate  that now represents her) was aware, or 
reasonably shouldve been  aware, that Miss W was being charged for the safekeeping 
service, after 10 May 1995, and before  the estate was told by HSBC that it had a 
document in safekeeping for Miss W. The estate only became aware  of this charge in 
July 2018, shortly after Miss Ws death, and the complaint was made promptly  thereafter, 
so well within three years of that date.  
-From  what Id seen, there  were  three  key points to my decision. 
I wasnt persuaded that Miss W was actually aware that she had a document  in 
safekeeping, and that she was paying an annual charge for this, after 1990. 
I thought she should  reasonably have been aware that she was being  charged for the 
safekeeping service on 10 May 1995, so the executors were too late to complain 
about charges  applied  before then.  
But, from 10 May 1995 onwards, my view then was that I didnt think  she was aware, 
or ought reasonably to have been  aware,  that she was still paying for safekeeping, so 
the executors  werent too late to complain about  charges applied  after then.
-I thought, on the evidence  Id seen so far, that the complaint the executors made on 
Miss Ws behalf about charges for safekeeping  she paid after 10 May 1995 was in time. 
-Usually, our service  separates  out decisions on whether we can consider a complaint, 
and decisions on whether the complaint should  be upheld.  We usually  do two separate 
letters about  this. Thats partly  because, usually, those involve separate  issues.
-But I didnt think that was the right approach in this case. Id provisionally decided, on the 
evidence so far, that Miss W wasnt aware,  and shouldnt  reasonably  have been aware, 
after 10 May 1995, that she was still being  charged  for a safekeeping service.  That 
meant that the estates complaint about  charges after this date was in time. But, 
importantly, it also meant that I didnt  think it was fair and reasonable for HSBC to charge 
Miss W for a safekeeping service after this time. And I thought that for the same reason 
that I thought  that this part of the complaint is in time. On what Id seen so far, HSBC  
didnt do enough  to let Miss W know what she was paying  for.
-Because there wasnt really a separate issue to look at here,  to decide if this complaint 
should be upheld,  I said our service wouldnt do two separate letters  to set out if we can 
consider this complaint, and if the complaint should  be upheld. I did both those things. 
-I thought this complaint should  be upheld in part. I thought HSBC should refund  all the 
safekeeping charges  Miss W paid after 10 May 1995.
-The executors  also said that Miss W used  her overdraft from time to time.  They  said she 
wouldve been charged interest on these  safekeeping charges, and sometimes  an 
overdraft fee, because the safekeeping charges were applied  to her account.
Ref: DRN03679686-HSBC said it didnt  have full records going back to 1995, so it presumably couldnt  work 
out exactly what she paid for her overdraft, and why. 
-The executors  said they would accept  a payment of £100,  for interest and charges  that 
may have been applied  to Miss Ws account. I thought  that was a fair and reasonable 
offer for the executors to make, and I said Id also ask HSBC to pay that to the estate.
I invited the parties  to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
The executors wrote  to say that they had no record of a response from HSBC to Miss Ws 
letter of May 1995,  and they agreed with my provisional decision. HSBC sent further 
representations, and more evidence.
my second provisional decision
I reconsidered everything that the estate of Miss W and HSBC have provided.  And, in the 
light of the further  evidence  HSBC  provided,  I changed my mind. So I issued a second 
provisional decision on this complaint  and explained why I no longer proposed to uphold it. 
-HSBC made some  comments about the nature of its safekeeping  service,  and the 
documents it held for Miss W. I didnt find those  helpful in resolving this complaint. HSBC  
asserted that it wouldnt have  put these documents in safekeeping for Miss W, and it 
wouldnt have known  what  was in there.  That didnt seem  entirely  consistent  with 
HSBCs withdrawal of closed-box  safekeeping  in 2016. And HSBC also insisted it had no 
role in arranging  this insurance.  It thought  that wouldve been arranged  separately,  sent 
to Miss W, and she must  then have asked HSBC to keep these documents  for her. But 
that was directly contradicted by the documents themselves, which  clearly  identified the 
predecessor to HSBC  as the agent  for this insurance.
-I still thought it was more likely than not that Miss W didnt know  what  HSBC  was holding 
for her after she took her rings out of safekeeping, and that she probably  didnt  know  it 
was holding anything  at all. But our service  might  not be able to consider this complaint,  
if Miss W ought reasonably to have been aware  of her cause for complaint at the time.  
And HSBC offered  more evidence on that point too.
-Id already decided Miss W ought  reasonably to have been  aware  of charges before 10 
May 1995. And HSBC had refunded the last six years of charges. So it was the time 
between May 1995 and July 2012  that I needed to think about.
-HSBC said Miss W would have received a monthly statement and a separate pre-
notification of charges  and any interest whenever any charges or interest were being 
applied to her account. It said its an industry requirement, that customers  are notified 
about charges  before  theyre applied. HSBC sent us the system information, which it 
said wouldve been sent to Miss W. It said that information was printed onto a statement 
style enclosure which  was attached with her statements. 
-HSBC said it couldnt show  us the actual  additional page  which  would have been sent 
with the statement,  because those were no longer available.  
-But HSBC said it could show us some of the instructions for issuing those extra  pages. 
The instructions  dated back to 2003, and their content was consistent with the other 
evidence we had, including the timing  of the charge on Miss Ws statements. 
Ref: DRN03679687-I thought about  what  HSBC said. It had now shown  us further evidence to support  its 
argument that Miss W wouldve been told each  year that the charge on her statements 
was for a safekeeping service. Although that evidence didnt go all the way back to 1995, 
I thought it was more  likely than not that HSBC  did take appropriate steps each year to 
tell Miss W what this charge was for, by including that information with her statements. 
-HSBC said that raised the issue of whether Miss W had complied with the six year 
deadline (with possible three year extension)  for complaining to our service. I thought it 
was right about that.
-Id previously said our service could consider those charges that were within the last six 
years. And Id said that the estate complained too late for us to consider charges before 
10 May 1995. But Id now reconsidered the time in between.
-The estate complained in July 2018. So, for those charges applied before July 2012, but 
after 10 May 1995, we knew Miss W didnt  complain within  six years of the charges. 
-I previously  thought that our service could consider those, because I thought that Miss W 
wasnt aware, and oughtnt  reasonably  to have been aware, of these charges. 
-But following HSBCs  additional evidence, I now thought differently. 
-I still thought it was more likely that Miss W wasnt actually aware of exactly  what  she 
was paying for. Not everyone reads everything  thats enclosed with monthly statements.
-But if, as I now thought was more likely, HSBC was telling Miss W every year that she 
was paying for safekeeping, I thought Miss W reasonably ought to have been aware of 
what she was being charged for. And that meant that, for charges that were applied  
more than six years before this complaint and after 10 May 1995,  this complaint was 
brought more  than three years  after Miss W ought reasonably to have been aware that 
she had cause for complaint. 
-I could extend  time if HSBC agreed to that. But it hadnt. It doesnt have to.
-And I could extend time if there were exceptional circumstances why Miss W wasnt able 
to bring her complaint within six years of each of those charges. Our rules give 
incapacitation as an example of exceptional circumstances. So the bar on that is set 
quite high by our rules. And the estate hadnt  told us about  anything that might constitute 
exceptional circumstances,  which prevented  Miss W complaining about these charges 
earlier.
-So my revised provisional  decision was that I no longer thought that our service could 
consider the complaint brought on behalf of the late Miss W about charges  applied for a 
safekeeping service more than six years  before this complaint, because this part of Miss 
Ws complaint was brought to our service too late. 
-The estate complained about  these  charges  in July 2018. HSBC  had refunded  all the 
safekeeping charges  that were applied  in the six years before that. I didnt think  that 
HSBC had to do more than that, to provide a fair and reasonable outcome to the part of 
this case that was in time. So I didnt think this complaint should be upheld.
Ref: DRN03679688I invited the parties  to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
HSBC has confirmed it has nothing  more to add. The executors have told us that they 
intended to reply. But they havent done  so, and its now almost a month  since the deadline 
for replies  passed.  In the interests of fairness to both sides,  I think  that this case should now 
be brought to a conclusion. Our service  has informed the executors of this. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I havent changed my mind. So Ill now 
finalise the decision  I proposed in my second  provisional decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that that the estate of Miss W is too late to complain about charges for a 
safekeeping service applied to Miss Ws account on or before July 2012. But the estate is 
not too late to complain  about charges for a safekeeping service  applied to Miss Ws account 
after July 2012.
My final decision is also that the parts of this complaint that are in time, should  not be 
upheld.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the estate of Miss 
W to accept or reject  my decision before  10 October  2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0367968