K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complained because Barclays Bank  UK PLC refused  to refund six transactions on her 
credit card. Mrs H said the transactions  were fraudulent. 
background
This complaint is about Mrs Hs credit card. Credit cards can only be held in a sole name, 
and that persons responsible for any debt and entitled to any credit balance.  But there can 
be an additional cardholder  as an authorised  user. Mrs H had set up her card with her 
husband Mr H as an authorised user. 
The disputed transactions were carried  out on Mr Hs card. They  were  for a total of £7,400, 
and consisted  of six transactions between 4.08 am and 7.44 am on 26 May 2017.
Mrs H complained to Barclays when she found out about the transactions,  saying that theyd  
been carried out on Mr Hs card without his permission. Barclays investigated  and asked Mr 
H to complete a Fraud Declaration form with details.
Mr H told Barclays  that he went out for dinner with an ex-colleague on 25 May, and drank a 
fair bit of alcohol. His ex-colleague then went home, but Mr H met someone else, whom  he 
hadnt known  before.  That person suggested  going on to another venue. Mr H agreed and 
that person took him to a gentlemans club. Mr H paid £65 for drinks  at the club,  which he 
said was the last genuine transaction. That was timed at 3.55 am on 26 May.
Mr H said that when  he left the first venue,  someone  was hanging around outside the 
entrance. This person  asked Mr H if he wanted to go on to another  place. When Mr H 
agreed, the person took him to a nearby car and drove to another  venue. Mr H said this was 
a large house  with a basement. He didnt know the person who drove  him there,  and couldnt 
describe the venue. 
Mr H also told Barclays that he had a credit card in his own name  with another  bank, and 
that too had been used for transactions which he said he hadnt authorised. Mr H said he fell 
asleep and woke  at lunchtime. He believed that the cards had been taken out of his 
possession and used  fraudulently while he was asleep. Mr H said he was unaware 
transactions had been made  until he checked  online the next day. 
Barclays investigated, but refused to refund the money. The transactions  had been carried  
out using the genuine  card.  They  were  verified  using  a signature rather than a PIN, but Mr H 
had confirmed hed been at the venue  when  the transactions  occurred. There were no 
declined transactions,  and no further attempts to use the card.  
As part of its investigation, Barclays got in touch with the other bank, which had issued the 
card in Mr Hs own name. That bank told Barclays that there  had been  six disputed 
transactions totalling £8,240. Theyd taken place at the same location,  but from 9.09 to 12.27  
 in other words,  after Mrs Hs card had last been debited at 7.44 am. That bank also told 
Barclays that in September 2016,  Mr H had made a similar claim but for £2,400.  That too 
had concerned transactions at a gentlemans  club, and on both occasions the other bank 
had refused to refund  Mr Hs money.  
Mrs H complained to Barclays after it refused to refund the money. Barclays final response 
said that the transactions were carried out with the genuine card,  and Mr H had confirmed he 
Ref: DRN07052012was at the venue when  the transactions had been carried out. Hed also said that he couldnt 
remember all the events  of the evening so he couldnt be sure he didnt carry out the 
transactions.
Mrs H wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. She said there were no receipts for 
any of the disputed transactions, and she didnt believe Barclays  had even tried to contact 
the retailer to discuss  the matter.  So she didnt  believe Barclays  had investigated  thoroughly 
enough.
The investigator didnt  uphold Mrs Hs complaint.  She asked Mrs and Mr H for more 
information. Mr H said that the business type was different on each of the transactions,  
and included  art dealers and galleries, services  and business services. He said that he 
thought this was so that a number of transactions could be put through  without being flagged  
 which  he said confirmed  the transactions were fraudulent. He said that he and his wife 
really didnt understand why Barclays hadnt  refunded the money.
The investigator said that because of the time that had passed,  Barclays no longer had a 
copy of the signature  which had been  used on the transactions. But she accepted that the 
payments had been authenticated,  because the banks records at the time showed that the 
genuine chip and signature had been  used. So the investigator went  on to consider whether  
Mr H had authorised  in other words, consented  to  the payments.
The investigator thought that when Mr H went on to the later venue, hed have done so with 
the intention of making a purchase. She didnt think the pattern of transactions  fitted  a typical 
fraud. She thought it was most likely that Mr H had carried  out the disputed transactions  
himself, and possibly  forgot  about them. She said this was supported  by his inconsistent 
recollections of the early  hours of 26 May 2017.
Mrs H didnt agree and said she was disappointed  and upset. She said her husband  hadnt  
authenticated the payments, and nor had he consented to the transactions. She said that 
when Mr H had first phoned Barclays, an adviser  had said they were aware of other 
complaints about  the retailer involved. So Mrs H thought Barclays should have stopped the 
payments. Mrs H said that as the Barclays transactions hadnt been  verified  by PIN, they 
were fraudulent. Mrs H believed that Barclays was using its position  as a corporate  giant, to 
treat an individual customer unfairly.  She said this wasnt acceptable.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant  rules which govern disputed transactions  in 2017 are the Payment Services  
Regulations 2009. In summary,  these say that the consumer is liable for transactions  which  
theyve authorised, and the bank is liable for transactions which  were unauthorised.  So the 
issue is whether a consumer authorised the transactions.
First, I have to look at the technical  part of the transactions, which  is called authentication. 
Thats a procedure by which  the bank verifies  the identity of the payment service user. Here, 
Mr Hs genuine card, with the genuine chip, was used. I recognise that Mrs H believes that 
as the transaction was authenticated by a signature, and not by the PIN, this proves the 
transactions were  fraudulent. But transactions can be authenticated  by a signature. There  
are other ways that transactions  can be authenticated, too  over the phone, using a 
Ref: DRN07052013password, or through a website. Its not the case that only chip and PIN counts as valid 
authentication. And as its a long time ago, its not unreasonable that Barclays  no longer has 
an actual copy of the signatures, but only the notes on its system as recorded  by its 
employee. So I accept  that the six disputed transactions were all authenticated.
Mrs H believes  Barclays should have stopped all transactions  to this particular payment 
recipient, on the grounds that she says an adviser  told her husband there had been other 
complaints about  that organisation. But as the payments had been authenticated,  there was 
no reason for Barclays to have stopped them. In the circumstances here,  I cant see 
anything that means  that Barclays should  have prevented or stopped these payments. They  
wouldve looked like normal transactions that Mr H had agreed to at the time.  Nor have I 
seen any evidence that the recipient organisation had been  acting  illegally. The adviser  may 
have told Mrs H that there had been  complaints about the organisation, but I dont think  that 
means that Barclays had grounds to stop all payments  to it. I think  the adviser was most 
likely trying to be helpful  by telling Mrs H as much  as she could at the time.
The second  part is whether Mr H did or didnt  authorise them   in other words, whether he 
consented to the transactions.  
Mr Hs evidence was that couldnt recall much  of the night, such  as how he got to the club, or 
a description of it. He said hed drunk  a lot of alcohol, and believed he was asleep when his 
card was used without his permission. Mr H didnt report the card lost or stolen, so 
presumably, on his version, the fraudsters also returned the card to the wallet in his jacket.
Ive considered the options for what might have happened. If Mr Hs version is correct, and 
his card was used without  his permission, the pattern of transactions  is very unusual for a 
fraudster. Fraudsters want to get as much money  as they can, and as fast as they can in 
order to maximise their gain before any stop might be put on the card. Here, there was over 
£11,000 on Mrs Hs card, but the total taken was £7,400. I consider a fraudster would have 
taken more, right up to the limit. There would also typically  be a failed transaction when the 
card reached the credit limit and the fraudster couldnt get any more.  That didnt happen 
here.
And the timing doesnt fit, either. The first disputed transaction was at 4.08 am, 13 minutes 
after Mr Hs last undisputed transaction. That doesnt give much  time for Mr H to have met 
the stranger, gone  with him to the other venue,  fallen asleep  and had his card taken. And 
after that first disputed transaction, theres  an irregularity in the timings. There was then a 
gap of 35 minutes to the next transaction,  then another six minutes later.  There was then 
another gap of an hour and 17 minutes, and then 43 minutes after that. These gaps really 
dont fit with what a fraudster would do to maximise their gains. And if Mr H had really  been 
asleep for the whole  time, thered have  been  a risk to the fraudster that hed wake up and 
realise his card was gone. I consider fraudulent transactions would have been much  closer 
together.
This complaint doesnt look at the transactions which Mr H carried out after those  on Mrs Hs 
Barclaycard. But I note that they started  after the transactions  on Mrs Hs card had stopped.  
The last Barclays transaction was at 7.44 am and the first of six on Mr Hs own card was at 
9.09 am. This just doesnt  stack  up with fraudulent use by a third party. If a fraudster at the 
venue had taken Mr Hs wallet  around  when he was asleep, around  4.08 am, its just not 
credible that the fraudster  would have spaced  out the transactions and waited until 9.08 
before starting  on the other card.
Ref: DRN07052014So I consider that much  the most likely  explanation which  fits the patterns of use is that Mr H 
authorised the transactions himself.
Finally, Mr H has argued that as the name of the service received was different on the 
different transactions, this indicates that they were fraudulent. But at the time, Mr H wouldnt 
have seen the computer categorisation which the retailer would have used. And not all 
payment types  are necessarily recorded  accurately by the retailer, as its up to retailers  how 
they process transactions. That in itself doesnt  invalidate the transaction.  Nor does it make it 
fraudulent as the customer could still have authorised the payment for the stated purpose. 
Thats what  I consider  is most likely to have  happened here.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2020. 
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0705201