K821x#15complaint
Mr H has complained about Zurich Insurance  PLC. He isnt happy about the way it dealt 
with a claim under his building  insurance policy and about  the length  of time it took to finalise 
the claim and repair  his property. 
background
Mr H made  a claim under his building insurance policy  in September 2016. His property had 
suffered an escape  of water from the property  above. It took a long time for Zurich to repair 
his property and as Mr H wasnt  happy about this he complained to Zurich. 
Zurich acknowledged  its service could have been better and that it contributed to some  of 
the delays and offered Mr H £500  by way of compensation. But Mr H didnt feel that 
acknowledged the difficulties he faced in being out of his property for around two years and 
the additional delays and problems that Zurichs agents caused.  So he complained  to this 
service. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr H and upheld his complaint. She thought Zurichs 
offer of compensation didnt go far enough  and that it should increase the level of 
compensation by a further £700.  And that it should  pay Mr Hs utility bills and council tax for 
the time he wasnt able to use the property. This was because Zurichs long delays caused  
unnecessary stress and inconvenience for Mr H at a time that he couldnt use his property. 
And that one of the delays  caused  a second leak in the property which  clearly  made  things a 
lot worse. 
As Zurich didnt agree the matter  has been  passed  to me for review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The details of this complaint are well known  to both parties, so I wont repeat  them  again 
here. And I wont go over the finer detail  of the delays as these are well known to both sides  
and have been covered  in detail by our investigator. Instead I will focus  on the key remaining 
issue, whether Zurichs  offer of £500 compensation is sufficient to cover the delay and 
inconvenience caused.
In responding  to our investigators  view Zurich has said its award (£500)  was fair, especially 
as Mr H wasnt living at the property at the time and it feels he contributed to the delays. And 
it says it would happily look at any complaint  about Mr H not being  offered alternative 
accommodation separately. 
But I agree  with our investigator that £500  isnt sufficient compensation for the stress and 
inconvenience Mr H faced. While he did contribute to some of the delays when he didnt  get 
back to Zurichs agents quickly I still dont  think £500  covers  all the additional  stress  he 
faced, especially as I agree that its agents  delay  caused  a further leak at the property and 
additional damage. And obviously that additional  damage added to the whole delay in drying 
out the property  and making good the additional damage.
Ref: DRN02304442So, although  I accept  that a claim like this would  always take a while to put right given the 
nature of work  required  and some delays were  caused by asbestos problems and minor 
delays caused  by Mr H, I think  an additional £700 seems  fair. I say this as even if Mr H 
wasnt living  at the property he had a reasonable expectancy  to be able to get back in and 
use it within a reasonable period of time. And although I can understand that it wasnt  Zurich  
that caused a lot of the delay, but it was its appointed agents and it is responsible for them  
and their impact on the delays in finalising the repairs. 
Plus, Zurich  didnt offer any disturbance allowance and its service was generally poor.  
Although Mr H didnt pay any rent (as he was living with family) he still made contributions to 
bills and general living. I havent seen evidence of it trying to give Mr H meaningful  updates 
and given the significant delay Id expect Zurich to have  done a lot more here. And Mr H said 
that he had to chase Zurichs agents and builders for updates  which must have been 
frustrating. 
I also agree  with the investigator that Zurich should  refund  Mr Hs utility and council tax bills 
as he wasnt able to use the property plus interest in line with our usual approach.  However, 
it may be Mr H is able to get a rebate  from the council if the property wasnt occupied for this 
period and I would  expect  him to address this possibility  first. And as the investigator 
explained this is subject to Mr H providing  reasonable evidence  of the bills and payment.
Finally, I note Mr Hs property and belongings may have  been damaged  by the escape of 
water which wouldnt be covered under this policy. However, Mr H has suggested the delays 
in dealing with the claim meant that his property was damaged further  (by damp and mould)  
both before Zurich  put his property into storage and while  it was in storage. So Mr H declined  
the return of his property when  it was returned  to him. As our investigator  suggested  I would 
expect Zurich to consider  this further if Mr H is able to substantiate  his position when he 
surveys his property.
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I uphold this complaint. I require Zurich 
Insurance PLC to pay Mr H £1200  compensation (total). And to pay his council tax and 
utility bills subject  to reasonable proof and the steps outlined above.  
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2021.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0230444