K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains about how MBNA  Limited allocated his credit card payments.
background
Mr O took out two MBNA credit card promotional  offers at different times with different expiry  
dates. He says that he assumed the payments  he made would be allocated  to the 
promotional offer that ended first but later discovered that MBNA allocated  his payments to 
the first offer. Mr O says it was pointless  taking out the second promotional  offer and that 
MBNA should have  contacted him to tell him that. He says he has transferred the debt to a 
different credit card and that MBNA should pay that transfer fee as well as the fee he paid for 
the second promotional offer.
MBNA says its not made a mistake  and has allocated  the payments in line with the account  
terms and conditions. It says in this type of situation  it allocates payments to the promotional  
offer that was taken out first not the offer that end first. MBNA  says as a gesture of goodwill it 
agreed to refund interest  for one month and waive interest the following month. It also says it 
refunded Mr Os call costs.
Mr O brought his complaint to us but our investigator  didnt  uphold  it and didnt think MBNA 
had made  a mistake  or acted unfairly. The investigator thought  Mr O had agreed to the 
account terms and conditions about this issue and that the account statement also contained 
the same  information.  The investigator thought the information was clearly displayed.
Mr O doesnt accept  that view and says the information shouldnt be hidden away  and that 
MBNA should have  told him not to go through with the second balance  transfer.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator for the same reasons. I realise Mr O will be disappointed by 
my decision.
Ive looked at the account terms and conditions which Im satisfied that Mr O would have 
agreed to when the account was opened  and when he made the balance  transfers. And I 
can see that those  terms and conditions clearly say in which order  MBNA will allocate 
payments- namely to the promotional offer account which  was taken out first. So in those 
circumstances Im satisfied MBNA  didnt  make a mistake by allocating Mr Os payment to the 
promotional offer account that was taken  out first and has acted in line with the account 
terms and conditions. I appreciate that Mr O says he didnt appreciate that and that it was 
pointless making the second transfer.  But I cant  fairly hold MBNA responsible for that as it 
was Mr O that made the online  application without advice from MBNA.
I also dont think it reasonable to have expected  MBNA to have known Mr O had made  a 
mistake or that it should check with its customers in this type of situation if they understood 
the payment allocation.  Im satisfied that not only is information about this issue  clearly  
contained within the account  terms and conditions, it is also recorded clearly  on the account 
statements which I think Mr O had access to.
Overall as Im satisfied that MBNA  hasnt  made  a mistake , acted  unfairly or misled  Mr O, 
then I cant fairly order it to refund any of the fees Mr O would like it to do.
Ref: DRN09786022my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 October  2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0978602