K821x#15complaint
Miss F says Uncle Buck Finance LLP irresponsibly  lent to her.
background
This complaint is about 3 loans Uncle Buck provided to Miss F between March  2014
and May 2014.  The amounts Miss F borrowed ranged between  £100 and £200. Miss F 
rolled over the second loan on one occasion.  Miss F was unable to repay the final loan 
and a balance  is outstanding.
Our adjudicator upheld  Miss Fs complaint in part and thought the loans shouldnt have 
been given as the assumed expenses information that Uncle  Buck used were in excess 
of Miss Fs income and the loans  were not affordable on the figures. Uncle  Buck 
disagreed. It said it used assumed data but this was overstated  and the information in 
Miss Fs credit file was more accurate. It said it checked Miss Fs finances using a 
number of different  models and did not agree  that there was unsustainable borrowing. It 
also said that removing  adverse data from Miss Fs credit  report would give a misleading 
report to future lenders.  As the complaint has not been resolved it has been passed to me 
for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant  rules, guidance and 
good industry practice - on our website.
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should  have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure that 
Miss F could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner. These  checks could take into 
account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment  
amounts and the consumers income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages 
of a lending  relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should  fairly and reasonably  
have done more to establish that any lending  was sustainable for the consumer.  These 
factors include:
 the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make  any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 the higher  the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult  to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
 the greater  the number  and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated  
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,  
unsustainable).
Ref: DRN02029972There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending  itself 
clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Uncle Buck  was required to establish 
whether Miss F could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments 
were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable on this basis  might  be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this 
is the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as 
without having  to borrow to meet the repayments.  And it follows that a lender  should 
realise, or it ought  fairly  and reasonably  to realise,  that a borrower wont be able to make  
their repayments sustainably if theyre  unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence and information  provided in 
this context and what this all means for Miss Fs complaint.
Uncle Buck asked Miss F for information  about  her income and it carried  out credit 
checks. Miss F said she earned £850 and for loans 2 and 3 declared and extra income  of 
£850. Uncle Buck said it used assumed  data for Miss Fs expenses  of £1547.
This assumed information about Miss Fs outgoings  was based on the likely expenses of 
someone who lived in the same area as Miss F. Uncle  Buck  didnt ask Miss F what  her 
actual expenses were  from the information  I can see. 
For all the loans, because of Miss Fs relatively  low income  compared to the assumed 
expenses, I think it wouldve been proportionate  to ask her for more information about her 
actual expenses to ensure she could afford the loan repayments. Although there was some 
information on Miss Fs credit file about her regular commitments it seems to me that if the 
assumed information was unreliable then Uncle Buck needed to do more before lending to 
Miss F.
Miss F also declared  additional income  for loans  2 and 3 which  were exactly  the same 
amount as her normal income. Again, I would have  expected Uncle Buck  to verify this 
additional income. 
Looking at Miss Fs borrowing and repayment  pattern and what shes said about  her 
finances at the time, I think Uncle Buck would have seen that Miss F was not managing 
her money and the lending was unsustainable.
So I think  that Uncle Buck should  not have given Miss F any of the loans on the basis of the 
information it had about Miss Fs likely expenses and in the absence of further  information 
about her actual outgoings.  So I dont think Uncle Buck  did enough to check  whether Miss F 
could afford  the loans.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  all the loans  and Uncle Buck  should put things right.
I think that Miss F shouldnt  have  been  given these  loans so I dont think any negative  
information should be reflected on her credit file and it is fair to remove  this negative 
Ref: DRN02029973information. I dont  agree that this would  give a misleading picture to lenders.  I think it 
would more accurately  reflect the position if Uncle Buck had not given Miss F these loans.
putting things right   what Uncle Buck needs to do
If Uncle Buck has sold the outstanding debts it should buy these back if it is able to do so 
before taking the following  steps.  If Uncle Buck is not able to buy the debts back then it 
should liaise  with the new debt owner to achieve  the results  outlined below.
A) add together  the total of the repayments made  by Miss F towards interest,  fees and 
charges on all upheld  loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything  already 
refunded.
B) calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made  by Miss F which were 
considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss F originally made the payments, to 
the date the complaint is settled.
C) remove  all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld outstanding  loans, 
and treat any repayments made by Miss F as though they had been repayments of the 
principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Miss F having  made  overpayments then 
Uncle Buck  should  refund  these overpayments  with 8% simple  interest* calculated on the 
overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the 
complaint is settled. Uncle Buck should  then refund  the amounts calculated in A and B 
and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated  in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results  in a surplus 
then the surplus  should be paid to Miss F. However  if there  is still an outstanding balance 
then the business should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Miss F. Uncle  
Buck shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made  up of principal it has already written-off.  
E) remove any negative information  about the loans from Miss Fs credit  file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle Buck  
must give Miss F a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or reject my decision before 23 April 2020.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0202997