K822xcomplaint
Mr P complained that Chantler  Kent Investments (Chantler Kent)  failed to instruct  his 
pension plan provider  to make investments following a transfer of funds to his pension  
arrangement. Chantler  Kent accepts it is accountable for Mr Ps complaint and has offered a 
redress solution. Our adjudicator agreed the offer is fair and reasonable but Mr P does not.
background 
Mr P transferred occupational pension scheme benefits to a self-invested personal  pension 
(SIPP) in 2017 on advice  from Chantler  Kent Investments. The transferred sum was left in 
cash in error. 
After the error came to light, Chantler Kent Investments  made a redress  offer.  However Mr P 
did not accept  it and the complaint was referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
An adjudicator considered  Chantler Kent Investments offer and concluded that it was not fair 
for various  reasons. He initially recommended that redress should be calculated using a 
combination of indices;  however, both parties  indicated that they would prefer  the notional 
value of the plan to be calculated based  on the investments recommended. 
Mr P also didnt agree that the ongoing  charges should have been deducted in the redress  
calculation as Chantler Kent Investments hadnt done the work it had charged for. The 
adjudicator explained that, in attempting to put Mr P as close  as possible to the position  he 
would have been in but for the error,  the ongoing charges would need to be reflected in the 
loss calculations.
The notional value  was subsequently calculated by the SIPP  provider. The adjudicator sent 
the calculations  to Mr P for his acceptance.  As he understood that Mr P would qualify for 
higher rate tax relief  on the full sum, he recommended that 40% should be deducted from 
the gross  loss. He explained that, in order for the SIPP to be augmented by the correct sum, 
Mr P would need to cover  20% of the gross loss from his own resources and then claim it 
back via his tax return. 
Mr P did not accept the proposed redress. He considered that it was unfair to expect him to 
cover 20% from his own resources. He pointed out that he would  suffer a loss if he was 
unable to do so. 
As agreement was not reached the matter has been referred to me.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do not propose reciting in detail the submissions made by both parties to this complaint  
because Chantler Kent has accepted  liability for Mr Ps complaint and the only unresolved 
matter is the discrete  issue  of redress.
In determining the appropriate  redress, my aim, as far as is possible, is to put Mr P back in 
the position he would have been  in but for Chantler Kents error.
Ref: DRN04194202Our adjudicator set out what he considered a fair and reasonable redress offer from Chantler 
Kent to Mr P. In summary, he said:
Had the proposed  investments been made, Mr Ps plan would  have been worth  
£34,653.57 more on 14 November 2018. This is the date investments  were  made 
following transfer of servicing  to Mr Ps new adviser. This was later brought  up to date 
using the combination  of indices originally  recommended,  resulting in a gross loss of 
£36,343.92  at the date of calculation.
Mr P has confirmed that:
 his income in tax year 2018/19 was £120,470.46 basic and £45,571 bonus;
 in this tax year he anticipated that contributions totalling £15,121.92  will be made;
 in 2018/19  contributions totalling  £14,443.34 were made.
The annual allowance is £40,000, so Mr P could make a further £24,878.08  gross  
contribution this year without needing carry forward, and Mr P has £25,556.66  unused  
allowance available  from 2018/19. Therefore, based on the figures provided, he should  
have sufficient annual allowance and income to pay the redress into his pension in this 
tax year and receive  tax relief on the full sum.
Mr Ps total income in 2018/19 took him into the additional higher rate tax band. However, 
Mr Ps bonus is not guaranteed. It is possible that his employer and employee 
contributions will account for the income  that falls in that band. On that basis,  the redress 
calculation should  assume that higher rate tax relief will apply.
In order for the pension  plan to be augmented by the correct sum, Chantler Kent need to 
pay Mr P 60% of that sum; Mr P would then pay 80% of the sum to the plan, covering the 
20% difference  from his own resources; this will be grossed up to 100% on receipt.  
Mr P would  then claim back 20% via his tax return.  Our adjudicator  confirmed this is our 
usual approach in this situation.  Ultimately, it will be for Mr P to choose how,  or indeed  
whether, to pay this sum to his pension plan. 
Mr P has objected  on the basis that Chantler  Kent should pay him 80% of the redress  sum 
and that he does not have  the means to fund the 20% necessary to reach 80% of the 
redress sum.
But I agree  with our adjudicator that if Chantler Kent pays Mr P 80%,  it will be grossed up to 
100% on receipt.   Mr P can then claim back 20% (at least) via his tax return.  Therefore, the 
method Mr P suggests  would put him in a better  position than he would have been in if the 
error had not occurred.  Mr Ps pension plan would  have  the correct  value but Mr P will have 
an additional  £7,268.78 based  on the figures  above. 
However, Mr P could alternatively  choose not to make up the difference,  pay the 60% to the 
plan which  would be grossed up, and then claim back 20%tax relief via his tax return. But I 
appreciate this would leave  him bearing a loss.
I understand that either option  seems harsh. Mr P, through no fault of his own, faces either 
having to temporarily  fund, in effect,  a proportion of the redress  owed to him by Chantler 
Kent or alternatively, receive redress significantly less than the gross  sum as calculated.
Ref: DRN04194203But our intention is to the get Mr Ps pension into the right position. The plan provider must 
treat the redress as a relievable contribution and so the payment has to account  for tax 
relief. If we only account for basic rate relief, that would not be consistent with Mr Ps tax 
status. So in this case, we have to account  for higher rate relief  as well. 
I agree  with our adjudicator that it is the net sum,  60% of the redress, which must be paid to 
Mr P. This means that in order to augment  the plan by the correct amount, Mr P would 
need to temporarily  cover  20% of the gross redress sum from his own resources. 
I understand why Mr P is aggrieved  by this but unfortunately, there is no alternative  way of 
putting Mr Ps pension, as far as is possible,  back into the position  it would have  been  in, 
which is our overriding obligation  in determining redress. 
In summary,  I am persuaded  Chantler  Kents offer is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of this complaint. I should add that in these circumstances, it is an uphold  
under our rules even  though I agree  with its offer and our adjudicators explanation of it.
Chantler Kent Investments must calculate  redress on the same basis as it arrived at the loss 
of £36,343.92 but updated  to the date of my decision. It must then pay that sum to Mr P after 
allowing for income tax as explained  above.  
If redress remains unpaid 28 days after the date of my decision, then simple interest at 8% 
per annum  will accrue from that date on any outstanding balance. 
It must also pay Mr P £300  for the trouble this matter has caused  him.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  
Chantler Kent Investments must redress Mr P as I have  set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.                                                       . 
Terry Connor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0419420