K820x#14complaint
Mr Cs complaint is about the handling  of two claims made under the home  emergency  and
buildings sections of his home  insurance policy with U K Insurance  Limited  (UKI).
background
I issued a provisional decision in this matter  last month, setting out the background and 
issues that have  arisen  and my provisional findings. I have copied part of that provisional 
decision below: 
On 14 January  2018, Mr C reported a water  leak at his property to UKI who arranged for 
one of its claims-handling agents to respond. He was told that a contractor would attend 
within four hours and so he says he cancelled an independent contractor he had already 
called out to deal with the leak.
However, UKIs contractor  was unable to attend and so it arranged  for another  contractor to
attend the next day. Damage was done to the home and so a separate claim was made
under the buildings  insurance in relation to that damage.  Mr C says he was not advised to
isolate the water pipes  so that the leak would stop while  waiting for repairs and this caused
more damage to his property.
Mr C is very unhappy with the way the claim was handled and has asked that UKI reimburse
the home insurance excess he was required to pay and pay him compensation. Mr C is also
unhappy that UKI used agents to deal with his home insurance claim: they did not deal with
matters properly and failed to communicate  with him. Mr C also says that UKI and/or the
agents wrongly shared his personal  details with others by wrongly addressing  emails  and
letters meant for him. He is also unhappy  with the amount  he was offered as cash  in lieu of
repairs settlement, which he asked for instead of UKI repairing,  as he says he had by then
lost confidence  in the contractors. Mr C says he had 5 weeks of hell and repairs  yet to be
carried out.
UKI doesnt accept  that all the damage caused  by the leak was due to its delay in attending.
It says the leak had been noticed around four hours before it was first contacted  and so
some damage would have occurred  anyway. Mr C was under a duty to mitigate  any losses
including by isolating the leak, even if this had not been discussed  with him; and it may not
have been possible  to fix the leak on that first attendance anyway. UKI offered Mr C £100
compensation for the handling  of the buildings  insurance claim.
One of our adjudicators looked  into the matter. He initially recommended  that UKI pay
compensation of £200. However,  he was then made  aware  that UKI had also already paid
Mr C £325 in total, made up of £150 compensation and £175 towards the cost of the repairs,
in relation to the handling of the home emergency  insurance claim. The adjudicator said he
thought this was reasonable.
Mr C didnt agree and so the matter has been  referred to me. Mr C asked  for a further £100.
Mr C has also said that the adjudicator  and this service is biased in favour of UKI.
It is clear that Mr C is unhappy with the handling  of both claims. I intend to respond  in
relation to both claims and as they are both against the same  insurer  and the claims are
related, I will do so in this same decision. If either  party  has any comment  to make  about
this, they can do so in response to this provisional decision.
Ref: DRN09777912UKI has also offered  £100 compensation in relation to the handling of the buildings
insurance claim. Therefore the total offer from UKI is £425 (£150 compensation for the home
emergency claim, £100 for the buildings insurance  claim  and £175 towards the cost of
repairs).
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The home insurance claim was settled  but an excess of £350 charged. There is no
convincing evidence that the home insurance claim was required solely  due to the delay in
UKI attending to the home emergency claim. The water leak happened and had been
ongoing for at least four hours before UKI was notified apparently and so there would  have
been some  damage  caused by the water that was leaking  even if UKI had attended  when it
first said it would.  There was a delay in attending  and some  other  problems with the handling
of the claim. This will have caused  some inconvenience and frustration. However, the leak
was repaired the day after it was reported. I therefore consider that the payment towards  this
damage of £175  (i.e. half the excess)  is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
Having taken account of all that has happened, I agree  that £150 compensation is
reasonable for the failure  to attend on the day the claim  was reported.
I understand Mr C was initially unhappy  with the cash in lieu amount offered in relation to the
buildings claim,  as he says it was at odds with the amounts discussed during a site visit, but
he subsequently agreed to it. I understand this was because the claims assessor had not
apparently made clear  to Mr C that the policy excess would be deducted  from the amount
discussed on site. I also note UKI told Mr C that if the repairs  cost more  than the amount
offered then he could  revert to it and it would consider the additional  costs.  This is
reasonable. Theres no evidence as far as I am aware that the settlement was inadequate to
cover the cost of the claim, or that Mr C paid VAT which he has not had reimbursed.
Mr C is also unhappy with the time taken to get to that stage but there will always  inevitably
be a period of assessment and discussion about  such claims. I can see Mr C says he didnt
receive the statement of works, as it was sent to the wrong address, but this did not cause
any significant delay.  I can, however, understand Mr Cs concern about a personal letter to
him from UKI going  to his neighbour  instead.  However, although I can consider the effect
this may have had on Mr Cs claim and experience, we do not deal with data protection
breaches. Complaints  about how a business  deals with personal data should be addressed
to the Information  Commissioners Office.
The claim was settled  within a few weeks and this is not unreasonable having regard to all
the circumstances. As I am not persuaded that the claim was entirely due to UKIs  delay in
attending the initial call out, I am not persuaded that it is responsible  for compensating Mr C
for all the time taken  for the buildings claim to be finalised and those repairs carried out.
Overall, having considered everything, I consider the £100  already offered for the handling of
this claim is reasonable.
Mr C was also unhappy that UKI uses agents to deal with claims on its behalf. While Mr C
might have found this frustrating, it is not unusual. Insurers are entitled to decide  whether it
Ref: DRN09777913wants to delegate  aspects of its service  and I have no power over any such business model
decisions. UKI is ultimately responsible  for everything that any such agent does or says on
its behalf, which is why it is liable for the compensation deemed appropriate for the handling
of Mr Cs claim.
my provisional decision
I do not uphold  this complaint, as I consider that U K Insurance  Limited has already made an
offer of compensation that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint.
responses to my provisional  decision
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional  decision with any further information or 
arguments they want considered. 
Mr C has responded and confirmed he does not accept my provisional decision and is very 
unhappy with it. Mr C has said we are not impartial  and are funded by UKI. He said he 
intended to pursue this matter in court.  
UKI has not responded. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Mr C has confirmed he does not accept  my provisional  decision, he has not 
provided any new information or arguments for me to consider. 
Given this, I do not see any reason to change my provisional findings and my opinion 
remains that it has not been established  that the delay in attending the initial  call out was  
the sole reason  for the buildings  claim having to be made.  I also therefore remain  of the 
opinion that the total offer of £425 compensation (i.e. £150 for not coming out the same  day 
the leak was reported together with £175 towards  the buildings insurance excess, and £100 
compensation for the handling  of the buildings  claim) is reasonable in all the circumstances 
of this case. 
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint, as I consider that U K Insurance  Limited has already made an
offer of compensation that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or
reject my decision  before 13 December  2019.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0977791