K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that he felt pressurised into enrolling on a course and entering into an 
agreement with TTR PT Limited. He says he tried to cancel the agreement within the cooling 
off period but felt pressurised not to. He also feels he wasnt  given any tutor support.
background
In March 2017 Mr S enrolled on an online e-learning software  development course and 
entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with TTR.  The loan amount was £2995  payable by 
36 monthly instalments  of £83.19.
The course began in March 2017  and ran for one year meaning  Mr S had to complete the 
course by March 2018.
Mr S says he felt pressurised into enrolling on the course and that he struggled because  he 
lacked basic knowledge.  He said he tried to get help from the tutor who had been assigned 
to him but didnt  receive any.
Family circumstances meant that Mr S had to return to Portugal  in August 2017 and didnt 
return to the UK until January 2018.
In January 2018 Mr S contacted TTR and asked to cancel the course  and the loan 
agreement. The course leader advised  Mr S that it wasnt  possible to cancel but offered to 
extend the course to September 2018 so that Mr S could  catch  up. Mr S says he didnt want 
to do this.
Mr S says there was a lack of support from his tutor. He also says that his extended  absence  
abroad meant that he didnt complete any modules. He wants  the loan written  off.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said there was no information to suggest 
that Mr S had been pressurised  into enrolling  onto the course and entering into the 
agreement, nor was there any information to suggest that Mr S had asked to cancel within 
the cooling off period.  The investigator found  information  to suggest that Mr S had made  
contact with the tutor assigned to him but had not expressed any dissatisfaction  with the 
course at any time. The investigator felt that TTR had responded reasonably to Mr Ss family 
circumstances by extending the course  free of charge.
Mr S didnt agree. He said he was mis-led into enrolling onto the course and that he received 
no support from his tutor. He said he had called  to cancel within  the cooling off period but 
couldnt evidence  this because he had changed  mobile providers and didnt have any call 
records. Mr S said he didnt think  it was fair that he should have to pay for a course which  he 
didnt do.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has said that he felt pressurised into enrolling on the course. Ive listened to the calls 
which took place  between Mr S and TTR at the time he enrolled. The impression I get from 
these calls is that both the course and the loan were discussed in detail  with Mr S and he 
Ref: DRN07059262seemed very positive  about starting the course.  I cant say that I heard anything  during the 
calls which suggested that Mr S was pressurised into enrolling.
The 14 day cooling  off period ran from 29 March 2017. Mr S says he called to cancel the 
course. Ive reviewed TTRs system notes but theres no record  of any calls from Mr S during 
the cooling off period.  Mr S hasnt been able to provide any evidence that he called TTR 
during the cooling off period. Because of this I cant safely conclude  that Mr S tried to cancel 
the agreement  during  the cooling off period.
Mr S has complained about a lack of support from his tutor.  I can see that Mr S had contact 
with his tutor in June 2017. Mr S hadnt yet started the course  by this stage and explained to 
his tutor that he was busy with work. The tutor reminded Mr S that he had to complete the 
course by March 2018. I cant see any information  to suggest that Mr S asked his tutor for 
help at this time and its difficult to see what help Mr S would have asked for given that he 
hadnt yet started  the course. In addition, theres no information to suggest  that Mr S was 
unhappy with the course.  If he was, I would have  expected him to say something to his tutor 
about this. Similarly, if Mr S had intended to cancel the course, I would have expected  him to 
mention this to his tutor. Theres nothing in the conversation  between  Mr S and his tutor to 
suggest that Mr S tried to cancel or had any issues with the course  or the level of tutor 
support.
Mr Ss first loan payment fell due on 1 August  2017 and I can see that TTR contacted him 
shortly before this. Ive listened to the call and theres nothing  to suggest that Mr S was 
unhappy with the course  or with the level of tutor support.
I appreciate that Mr Ss family  circumstances  meant  that he was unable to progress with the 
course between September 2017 and January  2018. When Mr S contacted TTR in January 
2018 and tried to cancel  the course, he said that this was because he didnt  have enough 
time to complete  it. He also mentioned a lack of tutor support.
For the reasons  Ive already explained I dont think there was an issue  with tutor support.  Its 
correct that there was very little communication between  Mr S and his tutor but this was due 
to the fact that Mr S hadnt started the course  when he first spoke  to his tutor and 
subsequently returned to Portugal. I agree with Mr S that by the time he returned to the UK 
he was left with only a very short  time in which to complete the course.  But this wasnt as a 
result of anything TTR had done so I cant fairly  hold TTR responsible.
I understand that Mr S wanted to cancel the course  rather than extend it. But the cooling off 
period had expired by the time Mr S asked to cancel so there  was no obligation on TTR to 
end the agreement. Given the circumstances of Mr Ss absence from the UK I think  TTR 
responded sympathetically by offering to extend  the course free of charge. Im satisfied that 
this extra  time would have given Mr S the opportunity to catch up. I can also see that a new 
tutor made contact  with Mr S in January  2018 and gave him advice on how best to proceed 
with the course.
Taking all of the available information  into account  Im unable  to say that TTR has done  
anything wrong  and I wont be asking it to write off the loan.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
Ref: DRN07059263Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0705926