K820x#14complaint
R complains that Marks & Spencer Financial Services  plc (trading as M&S Bank)  didnt close  
an account and wrongly reported  information to credit reference agencies.  
background
In 2016 R decided he no longer wanted  his M&S Bank credit card account  so he destroyed  
cards associated with the account and sent them  back. M&S issued new cards in 2018  and 
R destroyed and returned those as well. Later that year M&S Bank contacted  R to say it 
intended to close  the account  because it hadnt  been used  for some time.
R says M&S Bank should have closed the account  in 2016 when he first sent the cards 
back. And it was wrong to report information  about the account to credit  reference agencies 
(CRAs) after that. He thinks this adversely affected  his credit rating. And he wants  M&S 
Bank to get a report from all CRAs confirming it hasnt reported any incorrect or adverse 
information. 
M&S Bank told R it hasnt  done so but it couldnt supply the report he wanted as that would 
breach data protection legislation. And R says hes had to write numerous letters to ensure 
that no adverse  information was recorded in his credit file. He thinks one CRA  (that Ill call N) 
is showing his name incorrectly  and he wants M&S  Bank to put that right. Hes been upset 
and inconvenienced and he thinks M&S Bank  should pay compensation accordingly.    
 
M&S Bank says it would usually only close an account if a customer asked for this to be 
done specifically  and R didnt do so until 2018.  It wrote to him then and apologised for any 
misunderstanding. The account was closed and M&S  Bank paid R £50 for distress and 
inconvenience. 
M&S Bank has confirmed  no adverse information was recorded about the account. And, 
whilst it doesnt report directly to N, M&S  Bank says it hasnt recorded Rs name incorrectly  
with any CRA. The bank doesnt think it should  have to do anything  further.   
Our investigator accepts  the correspondence  R sent M&S Bank didnt say the account 
should be closed  specifically. He thinks M&S Bank  could have perhaps queried  Rs 
intentions sooner. And he acknowledges  R experienced  some distress and inconvenience. 
But hes not persuaded that M&S Bank  reported  incorrect information to CRAs. He considers 
the £50 M&S Bank paid R is fair compensation overall and doesnt recommend  it should 
have to do more.   
R doesnt think this is fair. He feels he should receive more compensation and be paid for 
the time he had to spend sorting  things out. He refers to the Litigants in Person (Costs and 
Expenses) Act 1975 and asked for an ombudsman to review the matter.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have come to much  the same  
conclusions as our investigator  for broadly the same  reasons. 
Ref: DRN09316162Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach 
my decision  on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened  in the light of the available evidence and the wider  circumstances. 
I understand R felt hed made it clear  enough to M&S Bank  that he no longer wanted this 
account when  he destroyed and returned  the relevant cards in 2016. I have seen the 
correspondence R sent at the time and I agree  it didnt instruct the bank to close  the account 
specifically. 
Im satisfied M&S Bank did close the account  in 2018 - when it became clear this is what R 
wanted. The bank  acknowledged then it could have  handled things better. It apologised for 
any confusion and paid R £50 compensation for his distress and inconvenience.  I think  that 
sounds fair, in these  circumstances.  
I appreciate R remains unhappy - with the way M&S  Bank reported information  on his credit  
file in particular.  And I accept financial  businesses  must report information  accurately to 
CRAs. M&S  Bank has sent us screen  shots of the information it recorded  about this account.  
Having considered this, I cant  see any sign that M&S Bank recorded Rs name in the way 
he says it appears in Ns records. And theres  nothing to suggest that M&S Bank recorded 
adverse or inaccurate information about this account. 
I realise R would  like M&S Bank to provide a report from all CRAs to confirm this. But I dont 
think its possible for M&S Bank to provide such a report  - in the way that R would like. And I 
cant reasonably  require it to do so.  
R doesnt say hes experienced any financial loss in particular as a direct result  of a mistake  
that M&S  Bank made. And I havent seen anything to suggest thats the case.   But, I 
appreciate R thinks M&S Bank should  pay him more compensation - in light of the time hes 
spent on this matter  especially. 
R asked us to consider  the Litigants  in Person (Costs and Expenses) Act 1975.  I understand 
he is a legal professional and I can see hes asked  M&S Bank to pay up to £10,000 for his 
time and other costs in the past.  Im satisfied this legislation relates to the recovery  of costs 
in civil proceedings in courts and tribunals.  And I dont think  its relevant here. 
We offer informal, dispute resolution  as an alternative to the courts. Its not necessary to 
have legal knowledge (or assistance from someone legally qualified) in order to bring a 
complaint to this service.  And I am not persuaded I can fairly order M&S Bank to pay R for 
his time or other costs, in this situation.
Taking everything into account,  I am not satisfied there are fair and reasonable grounds to 
find that M&S Bank  should  pay more compensation or do anything further in response  to this 
complaint. I realise  this decision is likely  to come as a disappointment to R. But hes not 
obliged to accept  what Ive said, in which case it remains open to R to pursue the matter by 
any other means available.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my decision is I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 May 2019.
Ref: DRN09316163Claire Jackson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0931616