K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) 
alongside a credit card in 1998. 
background
Our adjudicator didnt  think this complaint should be upheld. Through his representatives, 
Mr P disagreed with that view. He said that hed had another  PPI claim that was upheld  and 
the terms and conditions were the same. 
As Mr P didnt agree  with our adjudicator,  the matter has been passed to me to make  a final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case.  
Ive thought carefully about everything Mr P told us. But I havent  upheld his complaint.  Ill 
explain why below. 
Mr P told us he bought  PPI during  a meeting with Lloyds. I cant know what  was said during 
that meeting,  so to help me decide whats likely to have happened,  Ive looked at what Mr P 
told us about it. And Ive also looked at the paperwork thats available  from the time. 
The first thing Ive considered is whether  Mr P would have known PPI was optional and he 
didnt have to buy it if he didnt want it. I can see that Mr P said Lloyds told him he had to buy 
the PPI as a condition of the credit  card. I dont doubt that what  Mr P told us is what  he 
honestly remembers about the sale. But I also know its difficult to remember precisely what 
happened over 20 years ago, which is when this policy was sold. 
I can see from the application form that in order for PPI to be added,  a box had to be ticked  
to say that Mr P wanted a policy. And I can see that it was ticked. I can also see that a 
number of Mr Ps personal  details  were completed on that form. So even  if Mr P didnt 
complete it himself, I think there must  have  been a discussion  between  him and the Lloyds  
representative. Thats because the Lloyds representative wouldnt have known the answer  to 
those questions without  some input from Mr P. 
I can see that other financial products offered at the same time were  declined on that 
application form. And that suggests there was probably a discussion about which products 
were right for Mr P. So if hed known he could refuse other policies, I think hed have 
probably known  the PPI was optional and he didnt have to buy it if he didnt  want  it. 
Ive treated this as an advised sale, so Lloyds  had to make sure the PPI was suitable for Mr 
Ps needs. To help me decide whether it was a suitable policy, Ive looked at what we know  
about the terms and conditions  of the policy. And Ive also thought about what he told us 
about his personal  circumstances at that time. 
Ref: DRN09095292I can see that if hed had to make  a claim on this policy, 10% of Mr Ps credit card balance  
would have been paid for every month he couldnt work because  he was unwell or if he lost 
his job up to a maximum  of 12 months  for each  claim. Mr P told us that if hed been unwell, 
hed have received less than three  months  sick pay from his employer. Mr P also told us that 
he didnt have any other means of making  his credit card repayments  if couldnt work. So I 
think the cover would have paid out for longer  than the means he already had in place. 
Mr P told us he was in good health  when he bought the PPI. So I dont think he would have 
been affected by any of the policys exclusions about medical conditions. I havent  seen 
anything unusual about his employment  circumstances that would have stopped him from 
making a successful claim if he needed to.  
With all of this in mind, I think the PPI probably  was suitable for him.
Even so, Lloyds still had to give Mr P enough  information about the PPI so he could decide 
for himself whether it was a good  fit for his needs.  I accept it is possible that Lloyds didnt tell 
him everything it should have done. But Ive set out above how I think  PPI could have been  
helpful to Mr P if he was out of work. And although I appreciate he doesnt now remember, I 
think he probably chose  to buy PPI at the time. Overall, I dont think  hed have acted 
differently if hed been given more or better  information about the cover.  
I know that Mr P thought  his complaint should  be upheld because  hed had compensation  
from a similar complaint.  I dont know the circumstances  of that complaint and so I cant 
comment on how the circumstances in this matter compare. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr P, but for the reasons Ive set out above, I havent upheld  the 
complaint. I dont need to tell Lloyds Bank PLC to do anything more.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about Lloyds Bank PLC and I dont require it to take any further 
action. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2019. 
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0909529