K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS), trading as Halifax, mis-sold him a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2003.  The policy was added  to 
Mr Ws credit card account when he applied for the card.  
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr W disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaints been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ws case. Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
reasons that Ill now explain.
Mr W says he thinks  he was sold the PPI over the phone. But BoS says that the sale took 
place in one of its branches  and I think this is more likely to have been  the case. BoS has 
provided a copy of Mr Ws credit card application form. It includes an option to put a cross  in 
a box provided on the form if PPI protection is required. I can see that a pre-printed X is 
shown in this box. And I dont think its likely that the BoS representative Mr W spoke to 
would have selected this option  if they hadnt  first discussed PPI and obtained Mr Ws 
agreement to take it. But if they had done so, I think Mr W would have been likely to query  
this before signing the application form. 
I can also see from Mr Ws monthly  credit card statements that the PPI was shown as being 
charged on his account. And if hed not wanted or agreed to PPI, I think  he would have 
probably asked  why these charges were being made.
So on the evidence  available  to me, I think its most  likely that Mr W actively  decided to take 
out this cover knowing he had a choice. But I can understand why he may not remember  this 
now, as this sale took place a long time ago.
BoS says it recommended the PPI to Mr W. And from what  I know about such  branch sales,  
I think that this is likely to have been  the case.  This means BoS had to check that it was 
suitable for him. I dont know how it did this. But from what  I know  of his circumstances at the 
time, I cant see any reason why the policy wouldnt have been  suitable. I say this because:
He appears to have  been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations.
Ref: DRN06665632Mr W says he didnt need  the PPI cover  because he was entitled to sick pay and had 
other means of making his card repayments  if he couldnt work. But the PPI would 
have paid out in addition  to these other  means and, potentially, for longer  than these 
would have lasted.  It would have paid out for up to twelve months  if Mr W wasnt able 
to work because of an accident, sickness or unemployment. So I still think  he would 
have valued the extra security that the policy  gave him.
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for him. And as it was paid for 
monthly, he could have cancelled the policy if it no longer met his needs.
BoS also needed to give Mr W enough information for him to decide if he wanted to buy the 
PPI. I think  that the information it provided could  have  been better. But for much  the same 
reasons that I dont  think the policy was unsuitable,  I dont  think  better information would 
have changed  his mind about  buying it. I think he would have still thought  it gave useful 
cover at an affordable  price and decided to take it.
Ive thought about what Mr W has said in response  to our adjudicators view. But this hasnt 
changed my mind about not upholding his complaint.
Which means BoS doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But BOS  has already offered to give Mr W back some  of the cost of the PPI. I understand 
BOS has paid this offer to Mr W. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0666563