K820x#14complaint
Mr Ws complaint  against Bank  of Ireland (UK) Plc (BOI)  is that it provided him with poor 
service in respect of a credit card account he holds with it.
background
Mr W opened an AA card account with BOI in November 2016.  In January 2019, he 
complained to BOI. He was unhappy  with two issues:-
1.He was being charged a monthly  account  management fee - £42 annually
2.When he called to query non-Sterling transactions he was mis-advised
BOI responded to his complaint, confirming that the account fee of £42 per year was 
included in Mr Ws terms and conditions when  he opened the account,  and had been  
charged at £3.50  per month since December 2017  - when his 12-months free offer expired. 
It also explained that the non-Sterling fees were in respect of foreign currency transactions  
either abroad, online, or over the phone.  And again,  it pointed  out to the terms and 
conditions that allowed  it to do this.
Mr W remained unhappy, and brought his complaint to our service. By this time he was also 
complaining that he hadnt received a voucher for a free MOT, as his account  entitled him to.
Our Investigator  looked  into matters, and concluded  that BOI had already dealt with Mr Ws 
complaint fairly. So he wouldnt  be upholding it. Mr W was also advised that the MOT  point 
was being dealt with as a separate complaint.
Mr W submitted  further information  in appeal of this decision, and our Investigator spoke with 
BOI, and updated his view. Once  again  saying he thought BOI had already resolved Mr Ws 
complaint fairly and reasonably. 
Mr W still didnt  agree, and asked for an ombudsmans review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im in agreement with our Investigator that I cant uphold  this complaint. 
In order to do so Id need to see evidence of mistakes, or unfair treatment by BOI. Id then 
need to consider the impact on Mr W, and decide  if I felt any compensation was appropriate. 
But I dont think BOIs  made  a mistake, and I dont think Mr Ds been treated poorly. I 
appreciate he feels  the service hes received  has been below the standard he could expect.  
But Im not persuaded it was.
Mr Ws unhappy with the £3.50 per month  account  fee hes paying for his card.  But Im 
satisfied the charging  o this fee was clearly explained in the terms and conditions, and that 
BOIs entitled to charge it. I understand that Mr Ws specific  point is that he doesnt  feel his 
account is being managed  hence there shouldnt be a charge for it. But I dont  have the 
evidence to agree with this point. Just because Mr W didnt get the correct answer straight 
Ref: DRN01898302away on the non-Sterling fees point, doesnt  indicate  to me that nobodys in control  or, or 
looking after,  his account. BOI is contractually  allowed to charge this fee, and Mr W agreed  
to it when he opened his account.
In respect of the non-Sterling fees he paid, and queried, Im satisfied that BOI was able to 
correctly explain how these came  about.  Its shown where they were applied, and why. 
Admittedly, its first answer was that Mr W must  have used his card abroad   as that will be 
the most  common reason for such a fee to be incurred - wasnt correct  in Mr Ws case. 
However, on further discussion with Mr D, and on checking his account in more detail, it was 
quickly ascertained  that these were in respect of purchases on foreign websites, using his 
card. Hence the payments were  made  in foreign  currencies. 
I dont think Mr W suffered a significant  impact  in initially being given incorrect information,  
and Im satisfied this was remedied  very quickly.
In respect of the MOT  voucher, this is being  dealt with separately between the parties, and 
doesnt form part of this complaint. 
My role is to evaluate the evidence, and reach an outcome thats fair to both parties. And I 
hope Ive explained why I dont think it would be fair to ask BOI to do anything else to resolve 
this complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2020. 
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0189830