K821x#15complaint
Miss B says Financial Insurance  Company  Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about a store card PPI policy Miss B took out in 2000.  It was added  to her 
account when  she applied for the card.
Its been agreed in this case  that FICL, as the insurer, should  accept  responsibility  for the 
complaint. To keep  things simple, Ill only refer to FICL in this decision.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL didnt accept the adjudicators  opinion  so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss B told us she was employed on a temporary  basis when she took out the PPI, and she 
has been consistent in her testimony.  FICL said Miss B told it she was employed at the time 
of the sale. But I dont think this means  Miss B wasnt employed on a temporary basis.  In 
addition to this the application  form Miss B completed when she took the policy  doesnt  
confirm her employment status.
Miss B has told us she was on a rolling contract  and if work  slowed down  she wouldnt be 
required to work and would then be contacted again  if work was available.
As I am persuaded  Miss B was working  on a temporary basis Ive looked at whether she was 
eligible to claim under the terms of the policy sold to her.
Given what we know about the terms and conditions  of policies  sold by FICL  around the time 
the policy was sold to Miss B and what she a has told us about her employment I think  she 
would have found it difficult to claim on the policy for unemployment. Had the terms and 
conditions been  made clearer to Miss B I dont think she would have taken out the policy.
And because of what FICL did wrong,  I think Miss B has lost out.
putting things right
FICL should put Miss B in the financial position  shed  be in now if she hadnt  taken out PPI.
A. FICL should find out how much  Miss B would have  owed when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Miss B owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI. If Miss B made a successful 
Ref: DRN09416812claim under the PPI policy,  FICL  can take off what she got for the claim from the amount it 
owes her.
B. FICL should add simple interest  on the difference  between  what  Miss B would have owed 
when he closed her account from when she closed  it until she gets the refund. The interest 
rate should  be 8% a year.
C. If  when FICL works  out what Miss B would have  owed each  month without PPI  Miss B 
paid more than enough to clear  her balance, FICL should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Miss B paid. And it should  carry on paying interest until the point when Miss B wouldve 
owed FICL  something  on her store card. The interest  rate should be 8% a year. 
D. FICL  should tell Miss B what its done  to work out A, B and C. 
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give 
Miss B a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Miss B that relates  to this PPI 
sale, that sum can be deducted by FICL  from the redress shown above.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Miss Bs complaint.
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 October  2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0941681