K820x#14complaint
Mrs W says Nationwide Building  Society mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance  
(PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1993. 
The policy would have covered Mrs Ws monthly mortgage payments if shed been off sick, 
or if shed  lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ws case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ws complaint. Ill explain  why.
Nationwide  no longer has any of the documents Mrs W signed  when  she took out the 
mortgage. I dont  think thats surprising or unreasonable,  given the time thats passed. 
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive I need to decide what I thinks  most 
likely to have happened, based  on the information I have.
Mrs W feels  strongly  that she didnt agree to take out PPI cover. Shes explained  that 
she thought that she was simply signing  for an endowment  mortgage, which would pay 
her a lump sum at the end of the mortgage term. She says she had no idea shed taken 
out PPI. And shes mentioned that she bought  a new car shortly after she took the 
mortgage out. She remembers  that she was offered  insurance against sickness and 
unemployment then.  But the seller of the car explained  everything  clearly to her, and 
she was able to make an informed decision that she didnt need the insurance. She 
says that if Nationwide had explained  things clearly, shed  have decided  against the 
PPI for similar reasons.
Nationwide  has explained that with the type of mortgage that Mrs W took out, PPI was 
provided free of charge  for the first 12 months.  Ive thought  carefully about whether it 
would have  been clear to Mrs W that the PPI was a separate  product from the 
mortgage. Nationwides provided  a sample  annual mortgage statement from December 
1993. Im satisfied that its likely  that the mortgage statement that Mrs W would have 
received was in a similar format. It shows the PPI as a separate item. And Nationwide 
says Mrs W would have been sent a policy document  for the PPI. I have no reason to 
think that its likely that it didnt follow its normal procedures  in Mrs Ws case. 
Overall, taking everything into account,  I think its more likely  than not that at the time 
Mrs W realised that she was taking out PPI with the mortgage. She had a choice about 
whether to take out that particular mortgage,  which included the free PPI. And she 
could have  cancelled  the policy if she didnt want to start paying for it once the free 
period was over.
Ref: DRN09435002Nationwide  didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs W so it didnt have to check  if it was 
suitable for her. But it needed to provide  clear  enough information for Mrs W to decide 
for herself  whether she wished to take the cover 
Mrs Ws told us that shed have been  entitled  to between 6 and 12 months pay from 
her employer  at the time if shed been off sick, or if shed lost her job. But if shed 
made a successful claim on the policy, it would have covered  her monthly mortgage 
payments for up to 24 months, after a 90-day  waiting  period. Thats significantly 
longer than shed  have  been  entitled to payments from her employer for. And aside 
from the payments from her employer, Mrs Ws told us she didnt have  any other 
means she could have used to make her monthly mortgage payments if shed been 
unable to work.  Ive also borne  in mind  that the PPI policy  would have paid out in 
addition to any payments  Mrs W received from her employer. So she could have used 
those to meet other day-to-day  expenses.
Taking everything  into account, I think that the policy could  have been  useful to Mrs W. 
The mortgage was a long-term financial commitment,  secured on her property. And 
given her circumstances at the time,  I think its likely  that shed have wanted to take 
advantage of the peace of mind  that the policy would have offered her  especially 
taking into account  the fact that it was free for the first 12 months.
It may be that Nationwide could have explained how much  policy  would cost better than 
it did. But Ive seen  nothing to suggest that Mrs W couldnt afford  the premiums that 
became payable once the free period  ended. So even if Nationwide  had provided better 
information about the cost of the policy, I think Mrs W would still have bought  it.
Its possible Nationwide didnt point  out the main things the policy didnt cover.  But 
based on what  shes told us about  her circumstances  at the time, its unlikely Mrs W 
would have  been affected  by any of these.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs W. I realise that she feels strongly  that she wasnt  told about the 
PPI. I dont doubt that shes  given us her honest  recollection. But its more  than 25 years since 
she took out the mortgage, and I couldnt expect Mrs W to remember  in detail  what was said in 
a meeting so long ago. Taking  everything  into account, I dont think  the PPI was mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0943500