K822xcomplaint
Mr H complains about Barclays  Bank UK PLC exchanging €6,000  into Sterling without 
asking him and that he couldve  got a better rate elsewhere.
background 
Mr H says he went into a Barclays branch as he was thinking about exchanging €6,000 
cash into Sterling. He says he was told it would have to send the money away  for its 
collection process and this may take up to six weeks. So, he left his money with Barclays.  
About a month  later Mr H says he noticed a deposit of £4,891.17 into his account.  This was 
the Euro amount  exchanged into Sterling without him being told what rate would be used. He 
says as he wasnt consulted about  it he couldnt make  an informed decision to go ahead and 
lost out on getting a better rate elsewhere.  So hed like Barclays to give him the €6,000  back.
Barclays says Mr H went into the branch with 500 € notes and it told him that as the notes 
were such  a large denomination it would have to send the money away  for collection.  It says 
Mr H didnt ask to be told the exchange rate, for his notes to be returned or to be called 
before it deposited  his money.
Our investigator felt this complaint  should  be partly upheld. She said:
There wasnt any requirement for Mr H to hand over his money to be told the 
exchange rate. And he shouldve been aware that by doing so he was accepting 
Barclays would deposit the money in his account when its collection process was 
completed.
Barclays used an exchange  rate of 1.2267€  to the £ which  was the correct  rate at the 
appropriate time. Mr H says better rates were available elsewhere. But theres  no 
evidence of this or that other  financial institutions wouldnt have also carried  out a 
collection process. Barclays  didnt  do anything wrong by depositing Mr Hs money  
and she will not ask it to refund  the €6,000.
But Barclays didnt make it clear  enough  to Mr H that the exchange rate hed get 
would be the one in use on the day its collection process was complete and that it 
couldnt guarantee a rate in advance. Barclays should pay Mr H £50 compensation 
for the shock,  upset and inconvenience  hes been  caused by this.
Barclays says it agrees to pay £50 compensation for not making  it clear  enough  that the 
exchange rate would be that on the date the collections process was complete.
Mr H doesnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman review.  He says he was well aware 
he wasnt required to hand  over the money  to be told the exchange  rate. He left it at 
Barclays request so it could confirm  the currency was legitimate. Contrary  to what  Barclays  
has said he hadnt carried out this type of transaction before. He isnt looking for 
compensation he just wants  his €6,000  back. He thinks he couldve got £500  more 
elsewhere and if hed known the exchange  rate he wouldnt have  exchanged  the money with 
Barclays.
 
Ref: DRN05046852my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Some of the evidence in this case is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory. So, Ive made 
my decision  based  on what I think is more likely to have happened  than not. 
Mr H and his representative  have provided detailed  submissions to support  his complaint. 
Ive read and considered them all. But my findings are expressed  in considerably less detail. 
And they focus  on what I think  are the main  issues.
We can never prove what was said in the branch. But I think its clear that both Mr H and 
Barclays couldve expressed themselves more clearly  and precisely when he went into it to 
enquire about exchanging  his Euro notes. Mr H doesnt seem  to have said what exchange 
rate he would be prepared to accept  or in any way limited what Barclays was to do. Barclays  
didnt make clear exactly what it would do in its collection process particularly that it would 
exchange his money  at the rate that applied on the day its collection process completed.
Mr H has said he had in mind an exchange rate that wouldve  yielded about  another £500 in 
addition to the sum he later received into his account from Barclays.  But Ive seen nothing to 
show that he had other  quoted exchange rates or that he couldve likely obtained a much 
better rate if hed gone elsewhere.  In addition the market  exchange  rate was fairly consistent  
thorough the weeks between  him going  into the branch and the money  being  exchanged at 
the end of Barclays collection process.  And so I cant see there wouldnt been a great  
opportunity for Mr H to select  a time for the transaction when there was a much more 
advantageous market exchange rate. And even if he had identified  such  an opportunity  its 
likely any other  bank  wouldve also needed  to go through a security  check  on these high 
denomination notes and a collection process that was similar to that adopted by Barclays.    
I understand Mr Hs frustration at what happened. But based  on the available  evidence  I 
dont think hes shown  that he wouldve obtained a significantly better exchange rate as hes 
suggested. So, I dont  think  on balance that I can fairly or reasonably require Barclays  to pay 
him any more for his Euros or to refund  them back to him as hed like.
Even so I accept Mr H was caused some distress and inconvenience as Barclays hadnt 
made clear the exchange rate used would be that on the date of the completion  of its 
collections process.
I think this warrants a payment of some compensation.  And taking everything into account, 
including the level of awards we make, I agree  with the investigator that a payment of £50 is 
fair and reasonable for this.
Overall although  I understand Mr Hs and his representatives strength of feeling I dont see 
a compelling reason  to change the proposed  outcome in this case.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  To put things  right Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr H the sum 
of £50.
Ref: DRN05046853Barclays must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which  we tell it Mr H 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest* on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
* If HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest. It must give 
Mr H a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 November 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0504685