K821x#15complaint
Mr K is unhappy Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage)  settled a claim for an 
accident he wasnt involved  in. His no claims discount (NCD) has been affected and his 
insurance is now more  expensive.
background
Mr Ks insurers settled  a claim for an accident  which took place in April 2016. Mr K said he 
wasnt involved in that accident.
The third party (TP) issued a claim against  Mr K. As Mr K said he wasnt involved in the 
accident Advantage asked for Mr Ks car to be inspected  for damage. The inspection 
confirmed damage  to his car consistent  with a slow collision as reported.  Mr K said it was old 
damage.
Advantage contacted the TP insurer to request  an inspection of the TPs car. Advantage was 
sent photos that showed damage to the back of the TP vehicle. Advantage wanted to inspect 
the vehicle but no further evidence was received from the TPs insurer.
In May 2016, Advantage decided to nominate solicitors to defend against the TP claim. The 
TP allegations were  not clear so although  Mr Ks car report stated damage, Advantage 
decided to defend liability until they received  any further evidence to support the TP claim.
In June 2016, Mr K told Advantage he was happy to attend court.  He also received a letter 
from his insurers solicitors informing him that Advantage had instructed them to defend the 
claim.
In December 2016, the solicitors told Advantage that the first court date set for December 
was going to change;  they also contacted Mr K to let him know.
In January, Advantage settled the claim with the TP. It said it was advised the prospect of 
success was poor.  Advantage said the solicitors  contacted Mr K to request a signed  witness  
statement and to let him know  the new court date in January. It said that Mr K did not contact 
the solicitors so it had no option but to settle the TP claim.
Mr K said that he spoke to the solicitors and confirmed that he would attend the trial. He also 
said that he did not get the emails requesting the signed witness statement.
Mr K attended the revised court date at the end of January 2017 but the TP didnt  turn up. 
So judgement was passed in Mr Ks favour.  Mr K then contacted Advantage to say that he 
had won the case. Mr K was surprised to find out at that stage that Advantage had settled 
the TP claim.
Mr K was unhappy that his NCD had been affected  and his insurance premium had gone up. 
So he complained to Advantage. Advantage said that it had made a payment on the claim 
and it was reasonable for it to do so because of its solicitors advice.
Mr K was unhappy with Advantages  response  and complained to our service. 
The investigator upheld  the complaint. She thought  that as Mr K had won the trial it was fair 
for Advantage to reinstate his NCD to the level it was prior to the claim. The investigator 
agreed that Advantage could still record a fault claim on the file.
Ref: DRN03355472Advantage was unhappy  with the investigators  view. It said that Mr K hadnt got back to the 
solicitors and that even  though he had gone to court Mr K would have most likely lost the 
case if the trial had gone ahead.
The matter  has come to me for decision.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
In order to settle the claim with the TP, Advantage  has relied on Section  3 of the policy which  
says:
The insurer shall be entitled to conduct the defence or settlement of any claim and to 
instruct the solicitors  of their choice  to act for you in any proceedings.  In circumstances 
where it is considered  appropriate your insurer will be entitled  to admit liability, for the costs 
covered under this policy, on behalf of you or any person  claiming indemnity under the policy 
Such admissions may be made prior to or after the commencement of proceedings in 
relation to any event  likely to give rise to a claim under the policy.
In order to decide this complaint I need to consider if Advantage have applied this clause 
fairly.
Mr K disagrees that the claim should  have been settled because he wasnt  involved in the 
accident. He said that he went to court in January  and the judge found in his favour. So he 
feels that but for Advantage settling the claim in advance, he would not have lost his NCD  
and have to pay higher  premiums in future.
Advantage said it settled  the claim following advice from the solicitors. Advantages solicitors 
were concerned that they would not have sufficient evidence to be successful at trial and 
they would  need to pay court costs.  The advice they gave was that because they had not 
received a signed statement from Mr K and had no confirmation that he would attend  the trial 
date in January  they should  settle the TP claim. Mr K has said that he spoke to solicitors  to 
confirm that he would attend the trial. I have seen no evidence of a phone  conversation  but I 
have seen an email  confirming the new trial date to Mr K.
Although Mr K said he was never asked to provide a witness  statement. I have seen that the 
solicitors emailed Mr K to tell him of the new court date and was sent an unsigned witness  
statement to review at the start of January. Mr K attended the January court  date so I think 
that shows he saw the email.
I have also seen that Mr K was sent an unsigned statement one month earlier  and asked to 
review, sign it and return it. At that time,  Mr K contacted the solicitors  and said he would sign 
the statement  and return it to them. So I think that Mr K knew that he needed to provide a 
witness statement.
Mr K also said that he didnt have a printer.  I can see that the solicitors  had contacted Mr K 
about his statement in August , December and January and he was sent draft statements 
and a pre-paid envelope in August so even though he didnt have a printer I think he was 
aware that he could  get the statement sent to him by post so he could sign it.
Ref: DRN03355473Considering all the evidence, I think that Mr K had opportunity  to sign the statement and 
return it to the solicitors. I also have seen  that he was told that if they didnt hear from him by 
mid January they would settle  the claim. In view of this, I think  that Mr K knew  or should 
have known that providing a signed  witness statement was very important  and not doing so 
would mean  that the claim would be settled in favour  of the TP.
Because of the above evidence, I think that Advantage  settled the claim in accordance with 
the terms of the policy and applied the clause reasonably and fairly.
However, because  of lack of communication by either Advantage or the solicitors, Mr K 
ended up attending  the trial in January when he didnt have to. Advantage should have 
cancelled the January  trial date and told Mr K he didnt need to attend court.  I think that 
going to trial would generally be stressful and inconvenient and then coming back  and 
finding out that he never had to go would have been very frustrating and confusing for Mr K. 
Advantage didnt  let Mr K know that it settled  the claim. Mr K only found  out when he came 
back from court and saw a letter from Advantage. Advantage did not speak to Mr K between  
June 2016 and Jan 2017. Even though Mr K was getting some information from the 
solicitors, its still a long time to be without information when there  is a claim pending.
I think Advantage should pay Mr K £200  for the distress  and inconvenience  of having to 
attend court unnecessarily  and not being  told that the claim had settled.
Our investigator has suggested  that because Mr K won the trial then Advantage should 
reinstate his NCD. However, the trial in January did not consider all the evidence. The court  
did not have the opportunity to consider the TPs evidence. So although  technically Mr K 
won, it was because there was no one to oppose his evidence or test it. So I dont think  that 
Mr Ks NCD  should be reinstated
In summary,  I think that although Advantage did nothing wrong in settling  the claim, it did not 
let Mr K know  that it had settled the claim and it didnt tell him he didnt need to go to court. 
This caused Mr K distress and inconvenience and it should pay Mr K £200  compensation.
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr K has not contacted  us after he received my provisional decision.  
Advantage have  said that the solicitors  have provided them with information  of an email  with 
Mr K regarding the issue. They say that the consumer was fully aware that Advantage 
would be settling the claim on best possible terms if no response was received, meaning  the 
consumer should  have been  aware of what was happening and, therefore,  that attendance  
at court  would not be necessary.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the email referred to by Advantage, the solicitors state that settling the claim will have  an 
adverse impact on your no claims  discount and/or future premiums. However, no mention is 
made of Mr K not needing  to attend court. 
Ref: DRN03355474In my decision I said Advantage  should have cancelled the January trial date and told Mr K 
he didnt need  to attend court. I am still of that opinion.  Advantage  and its solicitors  are the 
experts in this situation. It is for them to explain the process to Mr K. Advantage did not say 
Mr K should  not attend the trial date if it settled  the claim. I think although this would be 
obvious for solicitors  and for insurance companies,  it is not necessarily obvious to a 
consumer and was not obvious to Mr K otherwise he wouldnt have attended court.  
I note the views expressed by Advantage but unfortunately they dont change my mind that 
Advantage should have  told Mr K that he didnt need to attend court.
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence as well as my findings. I am happy with my 
original conclusions and my provisional decision  remains unchanged.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold the complaint  in part and I require Advantage  Insurance  
Company Limited  to pay Mr K a total of £200 in compensation  for his material  distress and 
inconvenience.
Advantage Insurance Company Limited must  pay the compensation within  28 days  of the 
date on which we tell it Mr K accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also 
pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 
8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 October  2019.
Esperanza Fuentes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0335547