K821x#15complaint
Ms K complains  that Simpsons Wealth Management LLP didnt link her account to two other 
family members so she could have  the benefit of lower charges. She also complains she 
was given unsuitable advice to make  pension contributions, which  threatened to take her 
above her lifetime limit, and to invest in an off-shore bond.
background
Simpsons didnt accept  that it shouldve linked  Ms Ks account to her mothers  account but it 
did accept it shouldve linked her account  to her husbands account. It didnt uphold Ms Ks 
complaint about  the pension contributions. It said that the adviser had calculated that 
additional pension  payments were  more beneficial than ISA contributions  and based on the 
information he was given he calculated there was no issue with the lifetime  allowance. 
Simpsons said that the advice to invest in an off-shore bond  was suitable taking account of 
Ms Ks circumstances at the time and that the adviser had anticipated her income could 
have fallen to the point  she was a basic rate taxpayer after retirement.
I have issued two provisional decisions in this complaint. I attach the second of those 
decision which provided a summary  of my findings in the first provisional decision and the 
points raised by Ms K in response. In short my findings were as follows:
Simpsons should repay the charges/commission paid as a result of the accounts  not 
being linked.
Even if the adviser hadnt checked  her pension lifetime allowance  she is unlikely to 
go over her limit so the advice to invest in her pension in 2014,  2015 and 2016 wasnt  
unsuitable.
Ms K wouldve used her ISA allowance if properly advised and Simpsons should 
calculate what she has lost through not doing  this using our usual approach.
The advice to invest in the offshore bond wasnt in preference to using her ISA 
allowance.
Ms K was likely to remain a higher rate taxpayer. There is nothing to suggest the 
adviser carried out any analysis of her likely income after retirement.
Ms  K was given  no explanation in the suitability report that she might end up paying  
tax at 40% and the adviser gave  the impression that no tax would be payable  when 
even as a basic  rate taxpayer she would  pay tax at 20%.
Given the above the advice to invest in the offshore bond was unsuitable but I dont 
think it is possible to say that if she had invested  differently less tax wouldve  been 
paid given the bond had been assigned to her husband and only basic  rate tax had 
been paid on unwinding it.
Ms K wouldve paid for suitable  advice so I didnt think she should be repaid the 
charges Simpsons made  for its advice as this put her in a better position than she 
wouldve been in if she had been  given suitable  advice.
Simpsons should pay the reasonable costs of the assignment to Ms K in assigning 
the bond to her husband and the bond  being  unwound.
Simpsons should pay Ms K £400 for the distress  and inconvenience caused  by what  
it got wrong.
Simpsons didnt respond to my second  provisional  decision  other  than to say that it had no 
further information for me to consider.  Ms K said that it was reasonable Simpsons should  
repay the fees she had paid to it because  it didnt provided the service it shouldve  done. But 
Ref: DRN00453082she then said she would  accept my decision if Simpsons paid the bill she had received from 
her current  adviser to rectify what it had done.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I set out in my second provisional decision what I thought Simpsons should to put things 
right. I have seen no further evidence that would lead me to change my findings  or the 
redress I think should be paid by Simpsons which in summary amounts to the following:
The charges  and commission which were paid which  would not have been paid if Ms 
Ks account had been linked to her other  family members.
The loss suffered by Ms K in not utilising her ISA allowance  for the years  she didnt 
do this on the basis she wouldve used her ISA allowance each year to be calculated  
over a period  of 10 years using our normal approach.
The reasonable costs incurred by Ms K with another adviser to put right the 
unsuitable advice  to invest in the offshore bond.
Payment of £400 for the distress and inconvenience caused to Ms K by what 
Simpsons got wrong.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  for the reasons set out in my previous provisional decisions  and 
above. Simpsons  Wealth Management LLP has to pay the redress I have set out.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 November  2019.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN00453083COPY PROVISIONAL  DECISION
complaint
Ms K complains  that Simpsons  Wealth Management LLP didnt link her account  to two other family  
members so she could have  the benefit of lower charges. She also complains she was given  
unsuitable advice to make  pension contributions, which  threatened to take her above her lifetime limit, 
and to invest in an off-shore bond.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint a copy of which is attached  and forms part of this 
decision. In short I made the following findings:
I thought Simpsons  had an obligation to link the family accounts when it took them over.
I saw no significant difference between  it setting up a new account and taking  over an existing 
one.
I thought it should pay the management fees and commission payable as result of the 
accounts not being  linked.
I had seen no persuasive evidence  that the adviser  was wrong to have thought that Ms Ks 
lifetime pension  allowance wouldnt be a problem  based on the information he was given. So I 
didnt uphold that part of her complaint.
I wasnt satisfied that the adviser  had properly assessed Ms Ks likely  tax status when  
recommending an offshore bond.
I wasnt satisfied that she wouldve been better off if she had been  advised to invest in an on-
shore bond.
Ms K had now assigned the off-shore bond to her husband and if Simpsons had advised  her 
to do this at the outset  I dont think it would necessarily have been bad advice so she is 
arguably in the position she wouldve been in if the adviser had taken account  of everything 
he needed to and advised her accordingly.
I wasnt satisfied it was possible to say whether  Ms K wouldve been better  off if the money  
had been left in the GIA as she had suggested.
She already had significant amounts in the GIA and I wasnt persuaded it was appropriate to 
put another £347,000 into that account. Her calculations  also didnt allow for the fact that as 
tax was deferred on the offshore bond the returns within the bond  was likely to be higher than 
within the GIA which would be taxed on an ongoing basis.
I thought it was more  likely than not that Ms K wouldve utilised her ISA allowance each year if 
she had been made aware this wasnt being done.  Simpsons should calculate  what  Ms Ks 
losses are as result of not utilising  her ISA allowance  each year using our usual approach 
over 10 years.
I wasnt satisfied it was appropriate to require  Simpsons to repay  the charges it had made 
given I hadnt upheld her complaint with regard to the pension contributions and offshore 
bond.
I also wasnt persuaded that Simpsons  should pay any costs she had incurred in addressing 
the issues  raised in her complaint.
I said Simpsons should pay her £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused by what it 
had got wrong.
I gave both parties  the opportunity and providing  any more information they wanted me to take into 
account before reaching a final decision.
Ms K didnt  agree with my provisional  decision. In short she made the following comments:
I have  compared an offshore bond with an onshore bond but havent compared  the advice  
given with the far better option of utilising  the annual ISA allowance  with the surplus invested 
in a taxable portfolio.
Ref: DRN00453084I am wrong  to say there were significant amounts in the GIA as there was less than £60,000 
which was due to be transferred to ISAs  and/or  pensions  in the future which led to the 
benefits of one or both of them using  their CGT allowances being  ignored.
It is difficult to understand what I have said about the loss of the potential  CGT allowances. 
Even if the account had been jointly held and half of the income  was taxed as hers each year 
they wouldve been able to factor out all the gains using the £11,000  CGT allowance  available 
each year. With yields as they were  the income  tax arising wouldve  only been a fraction of 
the tax incurred as result of the advice.
She wasnt given good advice and for me to suggest that Simpsons  earned their fees on the 
back of this and other poor advice  doesnt reflect well on a regulatory  regime that claims  to 
protect clients.
Please explain why Simpsons shouldnt pay the tax arising as result of their advice and why 
the costs they have  incurred in mitigating  tax shouldnt be paid.
She has no recollection of Simpsons  discussing  a lifetime pension allowance and it knew 
there was possibility of a further pension.
The focus  of her complaint about  the pension  advice is that Simpsons didnt check whether 
she would exceed  her lifetime allowance when  it recommended contributions in excess  of 
£50,000. In what circumstances do I consider that the lifetime  allowance position should be 
checked?
The fact is that a large part of her pension entitlement isnt subject to the lifetime allowance - 
but Simpsons didnt know that and the fact they didnt check  reflects  the poor service she was 
given.
Its possible  she could still go above her lifetime allowance and incur a significant tax charge  
and the fees paid to Simpsons  havent  been earned. My finding  it should retain  all its fees 
contradicts my finding of fact. 
She is puzzled by my comment that if I decided Simpsons should repay  the fees she would 
be in a better position as I have said their advice was deficient. The fees Simpsons charged, 
and the subsequent costs to mitigate  the tax payable  and rectify  matters,  are part of her loss.
Ms K also referred back to the comments she had made in response to the adjudicators opinion.
Simpsons didnt agree with my provisional decision but said it would abide  by it if Ms K did.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
I note the points that Ms K has raised and will address these.
Linking of accounts
I have been given no further information that would lead me to change  my findings on this. I still think 
Simpsons shouldve linked  the accounts and should repay the charges/commission paid as result  of 
the accounts not being  linked.
The pension
Ms K says she has no recollection of there being a discussion about the lifetime allowance. Simpsons 
has said that the adviser had considered this although there is nothing in the documents  I have seen 
which refers to this.
Ms K has said that on assessing her lifetime allowance  she wont go over the limit although still says 
this is a possibility depending on growth. She is unhappy that the adviser didnt check. 
But even if he didnt, given  it is unlikely  she will go over her lifetime  limit, she hasnt suffered any loss 
as a result of the advice given. Im also mindful  that she accepted  previously that the adviser wouldnt 
Ref: DRN00453085have been aware of one pension anyway. So Im not persuaded that the advice to invest in her 
pension in 2014, 2015 and 2016 was unsuitable.
The ISA allowance
I have seen nothing  that would change my finding  that Ms K is more  likely  than not to have used her 
ISA allowance each year if properly  advised. Simpsons  has to calculate what  her losses are for the 
years she didnt invest on the basis she wouldve invested  through an ISA using our usual approach 
over a period of 10 years.
 
The offshore bond
Ms K has said that I didnt compare  utilising  the ISA allowance instead of paying into the offshore 
bond. But I explained why I didnt consider using  the money for her ISA was a suitable  alternative  
namely because on the information I had seen other money  was intended to be used for this. I note 
what she has said about the amount of money in the GIA. But the suitability report I have seen  stated 
that:
In future  years we can allocate capital from your existing  General Investment  Account to use your 
future ISA allowances within  your Transact WRAP account.
So Im not persuaded  that the advice to invest in the offshore bond was in preference  to using her ISA 
allowance as suggested. Im not satisfied there wouldnt have been sufficient  money available outside 
of the money invested in the bond  to utilise her ISA allowance in coming  years.
I wasnt satisfied that the adviser had carried  out an analysis  of Ms Ks tax position when 
recommending the bond, as Simpsons suggested he had done. But I wasnt persuaded  she had lost 
out as a result of what had happened because the bond was now in her husbands  name  and he is a 
basic rate taxpayer. 
I said I wasnt satisfied that it was more likely than not the advice to invest  in the offshore bond was 
unsuitable but having thought  about this further I think this is wrong.
One of the main advantages of an offshore bond is that it isnt taxed as gains occur. There is a benefit 
to someone who is currently a higher rate taxpayer investing in an offshore bond when  they are going 
to be a basic  rate taxpayer after retirement. But that wasnt the position Ms K was in. I accept that she 
will be a higher  rate taxpayer both before and after retirement as she has said- she is unlikely  to have 
gone to the lengths she has to get out of the offshore bond if she was going to be a basic rate 
taxpayer at some point in the future.
So advising  Ms K to invest in the offshore bond was unsuitable advice based on her circumstances. I 
acknowledge that Simpsons have said the adviser  based his advice on the information  from the 
previous adviser about Ms Ks financial position. But, as I have said,  there is nothing  in the suitability 
report that suggests  he carried  out any analysis  of her likely income after retirement. 
His only warning about tax was that this may  be payable  depending on her circumstances. Even if he 
assessed her as being a basic rate taxpayer after retirement it is likely  that tax would be payable  at 
20% on an offshore bond whereas he gave the impression tax may not be payable  at all. And the 
information included  with the suitability report about  bonds was about UK bonds, which are deemed to 
have suffered basic rate tax. He provided  no explanation  for offshore bonds which couldve put Ms K 
on notice that she could end up paying tax at 40%.
Taking all of this into account I think the advice to invest in the offshore bond was unsuitable for Ms K. 
But the consequences of that unsuitable advice  arent straightforward given  the steps taken  by Ms K 
when she became  aware the bond was unsuitable.
Ref: DRN00453086Ms K assigned the bond to her husband who has been unwinding it since assignment. She said this 
has led to tax of £12,412  being incurred over the past three tax years. The question  I have to decide 
is whether this has put her in a worse  position than if she had been given suitable advice in the first 
place. 
It is difficult to know what she may have invested in if she hadnt invested in the offshore bond. She 
couldve invested in an onshore bond but this would  still have left her paying tax on surrender after 
retirement at her marginal rate as a higher rate taxpayer. Im also mindful that she had no immediate 
need for an income so the benefit of tax deferred withdrawals wasnt something that was of immediate 
concern to her.
Ms K estimates that if the money had been put in a GIA in joint names  the tax payable wouldve  only 
been £7,262 and suggests Simpsons  should  pay the surplus of £5,150. But this is based on 
assumptions about the growth rate, her husband benefitting from various  tax credits and all returns 
being by way of dividend. 
I accept it is quite possible  that more tax has been paid than would have been paid if Ms K hadnt  
invested in the offshore bond. I also acknowledge that Ms K and her husband  may have been able to 
make use of their CGT  allowances which isnt something they could do with the offshore bond. But I 
just dont think  it is possible  to say it is more likely than not that this is the case. I dont think this can 
be determined on the information that is available and Im not satisfied that any further information  
would change  this. 
The only tax that has been paid has been basic rate tax and I dont  think it is possible to say it is more  
likely than not that if Ms K had invested differently this wouldve led to less tax being paid, given she is 
a higher rate taxpayer.
Repayment of charges
The purpose  of an award is to put her, as far as possible, in the position  she wouldve been in if 
suitable advice had been given. If such advice had been given then charges wouldve  been incurred. 
So to award repayment  of charges would therefore put her in a better position than she would have 
been if suitable advice  had been given.
The costs of rectifying  Simpsons mistakes
I didnt allow anything for this  other than the commission/charges for not linking the accounts  - on 
the basis  that we generally dont allow for the costs of bringing a complaint. 
But the costs of rectifying a mistake are not the same  as the cost of bringing a complaint. Im mindful 
that Ms K has had to firstly  assign the offshore  bond  to her husband and then for him to then arrange  
for the bond to be unwound over the following years. I have seen  no details of the costs  she says 
were incurred  but if costs  were incurred  in doing this then I think it is reasonable  for Simpsons to pay 
for this. Ms K will have to provide evidence  of those specific  costs to Simpsons by way of invoice.
Distress and Inconvenience
I awarded £200 for this but I dont think that this reflects the distress and inconvenience caused.  Im 
mindful that I have found a number of failings on the part of Simpsons and in particular the advice to 
invest in the offshore bond  has led to Ms K having to assign the bond and then unwind it over the 
following years. I think an award  of £400 is reasonable in the circumstances.
Ref: DRN00453087my provisional  decision
I uphold this complaint for the reasons  I have  set out above and in my previous provisional  decision.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0045308