K821x#15complaint
Mrs M complains that Nationwide Building  Society  (Nationwide) have rejected her claim 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) (s75).
background
I issued my provisional decision in March  2019. I explained why I was planning  to uphold 
Mrs Ms complaint. An extract of that provisional decision is set out below:
In November 2017 Mrs M traded in the diamond  on her ring to a retailer  based in the 
Caribbean. She paid an additional $2,500, using her credit  card,  so she could upgrade it. 
However, she later discovered that the new diamond wasnt  of the clarity she was told it was. 
So she complained to G. They accepted theyd got the clarity wrong  and offered to take the 
diamond back, return Mrs Ms original diamond and reimburse the $2,500. They said if this 
wasnt acceptable they would simply pay $1,000 to compensate Mrs M for the 
misrepresentation that had taken place.
But Mrs M wasnt happy with their response. She didnt  want  the expense of having the 
diamond removed  and she didnt feel comfortable sending  an item of that value back  to the 
Caribbean where  she purchased it. She was also concerned she wouldnt know  if it was her 
original diamond that was being returned unless she got a further valuation. So she made a 
claim to Nationwide  under s75 as she said,  as the provider of credit, they were  jointly  
responsible. 
But Nationwide thought the retailer had made a reasonable offer and they didnt uphold 
Mrs Ms claim. They said that where a misrepresentation had taken place they would expect 
the retailer to return  the consumer  to the position they wouldve been in if the 
misrepresentation hadnt taken place and they thought thats exactly  what  the retailer had 
offered to do. Theyd  offered to take the diamond back, return  the one that was traded in and 
refund the surplus $2,500.  And if Mrs M decided  not to return  the diamond they thought the 
retailers offer of $1,000 was an acceptable alternative. So they thought, in those 
circumstances, a fair offer had been made  and they didnt need  to take any further action.
But Mrs M disagreed and she referred  her complaint to this service. Our investigator  took a 
look at the evidence but she agreed  with Nationwide and thought the retailers  offer was a 
fair one as it returned  Mrs M to the position  she would have been in if the misrepresentation 
hadnt happened. She explained  that if the retailer  didnt do what  they were promising, then 
Mrs M could  contact Nationwide  again but she didnt think Nationwide needed to take any 
action at the moment.
But Mrs M disagreed and explained  her predicament. She said shed lost trust in the retailer,  
didnt want to send  an expensive item to them and couldnt get insurance cover to do so. 
She explained that, even if she did return the diamond, it would cost a few hundred  pounds  
to have it removed  from its mounting. So she asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN00088892When something goes  wrong  and the payment was made with a credit card, it might be 
possible to recover the money paid through  a section 75 claim.  This section of the Consumer 
Credit Act (1974) says that in certain  circumstances, a finance provider can be responsible 
for a breach  of contract or a misrepresentation made by the supplier. 
A misrepresentation is an untrue statement  of fact that causes a consumer to go ahead  with 
the contract. Theres  no dispute here that a misrepresentation  has taken place. Mrs M was 
told the clarity of the diamond she was buying was better than it actually was and shes 
subsequently been told that the diamond  she now has is no better  than the one she had. So 
its reasonable to suggest that she wouldnt have gone ahead with the purchase if shed 
known the true quality of the diamond.
The Consumer Credit  Act (1974) says that if theres  a misrepresentation the provider of 
credit is jointly  responsible. Mrs M has taken reasonable  steps to get the issue resolved 
through the supplier but she was not obliged to do this before she made  a claim to the credit 
provider, Nationwide. So in those circumstances I can see no reason why Nationwide  
shouldnt provide redress here. We dont have to rely on the retailer.
And even  if I were wrong  in law I would still think it reasonable  for Nationwide  to support  this 
claim because  I think  its fair to do so. Theres an obvious misrepresentation and Mrs M 
faces significant problems trying  to remedy the situation with a retailer who she appears  to 
have reason to distrust  and is based overseas. 
redress
The redress  is a trickier matter. Nationwide  are right to say that s75 requires us to put the 
consumer back in the position they wouldve been in if the misrepresentation hadnt 
occurred. It doesnt  require us to put Mrs M in the position she wouldve been in if the 
misrepresentation had been true.
If the diamond was returned and exchanged there  would be some costs involved.  The 
diamond would need insuring before transportation; a professional assessment would be 
required when it was returned to Mrs M so that she could be assured it was the correct 
diamond and thered  also be costs associated with removing and resetting the diamond. As 
these are costs reasonably associated with rectifying the misrepresentation I would think it 
reasonable for Nationwide  to pay them.
The original  diamond  has been with the retailer since November 2017  and I agree with 
Mrs M that its most  likely sold on now. So, even if it were feasible, the option to return and 
exchange may not even be available to us. 
Another option would be to make  a financial contribution that endeavours to put Mrs M back  
in the position she would  have been in if this hadnt happened.
The valuation Mrs M has obtained  suggests that the new diamond is worth  about  the same  
as the one she traded in. She paid an additional $2,500  dollars for the new diamond and as 
that now appears to be the same value as its predecessor I think the fairest resolution here 
is for Nationwide  to pay Mrs M $2,500 to remedy the situation.
Ref: DRN00088893my provisional decision
Im therefore  expecting to ask Nationwide Building Society to pay Mrs M $2,500 in 
settlement of her s75 claim.
I asked both parties to respond to my provisional  decision  with any new information or 
comments they wanted me to consider.
Mrs M had nothing further to add but Nationwide did. They said that they understood their 
joint liability  but whilst there was an offer to unwind the original agreement, from the 
merchant, they thought  they were right not to uphold her claim.  They  asked what would stop 
Mrs M from getting  the remedy from the merchant as well?  
They accepted that, given  the passage of time, the original diamond had probably been  sold 
on and that it could be a risk for Mrs M to return the diamond she had. They  therefore 
suggested an alternative solution in which Mrs M claimed the £1,000  from the merchant and 
they paid the remaining £1,500.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not persuaded by Nationwides argument  that Mrs M could claim twice. I have no reason 
to doubt Mrs Ms integrity and Nationwide could highlight the resolution to the retailer to 
curtail any such  eventuality.
Ive thought about Nationwides  suggested  resolution and can understand that there  may be 
some merit  in it preventing a double claim.  But there appears to be some risk in pursuing this 
line of enquiry for Mrs M. Shes  not had the best of experiences with the retailer  and is 
clearly, and understandably,  concerned  about  dealing with them any further. Shes 
experienced some unnecessary delay getting this matter resolved and I dont think it would 
be fair to keep her waiting  any longer  or for her to face further  uncertainty.
Ive therefore  not been  persuaded to change my opinion  and my provisional  decision 
remains the same.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  Im asking Nationwide Building  Society  to pay Mrs M 
$2,500 in settlement of her s75 claim.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Phil McMahon
Ref: DRN00088894ombudsman
Ref: DRN0008889