K820x#14complaint
Mr Ms complaint concerns an ISA transfer requested from Cofunds Limited. Hes unhappy 
that it wouldnt issue a cheque to the new provider.
background
Mr M wanted to transfer some stock. The receiving provider requested  that the stock be sold 
and a cheque  raised for the proceeds.  Cofunds explained that it was only able to make an 
electronic transfer  of the proceeds. 
Mr M felt it was unreasonable  that Cofunds  wouldnt amend its procedure to facilitate  a 
payment being  made by cheque. He withdrew the funds from his ISA and complained to 
Cofunds, noting that the matter had led to his money losing its ISA tax benefits.   
Cofunds didnt  uphold the main element of the complaint about it not making payment by 
cheque as it didnt  consider it had done anything wrong. But it accepted  that it had caused a 
delay in paying the withdrawn funds to Mr M. So it offered  him a payment of £100  to 
compensate for the trouble caused, along with a small interest payment.
Mr M wasnt satisfied  with Cofunds  response  so he referred the complaint to this service. 
Our investigator acknowledged  that the situation  wouldve been frustrating for Mr M. But she 
didnt think that Cofunds had acted  incorrectly in only offering an electronic transfer, as there 
was no requirement  that it should offer alternative payment methods. She was also satisfied 
that its offer in respect  of the delay was fair.
As Mr M didnt accept this, the matters been referred to me to review.    
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusion as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. 
I can understand Mr Ms frustration that he couldnt  complete  his transfer  as planned. But I 
dont think it would be fair to hold Cofunds  responsible for this. I appreciate  that its decision 
to only make payments  electronically is limiting. But I nevertheless think its a decision its 
entitled to make from a commercial point of view. 
The new ISA provider  had similarly restricting conditions in that it would only accept a 
cheque. And I think its worth noting  that Mr Ms request was initially made  as an in-specie 
stock transfer, rather than a cash transfer. It was the new provider that requested the stock 
be sold and the proceeds transferred and then restricted to this being done  by cheque. As 
such, I dont think  it would be fair to place responsibility on Cofunds for the transfer not 
completing as planned,  or any related consequences  such as Mr Ms money losing its ISA 
status. 
So, while I think Cofunds offer in respect  of the delay is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances, I wont  be directing it to do any more in respect of Mr Ms complaint.
Ref: DRN07400672my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint as I think  the 
offer already  made  is fair and reasonable.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 November  2019.
James Harris
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0740067