K820x#14Complaint
Miss C and Mr Bs complaint is about the amount they had been  asked  to pay by 
Go Car Credit Limited  (trading as GCC Servicing)  (GCC) following the car they acquired 
through a hire purchase agreement (HPA) being written off.
Background
Miss C and Mr B entered into a HPA in January 2017 to acquire a used car. In August 2018, 
the car was involved in an accident  and written  off.
Miss C and Mr Bs insurance company  contacted GCC  for a settlement quote on 15 August 
and was given  a figure of £3,000.28 which  it was told was valid until 2 September. The 
settlement figure was also provided to Miss C on 16 August. On 20 August GCC received a 
payment from the insurance company of £2,500 but this wasnt  enough to cover the 
settlement amount.
Miss C raised a complaint on 21 August as she didnt think it fair that she was required to 
pay the difference between the insurance payment and the settlement quote. She noted the 
amount she had paid through the HPA and said she had already paid too much  for the car 
and so shouldnt  be pursued for any further amount. 
GCC issued a final response letter dated 30 August 2018 to Miss C. It said that in the event 
of a total loss payment of the total loss amount was required. It noted the amount that had 
been received  at that point and the deadline of 2 September for the payment of the 
remaining £500.28. 
The amount  of £500.28 was received from the insurance company on 10 September.  But 
GCC said that as this was received after the settlement quote had expired the account was 
rescheduled and an additional amount  of £89.47  became due. GCC issued a letter to Mr B 
on 17 September explaining that there was still an outstanding balance of £89.47.
Miss C said they shouldnt be required to pay the outstanding amount. She said they should 
have received a rebate  and that they had paid a lot for the car already. Miss C said that this 
issue had also affected her credit file which she didnt think  fair.  
After investigating,  our adjudicator concluded the complaint should not be upheld.  He 
thought GCC  had the right to pursue the outstanding balance of £89.47.
Miss C and Mr B did not agree with our investigator and so this complaint has been passed  
to me, an ombudsman, to review. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided this 
complaint should  not be upheld. I understand that this with be disappointing for Miss C and 
Mr B and I have set out the reasons for my decision below:  
Miss C and Mr Bs car was involved in an accident and considered a total loss. Under 
the HPA, Miss C and Mr B were liable for the total loss amount and the HPA they 
Ref: DRN06918962signed set out that if the proceeds from any insurance pay out didnt cover the full 
amount Miss C and Mr B could be pursued for any shortfall.
Following notification  of the accident  a settlement quote was provided to both the 
insurance company  and to the customers. The notes about  this say that the expiry 
date for the quote was 2 September  and that the parties were  informed of this. This 
9information was also included in the final response letter. Therefore I accept that all 
relevant parties  were  made  aware  that the quote  provided was valid up to 
2 September.
The statement of account shows  that the settlement amount included  a rebate of 
interest of around £895. This would be expected  as the HPA was being ended early.  
I do not find I have anything to suggest  that the settlement quote provided  was 
calculated incorrectly and I find that Miss C and Mr B did benefit from an interest 
rebate.
The statement of account shows  that £2,500 was received  on 1 September and the 
remaining £500.38 wasnt received until 10 September. Therefore the full settlement 
amount wasnt paid by 2 September. Because of this I do not find that GCC did 
anything wrong  by recalculating the settlement quote. This resulted in an increase of 
£89.47. This wasnt covered by the payments from the insurance  company and I do 
not find that GCC did anything wrong  by contacting  Mr B about  this amount.
I have been  provided copies  of the letters sent to Mr B regarding the shortfall on the 
account and so I find it reasonable that he would have been aware that this amount 
needed to be paid. As payment wasnt made I do not find I can say GCC has done 
anything wrong  if a marker  regarding this payment  was placed on Miss C and Mr Bs 
credit files. 
For the reasons  above, I do not uphold  this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Go Car Credit Limited 
(trading as GCC Servicing).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C and Mr B 
to accept or reject my decision before 13 June 2020.
Jane Archer
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0691896