K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains about the way Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) have treated him in relation to his 
mortgage. Specifically,  hes complained about  the following:
The bank  wouldnt accept his application  for an interest rate product  transfer  in 2014;
The bank  didnt  reduce the standard variable rate (SVR) when the Bank  of England  
base rate dropped in 2016;
The bank  havent offered him any support whilst hes been in financial difficulties;
The bank  havent recorded details about his health conditions on file, as a result hes 
had to repeat his circumstances  when he speaks to them;
The bank  have  proceeded  to take legal action  to repossess the property, despite  
Mr H putting forward proposals  that would bring the mortgage back on track.
To resolve  things, Mr H would like BoS to accept his proposals, which include capitalising  
the arrears, switching to a lower interest  rate and extending the mortgage term.
background
In 2007 Mr H took out a repayment  mortgage  with BoS. The mortgage  was taken out on an 
initial tracker  interest  rate product  until 2010, when it reverted to the SVR. Mr Hs mortgage 
has remained on the SVR since 2010. Mr H lives in the mortgaged property with his wife, 
although he is the only one named on the mortgage.
Unfortunately, since Mr H took out this mortgage his health has deteriorated. As a result, he 
had to stop working and the mortgage  fell into arrears. In 2014 BoS agreed to capitalise the 
arrears and Mr H also applied  for an interest rate product. BoS didnt  agree  to switch the rate 
so the account  remained  on the SVR. 
Mr H was able to maintain  the monthly payments until 2017,  when arrears began to accrue  
again. Hes told us his savings from his employment had run out, and as he was still unable  
to work he was relying on benefits for income. He was also diagnosed with some other 
medical conditions  around  this time.
In 2018 Mr H and his wife had begun  to let the property  out for holiday  rentals, and had 
started to receive an income from this, allowing Mr H to make  contributions  to the mortgage.  
However, he still wasnt able to pay enough  to meet the contractual  monthly payments 
(CMP) and so the arrears continued to build. As a result, BoS began legal action to take 
steps to recover the outstanding mortgage debt.
Mr H complained to BoS about the action  they were taking, and set out a proposal which  he 
wanted them  to consider  in order to get the mortgage back on track. This involved 
capitalising the arrears (which were  around  £56,000 at the time), switching to a lower 
interest rate and extending the term. Mr H was confident that their holiday letting business  
would be successful, which would  enable him to make the necessary monthly payments to 
the mortgage if the interest rate was reduced.
BoS issued a final response letter  in October  2018.  This explained that all avenues  of 
potential support with the arrears had been explored, and there was nothing  else they could 
do to help Mr H. 
Ref: DRN07297072Mr H wasnt happy with this response  and raised further concerns about the interest  rate, the 
fact that the bank hadnt accepted his proposals and the customer service  hed received. 
BoS issued another final response letter in December 2018. They  said theyd already 
responded to Mr Hs complaint about  the interest rate application in 2015,  so wouldnt 
consider this again. They didnt uphold the other elements of Mr Hs complaint.
Mr H brought his complaint to our service in February 2019. I issued a decision that set out 
which parts  of Mr Hs complaint we had the power to consider. I decided  we could consider 
all of Mr Hs concerns except his complaint about the banks  decision  to decline his interest 
rate application in 2014, as it had been  made out of time.
Our investigator then went on to consider  the merits of the complaint points we could look at. 
Having done so, he didnt think the bank had acted unfairly by not reducing the SVR in 2016.  
And whilst he empathised with Mr Hs position, he thought the bank had provided reasonable 
support to help Mr H with his mortgage payments. Overall, he didnt think the complaint 
should be upheld.
Mr H responded to our investigators view in detail explaining why he disagreed.  In 
summary, he didnt agree  that the bank had tried to help or support him. He also disagreed  
that capitalising the arrears,  extending the mortgage term and reducing his interest rate 
would not be in his best interests. Mr H still wanted us to consider his application to switch 
interest rate products.
Our investigator wasnt persuaded to change  his opinion, and explained that as per the 
decision issued in November 2020,  we couldnt consider the request to switch  interest  rate 
products. Mr H asked for an ombudsman  to review the complaint, so its been passed to me 
to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to start by saying  that I fully appreciate Mr Hs strength of feeling about  this complaint. 
Its clear hes been through a very difficult time,  and his personal circumstances have 
changed drastically since he first took this mortgage  out many  years ago. Mr H has clearly 
put a lot of thought and effort into the proposals  hes made to the bank, and I want to assure 
him that Ive considered everything hes told us very carefully, along  with the information 
provided by BoS.  
I understand things  have  changed during the time this complaint has been  with our service  
too, not least because of the global pandemic. But in this decision I will only be considering 
how the bank  treated  Mr H up until the point this complaint was made. I also want  to be clear 
that whilst  Mr H still feels strongly  that he was mistreated in 2014 and 2015 when he applied  
for a new interest  rate product, I will not be considering that as explained in my previous 
decision.
The bank didnt  reduce the standard variable rate (SVR) when the Bank  of England  base 
rate dropped  in 2016
Mr Hs mortgage has been  on BoSs SVR since 2010. Between  then and the time this 
complaint was made, the Bank of England base rate remained at the same level until it 
Ref: DRN07297073reduced in 2016  by 0.25%, before rising  by 0.25% again in 2017. The base rate increased 
again in 2018. 
Before the 2016 base  rate reduction, the banks SVR was 4.95% and it stayed at this level 
until the base  rate increase in 2018.  Mr H is unhappy that the SVR didnt fall in line with the 
base rate reduction in 2016,  and is unhappy generally that the margin between  the base rate 
and the SVR has increased  since  he took this mortgage out originally.
When a bank sets its SVR, it takes account  of a number of different  factors.  Whilst these will 
typically include the base  rate, thats  not the only influence over the cost to the bank for them 
to operate their mortgage business.  To decide whether the bank have acted unfairly,  Ive 
considered the terms that Mr H agreed to when  he took this mortgage out. Theres nothing  in 
the terms and conditions of Mr Hs mortgage  which says when the SVR should be varied, 
just that BoS can decide the rate, and can vary it as long as its for one of the specific 
reasons set out. Theres nothing in the original paperwork either to suggest that Mr Hs 
mortgage would track  the base rate.
Whilst I appreciate Mr H feels  the bank should  have reduced the SVR in 2016, Im not 
persuaded they have acted unfairly by not doing  so. They  didnt increase the rate in 2017 
when base rate rose again, and their SVR has not been out of line with others offered by 
similar lenders in the market.  Im  satisfied theyve set the rate in line with the terms and 
conditions of the mortgage, and have considered the wider market  when deciding  what  rate 
to charge. So overall, Im not persuaded the bank have kept their SVR unfairly high in 2016.
How Bank  of Scotland treated  Mr H when  he was experiencing financial difficulty  and ill 
health
Unfortunately, since this mortgage  was taken out Mr H has experienced significant changes  
to his health and ability to work. Naturally  this has affected his ability to meet the contractual 
monthly payments  (CMP) consistently  as he agreed to when he took the mortgage out.
When a borrower is finding it difficult to afford  their mortgage payments, Id expect the lender 
to take account  of their situation,  and show forbearance in the way its managing the 
mortgage account  taking particular  account of that borrowers individual  circumstances. 
The regulator, the Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA), sets out the measures it expects 
lenders to explore in the Mortgage Conduct of Business Sourcebook  (MCOB), in chapter 13. 
Depending on whether the borrowers inability to meet their mortgage commitments  is short  
term or long term, there are different ways a lender can help to ensure the mortgage gets 
back on track. When a lender is considering  appropriate forbearance  its important they 
consider the borrowers particular circumstances and ability to afford any proposed 
measures to ensure  they do not end up in an unsustainable position in the long term. 
In order to decide whether BoS have  taken appropriate steps in Mr Hs case,  Ive carefully  
considered whats  happened over the years since Mr H began having  difficulty.  This has 
included reviewing the contact notes of conversations  between both parties, the transaction 
history, any payment arrangements  that have been  made, and Mr Hs account of whats  
happened over the years.  Having done so, Im persuaded that the bank has treated Mr H 
fairly, for broadly the same reasons as the investigator. Ill explain why.
It seems  Mr H first began having problems maintaining the CMP in 2013 following changes  
to his employment, and running out of the savings hed previously built up. Its clear from the 
Ref: DRN07297074notes that he was paying everything he could, and was keeping the bank informed about the 
changes to his circumstances. As a result, the bank agreed some short-term  payment 
arrangements to allow Mr H time to get back on his feet. He was soon able to make  larger  
contributions to the mortgage, so the bank agreed to capitalise the arrears  that had accrued, 
so the mortgage was once again up to date.  Looking at the conversations  the bank had with 
Mr H, and the forbearance it offered during this time, Im satisfied  they treated him fairly.
Mr H was able to maintain  those  higher  payments until 2017, when unfortunately the money  
he had been relying on previously had run out, and he became more  unwell.  At this point, 
whilst Mr H was still paying what he said he could, the payments were  much less frequent, 
and very rarely met the CMP. I appreciate from everything Mr H has told us, that this was an 
extremely difficult time for him. And whilst I wont go in to details here of the full 
circumstances as all parties are fully aware  of them, I understand how managing the 
mortgage at this time would have been challenging.
However, despite his difficult circumstances Mr H had created a new business  plan which 
involved him and his wife moving  into the cottage located on the property,  and using the 
main house  for holiday lets. Due to Mr Hs change in circumstances he was also reviewing 
his benefits, and so the bank agreed  to some payment  arrangements whilst Mr H was 
establishing what he would be able to afford moving forwards. They also referred his 
account to the customer priority team due to the way his condition  was affecting him, which  I 
consider was reasonable. 
Overall, during both periods of time that Mr H was unable to consistently  pay his CMP, Im 
satisfied the bank took account of his circumstances, and allowed him time to overcome his 
payment difficulties before taking any other steps to recover the mortgage  debt. As a result, 
Im satisfied the bank  treated Mr H fairly.
The banks decision to decline Mr Hs proposals
In 2018 Mr H started taking bookings  for the holiday let and made a proposal to the bank, 
but as what Mr H was proposing to pay was around  half of the CMP, this was declined. The 
bank explained  to Mr H that unless he was able to find a way of clearing the arrears and 
maintain the CMP  moving forward, they would  have to start legal action. 
The FCAs rules say that legal action to recover mortgage arrears should  only be taken  as a 
last resort. Looking  at Mr Hs situation,  the amount of arrears that had built up on the 
mortgage, and what he could afford  to pay, Im satisfied  at that stage its reasonable to say 
the bank had reached a point of last resort.
Mr H wanted the bank to consolidate his arrears (which were around £56,000 at the time), 
extend the term of the mortgage  and reduce  his interest rate. He said as his holiday let 
business was up and running,  he was able to pay £2,500 per month with the likelihood of 
this increasing in later years. The bank declined  this proposal as they said they wouldnt 
agree to consolidate the arrears unless  Mr H could  demonstrate that he could  afford the 
CMP, which was around £4,000  at the time. 
In normal circumstances,  I dont  think this would have been  an unreasonable  position for the 
bank to take. As when arrears are consolidated, it increases the CMP to ensure the full 
outstanding balance would be repaid by the end of the term. But here,  Mr H was also asking 
to extend the term  which  would spread the increase in monthly payments over a longer 
period. 
Ref: DRN07297075I cant see from the notes that BoS gave this fair consideration  at the time, or calculated 
what an extension would  actually mean  for his CMP in the long term. From the notes, it 
seems they were focused on the consolidation within  the existing term and on the existing 
CMP when considering the proposal.  So Ive thought about whether, had the bank 
considered Mr Hs proposal in the round, this would have led to a different outcome. But Im 
not persuaded it would  have. 
Its not clear what the CMP  would  have been  had the proposal been accepted, at the time he 
did put it forward. Largely  because  there was no specified length of time discussed to extend 
the term by. But whilst  Mr H had said he could  have afforded  to pay £2,500 per month in the 
long term, at the time he made this proposal he hadnt actually been able to pay that 
amount, or any fixed amount consistently  for that matter. So regardless of what  the CMP 
would have been, I wouldnt have expected the bank  to agree to a proposal  that would 
commit Mr H to paying £2,500 per month, or similar, until Mr H had been able to 
demonstrate he could afford the amount he was proposing to pay consistently. Particularly 
as this amount  was based on the predicted income  he would have in the future from a 
business he was only just starting up.
Mr H was proposing significant changes to the mortgage agreement,  based  on an uncertain 
predicted income at the time. Im not persuaded  it would  have been responsible  for the bank 
to agree to such changes  before Mr H was able to show  he could afford them.  As, in the 
event that the changes  were made,  and things didnt work  out as Mr H had planned with his 
business, he would have been tied into a new contract,  which  in all likelihood would have 
resulted in additional costs if it were to end early.
When this proposal was made, the bank had already shown forbearance  by accepting 
inconsistent underpayments whilst Mr H was setting up his business  for over a year.  And at 
the time this proposal was made, he still hadnt  been  able to make the CMP, or even the 
reduced amount  of £2,500 that hed proposed to pay. So I think at that stage, the bank had 
allowed Mr H sufficient time to try and demonstrate he could make regular payments again. 
As Mr H hadnt shown he was able to do that, I dont  think the bank were  acting unfairly  by 
turning down his latest proposal  and starting legal action.
However, Im mindful that this proposal  was made and declined some time ago now, and 
things have moved on. So moving  forward, if they havent done so already, Id expect the 
bank to conduct another full review  of Mr Hs circumstances,  and consider  all possible 
forbearance measures  such as the ones  Mr H has suggested, before resuming any legal  
action to recover the outstanding mortgage debt.
I can see that in 2017,  the bank decided to move  the management of Mr Hs mortgage to 
their customer priority team due to the way his medical conditions affected  him. Based on 
what Mr H had told the bank about  his medical  conditions at that stage I think it was the right 
thing to do. I can see for the most part he had one main point of contact  in that team, which 
made things  easier  for Mr H.
But then the bank moved the management  of Mr Hs account  to a different team who 
specialise in helping those borrowers  who are self-employed when he started running his 
new business. Whilst I appreciate that team may have had the specialist knowledge to help 
self-employed borrowers, its not clear  why that would take the priority over the fact that Mr H 
had different communication needs  due to his medical conditions. I dont think  it should.
Ref: DRN07297076Following the transfer of Mr Hs account,  he did have  to speak to different members  of staff, 
and explain  his circumstances each time.  Whilst I appreciate this would have been 
frustrating for Mr H, it wasnt long after his account  was transferred before he raised his 
complaint. So the contact  was limited during that period. Moving forward,  I think the bank 
should ensure  they are adapting the way they communicate with Mr H to account for what 
hes told them about his medical conditions.
Summary 
Overall, it seems that due to the unfortunate change  in Mr Hs circumstances, the mortgage  
became unsustainable for him. Im satisfied the bank showed a reasonable level of 
forbearance before starting legal action, and so whilst I do think there  are a couple of things 
the bank could have done better  here, Im not persuaded it would  have changed the overall 
position of the mortgage.
However, moving forward both parties  will need  to engage with each other to agree a way 
forward for this mortgage. I would  expect the bank  to conduct a full review of Mr Hs 
circumstances to consider  if there are any other forbearance options  available  to him now if 
hes still unable to make  the full CMP  and clear the arrears. I would also expect them to  
consider the specific  challenges Mr H will be facing due to the current environment,  and to 
ensure hes treated fairly  in line with the regulators evolving guidance for those affected by 
the pandemic.
my final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 February  2021.
Kathryn Billings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0729707