K820x#14Complaint
Mr R is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC refused to refund a transaction on his account  which  
he says he didnt authorise.
Background
Mr R deposited £1000  in cash  into his Lloyds Bank account. Following this cash deposit, an 
online card payment was made for £998.75  some three hours  later using  the card details for 
Mr Rs Lloyds account.
Mr R says that following  a night out he discovered  his wallet  missing,  and this contained his 
Lloyds bank card along  with a card for a bank account held elsewhere. When he reported  
the card missing to Lloyds, he disputed the transaction for £998.75 saying that he hadnt 
authorised this payment. He also disputed transactions made  on the other  bank card hed 
lost at the same time which he says were  refunded.  Lloyds however declined  Mr Rs fraud 
claim and so he made a complaint.
Lloyds looked  into Mr Rs complaint but agreed  that the decision to deny the claim was the 
correct one. It said that Mr R was likely to have authorised  the transaction  because:
It was unlikely a fraudster could make  a payment for almost  the exact amount as the 
account balance  without knowing what that balance was.
There were  no further attempts to use the card.
Lloyds did however offer Mr R £30 in compensation as hed been provided  the incorrect 
timescales for the claim to be brought to conclusion;  Mr R declined  this offer.
Mr R was unhappy with this response to his complaint, so he brought it to our service to look 
into further.
An investigator here concluded  that it was more likely than not that Mr R had authorised  the 
disputed transaction.  She said that Mr R provided  conflicting testimonies regarding the 
circumstances around the loss of his wallet and bank cards. She also thought that it unlikely 
an unauthorised  third party would have been  aware  of the balance  on the account. And is 
also unlikely  that they would have  only made  one transaction for almost  the exact amount 
Mr R had deposited the same day.
Mr R was unhappy with the investigators view as he maintains that he didnt authorise  the 
transaction. He also felt that as hed been refunded the transactions  disputed from the other 
lost bank card  held with another  bank  he didnt understand  why Lloyds were refusing the 
claim. As Mr R didnt agree with the investigators  opinion, the matter  has been  passed to 
me for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
overall conclusions  as the investigator, for broadly the same reasons.
Ref: DRN04953412The basic  position  in law is that Lloyds can hold Mr R liable  for the disputed  payment if its 
more likely than not that he authorised them, or if he didnt take reasonable steps to keep his 
account safe.
Mr R says that the disputed payment was made following the loss of his wallet  containing his 
bank card. He says he didnt realise  the wallet was lost until he was out socialising  in the 
evening when he went to buy a round of drinks. He hasnt  given a specific time for this, but 
he says he went out at 6 or 7pm.
The last time we can be certain Mr R had his bank card is when he deposited £1000 in 
branch earlier  the same  day at 1:32pm.
The disputed transaction was made at 4:33pm the same day using the cards information  
and address verification. Mr R has suggested that his provisional driving licence was in his 
wallet along with his card, so this would explain  how any fraudster would be able to obtain  
the information required to make the payment. But it doesnt explain how the fraudster knew  
to spend £998.75, just £1.25 less than the accounts  balance.
There was a balance  enquiry carried out using the bank  card prior to the payment, but this 
was at 1:56pm   24 minutes after Mr R deposited  the cash into his account.  If this was a 
fraudster checking  the balance of the account  with the intention to steal  its contents, I dont 
think it likely  they would  have waited some two and a half hours  to make the payment. 
Fraudsters  or even  opportunists   would be aware that upon realisation that a persons 
bank card had been  lost or stolen, they would likely report this fact to their bank  and the card 
would be blocked.  
I also think this an unlikely  scenario as it would  have meant the fraudster had access  to 
Mr Rs PIN, and there is no likely explanation as to how they would have known this 
considering Mr R says he was the only person that knew it. He had also never used  the 
account prior to that day.
Considering the above, I think it more likely than not that Mr R carried out the balance 
enquiry. But if that were  the case, I think that it highly unlikely the fraudster would have just 
guessed that Mr R had £1000 in his account, spend  almost the exact same amount  and not 
attempt to use the card again. And I have  seen no other evidence suggesting that there  
would have been any other  way of a third party  knowing the accounts balance.
In addition to the above  points, Mr Rs testimony  has added additional reasoning as to why I 
think it more likely than not that he authorised the payments.
When Mr R contacted Lloyds to report the loss of his bank card, he said that he was using 
cash to fund his night out. But when  answering  questions from our investigator he said that 
he discovered his wallet  missing when he went to buy a round of drinks. It was upon  
realising this that a person with Mr R at the time paid for his drinks for the evening.
Whilst I acknowledge that its not impossible, I find it unlikely that a person would leave to go 
out for an evening without  checking for their bank card and wallet  in order  to fund 
themselves. I also find it unusual that when discovering the wallet and bank  cards  missing 
that Mr R didnt report this to his bank until the following morning.
When combining these  irregularities with the unlikely scenarios above, I think that it more 
likely than not that Mr R either carried out the transaction himself  or authorised  someone  to 
Ref: DRN04953413carry it out on his behalf.  I realise  that Mr R may be disappointed with this view, but when 
considering the evidence,  I think  it unlikely the transaction was carried out without his 
knowledge. And because of this is would be unfair  to hold Lloyds responsible for the 
transaction.
Mr R has mentioned that he cant understand why his disputed  transactions  on an account 
held with another bank were refunded but these  were not  despite the circumstances  being  
the same. I have  looked into this and Mr R was actually provided a partial  refund by the 
company the disputed  transaction  was made  to. His fraud claim with the bank was actually 
rejected and the bank didnt provide any refund to him. So whilst I understand why he may 
have been confused by this, this wasnt actually what happened.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint against 
Lloyds Bank  PLC. 
Ill simply leave it up to Mr R to decide on reflection if he wishes  to approach Lloyds  and 
accept the £30 offered in compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 August 2020.
Stephen Westlake
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0495341