K822xComplaint
Mr J is unhappy with the response  of Clydesdale Financial Services Limited (trading as 
Barclays Partner Finance), following a claim against under section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act (CCA) 1974.
Background 
Mr J was contacted by a company that supplied and installed  solar panel systems. Ill refer to 
the company as M. Following a meeting  at his home, Mr J agreed  to enter into a contract  
with M for it to supply and install a solar  panel system costing around £8,500. To fund this Mr 
J also agreed to enter into a 10 year fixed sum loan agreement  with Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF).
Mr J made  a claim under section 75 (s75)  of the CCA via his representative. The 
representative said that M had told Mr J that the solar panel system would be self-funded  
and that the monthly loan payments to BPF would be more than off-set by the feed-in-tariff 
(FIT) income. But that hadnt happened. Instead,  the monthly loan repayments had been 
much higher  than the income.
In its final response letter,  BPF said that it didnt think the benefits of the solar panels had 
been misrepresented  to Mr J as they were performing  in line with the estimates hed been 
given at the time. Unhappy with the response, Mr J referred  the complaint to our service.
Following our involvement, BPF made  an offer of compensation to Mr J. It said it had worked 
out what it considered  to be an estimate of the potential savings and income to Mr J from the 
panels over the 10 year term of the loan.  It had then reworked the loan to ensure that he 
paid no more than that over the 10 year loan term. As Mr J had paid off his loan early  it had 
calculated he was due a refund of around £200.  To recognise the trouble and upset  caused,  
it also offered to pay him £100 to reflect this.
Our investigator felt that the offer put forward by BPF was fair.
Mr J replied, via his representative, to say that he didnt accept the offer.  In summary he 
said, based on the FIT income he had received for the first three  years, BPF had 
overestimated the overall  benefits he had received. 
As an agreement couldnt  be reached, the case has been passed  to me to review.
 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J says that he was cold-called and during  a sales meeting told that the solar panels 
would be entirely  self-financing.  Neither  Mr J nor BPF disagree that the benefits  of the 
system had been  misrepresented to him. As a result this decision will deal with what I 
consider to be fair compensation.
The role of this service is to help settle disputes between  consumers and businesses  
providing financial services fairly  and reasonably  with minimum formality. In cases  like this 
Ref: DRN06877432one, determining fair compensation isnt an exact science. My role is to arrive  at a fair and 
reasonable outcome taking account of the particular  circumstances. 
I appreciate that traditionally the parties are put back into the position they wouldve been in 
if there had been  no misrepresentation.  However, here, I dont think it would be fair or 
proportionate to require the removal of the solar  panels from Mr Js home. Rather,  I think the 
fair outcome is to put Mr J in a position where  the solar panels are self-funding over the 
original term of the loan.  By allowing Mr J to keep the solar panels, Im satisfied that he will 
likely benefit  from lower  electricity bills and FIT payments going forward (i.e. after the term of 
the loan has finished).
Mr Js representative has said that the first three  years FIT income  he received was 
£2,068.06. BPFs calculation showed that the total benefits to Mr J over the 10 year term of 
the loan would be £9,625.93. Therefore,  the representative didnt think  BPFs offer was fair 
and that it had overestimated the benefits that Mr J would receive.
BPFs calculation, alongside  the FIT income,  also takes into account  any electricity  savings  
that Mr J would make by using the energy generated by his solar  panels rather than buying  it 
from his energy provider.
Mr Js representative says that he was told that the loan repayments  would  be covered by 
the FIT income.  So, Ive considered whether any electricity savings should be taken into 
account when  arriving at fair compensation.
Im satisfied that Mr J was misled into thinking  that the solar panels  would be self-funding 
and so on that basis I need  to decide fair compensation. When thinking about that question,  I 
think its fair to take account of the electricity generated  by the solar panel system. On the 
one hand Mr J has to pay his loan and for any electricity used in addition to that generated 
by the panels and on the other hand  he could off-set those payments by the FIT payments 
and the savings associated with the electricity generated by the panels.  It would be unfair to 
ignore the electricity generated and used by Mr J when calculating fair compensation.
I have carefully considered the methodology BPF has submitted to this service  to calculate 
the total benefits of the solar panel  system.
This methodology is based on the actual performance and estimated future  performance  of 
Mr Js solar panel system.
BPF has outlined that when calculating the estimated future performance of Mr Js solar 
panels, it will use a number of assumptions. These  include using a self-consumption  rate of 
37%. This is the percentage of energy generated by Mr Js solar panels  that he is expected  
to use rather than buying electricity from his energy  provider. 
Self-consumption is impacted by the period  of time that someone is in their home and able to 
use, or self-consume,  the electricity their solar panel system is generating. It is self-evident  
that determining  an exact figure over the period  of the loan is difficult. My role is to determine  
fair compensation and arrive at an outcome that is fair and reasonable overall. And in cases  
of this nature that isnt an exact science.
Taking this into account Im satisfied that using  a self-consumption rate of 37% is fair and 
reasonable in this case. Im of the opinion that this takes into account changing occupancy  
habits over the lifetime  of the solar  panel system. Once the loan has been repaid, as it has in 
Ref: DRN06877433this case, Im satisfied  that it is highly likely that Mr J will continue to benefit  from the system  
as a result  of a reduction in his electricity  bills because of the electricity generated by the 
panels and the FIT payments.
Ive also considered the other assumptions used by BPF, including  electricity price  inflation, 
the degradation  rate and the estimated retail price index (RPI).  Im of the view that these 
appear reasonable taking into account the actual known figures. As an example, the actual  
average RPI for the last four years doesnt seem  to be far from the assumed figure. In 
summary, Im satisfied that the assumptions  that have been used by BPF provide a fair and 
reasonable basis for calculating fair compensation.
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information  available at the time that Mr J first 
contacted BPF that means that his claim should  have been  upheld. The fact that this didnt 
happen undoubtedly caused  him trouble and upset and consequently Ill make  an award of 
£100 to cover this. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Mr Js complaint  should be upheld. In full and final settlement of it, 
Clydesdale Financial Services Limited  should:
allow Mr J to keep the solar panels,
estimate the potential  savings and income  to Mr J from the panels over the 10 year 
term of the loan and rework it so he pays no more than this. Where possible, it 
should use Mr Js electricity bills and FIT statements  to do this,
add 8% simple interest* to any overpayment  made from the date of the overpayment  
to the date of the settlement, and;
pay Mr J £100 for the trouble and upset  caused.
Ref: DRN06877434Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2020.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
*If Clydesdale  Financial Services Limited  considers  that it is required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to take off income tax from that interest,  it should  tell MR J how much  its taken  off. 
It should also give Mr J a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can claim the tax 
from HM Revenue  & Customs.
Ref: DRN0687743