K820x#14complaint
Mr W says that a used van he acquired via a hire purchase agreement  with Black Horse  
Limited was mis-represented to him and wasnt of satisfactory quality.  He wants to now 
reject it. 
background 
In March 2017 Mr W visited a dealership  as he needed a bigger vehicle due to his growing 
family. Mr W says he told the salesman that the vehicle would be used for doing  short  
journeys to nursery and school.  He says the salesman suggested that a particular diesel van 
would fit his needs. The van was four years old and had a mileage  65,000. It required some 
repair work before Mr W could take possession of it. Mr W went  ahead  with the purchase 
and part exchanged his diesel car as part of the agreement. 
After about three months a warning  light illuminated on the dashboard and so Mr W took the 
van back to the dealership. It appears there was an issue with the anti-lock braking system 
(ABS). The van had repairs to the ABS in May,  June  and July 2017 at no cost to Mr W. 
These repairs resolved  that issue. 
In February 2018  the van passed its MOT although there was an advisory note that the EML 
was illuminated. Mr W took the car back to the dealership that same  month.  The dealership 
found that the light was illuminated due to an issue with the Diesel Particulate Filter (DPF) as 
a there  was a build up of soot in the filter. The dealership cleared the fault and 
recommended that Mr W should take the van on a number  of long journeys to avoid any 
further build  up. 
Mr W says he followed  what  he had been  told but the EML illuminated again after a few 
days. The dealership cleared the DPF for a second  time and told Mr W he needed to take 
longer journeys in the van on a regular basis. 
In April 2018 Mr W made a complaint to Black Horse  about the quality of the van as he said 
hed found a number of faults with it. He also complained  that the van had been  mis-
represented to him by the dealership as he hadnt been advised  that it would need  to be 
driven regularly  on longer  journeys. He said if he had been told this he wouldnt have 
acquired the van as it was always  intended  to use it for short  domestic journeys. 
Black Horse  arranged for the van to be inspected by an independent  engineer. The 
inspection took place in June 2018.  The independent engineer  found  a number of potential  
issues with the van. These were: 
A potential noise from the handbrake most  likely due to components  sticking in the 
handbrake mechanism
Ref: DRN02504582Potential rust on the handbrake though this was not judged to be excessive or 
abnormal for a vehicle of that age and mileage
A potential missing bolt from the sliding door which  had been found  to be missing in 
June 2018.
A potential dent in the vans roof which was considered minor and had been noticed  
in May 2018
Missing cover for the back door
Missing parcel shelf.
The engineer also considered the repairs that had already been  carried  out on the vehicle 
and examined  those job cards.
The engineer concluded that due to the time and mileage  (5000 miles) that had elapsed  
since the point  of sale and said the issues being reported combined with the nature of the 
issues reported no evidence has been  provided  that the issues were present at the point of 
sale.
Black Horse  didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint.  It said the issues with the van hadnt been 
present at the point of sale and had arisen  over time due to wear  and tear so werent the 
responsibility of Black  Horse. It also said that the van hadnt  been mis-sold due to the DPF 
as there  was an expectation  on the consumer to fully understand the features of the product 
that they are purchasing. It said Mr W wasnt entitled to reject the van.
Mr W was unhappy about the decision made by Black Horse and he complained  to this 
service. Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ws complaint should be upheld. He said 
there wasnt enough evidence to say the van wasnt of satisfactory condition at the point of 
sale. He also didnt  think the van had been misrepresented  by the dealership.
The investigator said since time had passed since the sale of the van it was unclear what  
had been discussed between Mr W and the salesman about the DPF. However,  even if the 
features of the DPF hadnt been  discussed at all or only briefly  that wasnt enough to say a 
misrepresentation had taken  place.  For a misrepresentation to be found thered need to be 
evidence that a false statement of fact had been made that induced  Mr W to enter into the 
hire purchase agreement for the van.
The investigator also said that Mr W had owned a diesel car before the van so it wouldve 
been reasonable for the dealer to have thought Mr W had an understanding  of diesel 
engines.
The investigator accepted that Mr W had had issues with the van though the majority had 
been resolved.  Mr Ws main concern was with the DPF as he believed  it was still affecting 
the vans performance. But the investigator noted  that Mr W had said the DPF warning  light 
wasnt currently illuminated  and so there wasnt  any evidence that the vans performance 
was being adversely affected by the DPF.
Mr W had also raised  concerns over rust which had caused problems with the door handles  
and the boot not locking.  The investigator said the van was acquired in 2017 and many of 
the faults raised by Mr W had actually occurred recently. He said that a vehicle of that age 
Ref: DRN02504583would be expected to have some  issues through wear and tear and there wasnt evidence  
that these issues  had been  present at the point of sale.
Mr W disagreed  with the view of our investigator. He said that the van was designed for 
commercial use and has a big engine and a lightweight body. This weight/size  ratio was 
different to the design of diesel cars and has an impact on the regeneration  process  of the 
DPF. So, unlike his previous car which could go through  the regeneration process on relative  
short journeys, the van needed  longer  journeys to do so. Mr W said the van didnt meet the 
requirements hed set out to the salesman at the dealership and it shouldnt have been  sold 
to him.
MW also said that the van recently failed its MOT with a long list of advisories which  showed 
it was in poor condition.  He said it has extensive  rusting which has caused  problems  with the 
doors and boot.
As the parties were unable to agree  the complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Misrepresentation 
Looking firstly at Mr Ws complaint that the van was mis-sold  or misrepresented  to him, Mr W 
says he told the salesman  at the dealership what he wanted the car for (short  domestic  
journeys) and the size that he needed. He says the salesman  suggested the van which  was 
a diesel vehicle.  
Mr W says that its clear  a commercial van isnt suitable for use as a domestic vehicle as 
journeys will be shorter and the DPF wont go through the regeneration process that is 
needed to stop the filter clogging up. Black Horse  says the van wasnt  misrepresented  as 
there isnt any evidence that an untrue  or misleading statement of fact was made during 
negotiations that induced  Mr W to enter into the agreement.
I dont know what was said at the time Mr W attended the dealership  and thats important. Mr 
W has to show that he entered  into this contract  because he was given  statements  of fact 
that werent true about the van. This is more than the van turning out not to be suitable for 
Mr Ws needs. And I havent seen any evidence that the salesman said anything  that wasnt 
correct about  the DPF.
Its also possible that the DPF wasnt discussed at all, but that wouldnt amount to a 
misrepresentation as Mr W needed  to have been induced by something  that was said
From what  Mr W has said I think the size of the vehicle was discussed as Mr W had very 
specific needs about the number of seats available  in the vehicle. I also think  it wouldve 
been clear that the van wasnt going  to be used commercially but as a domestic vehicle. But 
I dont have evidence  that vans generally  arent  suitable for domestic use. 
Mr W has provided information  from the internet about PDFs and this says that short 
journeys at low speed are the prime cause of blocked diesel particulate filters. He says that 
its clear the van was going to be unsuitable and that because of the way its used there is an 
Ref: DRN02504584issue with the DPF which  will require an expensive repair. He says that the van is losing 
power and this will keep  getting worse.
Ive seen that Mr W had owned  a diesel  car previously and this was also known by the 
dealership as that car was used  as part exchange for the van. So I think in the 
circumstances it was reasonable  for a diesel  engine vehicle to have been  recommended to 
him by the salesman. I think most people would expect owners of diesel engine  vehicles to 
have some understanding about how they worked. 
Mr W has raised the differences  between the car and the van in terms of engine size and 
weight and the affect this has on the regeneration process. But I dont have evidence that 
the van was totally  unsuitable or that the salesman made any claims about the van 
compared to Mr Ws original diesel  car. From  the information provided by Mr W Ive seen 
that DPFs generally can be negatively impacted by too many short  journeys  and so I dont 
think this is a specific issue  for vans only.
However, although Ive seen  that the van had problems  with the DPF becoming blocked in 
the past I dont  have  any evidence that this is still the case. Mr Ws says the warning light 
isnt currently illuminated on the dashboard and that the van is useable.  Mr W says he thinks  
that its possible the warning light has been  fixed by the garage  so it doesnt come on but 
Ive no evidence to support  that view.
Mr W says there is an issue  with the van losing power but I cant  reasonably  say that this is 
due to the DPF as potentially  this could be due to something else.  Ive noted that the 
independent engineer who inspected  the van in June 2018 didnt raise any issue  with the 
vans DPF.
So for the reasons given above  I dont accept that the van was misrepresented  to Mr W.
The vehicles condition
Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015  (The Act) goods provided to consumers must be of 
satisfactory quality, fit for purpose and as described.  When  the goods are used vehicles then 
account must be taken  of the age and mileage when deciding  whether it was of satisfactory  
quality. Thats because  components of a car dont  generally last forever and over time items 
will need  to be repaired and replaced due to wear  and tear. So maintenance and repair  costs 
are an expected part of car ownership and this will increase as the vehicle gets older  and is 
used more.
Mr W says the van had multiple visits to the garage for various issues. Ive seen  that shortly  
after he acquired the van there was a problem with the ABS which  required three visits to the 
garage. However this problem appears  to have been fixed and hasnt  been  raised  by Mr W 
as part of his complaint.  
The van was next taken back to the dealership  due to the problem with the DPF and Ive 
seen there  were two visits over that issue. Since the last visit in March 2018  the EML hasnt 
illuminated due to the PDF.
Ive seen Mr W complained to Black Horse  in April 2018 and raised other  issues  with the 
van. By this time the van had been in his possession for just over a year. 
Ref: DRN02504585Under The Act when  a fault comes to light six months after taking possession of the vehicle 
its for the consumer to show  that the fault wouldve been present at the point of sale.  Any 
fault that is shown  to have been either developing or present at the point of the sale will be 
the responsibility of the retailer to repair. However any faults  that develop  due to wear and 
tear wont  be.
Black Horse  arranged for the van to be inspected by an independent  engineer. He identified  
some issues  with the van in regards to the handbrake, the sliding  door, a dent in the roof, 
missing cover for the back door and missing parcel shelf. All of the issues  that were 
identified were, in the engineers opinion, items that had arisen  through wear and tear. The 
van was described  as being in average condition.
Mr W says the van is excessively  affected by rust which has led to parts failing, in particular 
door handles  and the boot. He has provided  photos and a copy  of the recently failed  MOT 
which has a number of advisories listed. The MOT was failed  due to anti-roll  ball joint dust 
covers no longer preventing the ingress of dirt. The advisories include worn tyres, frayed 
seta belts, corroded brake pipes and worn brake  pads. By the time of the MOT the vans  
mileage was 80,000 so 15,000 more miles than at the point of sale.
Looking at the MOT  I dont have any evidence that any of the items raised as an advisory 
wouldve been present at the point of sale.  Many of the items listed are ones that most  
people would expect  would need  repairs and maintenance over time. I cant  reasonably  say 
that the failed  MOT is evidence that the van wasnt of satisfactory condition at the point of 
sale.
Looking at the photos again I dont think these show that there  was an issue with rust at the 
point of sale. The engineer found rust on the vans handbrake but was of the view that this 
was what would be expected for a vehicle of that age and mileage.
Mr W says that the dealership offered  to exchange the vehicle and start a new a finance 
agreement but he was unable to afford the new agreements costs.  Mr W says this supports  
his view that the dealership was aware  the van wasnt  of satisfactory condition. But I dont 
think I can reasonably accept this as evidence that the dealership agreed with Mr W. I think 
its more likely the dealership was trying  to offer a solution as part of its customer  service to 
him.
So looking  at the evidence I'm not upholding Mr Ws complaint. Im satisfied the van wasnt  
misrepresented to him. Im also satisfied that the van was of satisfactory quality at the point 
of sale. There isnt enough evidence to prove any of the faults  with the van were either 
developing or present  at the point  of sale. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 June  2019. 
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0250458