K820x#14complaint
Mr R has complained that Bank of Scotland plc will not refund any commission it received 
from his credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) premiums for the PPI he took out in 
2001.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To be clear, my decision  only deals with Mr Rs complaint  about  commission. Thats because 
thats all Mr R is complaining about  this time.
 
Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint. I know this will disappoint Mr R. Ill explain why Im not 
upholding his complaint about  this PPI policy.
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about  the 
non-disclosure of commission where PPI was sold. 
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share  from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission and profit share  that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
But these  rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship  provisions 
in the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions  which  were  added to 
the Consumer  Credit Act in 2006  came into force on 6 April 2007. The changes  made in 
2006 explained that the unfair relationship  provisions would only apply to credit  agreements 
taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements taken out before then, which were still 
running on 6 April 2008. 
         
Bank of Scotland has given me information  that shows  that for the PPI in this case (which 
started in 2001) the credit account was taken  out in 2001. Theres evidence of two card 
numbers which Bank of Scotland says were  linked to the account. Bank of Scotland  has 
given me information  showing  that one closed in September 2002 and the other  closed in 
July 2003. So, as the credit account closed in 2003,  based on what  Ive said above I dont 
think the unfair relationship provisions in the Consumer Credit  Act, the Supreme Court 
judgment, or the rules  and guidance  made by the FCA in relation to the non-disclosure of 
commission apply here.
Mr R has said his credit didnt  end in 2003 but carried on for many years after that. But Ive 
not seen anything to support this as far as this credit account  is concerned.  Bank of Scotland  
has told us that as well as this account  Mr R had PPI on one other account. It has already 
repaid Mr R some commission for that account.  Mr R has told us he had three credit cards  in 
total. So it might be another account that continued  in the way Mr R has told us about.
For the reasons  Ive given above  Im satisfied that the account  Im looking at here, which  
stated in 2001 with PPI on it, didnt continue after 2003. So Bank of Scotland doesnt need to 
refund any of the commission Mr R paid for the PPI he had on this credit  card account. 
Ref: DRN02955002my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0295500