K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M have  complained about  Tesco  Underwriting  Limiteds handling of their claim 
under their home insurance  policy after they suffered an escape of sewage  under their 
bungalow.
background
In January 2019, Mr and Mrs M suffered an escape  of sewage under their bungalow.  It 
affected the kitchen,  bedroom and living room. They made a claim under their policy  which 
Tesco accepted.
Tesco arranged for a drainage specialist to attend  the property. The specialist confirmed that 
the cause was a blockage  in the main  sewer which had caused a build-up of pressure 
flooding the floor and sub-floor.  While the local water board set about  unblocking the main  
sewer, Tesco appointed a contractor (which  Ill call P) to clean and decontaminate the 
affected area.
P made several attempts to decontaminate the property by spraying chemicals (fogging) but 
these were not successful  and the smell remained.  In early February 2019, Tesco therefore 
agreed to appoint a sewage specialist to do the decontamination.  It also agreed to appoint a 
loss adjuster to oversee the claim.
Mr and Mrs M, however, became unhappy with various aspects of Tescos  claim handling.  
These included  the delay  in carrying out an initial inspection; the appointment of a 
contractor, P, which they thought didnt have  the necessary expertise; the offensive  tone 
used by Tescos claims handlers when  discussing the claim;  the failure to offer full cover  for 
the replacement  of all kitchen units;  the handling of testing for asbestos; and the failure to 
offer support  with alternative accommodation. They complained to Tesco.
Tesco issued its final response letter to the complaint in March  2019. It considered that it 
had generally  handled the claim in an appropriate  and timely way. It was satisfied its offer for 
the cost of replacement kitchen  units had been  fair. It noted that, apart  from one night when 
Tesco paid for them  to stay in a hotel, Mr and Mrs M had chosen  to remain  in their home and 
receive a disturbance allowance rather than move to alternative accommodation. However, it 
acknowledged there were  some  things it could have done better. It therefore  offered £400 
compensation for any distress and inconvenience caused. It explained that this was on top 
of £182 which it had overpaid  Mr and Mrs M in expenses for hotel accommodation and 
which it agreed they could keep as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr and Mrs M were  unhappy with Tescos offer. They referred their complaint to us.
While the complaint was under investigation by us, Tesco continued  to deal with the claim. 
However, Mr and Mrs M again became unhappy at progress. They commissioned their own 
survey which  revealed that the ongoing  smell was due to the fact that the stench pipe had 
collapsed. After being presented with these findings in May 2019, Tesco agreed to 
reimburse the costs  which Mr and Mrs M had incurred and sought to address the problem 
which had been  identified. 
Mr and Mrs M again complained to Tesco. They  said it had been left to them  to make 
arrangements to discover the root cause of the problem and that Tesco should have 
identified it a lot sooner.  
Ref: DRN00365662Tesco issued its final response letter to the second complaint in August 2019. It 
acknowledged that it hadnt  provided  as good a service as it should  have  done  to Mr and 
Mrs M. It offered them a further £400  compensation.
Mr and Mrs M were  dissatisfied with Tesco's  response. They again referred their complaint 
to us.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded not to uphold  the complaints.  My 
findings were as follows:
While Mr and Mrs Ms complaints have been dealt with separately  until now,  given that they 
both relate  to the overall handling of their claim, I consider it is sensible to deal with them  
together.
Im satisfied there was no unreasonable delay  in Tesco arranging an initial  inspection. It was 
quickly confirmed that the problem was a blockage in the main sewer.
Im also satisfied that P initially sought to resolve the problem of the smell in an appropriate  
way, by carrying out fogging. With the benefit  of hindsight, we know that this couldnt  have 
resolved the problem because the continued  smell was being caused  by the collapsed 
stench pipe but that information wasnt available to P at the time. It was only once fogging 
had been tried, and had failed, that Tesco could reasonably have been expected to 
investigate the problem further. Mr and Mrs M say theyve been told by experts, including  
Tescos sewage specialist, that even if the problem had only been the blocked main  sewer, 
fogging wasnt the right approach but they havent  provided any evidence to support this. 
I note that Tescos representative  said in one telephone call youre  being  paid a 
disturbance allowance for not having the pleasure of using  the kitchen and living  room  
and I agree that this phrase was inappropriate given that a kitchen is a necessity. But I note 
the representative apologised as soon  as he realised he had caused offence and Im 
satisfied this apology  was adequate.
Im also satisfied that Tescos offer to pay 100%  of the cost of replacing the bottom  kitchen 
units and 50% of the cost of replacing the undamaged, matching top units  was fair and in 
line with the approach of this service.
Tesco was willing to pay for Mr and Mrs M and their family to move  to alternative 
accommodation. In the event, they chose to move out for one night only, though due to a 
misunderstanding Tesco  paid them for two nights. Tesco, as a gesture of goodwill,  didnt  
seek to recover the over-payment of £182. Im satisfied this was fair.
Tesco did make an error  when, after telling Mrs M she could dispose  of various food items 
and claim for these, it later asked whether she had first allowed P to inspect these. Tesco  
shouldnt have challenged Mrs M in this way given  that it had already authorised her action 
and I consider she would have been  upset by this.
Tesco could  also have  done better  in respect of the asbestos-containing material (ACM) 
testing. It decided that the lagging to pipes in the void might have retained odour  from the 
sewerage and so should be removed  but before it could do this it needed to test the lagging 
for ACM.  However, it didnt  advise  Mr and Mrs M of this and so the first they knew  of it was 
Ref: DRN00365663when the contractor involved in testing contacted them. I think  this would have caused them  
some surprise and concern.
I consider that Tesco was also at fault in failing to reassure Mr and Mrs M of their ongoing  
safety in the property by carrying out swab testing. I can see that this was a high priority  for 
Mrs M in particular.  Tesco asked  P to carry out testing but P advised it wasnt able to do this. 
I think Tesco should have  taken the initiative  at this point and arranged  for another  company 
to do it. Instead, it left it up to Mr and Mrs M to find someone who could do the testing, albeit 
it agreed to cover the cost of this. I recognise that Mr and Mrs M were eventually able to find 
a company which could do the testing and that this found no evidence of contamination. 
I also recognise that there is no evidence that Mr and Mrs M and their family have suffered ill 
effects from contamination  which may have been  present at the time of the event and shortly 
after. But I consider that Tescos  failure to take control of the testing process  and thereby 
provide the reassurance which Mr and Mrs M were seeking will have caused them a degree 
of anxiety and upset.
With regard to the identification of the ongoing  cause  of the odour, I would have expected 
that Tesco would have started exploring other possible  causes once the initial attempts to 
eradicate this hadnt fully succeeded. I think it was wrong that Mr and Mrs M should  have  
had to resort to commissioning their own experts  to look into the problem. I note that Tesco 
reimbursed Mr and Mrs M the expenses they incurred,  and agreed  to act on the findings of 
their expert. However, I consider that the fact Mr and Mrs M felt it necessary to make  their 
own investigations into the problem indicates  that they were  extremely frustrated with Tesco 
and its contractors.
Its clear that there were certain failings  on the part of Tesco. But Tesco  has acknowledged 
this and has offered  a total of £800  in compensation. Overall, I am inclined to think that its 
offer is fair and in line with what Id have  likely  awarded if Tesco hadnt made this offer.  
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs M have  been  through a difficult time but this is inevitable 
following the type of incident they experienced. And while the problem wasnt resolved as 
quickly as was hoped, this wasnt purely  down to the failings of Tesco  and its contractors. As 
Tesco has pointed out, unforeseen circumstances can sometimes  cause complications. If 
Tesco had done its job better, it may have  made  the situation a little easier  for Mr and Mrs M 
and resolved things  slightly  quicker. However, taking  account of its goodwill gesture of £182, 
Tesco has effectively offered Mr and Mrs M nearly  £1,000 compensation. I consider this is a 
fair amount for the distress and inconvenience  it has caused to Mr and Mrs M. I dont think it 
needs to pay more than this. 
I invited both parties to comment  on the provisional decision.
Mr and Mrs M didnt  accept my provisional decision. They said they were told both by 
Tescos sewage specialist and by an independent company that fogging was not the 
appropriate way to deal with the problem because it only removes odour and doesnt clean 
the area. They said that P acknowledged  it wasnt an expert  on sewage and Tesco gave 
inconsistent information  on whether  it was able to carry out swab testing. They explained  
how Tescos drainage contractor failed  to carry out a proper survey and it was therefore left 
to them  to employ another contractor who correctly  identified  the collapsed  stench pipe and 
other issues. They described how the ongoing problems had affected their quality of life, and 
said that the poor quality of the restoration work meant their house was still not back to 
normal.
Tesco accepted  my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN00365664my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im satisfied that my 
provisional decision should stand. I shall explain why.
I note Mr and Mrs Ms comments  about  Ps lack of expertise and what  they consider should 
been the correct way to deal with an escape of sewage. However,  while they have invited 
me to contact Tescos  sewage specialist for confirmation, they havent provided  expert  
evidence to confirm  that Ps approach was fundamentally flawed. Without such evidence,  I 
cant reasonably  say that P was wrong  to initially try to rectify the problem through  fogging.  
I have also noted  Mr and Mrs Ms comments about  the inconsistent  information provided by 
Tesco about  its ability to carry  out swab testing. I accept this would have been frustrating for 
Mr and Mrs M, and that the uncertainty  about whether they were in a safe environment 
would have caused them stress.
I also accept that if Tesco  had carried out an adequate  survey  sooner, it would have enabled  
a faster  resolution  of the claim. It shouldnt have  fallen  to Mr and Mrs M to arrange  for 
specialist investigations  to be undertaken. Mr and Mrs M have described  how the claim 
impacted on their day to day lives and I can see that they have been through  a difficult 
experience.
However, I also have to recognise  that an incident of this nature was bound  to cause some 
disruption and distress,  no matter how well the claim was handled. And I still believe that 
some of Mr and Mrs Ms criticism of Tescos decision-making  is made  with the benefit  of 
hindsight. Furthermore, while Mr and Mrs M have described how difficult it was to live in the 
house through this period,  the fact is that Tesco had offered to move them to alternative 
accommodation but they had chosen  to remain rather than be separated from their two 
dogs.
Overall, having taken everything  into account,  I remain of the opinion  that Tescos  offer of 
£800 compensation is fair.
Mr and Mrs M also describe further  problems  in the resolution of their claim. I should  point 
out that this decision deals with matters only up to the time of Tescos  second final response  
letter in August 2019. If Mr and Mrs M are unhappy  with Tescos actions since then, they 
should raise this as a new complaint  with Tesco  in the first instance.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 June  2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0036566