K822xcomplaint
Ms B complained that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc mis-sold mis-sold payment protection  
insurance alongside two credit  cards.
background 
Ms B had PPI alongside a credit  card account.  She thought the PPI was mis-sold. RBS 
looked into this, and agreed  the complaint should  be upheld. It offered to put her in the 
position shed  be in if it hadnt  sold her the policy.
But RBS said it didnt  have records showing  when  the PPI started  and ended   or how much 
extra Ms B had paid towards the policy. Ms B sent RBS some  statements from April 1996 to 
November 1998.  RBS used these to work  out what it needed to pay Ms B. After tax, it said it 
would pay £482.10.
Ms B thought she should  get more. In particular, she thought the PPI began in 1994; RBS 
assumed the PPI started  in 1996.  RBS didnt agree. Ms B referred the complaint to us.
At this point RBS looked at the offer again. It said it noticed that the statements Ms B had 
sent it referred to two different  account  numbers. It thought there was actually a second  PPI 
policy, on this other  account   and so it shouldnt have included  those statements in its offer.
I issued my provisional findings on this complaint on 2 March 2020.  I explained  that, based 
on what Id seen:
I agreed that it looked as though the later statements  related to a different card 
account. But based on what Id seen, and on what Ms B had told us about her 
circumstances, I thought the second  policy had also been  mis-sold. Ms B worked on 
a zero hours basis, which including covering other staff during busy  periods. It also 
appeared that she was planning  to stop working shortly  after this policy started. The 
policy didnt cover unemployment that was normal or seasonal  in her occupation. 
Taken together, I thought  the PPI was of limited use to Ms B, and I didnt think  shed 
have agreed to buy it if RBS had given her enough information  about it. So I said that 
RBS should put Ms B in the position shed be in if she hadnt bought the policy.
RBS had agreed the complaint about  the PPI alongside the original account number 
should be upheld.  So I looked at whether the offer was fair. RBS said that the offer 
would start in 1996 as those were the earliest statements Ms B could provide. Ms B 
thought the account  started  in 1994. I said that I didnt think it would  be right to just 
dismiss what Ms B had said  shed otherwise been able to give a detailed and 
plausible account of what had happened. The earliest statement showed  a balance 
of £1,358.20. So I was satisfied the card started before then. But I also recognised 
that we had very limited information, which made it difficult  to say with any certainty 
how Ms B in fact used  the card during  this period.
Our adjudicator had suggested using April 1995 as the mid-way point between the 
date Ms B said the account  had opened and the date of her first statement. I said that 
in the absence of better information, I thought this was a fair starting  point. I 
proposed that RBS assume that the card opened in April 1995, and that it should  
assume the balance  increased gradually  to that shown on the earliest  statement. I 
Ref: DRN06197022also said that if either Ms B or RBS had better information showing what it spent on 
the card, they should send it to me.
I said Id consider any comments I got by 2 April.
RBS agreed with my provisional findings.  It has now sent me details of its updated offer. It 
says that as the balance from the first account  appears to have be transferred to the second 
account, it will calculate the refund spanning both cards.  It has started the calculation  from 
March 1995 and carried on the calculation  until September  2001 as it doesnt  know when the 
second card ended. It says it has worked out this offer to be £909.70.
Ms B responded with some questions about  what Id proposed RBS do to put things right.  
But otherwise she agreed with my provisional findings. 
Ive now considered the complaint again.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the reasons  Ive already explained above,  I thought the complaint should be upheld. 
Having considered everything  Ms B and RBS has said, I reach the same  conclusions for the 
same reasons. So Ive gone on to look at whether what RBS has now offered is fair.
Where I decide, or a business agrees, that a complaint about the sale of PPI alongside a 
credit card should be upheld, Id expect the business to put the customer  as far as possible 
in the position theyd  be in if they hadnt bought  the policy.
In Ms Bs case, the PPI was added to a credit card. So shed pay the premiums  with interest 
in line with the terms and conditions of the account.  This means she needed to pay more, 
and she needs  to get this back.
Ive looked at RBSs latest  offer.
I see that the offer takes into account the statements  Ms B has sent us. RBS assumes  that 
the card opened  in March 1995 with a balance of £804.10. It assumes that the balance  then 
increases gradually  to the amount shown on Ms Bs first statement. And it also assumes that 
when Ms Bs account number changed, that the balance was transferred to the new card  
and it continues to calculate the PPI refund on that basis. As it doesnt have records showing 
when the card ended, it assumes  the card continued until the beginning September 2001.
Using these assumptions  and the statement information it has, it has worked out the 
premiums charged to the account and the interest charged on those premiums. It has also 
included interest   the rate is 8% a year - to compensate Ms B for the time shes  been out of 
pocket, from the date she paid for the premiums  as part of her credit card payments until the 
date she gets them back. In total and after tax, it has worked out the compensation to be 
£909.70 as at 1 April 2020.
Having carefully considered everything  both Ms B and RBS have  said,  I think  this offer is fair 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  It now reflects the possibility that Ms B had the policy  
for longer, and the statements Ms B has provided.
Ref: DRN06197023my final decision
For the reasons  above, I think Ms Bs complaint should be upheld.  Royal  Bank of Scotland 
plc should now bring the offer up to date and pay Ms B.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 May 2020.
Edward Hardman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0619702