K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance  (PPI)  policy.  Mr R says 
AXA France  IARD (AXA) mis-sold him the PPI. 
background and summary to complaint
Briefly:
In 2000 Mr R took out a PPI policy at the same time as applying for a high street  store card 
during a store visit.
The policy provided  protection for Mr Rs store card payments in the event he couldnt work 
because of accident, sickness or unemployment.  The policy would pay out 15% of the 
outstanding account balance each  month  and it cost no more  than £1.00  for every £100 Mr 
R owed on the card.
At the time of the sale Mr R has told us he was employed as a concrete finisher.  He said he 
was entitled to less than three months  sick pay and some redundancy pay. He told us that 
he had savings or insurance  worth three months  of his income he couldve used to make his 
repayments in the event  he was unable to work  although I note that, during its investigation 
of Mr Rs complaint AXA records that Mr R said he had no other means  at his disposal. Mr R 
said he was in good health  at the time of the sale.
According to AXAs records,  Mr R paid a total of just 27 pence for PPI during the policys  
lifetime.
The adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. They said they thought 
the available  evidence showed that Mr R chose to take out the cover.  And there was nothing 
to indicate it was fundamentally wrong  or inappropriate for him.
Because Mr R, through his representative  disagrees, the complaint comes to me for a 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken into account all that is relevant in deciding Mr Rs case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Rs complaint and my reasons are set out 
below.
did Mr R have a choice about PPI?  
did he agree to take it out?
AXA had to make  it clear that PPI was optional.
Ref: DRN06278122Mr R says AXA didnt do this  he says he was told to sign by the crosses already marked 
out on the application. He says he believed the staff were in a position of trust and he relied 
on their professional advice.
AXA has provided a copy of Mr Rs store card application. Looking at this I can see there 
was a separate section about  PPI, which required  a customer to sign if they wanted to take 
out PPI  it said: only sign this box if you require Account  Cover.  And in Mr Rs case 
he signed this section. 
I can see as Mr Rs representative has pointed  out that there are crosses  marked  on the 
application next to where  Mr R signed  for PPI and next to where he signed  the credit  
agreement to take out the store card. But I dont find this unusual  given the context of a sale 
carried out face-to-face. And in and of itself doesnt  mean that Mr R didnt  know what he was 
signing for or that nothing was said about  PPI. As I said above this section said that it should  
only be signed if cover  was required.  And I think at the very least  Mr R wouldve seen and 
read this  I dont think he wouldve given his signature in this section without  knowing 
something about what he was signing for.
Mr R has said he trusted  the staff and relied  on their professional advice, which  is why he 
simply signed where he was told to. But Im not persuaded by this argument. This was a sale 
in a high street store  it wasnt for example carried out in a financial institution such  as Mr 
Rs bank with whom he likely  had a relationship and might reasonably place trust in what 
they told him.  
Mr R has also said he didnt know he had PPI. But as I said above,  Im not persuaded Mr R 
wouldve given his signature to something not knowing anything about  what  he was signing 
for.
So taking everything into account, I think its more likely  that Mr R knew the policy was 
optional and he agreed to take it out without undue  pressure. 
the information   
AXA says it didnt recommend or give advice to Mr R to take out PPI. Mr R says he was 
advised. Looking  at what happened in this case,  Im not persuaded AXA provided  advice -  
Ive not seen anything to show  or suggest  that it considered Mr R individual  circumstances 
and/or recommended  the cover to him.
This means  AXA didnt  have to ensure the cover  was right or suitable for Mr R. But it did 
have to give him enough clear and timely information about  the policy, so he could make an 
informed decision about it.
Given the available evidence, I accept its possible the information AXA gave  Mr R about the 
PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been.  For example I think  its unlikely the true cost of the 
cover was explained and the fact the premiums could attract interest and would  continue  to 
be paid during a claim, or that the significant exclusions and limitations of cover were  clearly 
brought to his attention.   
Ref: DRN06278123But as I found  above, I think Mr R chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. And based on his circumstances at the time it doesnt appear that it was 
fundamentally wrong or inappropriate for him - for example he was eligible for the cover; he 
wasnt affected by the significant exclusions on or limits to the cover such as those relating 
to existing medical conditions or unusual employment circumstances; and given his existing 
means it seems like it would still have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So because I think Mr R still had some good reasons to take out 
the cover, I dont  think better information  about it would have put Mr R off taking it out. 
conclusion
While AXA might not have  done everything it should  fairly  and reasonably have done when it 
sold Mr R PPI, in light of his circumstances at the time and for the reasons Ive set out 
above, I think on balance  hed have still gone  ahead and taken out PPI had AXA done  
anything more.
This means  I dont  think Mr R has lost out as a result  of having PPI, so AXA doesnt  have to 
pay back to Mr R what he paid for PPI.
Mr Rs representative has raised  a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says applies to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that we are 
not correctly applying the regulators  rules  and guidance for handling  PPI complaints; these 
policies represented  poor value because  of the number of significant exclusions and 
limitations of cover  coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty of utmost  good faith 
meant AXA should have disclosed the poor value and explained  the significance  of the 
limitations and exclusions  and the impact  it had on the chances of making a claim.
But Mr Rs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Rs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Rs particular case. But 
these points doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of the complaint - for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold 
this complaint. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 July 2021.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0627812