K820x#14complaint
Mrs F complains that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy in 2000 when  she took out a buy now pay later hire 
purchase agreement.
Although the policy was sold by another business, Financial Insurance  Company Limited 
(FICL) has accepted responsibility for the sale and this complaint.
So to keep things simple,  Ill refer to FICL as the seller  in my decision.
background
Mrs F took out her hire purchase agreement  in store. The policy  covered Mrs F if she was off 
work because she had an accident, sickness or if she lost her job. It would have covered her 
for up to 12 months per claim and cost £1.57 per month. 
Mrs F says that she wasnt in a position  to make a fully informed decision about buying the 
policy and the policy wasnt suitable  for her as she had good employee benefits.
Our adjudicator didnt  think this complaint should be upheld. Mrs F disagreed with this view 
and asked that her matter  be referred  to an ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs F but Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why 
below.
Mrs F says that as the sale was a long time ago she has no specific recollection of exact  
events at the time of the application. Mrs F says she may well have opted for the PPI but she 
wasnt in a position to make  a fully informed decision to buy the PPI. The first thing Ive 
considered is whether  Mrs F had a choice about  buying the policy.
I have seen a copy of the completed credit agreement from the time of the sale. At the 
bottom of the form there is a section  about PPI. The section sets out: I require payment 
protection insurance and confirm that I meet the eligibility requirements as explained in the 
key features information.  It goes onto set out the cost of the cover and the total monthly 
payment and states; (only sign if you want cover) in block capitals. Mrs F has signed  the 
section to show that she wanted  the cover. She has also separately  signed the credit 
agreement. I think  she would have realised she could have left the section about the PPI 
blank if she didnt want the cover- although  its completely understandable if she cant  
remember the exact details of the sale now after so long. Overall, I think she decided  to take 
out the cover knowing she could refuse it if she didnt want  it.
I dont think FICL advised Mrs F to take out the insurance. So it didnt  need  to make sure it 
was suitable for her. But it still did need  to give her clear, fair and non-misleading information  
so she could decide for herself if she wanted  to take it out.
Ref: DRN09102462I cant say what was said to Mrs F when she bought the policy.  So its possible that not all 
the information was as clear as it could have  been.  But thats not enough  to uphold this 
complaint. I next need to think whether having  better information would have changed 
Mrs Fs mind about buying  it.
I still think Mrs F would  have bought  the PPI. I say this because  I can see that more  
information would have only shown her that she was eligible for the PPI and I dont think she 
would have been affected by any of the main  limitations and exclusions that would have 
made it more difficult to make a claim.
Mrs F says she would have received good  sick pay from her employers where shed worked 
for a long time - six months full sick pay followed by six months half pay after that, so she 
had no need for the policy. I accept that Mrs F had good sick pay but even  so this policy 
would have paid out on top of any sick pay she got and would have paid out for longer than 
her full sick pay lasted so I still think it would have been useful if something went wrong.
Theres nothing which makes me think the policy  was unaffordable or that Mrs F had a 
particular need  to keep her costs down. 
So all in all I cant say Mrs F lost out financially as a result of anything  FICL did wrong and I 
dont uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint. Financial Insurance  Company 
Limited doesnt need to do anymore to put it right.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 August 2019.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0910246