K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R have complained about a number  of issues concerning their mortgage which 
is now held with TSB Bank plc (TSB). Mrs R has dealt with the complaint throughout (with 
the consent of Mr R). 
background
Mr and Mrs R have a mortgage  originally taken out with another lender but which  is now 
owned by TSB. It is made up of a main secured account, two secured sub accounts  and one 
unsecured sub account. Payments are received for the secured accounts from the 
Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) and from a debt management plan (DMP),  for the 
unsecured account.  In addition there  are irregular  payments  made by Mr and Mrs R.
This complaint follows on from a previous  complaint which  was the subject of an 
ombudsmans final decision dated  1 December 2017. Since  then, Mrs R has remained  
unhappy about the way TSB has dealt  with the mortgage account. Her concerns are as 
follows:
TSB wouldnt  make a new arrangement to pay when she contacted it in January 2018  
after receiving redress awarded by the Financial  Ombudsman Service following a 
previous complaint;
TSB failed to follow the correct process for eviction, or agree to put this on hold after she 
complained again  to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Mrs R says TSBs actions were 
taken in revenge for her having  made previous complaints;
Mrs R is still unhappy about  arrears on one of her sub accounts;
Mrs R is unhappy that TSB claimed that the unsecured sub account was secured in 
2006;
TSB added arrears fees to the unsecured  account, despite receiving payments under an 
agreed DMP;
Mrs R believes  TSB is still apportioning her payments  incorrectly.
An adjudicator looked at the complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld. Mrs R disagreed  
and has asked for an ombudsman to review  the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im aware  Ive summarised  the 
background to the complaint in rather less detail than its been presented. No discourtesy  is 
intended by this. In my role as an ombudsman Im required to concentrate  on what I consider 
to be the material  issues in the complaint. Im allowed to do this by our enabling  legislation.  
There are over 1,000 pages  of evidence, and I confirm Ive read everything provided by 
Mr and Mrs R and TSB.
Ive also noted  that the adjudicator set out the background and circumstances of the 
complaint in considerable detail in her letter dated 1 February 2019. Both Mr and Mrs R and 
Ref: DRN08214122TSB have  a copy of that letter, so there is no need  for me to repeat all the detail here. My 
role is to review the complaint, not to reinvestigate it.
I also wont be revisiting any issues brought  to the Financial Ombudsman Service  by Mr and 
Mrs R in previous complaints.
There is currently a suspended possession order (SPO)  granted by the court in TSBs favour 
in 2013. This ordered Mr and Mrs R to pay the current monthly instalments on the secured 
loans, plus £10 per month.  The terms of the order werent kept to, and so the arrears  
increased. 
In April 2018 TSB wrote to Mr and Mrs R explaining  that it was applying for a warrant  of 
eviction. The bank  wasnt required to take Mr and Mrs R back to court before it did so. 
Letters were  sent by TSBs solicitors  and the court about the eviction, which  Im satisfied 
Mr and Mrs R received.   TSB was under no obligation to put the eviction on hold while a 
complaint about  it was made to us, nor was it required to inform  the local authority about the 
pending eviction.  
Im satisfied TSB was entitled to apply for the warrant of eviction.  But if Mr and Mrs R 
consider TSB failed  to follow the correct  court procedure, thats a matter  theyll  need to raise 
with the court. 
I note Mr and Mrs R applied to suspend  the warrant of eviction and the court granted their 
application in May 2018. The judge  put in place new payment terms under the SPO. Mr and 
Mrs R are now required to pay the current monthly  payments  on the secured accounts, plus 
£30.66 per month, unless TSB agrees  to accept a reduced amount. 
Despite the terms  of the SPO granted in May 2018,  in October  2018  TSB agreed to accept a 
reduced amount  for three months, made up of the current  monthly  payments plus £14.76. So 
I disagree that TSB has failed to agree payment plans, as Mrs R contends.
The unsecured loan account  is the subject of a charging order granted  in 2006. This does 
not make  it a secured loan from a regulatory perspective. But it means that if the property is 
sold, TSB is entitled to recover the outstanding balance out of the net proceeds of sale,  after 
any secured loans are repaid. There is nothing untoward about this. TSB is entitled to 
protect its lending in this way. 
Im satisfied that TSB (or its predecessors) have  agreed to various DMPs over the years. But 
its not obliged  to accept any payment arrangement proposed by a borrower if this is, in 
TSBs opinion, unaffordable, unrealistic, unsustainable or unlikely  to be adhered to. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs R have been in financial  difficulty for many years, but the 
forbearance shown  by TSB at some point will reach  its tolerance  level. I note that a DMP 
was implemented for the unsecured loan via Pay Plan and that payments  towards  this re-
started in January 2018 after there had been no payment  from April-December 2017.  TSB 
approved this DMP in June 2018  after it had previously been broken.
Payments made to the four accounts  are complicated by the fact that DWP payments to the 
three secured accounts are made every four weeks, rather  than every calendar month. As a 
result, it appears that in some months there is a payment shortfall and in others, where  Mr 
and Mrs R have also paid their own contribution,  a surplus. This means  arrears  fees have 
been applied  where the account shows a payment shortfall. 
Ref: DRN08214123We would  not expect a lender to apply  arrears fees where payments agreed under a 
payment arrangement or ordered by the court  under a SPO  are being made in full. TSB has 
said it has refunded previous arrears fees, and will review the remaining arrears fees to see 
if there are any that it is required  to refund. I think this is fair and in line with what  TSB is 
required to do. I dont expect it to do anything  more than this.
TSB is also unable to separate the payments automatically across the four sub accounts; it 
requires instructions from Mr and Mrs R about  how their payments are to be apportioned.  Im 
satisfied Mr and Mrs R have been aware of this since at least 2014. Without specific  
instructions from Mr and Mrs R about  which account  the payments are to go to, TSBs 
system is set up to divide  payments automatically  between the four accounts  (including the 
unsecured account), proportionate to the outstanding balances. 
I dont have the power to tell TSB to change its systems. Banking nowadays  is largely  an 
automated process  and individual  accounts are not administered in person by a staff 
member. So unless Mr and Mrs R tell TSB which accounts they want their payments to go to 
as they are making  those payments, TSBs  system will spread them across the four 
accounts. 
TSB isnt required to alter its system. But as long as the payments are correctly re-
apportioned and any unfair arrears fees are removed,  then there is no loss to Mr and Mrs R. 
TSB has said it will review  the accounts  to see if any unfair  arrears  fees have been  charged 
in this regard.  I dont require TSB to do anything further, as I think  this is fair.
In the long run, though,  I think  Mr and Mrs R will need to make  sure that they give clear 
instructions to TSB when they make their payments about how these are to be spread 
across the three secured  accounts. In her letter of 1 February 2019 the adjudicator  explained 
various ways Mr and Mrs R could do this. There is nothing further I can add to that. 
Mrs R is adamant that both the arrears and the repayments on the unsecured  account  are 
incorrect. We dont audit  accounts but my review of the accounts doesnt lead me to 
conclude that Mrs R is correct. But as a previous ombudsman explained to Mr and Mrs R in 
December 2017,  its open to her to have the account  audited  herself  at her own expense.  If 
this reveals accounting  errors by TSB that are detrimental to Mr and Mrs R, wed expect the 
bank to put these  right and cover the cost of the audit. But if there are no errors (or if any 
errors are in Mr and Mrs Rs favour), then we wouldnt ask TSB to reimburse the cost of the 
account audit.
I appreciate the administration of Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage  and unsecured accounts is not 
straightforward, due to payments coming  from the DWP and a DMP, with Mr and Mrs R 
required to pay the shortfall on the secured loans and payments  needing  to be split across 
the three secured loan accounts.  But overall Im not persuaded TSB has done anything  
wrong. I acknowledge Mrs R is dissatisfied  with the way TSB administers her accounts.  But 
TSB cant provide her with a bespoke service, and if payments  are to be split correctly, TSB 
needs instructions  from Mr and Mrs R when they make their payments.
I acknowledge Mrs Rs strength of feeling  about  this matter. I am aware that Mrs R is upset 
about what she perceives to be the lack of help the Financial Ombudsman Service has been 
able to give her in relation to this matter  and I am sorry  if this decision adds to her distress. 
But after carefully  reviewing everything Mr and Mrs R and TSB have said, I dont think  the 
bank has treated Mr and Mrs R unfairly  or unreasonably in its handling of the accounts or the 
eviction process.
Ref: DRN08214124my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 June 2019.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0821412