K820x#14complaint
Auxillis Limited (Auxillis) dealt with Mr Cs accident management claim. Mr C has 
complained about the repairs completed  by the garage, the communication from Auxillis 
during the claims  process, and the termination  of his hire car. 
background
Following Mr Cs road traffic accident,  Auxillis arranged for repairs to be completed on Mr 
Cs car. The repairs were completed by a garage from Auxillis repair network.  Mr C 
contacted Auxillis and told them he wasnt happy. Auxillis  agreed for Mr Cs car to stay with 
the garage for further work to be done. Mr C remained unhappy after his car was repaired a 
second time. Auxillis  said that theyd instruct an independent engineer  to complete a post- 
repair inspection (PRI). The engineer found that the standard of work  completed was 
reasonable. Mr C was asked to return his hire car, and collect  his car from the garage. 
Mr C was still unhappy with some parts of the repairs.  Auxillis told Mr C that because the 
PRI showed that the work  was reasonable, theres nothing  further  theyd ask the garage  to 
do. Auxillis agreed  that work wasnt  completed properly first time, and offered £25 for this. 
Auxillis said that if Mr C obtained a quote  from an independent garage,  they would refer this 
to the independent  assessor for consideration. Auxillis later reimbursed Mr C £179.90 for 
repairs completed at a garage  chosen by Mr C. 
Mr C brought his complaint to the Legal Ombudsman. He complained  broadly about  the 
repairs, poor communication,  and termination of his hire car. The investigator found that the 
remedy of £25 offered  by Auxillis was fair. The investigator said this was because  they 
thought Auxillis hadnt done anything wrong  for any of the other complaints. Mr C disagreed  
and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
This complaint was originally investigated  by the Legal Ombudsman, but was transferred to 
the Claims Management Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman service) as part of the 
change in the regulation  of claims management companies.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I understand that this has been  an 
upsetting time for Mr C. Having reviewed the case, I agree with the investigators findings,  
and I wont be recommending Auxillis do anything more. Ive focused my comments on what  
I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific  point  its because  I dont believe its 
affected what I think is the right outcome.
Ref: DRN03278252repairs completed by the garage
We wouldnt normally look at complaints about repairs completed  by a garage. Auxillis 
offered £25 for poor repairs  completed  the first time.  I havent  commented further on this 
payment because the repairs themselves  were  carried out by the garage - not Auxillis.  
communication from Auxillis and termination of hire car
Mr C says that Auxillis didnt communicate with him properly during his claim. The 
relationship between Mr C and Auxillis became difficult  around  the time that Mr Cs car was 
repaired a second  time.  Mr C was unhappy  that his car still hadnt been repaired  properly.   
I accept that Mr C was anxious to hear back from Auxillis about what  would  happen with his 
car, and he contacted them (sometimes  twice in one day) asking for an update.  Mr C was 
told that Auxillis would contact the garage  and arrange a PRI of the car. I think Mr Cs 
frustrations were more with the repairs on his car, rather than the updates he was getting 
from Auxillis. I can appreciate that Mr C was hoping for a swift resolution however I think 
Auxillis clearly explained to Mr C that they couldnt authorise anymore repairs until a PRI had 
taken place. I can understand this wasnt the outcome Mr C was hoping for, but I think  
Auxillis clearly explained what was happening  to Mr C. 
Auxillis made a decision to send  only emails to Mr C whilst they were  looking into his 
complaint. Auxillis say this was because it was difficult to speak to Mr C on the phone. Ive 
listened to calls between  Mr C and Auxillis and I can appreciate it was difficult  for calls to 
move forward. The decision to communicate by email allowed both Mr C and Auxillis  to have 
a clear record of the claim, and what was happening. So even though Mr C would have been 
disappointed to only communicate by email,  this didnt affect the handling of his complaint.  
Mr C still achieved the resolution he was looking for and Ive seen that he agreed with the 
steps taken. This includes the PRI, additional  repairs at a garage he chose,  and being  
reimbursed for this. So I dont think Auxillis  did anything  wrong  in communicating  with Mr C 
by email only. 
As part of the claims process both Auxillis  and Mr C have a duty to mitigate  costs.  This 
means that when repairs are completed, the hire car must be returned as soon as possible  
to avoid further costs  being claimed  from the third party insurer. If the third party  insurer 
thinks that costs have been unfairly  added, they can refuse to pay. In this case, Mr C could 
be held responsible. So I can understand why its really important to keep costs down.
Following the PRI, when  the engineer said that further work wasnt  required, Auxillis asked 
Mr C to return the hire car. Whilst  Mr C felt strongly  that repairs hadnt been completed 
properly, Mr Cs car was safe to drive. I think Auxillis acted fairly by requesting  return of the 
hire car at this time. I havent  seen that returning  the hire car caused Mr C any additional 
upset or inconvenience. Mr C was still given the chance to go to another garage and obtain 
an estimate for the repair  work he was unhappy  with. Mr C chose  this option, and was 
reimbursed for the cost of repairs. 
Mr C says he hasnt been provided with all calls relevant to his claim.  Ive seen that Auxillis 
emailed Mr C the calls and documents  relevant  to his claim in September  2018.  I think this 
was fair, so I wont be asking Auxillis  to do anymore.
Ref: DRN03278253my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I think Auxillis have acted fairly in their handling of Mr 
Cs claim. For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 August 2019.
Neeta Karelia
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0327825