K822xcomplaint
The trustees of G complain about  HSBC UK Bank Plcs safeguarding process. Mrs H asks 
that HSBC apologises, accounts for missing  documents and pays  compensation.  
background 
In late 2017 HSBC asked the trustees of G for information as part of its safeguard  process, 
which is intended to protect customers from fraud and financial  crime.  Mrs H says she 
provided the information requested, but HSBC lost it and kept chasing her to provide it 
again. She said she felt harassed and threatened. This was more upsetting because of the 
death of family members  in this period. Mrs H says the £500 compensation offered by HSBC  
isnt sufficient. 
Mrs H says shes worried the documents  she provided are now outside HSBC and could be 
used for fraud. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld,  saying:
the safeguard  review  started in November 2017 and ended in August 2018. The trustees 
provided information on time. The review took longer than it should have done.
HSBC didnt fully investigate or respond  to all of the trustees questions when they made 
a complaint. 
HSBC had apologised.
HSBC said the documents would have been kept within  the bank and securely 
destroyed. While  it cant provide proof  of this, on balance  this was likely. Theres no 
evidence of a breach  of confidentiality  or that the information had been compromised.  
HSBC said given the trustees difficult circumstances  it would increase its offer of 
compensation to £650. The investigator  said this was fair and reasonable.
The trustees didnt  agree, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
HSBC contacted the trustees in late 2017.  It asked for information as part of its safeguard 
review. The trustees sent the requested documents to a staff member  who then left HSBC.  
Mrs H says she was asked to send the same  documents several  times, had numerous  
phone calls and visits to her branch. She says HSBC repeated  parts of the review process 
and the staff members  she spoke  to didnt understand the nature of a trust.  HSBC froze the 
account, causing more inconvenience.
Ref: DRN08214232In May 2018  a staff member did assist Mrs H. Mrs H says she understood her situation and 
allowed her to provide  hard copies of documents,  such  as the trust deed. Even after this, 
Mrs H received emails and calls asking for copies of the trust deed.  The safeguard review 
was completed in August 2018.
The trustees dont  dispute that HSBC was entitled to carry  out the safeguard review, 
although Mrs H doesnt agree that all of the documents requested were necessary. While I 
think HSBC was entitled to ask for documents, I can understand how upsetting  it must  have 
been to be asked for death certificates and other information when family members had 
recently died or were  very unwell.  
Theres no doubt here that HSBC made  errors. So I need to consider what  it should do to put 
matters right  so far as that is possible   and settle  this matter.
The missing  information  and documents
Mrs H sent documents  to HSBC. HSBC cant locate or account  for the documents. HSBC 
says its processes mean they will have been securely destroyed. Its likely well never know 
for certain  what happened to the documents  and I understand Mrs Hs concerns about this. 
But its not reasonable for me to require HSBC to locate  the documents   or account  for 
what happened to them  when it has said its unable to do so. 
At the moment theres nothing to suggest these documents and information  arent  secure or 
destroyed. I cant reasonably award  compensation  for something  that hasnt  and hopefully 
wont ever  happen. If theres  evidence in future that the information hasnt been kept 
secure Mrs H should raise this with HSBC.
I dont doubt though that the uncertainty about the location of the documents  has caused 
Mrs H worry and upset as well as unnecessary inconvenience in having to provide the 
documents again.
An apology from HSBC
HSBC wrote to Mrs H in August 2018  in response to her complaint. It acknowledged its poor 
service and said it was sincerely sorry for her experience. It offered £500 compensation by 
way of an apology  for the distress and inconvenience caused. And, later in the letter, it 
apologised again for any inconvenience or concern caused as a result  of the situation.
Mrs H asks for a fulsome and genuine apology from HSBC. I understand how upsetting this 
has been for Mrs H and that she feels the apology offered  isnt sufficient. But I dont think its 
fair to say that HSBC didnt apologise.  As I think its unlikely a further  apology  from HSBC 
that it is required to make will meet  Mrs Hs request for a full and genuine apology,  I havent  
ordered HSBC  to provide this.
Compensation
I think its right that HSBC pays compensation for the upset and inconvenience caused  by its 
errors. Mrs H also had expenses, such as posting further copies of documents  and travelling 
to a branch,  that could have been  avoided if HSBCs service had been  better.
The nature of the safeguard review  meant  some  inconvenience  contacting HSBC, 
updating information and providing documents  was inevitable.  But HSBCs errors  caused 
Ref: DRN08214233unnecessary additional  inconvenience  and upset. Nothing can change  what happened here 
and its difficult to find an amount of compensation thats fair to both parties. HSBC initially  
offered £500 and agreed to increase this to £650 to take account of Mrs Hs personal 
situation. Overall, I think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay £150  in 
addition to the £500 it had already  offered  to pay to the trustees. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the trustees of G 
to accept or reject my decision before 20 October 2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0821423