K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) withdrew certain banking 
facilities without making him aware and have generally provided him with poor service.
background
Mr P held a private  bank  account with NatWest  and was unhappy to learn that his private 
banking manager  facility had been withdrawn without being told. Mr P also feels  the general 
service he has received from the bank has been poor and has deteriorated over time, and he 
is unhappy with how he has been treated. 
NatWest said that Mr P was no longer eligible for a premier account  as he failed to meet  the 
relevant criteria, so he was no longer  eligible for his own private banking  manager. However, 
despite not being eligible,  they said they had not downgraded his account  from the premier  
banking account,  so he was still able to retain  certain benefits such as a dedicated business 
line. 
NatWest did, however, acknowledge that Mr P may not have been  informed about  the 
changes to his account and upheld  his complaint. They apologised for the inconvenience 
this might have caused him and sent a gift hamper. Mr P was unhappy with this, however, as 
the hamper contained goods  that he could not eat, and he further  wanted  an apology  from a 
senior officer at NatWest in order to resolve his complaint.  NatWest  said that they would be 
willing to send Mr P the cash value of the hamper  at £43.20, but said that theyd already 
apologised so they would not be asking any of their senior officers to do so again.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Ps complaint. She considered that it was a commercial  
decision of NatWests to choose whether to provide a private banking manager  or not, but 
she agreed that they could have provided a better  service. However,  the investigator thought 
NatWest had done enough  to put things right with their apology  and offer to give the cash  
value of the hamper. Mr P disagreed,  so the complaint  has been passed  to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it.
NatWests decision to withdraw certain banking facilities is ultimately a commercial  decision, 
and one in which this service would not typically interfere unless that decision had been 
made unfairly. In these  circumstances,  NatWest say that Mr P no longer met the eligibility 
criteria for this service which is why it was withdrawn.  So I dont think the facility was 
withdrawn unfairly. But Mr P says he is unhappy  with the service he has received in relation 
to this, as he says he was not informed that any changes had been made to his account.
Ive considered what Mr P has said about  the service hes received, and how he has since 
lost confidence  in NatWest. And I can see that the service hes received has on occasion 
fallen below standard, which NatWest  have also acknowledged. There is some  dispute 
around whether  Mr P was given any notice of the changes to his account. But even if he 
wasnt, I cant see that any of the changes made have caused any form of financial loss or 
significant emotional harm such that he should be awarded further  compensation.
Ref: DRN09855052I appreciate that Mr P has suffered the loss of expectation of his private  banking  manager. 
But I think NatWests written  apology and gesture of sending a gift hamper (or to pay the 
value thereof) is fair in the circumstances. Mr P did not accept this, however, as he says he 
wants a written apology  from a senior  officer  at NatWest, as he doesnt accept the apology 
provided by the customer service team. 
In their final response, NatWest offered their sincere apologies for any inconvenience you 
have been caused. I appreciate this may have come from the customer service team, but it 
is by and on behalf of NatWest as an organisation, which includes their senior  officers. So I 
do not consider  it necessary for a senior  officer to offer another  apology, and I will not be 
directing them to do this as theyve apologised already.
I appreciate that Mr P feels strongly  about  this matter, but in the circumstances, I consider 
that NatWest have done enough to address the poor service Mr P has complained  of, and I 
will not be asking them to do anything further.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 September  2019.
Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0985505