K820x#14complaint
Mr H is unhappy with how Liverpool  Victoria Insurance Company Limited  (LV) has settled his 
claim on his car insurance with the finance  company from whom he leased it. He wants  VAT 
added back into the settlement  amount  LV has paid. Alternatively,  he thinks hes entitled 
under his policy to a new car replacement (or a cash equivalent to the value of a new car).
background
In my provisional decision of 24 January 2020  (a copy of which  Ive attached  to this final 
decision), I explained why I didnt intend  to uphold  Mr Hs complaint.
Mr H has responded to my decision with a number of points. LV hasnt responded. 
Mr Hs complaint has now come  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint,  as well as taking into account Mr Hs most 
recent comments.
Having done so, and for the reasons I gave in my provisional decision, Ive decided  not to 
uphold Mr Hs complaint.
In his response to my provisional decision Mr H has, among other things  said:
He didnt expect  me to make an award  for the full replacement value of the car. 
Instead, he wanted me to consider the new car replacement  wording  in his policy as 
an example of why, in his view, LVs policy wording is unclear and therefore 
unfair.
His policy wording didnt make  it clear VAT would be deducted  from the market value 
of his car and so it should cover him for the full VAT-inclusive amount. Mr H also said 
Id overlooked that his insurance  policy isnt with his finance company (which  can 
recover VAT) but with him (who,  as an individual, cant recover  VAT).
Mr H has also referred  me to:
Some unfair trading  regulations. He thinks LV has acted contrary  to them  in not 
making it clear VAT will be deducted  from his cars market value. 
Some advertising guidance about VAT-inclusive  and VAT-exclusive  price  claims.
Finally, Mr H says he can understand  why I might think  it isnt fair to require LV to pay
a sum that would effectively put him in profit. But he says a court  would simply give effect  to 
the contract.
Ive considered these  and the other points Mr H has made but they dont change  my 
conclusions in my provisional decision. Thats because, firstly, for the reasons I gave in it, I 
dont think Mr H is entitled under the terms of his policy  to a new car replacement. And, as 
Ref: DRN03021502Ive said, I wouldnt have  expected LV specifically to draw to Mr Hs attention  the 
requirement to be the registered keeper to qualify for it.
And, secondly, in relation to VAT, and as I said in my provisional decision, since  Mr H in 
effect hasnt paid the VAT, it would put him in an advantageous position if he was to get it as 
part of the settlement. I dont think that would  be fair and reasonable.
Turning to the regulations and guidance  Mr H has referred me to, I should say we are an 
informal disputes resolution service, not a court. As part of my role, I must take account of 
the law (although Im not obliged to follow it) but my over-arching duty is to decide Mr Hs 
complaint in a way that I think is fair and reasonable based on the evidence and arguments.  
But in any case I dont  think  the regulations and guidance are relevant here.  Thats because, 
as Ive said, I dont  think  its fair and reasonable for Mr H to be paid the VAT. So, in my view, 
questions about  whether  LV needed to give clearer information about the treatment of VAT 
in its policy  definition of market value  are irrelevant in this complaint. 
Mr H says a court would  simply give effect to the contract between him and LV even if it did 
effectively put him in profit.  I cant comment on that. All I can say is that, while  I realise Mr H 
will be disappointed with my decision, if he decides to reject  it other  options to resolve his 
dispute with LV  such as legal action   remain open to him.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given in this final decision and in my provisional  decision of 24 January 
2020, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2020.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN03021503COPY OF MY PROVISIONAL DECISION OF 24 JANUARY  2020
complaint
Mr H is unhappy with how Liverpool  Victoria Insurance Company Limited  (LV) has settled his 
claim on his car insurance with the finance  company from whom he leased it. He wants  VAT 
added back into the settlement  amount  LV has paid. Alternatively,  he thinks hes entitled 
under his policy to a new car replacement (or a cash equivalent to the value of a new car).
background
Mr Hs car, which he leased from a finance company, was stolen and hasnt been recovered. 
So he made a claim  on his car insurance.
LV dealt with Mr Hs claim on a total loss basis. It valued his car at £28,810 inclusive of VAT 
and at £24,008.34 net of VAT. It deducted Mr Hs excess of £500  from the net valuation 
figure and sent the finance  company a payment of £23,508.34. The finance  company had 
told LV its settlement  figure  was £24,890.48. So Mr H was left owing the finance  company 
£1,382.14.
Mr H was unhappy with this. In brief, he didnt think LV shouldve deducted VAT from the 
settlement amount it sent the finance company. And he also thought  his policy  entitled him to 
a new car replacement as an alternative  to LVs settlement.  So he complained to LV.
LV didnt uphold  Mr Hs complaint. It said it had calculated Mr Hs settlement amount 
correctly, and VAT shouldnt be added back in because the finance company had already 
reclaimed the VAT element on the car from HMRC.  And it said Mr H wasnt entitled  to a new 
car replacement because he wasnt the registered keeper of the car.
So Mr H brought  his complaint to us. The investigator who looked at it upheld it in part. He 
thought LV should add back the VAT element into its settlement amount. But he didnt  think 
Mr H was entitled to a new car replacement. LV disagrees with our investigators findings on 
the VAT issue, and Mr H says hes entitled to a new car replacement. So this complaint has 
come to me to decide.
 
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Based on what Ive seen  so far, I dont intend to uphold Mr Hs complaint.  I know  this will 
disappoint him but I hope the reasons  Im about to give help him to understand why  as 
things stand  Ive reached  this conclusion.
Ill look first at the VAT issue. 
Mr H says because  said he wasnt entitled  to claim for a new car replacement LV offered him 
the cars  "market value", which is in line with his policy terms. He says he and LV are agreed 
the market value was £28,810. Despite this, he says LV reduced his claim by deducting 
VAT, offering £24,008.34. He says the policy  wording clearly states LV should  pay full 
market value, and makes no mention anywhere  of deducting VAT.
Ref: DRN03021504LV says its obligation  is to pay the market  value less excess, irrespective of any agreements  
that are in place. It says it doesnt pay VAT to companies who can claim the VAT back from 
HMRC. It says it paid the market value of the car to its owner  (the finance company), less 
the VAT because the finance  company could claim that back. And it says the car is only 
worth what  it paid plus what HMRC  paid and so any further payments would be above  and 
beyond market value.
When our investigator upheld this aspect  of Mr Hs complaint, he hadnt  seen  a copy of the 
hire agreement between  Mr H and the finance  company. Mr H has kindly  sent us a copy  
after I requested  it. Looking at the agreement,  I can see it says that Mr H must pay 23 
monthly instalments  of £309 including VAT for the car. But condition 8 of the hire 
agreement says if the finance company terminates  the contract or if Mr H repudiates it, he 
must pay the total amount  of rentals  payable  during  the hire period excluding VAT less the 
amount of rentals  paid excluding VAT. LV has sent us an email  from the finance  company 
in which  it says its settlement figure of £24,890.48 is net of VAT.
Based on this information, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to direct  LV to add the 
VAT back into its settlement amount  of £23,508.34. Thats because the finance company 
had already deducted VAT from the settlement amount of £24,890.48  that it sent LV. So 
having VAT added  back would  put Mr H in a better position than he should be in and I dont 
think that would be fair.
Turning next to the issue of the new car replacement. My starting point is that, under the 
terms of Mr Hs insurance policy, LV is entitled  to total control to conduct, defend  and settle 
any claim. This is a standard  term in an insurance  contract. But under the terms of Mr Hs 
policy it also says that, if he is the first and only registered keeper of the car and, within 12 
months of buying it, its lost or stolen, LV will replace his car with a new one of the same 
make, model and specification. 
The problem in Mr Hs case is that he wasnt the registered keeper of the car  the finance 
company was. And in any case Mr H has said he wouldnt  want  a replacement car, since 
hes had two stolen  previously. 
So I think that, as the car still belonged to the finance company, LV was entitled to settle     
Mr Hs claim as it has  by paying  off the outstanding finance in terms of pre-theft value,  
even though unfortunately this leaves Mr H with an outstanding  balance  to pay. If I directed 
LV to pay Mr H the cost of buying a new car, then hed be in a better position than he was 
before the theft (because his car at that point wasnt worth the same as a new car). I dont 
think that would be fair and reasonable. I know Mr H doesnt think it was highlighted to him 
that, to qualify for a new car replacement, hed need to be the registered  keeper of the car. 
But on the facts  of this case, its not one Id have expected LV to draw to his attention 
specifically. And I should add that I think its clear from Mr Hs hire agreement  that hes 
entering into a hire arrangement and so isnt the legal owner of the car.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont intend to uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0302150