K820x#14complaint
Miss I complains that a used car she got with a conditional sale agreement  (CSA) from 
Moneybarn No. 1 Limited  is of unsatisfactory quality. 
background
The background to this complaint and my provisional findings  are set out in my provisional 
decision dated 2 September 2020.  A copy of my provisional decision  is attached  and this 
forms part of my final decision. In my provisional decision I explained what Id decided about 
this complaint and what I intended to do  subject to any further  submissions from the 
parties.
Moneybarn has not objected to my provisional  conclusions but Miss I feels the outcome is 
unfair. She says she paid a high price for the car at the outset and the problems with the 
clutch appeared soon after that, she didnt know much about cars at the time and she told 
Moneybarn that she wanted to cancel  within 30 days. She thought  that would be straight 
forward and the car would be taken back so she stopped making  payments. 
Miss I also feels  the response from Moneybarn  was confusing, she was misled and the offer 
to repair  was unreasonable - as she was unable to cover the courtesy  car on her insurance.  
Moneybarn has since repossessed the car and told Miss I that she has over £13,000 left to 
pay. She thinks thats unfair in the circumstances and it would be reasonable for Moneybarn 
to charge her for the cost of the car only and allow  her to pay this off in instalments. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Miss I is disappointed with my provisional conclusions.  I can see she feels 
shes been treated  unfairly and I have sympathy for the situation she finds herself in. But, I 
cant reasonably  criticise Moneybarn for agreeing  to have  the car checked  by an expert  after 
she complained  that it had a fault. The dealer seems to have withdrawn its offer to repair  
after that inspection   because the expert  found there was no fault present.  I realise  this 
must have  been  really  frustrating for Miss I but I cant  fairly find this means Moneybarn did 
something wrong. 
For the reasons  I have  set out already, I am not persuaded that there are fair and 
reasonable grounds to require Moneybarn to take this car back  or pay for repairs  or do 
anything further.  
If Miss I is experiencing financial problems  we would expect Moneybarn to treat her 
positively and sympathetically. This may include agreeing a payment arrangement or similar, 
if appropriate and Miss I may find it helpful  to get some free debt advice. Theres  more 
information about how to obtain  this on our website  or we can provide her with useful 
contact details if she gives us a call. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my decision is I do not uphold  this complaint 
Ref: DRN08662622Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 November  2020.
Claire Jackson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN08662623copy provisional decision
complaint
Miss I complains that a used car she got under  a conditional  sale agreement  (CSA)  from Moneybarn 
No 1 Limited is of unsatisfactory  quality. 
background
Miss I got this car in January  2019. She complained  to the dealer soon after collecting the car. She 
says the clutch and flywheel are faulty and need to be replaced.  She thinks  she paid too much for the 
car and she was misled by the dealer  who didnt tell her about a failed MOT before collection or 
provide driveaway insurance as promised.  The dealer  offered to carry  out some repairs but Miss I 
needed her car to get to work and didnt think  it was fair that the dealer wouldnt provide a 
replacement vehicle while hers was off the road. Shed complained about the car within 30 days so 
she felt she was entitled  to reject it under  legislation  - but she said she would consider repair if 
suitable alternative transport was provided. 
Miss I was unable to resolve matters with the dealer so the finance broker arranged  for an 
independent expert to inspect  the car in February 2019. The car had 98,799 miles on the clock  at this 
point and the expert  said (insofar  as its relevant):- 
once  warm  theres evidence of a roughness  and noise towards  the end of travel when 
operating the clutch pedal;
there was no evidence of any slippage  or judder and the biting point is normal;
the clutch  hydraulic  system is working satisfactorily and the clutch is operational with no 
evidence of any undue  vibration from the dual mass flywheel; and
the vehicle had no evidence of coolant or any significant  oil leaks.
The expert  acknowledged  there was a noise  coming from the clutch  but he thought this was probably  
due to a worn concentric cylinder and resulted from wear  and tear - not a manufacturing  fault or 
material defect. He considered  the clutch and associated components were  nearing the end of in-
service life but concluded that the cars  condition  overall  was satisfactory for its age and mileage and 
it wasnt of unsatisfactory quality at the point of supply.  
In light of the experts  conclusions, Moneybarn  didnt  uphold the complaint.  It acknowledged the car 
failed an MOT in early  January but it was satisfied the relevant issues were  fixed  and the car passed 
an MOT the next day so it was roadworthy before collection. Moneybarn says it is not responsible  for 
the dealers after sales service or providing  insurance. It considers Miss I had a reasonable  response 
to her complaint and it shouldnt have to do anything further.  
One of our investigators considered the evidence. He says (in summary):-  
the price paid for the car was something for Miss I to decide before she accepted it;
its not unusual for a car of this age and mileage to fail an MOT and pass shortly after when  
necessary repairs  are carried out;
the dealer offered to collect the vehicle, repair it and provide  a courtesy car and Miss I agreed 
to repairs initially;
Miss I thought it was too far to return the car to the dealer so it should  be repaired locally,  
there were issues over insuring the courtesy car and the dealer decided to withdraw  the repair 
offer;
it was reasonable to have  an independent expert inspect the car and that expert heard  the 
clutch noise but found this didnt  impact on the cars function and the car was of satisfactory 
quality for its age and mileage. 
Our investigator is not persuaded it would be reasonable to find the car was of unsatisfactory quality  
at the point  of sale in these  circumstances. And we cant hold Moneybarn responsible for poor service  
Ref: DRN08662624on the part of the dealer  or issues with driveaway insurance. So he doesnt recommend the complaint 
should be upheld. 
Miss I was unhappy  with this outcome.  She says the car has a fault that she reported within days  of 
collection so she should be allowed to reject it and its wrong that the offer to repair  was withdrawn  
which caused  her a great deal of stress and upset as well as financial  problems. She found the clutch  
was slipping more  and no longer wanted  to drive  the car. She considers the car should  have been 
repaired or she should  have  been allowed  to reject it and she stopped making payments due under 
the CSA. Moneybarn  ended  the finance agreement in March this year and Miss I feels  shes been  
treated unfairly.  She asked for an ombudsman to review  the matter. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the evidence and arguments available so far to decide  whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances  of this complaint.  I am sorry to disappoint Miss I but, on the information  I have at 
the moment, Ive reached much the same conclusions  as our investigator for broadly the same 
reasons. 
Where the evidence  is incomplete,  inconclusive  or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most  likely to have 
happened in the light of the available evidence  and the wider circumstances.  
I can see that Miss I has strong feelings about what happened here. And I want to assure her that I 
have considered everything that shes said and sent to us carefully.  Moneybarn  supplied this car 
under a CSA and Im considering Moneybarns  obligations arising under that finance agreement  in 
this decision. Im satisfied that Moneybarn  was required to ensure  that this car was of satisfactory 
quality when Miss I got it, under the Consumer Rights Act 2015. And Im able to look at things that 
were said in pre-sale negotiations under Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.  But, I should 
make it clear that I am unable to hold Moneybarn responsible for things the dealer said and did after 
that. 
satisfactory quality 
The level of quality that is satisfactory  varies  according  to individual circumstances. Its generally 
considered reasonable to take age, cost and mileage into account in the case of a used vehicle. This 
car was seven years old, had about 97,000 miles  on the clock and cost about £6,500 when Miss I got 
it. As such I dont  think  she could reasonably  expect  it to be perfect  or meet  the same standards  as a 
brand new car  and thats reflected in the lower price paid for used vehicles. 
Theres no dispute that Miss I reported hearing a noise  from the clutch  soon after getting the car. I 
understand that was concerning for her and I can see why she contacted  the credit broker, the dealer 
and Moneybarn.  But, Im satisfied that a clutch is the sort of part that is liable to show signs of wear 
and tear  especially in a car of this age thats travelled over 97,000 miles. I am not persuaded  that 
the presence of a noise in these circumstances must automatically mean that the car had a fault 
present at the point of sale.  
I think  it was reasonable to arrange for an independent expert  to inspect the car in this situation.  Ive 
read the experts report. I think he seems to have appropriate qualifications. Im satisfied hes 
independent and he checked this car not long after Miss I first complained. I think  it is reasonable to 
give some  weight to his findings. I can see the expert confirmed there was a noise from the clutch  but 
he found this didnt affect the way the car functioned. He said the clutch  was operational and there 
was no evidence of any undue  vibration from the dual mass flywheel. He concluded  that the car 
wasnt faulty and it was of satisfactory quality for its age and mileage.    
It looks as if Miss I continued  to drive  the car after the experts inspection. She seems  to have been 
able to cover  over 5,000 miles after that - without repairs - by the time she brought  her complaint  to 
our service. The cars MOT  history shows that it had travelled over 116,000 miles when it was tested 
Ref: DRN08662625in January this year. I dont think  it is likely  that the car would have been able to be driven so far after 
sale if it was faulty at the outset.  I realise  this is frustrating for Miss I but I am not persuaded  that I can 
reasonably find this car was of unsatisfactory quality when she got it, on the evidence I have at the 
moment. 
misrepresentation
I understand Miss I was concerned to find that the car failed an MOT  shortly before she got it and 
feels she was misled about  that. From the cars MOT history, I can see that it failed  because  a 
headlight wasnt working on dipped. It looks as if the car passed the next day so I think the required  
repairs were probably  undertaken. Like our investigator, I dont think this is unusual.  Its not something 
that Id expect a salesperson to mention during sale negotiations. And I cant fairly find the fact this 
wasnt drawn to Miss Is attention  pre-sale means there was a misrepresentation. 
price and insurance
I understand Miss I feels that she paid too much for the car. Like our investigator, I think  this was 
something for Miss I to decide at the time  before  she decided to buy the car and its not something I 
can fairly criticise Moneybarn  for. I havent seen anything to show that Moneybarn  agreed to provide 
driveaway insurance as part of the finance arrangements. In any event, from the information  I have, it 
looks as if Miss I has resolved this issue already direct  with the broker (from an email exchange Ive 
seen from the end of January last year). 
repair offers
Theres no dispute that the dealer offered to carry out some repairs  around the time Miss I first 
complained. Miss I appears to have accepted that at first but she was reluctant to take the car back  to 
the dealer - which was some  distance away - and she wanted  the work  to be done at a garage local to 
her. Miss I also objected to having to insure  a courtesy car offered using  her own third party  cover.  It 
looks as if the dealer then withdrew the offer in light of the time that passed without agreement, the 
distance Miss I was able to drive the car in the meantime  and the experts conclusions.  Its 
unfortunate that Miss I and the dealer couldnt reach an agreement  but its not within  my remit  to 
require the dealer  to re-instate the offer. And I can fairly hold Moneybarn responsible for that either, in 
these circumstances.   
financial problems
Miss I has told us more  recently thats shes had some personal and financial problems while this 
complaint has been ongoing.  She says she has been out of work at times and Moneybarn was 
unhelpful  in particular  it wouldnt allow a relative  to take over her finance re-payments. 
Im sorry to hear that Miss I has had a difficult time. Financial businesses  are expected to treat 
customers experiencing  financial problems positively and sympathetically  which may include 
agreeing a new re-payment  arrangement or similar  if thats appropriate. I understand Miss I wanted a 
relative to make payments  towards  this CSA for a time and shes unhappy  that Moneybarn wouldnt 
agree to that. But, Ive seen  some correspondence that shows Moneybarn explained that its obliged 
to ensure that any payment arrangement was affordable for Miss I. Moneybarn also asked Miss I for 
information about her circumstances - with a view to arranging a suitable plan for her  and I cant  
fairly find that was wrong, in this situation.  
Miss I also told us that her financial problems were made worse by Covid  related factors  and shes 
unhappy with Moneybarns response to that as well. From the information Ive got, it looks as if 
Moneybarn issued a default notice  in February this year and its not clear  to me how this was 
impacted by Covid. If Miss I still feels unhappy with the way Moneybarn responded  to her financial 
difficulties, it is open to her to raise this with Moneybarn. And, if shes unhappy with the response,  she 
may be able to bring another complaint to our service. 
Ref: DRN08662626Taking everything Ive seen into account, Im not persuaded that it would be fair to ask Moneybarn to 
take this car back, pay for repairs or do anything further.  I realise this decision is likely  to come as a 
disappointment to Miss I as this isnt the outcome she hoped  for. But, this isnt my final decision.  I now 
invite both parties to consider my provisional findings and let me have any further comments or 
information by the date below. Ill look at all of the evidence available after that and make my final 
decision. 
my provisional  decision
Subject to any further submissions that I may receive from the parties  by 2 October  2020, my decision 
is I do not intend to uphold this complaint 
Ref: DRN0866262