K821x#15complaint
Mr Q and Miss B complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Plc (RSA) stopped  paying for 
alternative accommodation costs under their home insurance policy  because  of delays RSA 
say they caused in the settlement of their claim.
background
Mr Q and Miss B have a home insurance  policy with RSA which  covers  contents and 
buildings.
In December 2016, they made a claim after their home suffered smoke damage.  RSA 
agreed to settle  the claim. And they arranged for the house to be cleaned  so that any traces 
of the smoke  damage were removed.
When Mr Q and Miss B returned  to their home, Mr Q was taken ill. Because  they suspected  
this was caused by something  in the house, they moved out again. An expert report 
commissioned by RSA found that the substance used by RSAs  contractors to clean the 
home had been  contaminated.
RSA agreed to pay for Mr Q and Miss Bs contents   which  have had to be removed / 
destroyed. They also agreed  to ensure that the house was inhabitable again  by cleaning the 
relevant parts and replacing any fittings which could not effectively be cleaned. And they 
agreed to pay for Mr Q and Miss Bs alternative accommodation costs whilst the cleaning 
and re-fitting were  taking  place.
RSA stopped paying for the alternative  accommodation at the end of May 2018. They said 
the necessary  works would have been completed   and the house  made  inhabitable  
before that time had Mr Q and Miss B cooperated reasonably with their attempts to schedule 
and carry out the cleaning  and repairs.
Mr Q and Miss B complained about  this to RSA, but their complaint wasnt upheld.  RSA 
maintain that the delays beyond the end of May 2018 were  the result  of Mr Q and Miss Bs 
failure to reasonably assist them in getting the cleaning and repairs  carried  out.
Mr Q and Miss B werent happy with this outcome  and complained to us. Our investigator 
looked into it and thought  the complaint should  be upheld. She said RSA should pay for the 
alternative accommodation up to the point at which the house actually became inhabitable 
again.
RSA disagreed and asked  for a final decision from an ombudsman.  I broadly agreed with our 
investigators approach.  But because my reasons are different - and more detailed  - and I 
have a different  view as to exactly what the redress should be, I decided  to issue a 
provisional decision before I make  my final decision.  This allowed  both parties to comment 
before I make  my final decision  which is the Financial Ombudsman  Services  last word  on 
the case.
Ref: DRN09443052my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Q and Miss B are suing  the cleaning contractor. Thats  not something 
we can comment on or look into. Theyve also made  other complaints to our service 
about RSA - and those  arent matters I can consider in this decision.
This complaint is about the alternative  accommodation costs  only. And the key 
question for me is why the cleaning and repairs to the home werent  carried  out until 
after the end of May 2018.
Mr Q and Miss Bs policy covers them for:
The cost of alternative  accommodation for your family if the home  is uninhabitable as
a result of damage to the buildings.
The policy explicitly doesnt cover  any costs incurred after the house  becomes 
inhabitable again.
It also requires the policyholder(s) to take reasonable steps to avoid  incurring liability  
and prevent loss or damage. And it says:
You must provide  us with any information  or assistance that we may reasonably 
require about  any claim.
The policy document also says those requirements  may include asking the 
policyholder(s) to get estimates for building repairs or replacement  items.
So, Mr Q and Miss B are entitled to expect RSA to pay their alternative  
accommodation costs  up until the point at which the house is inhabitable again, 
provided they took reasonable  steps  to avoid  increasing costs and provided they 
gave RSA the information they needed to settle the claim  in a reasonably timely 
manner.
In making this provisional decision, I have assumed that the house  in fact became 
inhabitable again by the end of October  2018.  Both parties have confirmed that the 
cleaning took place in mid-September.
After that, the kitchen  needed to be re-fitted before wed consider the house to be 
inhabitable. Ive assumed around six weeks to be a reasonable  time to expect that 
work to be completed  once the cleaning was finished and the contractors  were  able 
to begin work. I have  assumed a small degree  of delay  between the two jobs, simply 
because different contractors often  cant dovetail their projects precisely.
If either  RSA or Mr Q and Miss B believe  the house was inhabitable (with a usable 
kitchen) before - or indeed after - the end of October 2018, then they should provide 
evidence of that in their response to this provisional  decision.
Ref: DRN09443053Im aware that the house was sold on 28 January  2018.  Clearly, RSA cant  
conceivably be liable  to pay any more alternative accommodation costs after that 
point. But Im drawing a line earlier than that because  the policy is clear that those 
costs will only be covered  whilst the house  is uninhabitable. And as I say, my 
assumption is that it was inhabitable  by the end of October 2018.
RSA paid for the alternative accommodation up until the end of May 2018.  So whats 
at issue here is five months  additional  accommodation costs  (from  the end of May to 
the end of October 2018), which  RSA have so far declined  to cover.
RSA have pointed  out that they had a complete plan and schedule for settling  this 
claim by  at the latest  mid-December  2017. On 13 December 2017, their loss 
adjuster emailed Mr Q and Miss B to explain that plan. This covered settlement of 
both the contents  and buildings elements  of the claim.
In RSAs view, this plan should  have been accepted by Mr Q and Miss B. If it had 
been - even if we allow around two months for Mr Q and Miss B to gather estimates 
for replacement of their fittings  the cleaning and repair work could have been 
completed by the end of May at the latest.
On the face of it, the proposed schedule and timeline appears reasonably  relaxed. It 
would allow around two months   albeit including Xmas and New Year  for the 
estimates to be provided, a month  for RSA to validate the proposed  costs  (which is 
how long it did in fact later take them  once  they had the quotes in hand), two weeks  
for cleaning,  and two months for the replacement of the fittings, including  the kitchen.
RSA say Mr Q and Miss B are responsible for that schedule not being  implemented  
on time. They say Mr Q and Miss B were slow to provide estimates for the work to 
replace their kitchen and fittings. And that they only gave permission for the cleaning  
to take place in early  September 2018.
Mr Q and Miss B say some delays were caused  by RSA and/or their loss adjuster not 
responding promptly to their emails and not answering questions  they still had about  
the methods to be used in cleaning the house.
They say they had legitimate concerns about whether those methods would be 
effective  and these werent  addressed  by RSA and/or their loss adjuster in a timely 
manner.
And they say they had to deal with the claim for their contents  at the same time. This 
was complicated and involved trying to estimate costs for all the contents  of the 
house, given that everything had to be disposed of due to the contamination.
From the evidence we have, its clear that Mr Q and Miss B, for their own reasons, 
intentionally decided  to prioritise sorting out their contents claim over making 
progress on the buildings  element of the claim  by getting quotes  for the necessary 
work.
I can understand that things were very difficult for Mr Q and Miss B at the time. They 
were out of their home, with no possessions and with a child to care for. And I think  
RSA might be expected  to recognise  this and to deal with the case  with some 
empathy and understanding.
Ref: DRN09443054However, RSA did point out to Mr Q and Miss B on several occasions  that they 
werent going to continue  to pay for alternative accommodation indefinitely. The 
original aim was to have  the home inhabitable again  by March 2018, but RSA 
extended the period in which theyd pay the accommodation costs  to the end of May 
2018. And they were clear  at the time that they wouldnt extend further.
At that point, it was still possible to get the cleaning and repairs  completed by the end 
of May 2018. In fact, there was a degree of slack in that timetable, so some  delay 
could have been tolerated and the end of May deadline still met.
During this period  roughly December 2017 to April 2018   I can see both parties on 
occasion took some considerable  time to respond in a meaningful  way to each others 
emails.
Most of the communication  was carried out in a timely manner, but the evidence I 
have suggests  that the loss adjuster took around a month to respond  to one query 
from Mr Q and Miss B. And they took at least three weeks  to reply to a 
communication from him  and this was after they had been told very clearly that the 
alternative accommodation would cease to be covered at the end of May.
I have no intention of auditing all of these communications, counting  the amount of 
days between replies and calculating a percentage of blame  to attach to each party.  
Particularly because  the crux of the matter here, it seems  to me, is that the delay  was 
fundamentally caused by the fact that Mr Q and Miss B still had reservations about 
whether what RSA proposed to do to clean  their home would be effective.
Most of the relevant  communications at this time are about what exactly RSAs  
cleaning contractors will do  and whether that will be sufficient to clean away  the 
contaminant effectively. Theres no real surprise that some of these communications  
are delayed  the subject  matter is complex, scientific  and difficult to fully understand. 
I think both parties would have to accept that this is not a run-of-the-mill buildings 
insurance claim which could be dealt with in a routine manner.
I can fully understand  that, given the problems with Mr Qs health, he and Miss B 
didnt want to return to the property if there was the slightest chance that the 
contaminant might still be present. So I can see why they wanted some  reassurance 
from RSA that the cleaning  would in fact be fully effective.
RSA commissioned an expert report in 2017. They followed this up with some 
questions for the expert about  the cleaning process. And, by November 2017, theyd 
shared with Mr Q and Miss B both the report and the experts  response  to their further 
queries.
Mr Q and Miss B then went back to RSAs  loss adjuster with some further queries in 
December 2017.  In particular, they were concerned about how the decision on 
cleaning the home  with door and window handles and hinges  left in place, for 
example - squared  with the decision  RSA had made to write off any contents of the 
house because  they did not have hard,  flat edges and sides.  They were also 
concerned about  porous surfaces  such as the painted  plasterwork on their walls.
Ref: DRN09443055In my view, RSA had the answer  to these queries at the time. The expert advice was 
that they needed to take care with porous surfaces, but that these could be cleaned if 
the process was sufficient  to remove contaminants which had penetrated beyond the 
surface and into the item in question.
RSA know from their work in contracting  repairs  to fire damaged properties that 
cleaning plasterwork and other porous surfaces  in these circumstances is possible if 
certain cleaning  methods  are used.
Thats why, on balance,  Im willing to accept that RSA are right when they say that 
the cleaning they proposed to carry out was sufficient to eradicate all traces  of the 
contaminant.
Its not clear to me though  that RSA  and/or  their loss adjuster   ever shared this 
detail with Mr Q and Miss B. If they did, they should provide evidence of that 
communication in their response to this provisional  decision.
To be clear, I know Mr Q and Miss B saw the expert  report and follow-up email by 
late 2017. And I know these were  sufficient to answer many of their questions  about 
the proposed  cleaning  process. But I dont think they were told clearly that RSA were  
satisfied that the cleaning  method they proposed would in fact penetrate  porous 
surfaces  or why.
The loss adjusters reply  to Mr Q and Miss B in December certainly didnt go into this 
detail. And I can understand why  even  after receiving it  Mr Q and Miss B still had 
serious reservations about the proposed cleaning.
I dont agree with RSA then that Mr Q and Miss B should necessarily have agreed 
what they proposed  in November and December 2017 and simply got on with getting 
estimates for the work. It was reasonable for them to continue  to ask questions   
before they agreed to the cleaning  after the exchanges in December.
However, I have to bear in mind that having  asked those questions  in late 2017   and 
after they got an answer which clearly  didnt satisfy them  Mr Q and Miss B decided 
to put this to one side whilst they dealt with their contents claim. In fact, they only 
went back to RSAs  loss adjuster  with their detailed further queries (which  mirrored 
those theyd raised in December  2017) in April 2018. And this was after theyd been  
told the alterative  accommodation costs would cease to be covered in May 2018.
I can see that before that time, Mr Q and Miss O had been asking the loss adjuster to 
meet with them to discuss their reservations  and hed not been swift to agree  to 
this. But Mr Q and Miss B must bear some  responsibility here for the delay and the 
fact their concerns werent addressed again  in full until well into April 2018.
In short  and in summary,  I think on balance the responsibility for the delays in the 
cleaning and repairs being carried out - which led to them being competed at the end 
of October  2018 rather than the end of May  is equally shared between  RSA and 
Mr Q and Miss B.
For that reason,  Im going  to propose  that RSA pay Mr Q and Miss B 50% of their 
accommodation costs  for June-October (inclusive) 2018  subject to those costs  
being reasonable for accommodation equivalent to Mr Q and Miss Bs own home.
Ref: DRN09443056Because I think RSA are at fault in this case, Im also going to ask them  to 
compensate Mr Q and Miss B for their trouble and upset.
The whole episode must have been very stressful for Mr Q and Miss B. In my view, 
they themselves  bear some of the responsibility for the delays, but I think  RSA could  
have been more energetic and effective in their communications with Mr Q and 
Miss B.
If they had been,  I think things would have been  resolved  much  sooner for Mr Q and 
Miss B and the amount  of stress they suffered would have been reduced. So, I think  
RSA should pay Mr Q and Miss B £500 for their trouble  and upset.
the response to my provisional  decision
RSA accepted my provisional decision.
Mr Q and Miss B accepted my provisional decision in principle.  But they asked me to re-
consider my assumption  that the house was inhabitable again by the end of October  2018.
Their view was that my assumption  that the kitchen could be re-fitted within 6 weeks or so of 
the cleaning being completed  was mistaken.  And they pointed  out that theyd had an e-mail 
from RSAs loss adjuster  on 3 October  2017  which appeared to them  to indicate  that this 
process might take longer. The e-mail said in effect that it would be around  year end (i.e. 
almost three months later) before Mr Q and Miss B were likely to be able to move  back in.
On this basis, Mr Q and Miss B asked me to conclude  that the house would not in fact have 
been inhabitable again until around 17 December 2019. And they asked me to instruct RSA 
to pay 50% of their reasonable  accommodation costs between  June and 17 December 2018, 
rather than between June  and the end of October  2018.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered again the conclusions I reached in my provisional  decision. Having done 
so, I havent changed my mind. 
Im afraid I dont accept  the arguments  put forward by Mr Q and Miss B in response to my 
provisional decision. Ill explain why.
The loss adjusters e-mail of 3 October  2017 said:
With regards to the accommodation RSA have advised they will continue to pay for 
the period it would take to have  the building cleaned, the decoration completed and 
then for you to have  time to move  back in. I would suspect that that period would take 
to around year end."
So, the three months up to around the end of 2017 were to include both the cleaning  and the 
re-fit and re-decoration. And Mr Q and Miss Bs argument that there  would be three  months 
or so required to get their house  in good order after the cleaning took place doesnt hold up.
Ref: DRN09443057I also have to bear in mind that the loss adjusters communication  wasnt intended to set a 
strict timetable for the work. He refers  to Mr Q and Miss B moving  back  in around year end. 
And no doubt he was taking into account the fact it would be inconvenient and difficult,  if not 
almost impossible, to move during the weeks around Xmas  and New Year.
Also, in my provisional decision,  I did ask RSA and or Mr Q and Miss B to let me know if in 
fact the re-fit and re-decoration took more  - or less - time than I had assumed. And I note 
neither party  provided  any further information  or evidence on this point.
So on balance I dont  think my original assumption about when the house might have 
become inhabitable again was too far from the mark.  In fact, theres an argument that 
allowing six weeks to re-fit and re-decorate a kitchen might  reasonably  be seen as slightly  
generous.
For that reason,  Im not going to change my position  on when the house became inhabitable 
again.
I still take the view that the relevant period  of alternative accommodation is from the 
beginning of June  to the end of October 2018.  And I have no reason to change my opinion  
that the responsibility for the delays in the house becoming inhabitable again is equally 
shared between RSA and Mr Q and Miss B.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr Q and Miss Bs complaint.
Royal & Sun Alliance  Plc should  pay Mr Q and Miss B half of the reasonable alternative  
accommodation costs  they incurred between  1 June 2018  and 31 October 2018. 
They should  add interest at 8% simple from the dates the rental  payments  were paid by 
Mr Q and Miss B to the date this payment is made.
They should  also pay Mr Q and Miss B £500  for their trouble and upset.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Q and Miss B 
to accept or reject my decision before 5 April 2019.
Neil Marshall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0944305