K820x#14complaint
Mr P has a spread betting account  with IG Index Limited.  He  says he has been treated 
unfairly by IG in a number  of ways.  His points include:
IG should not have  allowed him to open a spread betting account.
IGs interests conflict with his  it profits  from his losses.  As a result it does not give 
adequate warnings of the risks involved and it allows  excessive leverage.
IG closed out his positions  unfairly  causing  him very large losses.
IG has no power  to allow customers to run up losses that exceed the funds in their 
accounts. 
Mr P says his health and wellbeing have been  affected by the unfair  treatment he has 
received from IG. 
background
what Mr P says:
Mr P had invested  in equities.  He had suffered  some losses.  He  thought  about spread 
betting but decided against it.
Mr P became  interested  in speculating on crude oil prices.   He wanted to be able to 
profit from the price falling.  He was attracted to a service provided  by IG which  he tried 
out and decided to use.
Mr P soon lost money.  Mr  P was very concerned.  He stopped trading to re-think.   When  
he was satisfied  he understood the reasons for prices moving  against  him he started 
trading again.  Initially things  went as he expected and then he suffered more  losses.
IG closed Mr Ps position  in late 2014  when a margin call was not satisfied.
This was done unfairly as all positions  were closed.  If left open  some would have made  
a profit.
Mr Ps losses are significant  and have caused  him a huge amount of worry and stress.
IG should never  have  allowed him to get into that position.  IG should not have allowed him 
to have a spread  betting account  as he failed the appropriateness test for the account.
IG allowed him to have an account  contrary to his best interests.    Over 80% of spread 
betters lose money.  IG profits  from those losses which  is why it allowed him to open  the 
account. 
 
Ref: DRN03448612what IG says:
Mr P applied  for a CFD account in October  2014.   It carried out an appropriateness  
assessment which Mr P failed.  It warned him the account might not be appropriate and 
Mr P decided  to proceed with his application and he opened the account.
Mr P applied  for a spread betting  account in November 2014.  Again an appropriateness 
assessment was carried out.  And  again Mr P failed that assessment.  It warned Mr P 
the account was not appropriate  for him.  And again  Mr P decided to proceed with the 
application and he opened the account.    
Mr P traded on the CFD account  actively from late October  2014  until mid-December 
2014.  The account was used for a small number  of trades in 2017 and 2018.  This 
account remains  open on the restricted basis that trades can be closed but no new 
positions opened since Mr P made his complaint
Mr P traded on the spread betting account from November 2014 for the remainder of 
that year and throughout 2015,  2016 and 2017.  This account also remains  open on the 
restricted basis that trades can be closed but no new positions opened since 
Mr P made his complaint 
Mr P deposited in total around  £55,000 in the CFD account and £143,000 in the spread  
betting account and his total losses are around £185,000 (but this is variable as some 
positions are still open). 
It dealt with Mr Ps applications  in accordance with its appropriateness policy.  
It has operated the accounts in accordance with their terms and conditions as agreed 
with Mr P when he opened the account.  In  particular it closed trades appropriately. 
It does not have a conflict of interest with Mr P. It has a hedging policy  that means it 
does not have a financial interest in its clients losing their bets or trades.  
Its reasonable to restrict  the operation of the accounts once Mr P complained about the 
appropriateness of the accounts for him.
It does not think it has acted inappropriately or unfairly.
I issued a provisional decision in Mr Ps complaint  in December 2018.  I did not think  Mr Ps 
complaint should  be upheld.   My provisional  decision included:
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint I 
am required to take into account:
relevant law and regulations; regulators rules and guidance and standards;  
and codes of practice;
Ref: DRN03448613and where relevant  what I consider  to be good  industry practice at the 
relevant time.
While I have considered  all the many points  made  I will not comment  on all that has 
been said.  I will concentrate on what I consider are the main  issues.
Mr P had both a CFD account and a spread betting  account.  There  is no material 
difference between  the two in relation to complexity,  gearing, risk and potential  for 
profits and/or  loss. Mr P has generally  just referred  to spread betting to cover both 
accounts.  I will do the same. 
The central issue in this complaint is whether it was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances to allow Mr P to spread bet. Mr P says IG has allowed him to bet 
because of a conflict of interest   because it profits from his losses.   I will deal with 
this second point first.
conflict of interest:
Mr P says IG is the counterparty to his bets, so if he loses  it must  win.  It therefore 
has direct  financial interest  in his betting.   
The FCA requires firms to manage  conflicts of interest.  IG says it does  manage  the 
potential conflict through its hedging policy.  Essentially Mr P does  not believe IG.   
In a recent  court case called Quinn v IG Index [2018] EWHC 2478 the Judge said:
9. Spread betting operators  in general  will hedge, and the defendant in particular 
hedges, bets both internally and externally. In consequence the defendant argued and I 
accept that the bet placer placing spread bets with the defendant is not betting against 
the defendant thereby  eliminating at least that potential conflict of interest between  a bet 
placer and the defendant. Although the degree to which the defendant hedges bets 
placed with it was questioned in cross examination, in my judgment it is almost self 
evident that a spread  bet operator will operate in this manner since otherwise  it would  be 
exposed to enormous and unsustainable risks. Although the defendant's witnesses 
implied that the defendant adopted a hedging programme  in order to avoid a conflict of 
interest with its customers,  in my judgment the predominant purpose was to avoid the 
commercial risks I referred to above. I also accept the point made  on behalf of the 
defendant that the primary method of hedging is by notionally setting off bets by different 
bet placers betting in opposite directions in the same market and externally hedging any 
potential losses not covered  by this method. This too makes obvious  commercial sense 
since it minimises the defendant's costs  of operating  its hedging  programme. 
This is also how I understand IGs hedging to work.  In the same case the judge also 
said: 
5.The  defendant makes its profits by adding a margin to the spreadTwo  consequences 
flow from this  first, the client is not betting against the service provider  so that no conflict  
arises and secondly the service provider is paid whether the client wins or loses so the 
service provider  has no interest  in whether the client wins or loses other than that if the 
client wins he or she is likely  to continue betting.
I accept IG has an interest in Mr P being a client, and in his trading actively, but not 
to the extent that Mr P alleges. There is a potential for conflict  of interest but it does  
seem that is, or is substantially, managed by IGs hedging policy.   I cannot see that 
Ref: DRN03448614IG has a material financial interest in Mr P being  an unsuccessful  spread  better  or 
that his losses  are IGs profits as Mr P alleges.
appropriateness:
IG is a regulated firm and is subject to conduct of business rules called COBS.  
Those rules  include formal guidance.
Under COBS10 a firm that provides spread betting  accounts:
Must  ask the client to provide information  regarding his relevant knowledge 
and experience to enable the firm to assess whether  the service  is 
appropriate for the client.
Then decide whether the client has the necessary experience  and knowledge 
in order to understand the risks involved in relation  to the service.
If the firm decides the service is not appropriate it must provide a warning to 
the client.
If the client still wants to go ahead with the application it is for the firm to 
decide whether  to do so having regard to all the circumstances.
client's best interest rule:
COBS10 is not the only relevant rule. COBS  2.1.1 R says: 
A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally  in accordance with the best 
interest of its client 
appropriateness in Mr Ps case:
Mr P says he did not have  the required knowledge  and experience to understand the 
risks involved in spread  betting.  He says a spread  betting service was not 
appropriate for him and he should not have been  allowed to spread bet.
IG says it did carry out an appropriateness  assessment.   It says it asked Mr P for 
relevant information  and decided a CFD account was not appropriate for Mr P.  It 
says that as a result  of the score  achieved in its assessment  it gave the following 
warning to Mr P:
On the basis of the information you have provided  us, a CFD account may not 
necessarily be appropriate  for you.  Our websites contain a wealth of free educational 
material, including webinars, about CFD trading and we recommend you familiarise  
yourself with this material before you commence  dealing  with us.
This was immediately followed by the option which Mr P could tick to accept:
I acknowledge your warning that a CFD account  may not necessarily be appropriate, but 
wish to proceed with my application nonetheless. I confirm I understand the risks 
associated with CFD trading.
Shortly after this in November 2014 Mr P applied  for a spread betting account.  This  
time he had a lower  score  in the appropriateness assessment and the following 
warning was given:
Ref: DRN03448615On the basis of the information you have provided  us, we do not consider that a spread 
betting account is appropriate  for you.  You may still open a spread  betting  account  but 
you should note that you may be exposing  yourself to risks that fall outside your 
knowledge and experience.  Our websites contain a wealth of free educational material, 
including webinars  about  spread betting and we recommend you familiarise yourself  with 
the material  before you commence dealing with us.
This was followed by the same acknowledgement and confirmation  that Mr P could 
tick to accept as with the CFD account.
In both cases Mr P did decide  to proceed with his application and IG allowed him to 
open the account.
Mr P thinks  this is not fair.  But in principle it is allowed  by the rules.  Mr  P has 
however referred  to guidance in relation to the rules from the Financial  Conduct  
Authority (FCA) and the European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA).  He 
says IG did not meet  the standard in that guidance which says:
Warnings should use clear language.
Be designed to interrupt the application process and should not ask the 
applicant to confirm  an intention  to proceed  as the next step in the process. 
It is best practice not to allow clients who fail appropriateness assessments to 
proceed with their applications.  
guidance to firms:
Mr P applied for his accounts in October and November 2014. The guidance  Mr P 
has referred to was issued after that in 2016.
I have reviewed all the guidance  issued in relation  to the appropriateness test in the 
UK by the Financial  Services  Authority (FSA) and FCA and by ESMA  since  COBS  10 
was introduced in 2007.
In 2013 the FSA was replaced by the FCA. Up to that point the FSA had issued 
guidance on its website  in Q&A format.  It  included:
13. What if we think  a client does not have the necessary knowledge and 
experience?
If you believe the client  does  not have the necessary knowledge  and experience,  you 
must warn them (COBS 10.3). If the client does  not provide information, or gives 
insufficient information, you must warn the client  that on this basis you are unable  to 
make a determination.
If the client wishes to proceed in spite of the warning, our rules  do not prohibit  this. 
You would  need to consider  whether you want to proceed in the circumstances, 
taking into account the client, the nature of the service, the type of product or 
transaction envisaged, the particular risks for the client etc. You would  wish to be 
satisfied that your chosen  course  was consistent with relevant general  obligations 
under the Principles  (such as the firms duty to pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and treat them fairly) or, for example, the general COBS duty that a firm 
must act honestly, fairly  and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its 
client (COBS 2.1.1R). 
Ref: DRN03448616MiFID Connect has developed examples of possible wording that you might consider 
using when warning clients in these circumstances.
The MiFID  Connect specimen warning was as follows:
Warning to client that a product or service is not appropriate
The first warning that must be given to a client is where a firm determines, on the 
basis of information supplied to it, that an investment product or service is not 
appropriate for a particular  client.  As this will occur on a case-by-case basis, this 
warning should be tailored to the circumstances of the individual  case.
On the basis of the information that you have previously  supplied  to us in relation  to 
your knowledge and experience, we consider  that [ ] is not an appropriate 
[product/service] for you.
[Where a firm feels  it reasonable to do so it may also add:
If you still wish us to proceed on your behalf, we may still [purchase/sell/deal in/invest 
in][product]/[with the proposed service], but you should  note that it may not be 
appropriate for you and that you may be exposing  yourself  to risks that fall outside 
your knowledge and experience and/or which you may not have the knowledge  or 
experience to assess and/or  control  by way of mitigating their consequences for 
you.]
In December 2012 ESMA published  a MiFID Supervisory Briefing on 
Appropriateness and execution only.  This was guidance to national  regulators such  
as FSA/FCA.  It included:
Warning the client
21. Under MiFID if a firm considers, on the basis of information received from its 
client, that the product or service is not appropriate for the client,  the firm must warn  
the client.   This warning  may be provided  in standardised format
23. If a client  asks a firm to proceed with a transaction, in spite of being warned by 
the firm, it is for the firm to consider whether  to do so in the circumstances  taking into 
account the client, the nature of the services,  the type of product or transaction  
envisaged, the particular  risk for the client etc. 
Questions
oWhat systems  are in place to ensure  that warnings are given where required 
and necessary?  Are these acceptable?
oWhat warnings does the firm have in place:
to warn the client that the product /service is inappropriate;
oAre these warnings clear and acceptable?
oWhat policies does the firm have in place  to decide whether:
to deal with a client  if the client demands a service/product that the 
firms believes is inappropriate?
oAre these policies acceptable?
Having reviewed all the guidance I cannot  see that the existing guidance  in 2014 said 
that the warnings  should interrupt the application process and should not ask the 
applicant to confirm  an intention to precede  as the next step in the process.
Ref: DRN03448617IG says processes at the time were reviewed by its regulator and no action was 
taken against  it.  It says this tends  to show its compliance with the rules and good 
industry practice at the time.
It is the case that the first warning was not as clear,  or certain in its terms, as the 
second.  However it is my view that IGs warning process was consistent with the 
rules and guidance at the time.   Nor am I aware  that good industry practice was 
materially different at the time. 
That still leaves the decision to allow Mr P to spread bet.  That decision still had to be 
consistent with the clients  best interest  rule.
the client's best interest rule:
To a degree, it is Mr Ps case  that it is self-evident  that spread betting is not in a 
clients best interest if more than 80% of spread betters lose money.
The overall system of consumer protection is however more  nuanced  than that.  The 
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000, and the rules made under it, recognise that 
there is a balance to be struck between protecting consumers on the one hand  and the 
principle that consumers should take responsibility for their own decisions on the other.
In the Quinn case the client passed an appropriateness test and went on to bet and 
make large losses.  The judge  in that case made a number of points including  the 
following:
The rules have  to be considered as a code rather than on the basis of 
individual rules  in isolation.  
The appropriateness test does not cover  expertise or competence.  It only 
covers knowledge  and experience relevant to understanding the risks involved.
Overall the rules balance the need to protect consumers with the need to 
avoid interfering  with the right of consumers with the necessary knowledge 
and experience to make their own decisions for which they must take 
responsibility.
Contractual obligations imposing a duty to protect against someone  from 
inflicting economic harm on themself  requires very clear express words 
spelling out that duty.  The  same  applies when interpreting the clients  best 
interest rule.
The need for a bet placer to have sound  understanding is delivered by the 
COBS 10 appropriateness requirement  not by imposing a wide ranging  
general duty to protect a bet placer from potentially inflicting harm  on himself 
via COBS 2.2.1R
The Quinn case is different to Mr Ps case.  However it is clear that the court did not 
regard spread betting as so bad an idea that the presumption should be that it is not 
in a clients best interests to spread bet.  And that the court thinks the appropriate-
ness rule provides the necessary system of protection where  a consumer does have  
the relevant knowledge and experience to understand the risks involved.
What about where  the client does not have the relevant knowledge and experience? 
Does the rule still provide  the relevant protection?  I think  the answer to that must be 
yes. It cannot be reasonable, in the absence of special circumstances, for a 
consumer to choose to ignore a warning  in the rule and then claim the benefit of the 
Ref: DRN03448618rule if things then go wrong.   
The rule provides that a warning is to be given  and that a client  may still chose to go 
ahead with the application and that the firm must decide what  to do.  The rule does 
not say that the firm must refuse.  The rule does not say the firm must provide  the 
service.  The  firm is given discretion. 
As the firm is given discretion I cannot say that the answer must always be that an 
application must be refused after an appropriateness assessment has been failed.  
The answer must depend on the circumstances of the case set in the context of the 
rules and law applicable  at the time.
the circumstances IG says it took into account:
IG says it decided to accept Mr Ps applications  given  that:
It gave warnings about the risks of spread betting as part of the application 
process.
It warned Mr P that the CFD account  might  not necessarily be appropriate for 
him (based  on the score he achieved in the application) and that spread 
betting account was not appropriate  for him.
It referred Mr P to the educational  materials  on its website including webinars 
about spread  betting.
Mr P requested the account after being given the warnings and information.
It is not clear  to me from what IG says that it gave any individual  consideration to the 
circumstances of Mr Ps application.  It seems  to me that IGs position  is that it gave 
the warning it was obliged to give.  It  then went further than the rules require by 
providing educational materials on spread betting on its website and referring Mr P to 
that material.  And then if Mr P wanted to spread  bet it would let him do what he 
wanted to do. Is that enough?
Mr P has only said that he did not have  enough  knowledge or experience  to 
understand the risks he was taking in spread  betting.
Mr P has not said he lacked capacity to make decisions  about what  is and is not in 
his own interest.
Mr P has not for example  said that he has a gambling addiction  that means he 
cannot control his own betting.  And,  importantly,  if he does have a gambling  problem  
he has not said that he did anything to make  IG aware of that problem.
Mr P has not said that he is a vulnerable  consumer  by reason of, for example, his 
age or financial  situation.   Nor am I aware  of any information that was disclosed to IG 
at the time that it could have taken  into account  which would have revealed any 
vulnerability.
Mr Ps position is essentially that his application should have been refused  because 
he failed the appropriateness assessment.  And because  spread betting is so high 
risk that over 80% of spread betters  lose money it is obviously too high risk for 
someone who fails the appropriateness assessment.  He  in effect argues that he 
Ref: DRN03448619should automatically have been  refused the account  rather than he should have been 
refused the account for some individual circumstance.
my view  on the appropriateness point:
It should be kept in mind  that there is no allegation that IG advised Mr P.  He made 
his own decision to apply  for accounts  with IG, and to proceed with the applications  
after warnings, and about what  bets to make  after he opened the account.
[Spread betting] does involve more  risk than most forms  of gambling as the bet 
placer does not put down all the money  they could  lose if they lose their bet.  Spread 
betting is therefore subject to a higher degree  of regulation  than most other forms of 
gambling in order  to protect consumers.  
One of the protections  mechanisms is the appropriateness test.  This test is not 
however an absolute bar.
Clients who fail an appropriateness  test can still choose to spread bet.  If they do 
they are voluntarily choosing to take the risks of spread  betting  in the face of a 
warning that it might  not be appropriate for them.
In this case IG gave warnings that were consistent  with the rules  and guidance  at the 
time.
In the circumstances I do not consider  it is fair and reasonable in Mr Ps case that the 
risk of spread betting that he chose  to accept should transfer from him to IG even if 
IG could have done more to think about  the individual circumstances of Mr Ps 
application.
Mr P asked for a CFD account  and a spread betting account. He was warned about 
the appropriateness of the accounts  for him.  He chose to ignore those warnings.  He  
chose to continue  with his application.  And  he chose to use those accounts.  He  was 
not advised to do any of this by IG.  
I sympathise with Mr P who now finds himself  in a very difficult  position causing him 
considerable stress and worry.  I cannot  however uphold his complaint. 
Mr Ps other points:  
As I have said before  the complaint has to be considered  on the basis  of the law and 
regulations at the time of the events in the complaint.  At that time the leverage levels 
of up to 200:1 were  permitted. The fact that there are now regulations  limiting  
leverage to much lower  levels does  not make the leverage levels  used on Mr Ps 
trades unfair.  They were  the standard level used for the bets concerned  not 
individually tailored to him.  And  Mr P could have mitigated  the effect by making 
smaller bets or not betting at all.
I cannot see that the account has been  operated  unfairly.  Mr  P will have agreed to 
its terms and conditions  when he opened  the accounts and closing out all trades 
when margin calls have not been  met is a normal way for a spread  betting firm to 
manage the credit risk it is exposed to.  It can also help prevent the client  run up 
even greater loses.  Picking and choosing which trades to close  and which to leave 
Ref: DRN034486110open is not a risk free option.  If a spread better wants to leave their bets open they 
need to satisfy margin calls.
Mr P did agree to spread  bet in accordance with the terms and conditions of the 
account which means he agreed to trade  on margin and accepted the risk that he 
could run up losses in the way that he has. 
IG agreed with my provisional  decision. Mr P did not.  He made a number of points in 
response, including:
Hedging is irrelevant.   IG does  make money from its customers  losses.   Its business 
model is clear and a High Court  judge  has been fooled by false  witnesses.  And it 
does not set a precedent.  The Financial Ombudsman Service  should have more  in 
depth knowledge of these  matters  and should not be so easily fooled.
Hedging is for IGs protection it does not change IGs business model.  If 80% of 
customers lose their bets why does IG need  to hedge?  
I am wrong to apply  rules and guidance as at the time the account was opened.  The  
rules and guidance were  the same as they are now  the aim is for firms  to act fairly 
and have the customers interest  in focus.  Nothing less.
It is because firms did not act fairly  and did not care about  customers  interests that 
ESMA and FCA redrafted the rules and guidance to make  more specific what is 
required.
Had businesses been fair to their customers they would have followed exactly the 
same rules at the time in 2014  as they are now forced to follow,  that is lower leverage 
limits, limited risk accounts, proper warnings, refusal to open  accounts etc.
When a business  sees  that 80% of its customers lose money and the business 
knows very well why this happens:  lack of awareness of the risks, excessive 
leverage, etc, how could any right minded person not see that the business treats 
their customers unfairly?
The case  of Quinn  v IG is very different.  Unlike Mr P, the consumer  in that case 
passed the appropriateness  test. Applying COBS 10 correctly where the 
appropriateness test is not passed  will lead to the account  being refused.  If the 
driving test is failed you cannot  self-certify that you understand  the risks involved and 
be issued with a driving licence.  I should open  my mind to the obvious. To conclude 
that IG acted fairly in the circumstances is biased in the extreme. 
If IG has discretion, it cannot just do whatever  it likes.  It must still act fairly and in the 
customers best interests.  The revised guidance clarifies this because previous 
practice was unfair.
To say that leverage of 200:1 was permitted is too simplistic.  For example, slavery 
has been permitted  in the past but it has never been fair.  If firms  had acted fairly and 
in clients best interests  they would not have allowed  such  high levels of leverage.
It is no answer to say that Mr P could not have traded at all.  He traded on the basis 
that he thought  the service was of adequate  quality.   It is no answer to a person who 
Ref: DRN034486111buys faulty goods that they could have chosen not to buy  the supplier is still liable 
to the consumer.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having  done so my view remains unchanged.
The situation  is not comparable to buying  faulty  goods.  The  spread betting account  gave 
access to a spread  betting service as it was intended to do.  Spread betting is a high risk 
activity and not appropriate for everyone.  But the account itself gave access to that service 
 the service Mr P applied  for. The issue is not about inadequate quality of the account as 
such its the more  fundamental point of appropriateness and fairness  the fairness and 
reasonableness in all the circumstances.
As I said in my provisional decision,  in considering what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint I am required  to take into account:
relevant law and regulations; regulators rules and guidance and standards;  and 
codes of practice;
and where relevant  what I consider  to be good  industry practice at the relevant time.
While I have considered  all the many points  made  I will not comment  on all that has been  
said.  I will concentrate  on what I consider are the main issues.
It is right to say that you cannot fail the driving  test and then self-certify  that you understand 
the risks and then be issued with a licence allowing you to drive.   That  simply is not an 
option.  The law and regulations about  driving  just do not allow for it.  
The situation  with spread  betting is not the same.  The rules at the time provided that an 
appropriateness assessment had to be made  before a consumer could have a spread 
betting account.  The rules did not make having an account conditional on passing  the 
assessment.  The rules expressly  provided that the consumer could still have a spread 
betting account if he still wanted  one after warnings had been  given.
So the situation is not binary as with passing or failing the driving test.  However, in fairness to 
Mr P, nor is it just a matter of the firm giving the warnings. The situation is more  complex because:
one rule allows the consumer to have  an account  after failing an appropriateness  test 
after warnings are given
and another  rules  requires the firm to treat customers  fairly  and act in their best interest.
So there is balance  to be struck between these two rules.  One  does not automatically out- 
weigh the other and render the other redundant in this area.  As the judge said in the Quinn 
court case  the COBS  rules have to be considered as a code  rather  than on the basis  of 
individual rules  in isolation.
Bearing that in mind, as the rules  require a firm to act in a clients  best interest  and treat the 
customer fairly, and the rules allow a firm to open a spread betting  account for a client who 
fails the appropriateness assessment, the two things cannot  be incompatible.   Spread 
betting cannot be so fundamentally bad or flawed that an account can never be opened  for a 
client who has failed an appropriateness  assessment.  The answer to the overall  fairness 
Ref: DRN034486112assessment is not automatic. All the circumstances  need to be considered.   Those 
circumstances were  considered in my provisional  decision  as set out above.
Clearly IG makes money  from its clients doing business with it.  And  I accept that it will have 
some profits (or losses)  from trades  overall  and that not all positions will be netted off against  
other clients bets or hedged.  IG will seek to manage the risk to which  it is exposed  but it is 
unlikely that it completely  eliminates it. But I do accept that IGs hedging works, or 
substantially works, in the way the judge described  in the Quinn case.  I do not accept that 
IG has an unmanaged  conflict of interest  which has unfairly motivated  it to allow  Mr P to 
have the spread betting account he asked for contrary  to his best interests.  
I consider it more likely  than not that Mr P was given the relevant warnings at the time he 
applied for his accounts.  The need for those warnings is long standing and IGs application 
process will have had those warnings built in as a matter of course in 2014.   I accept that 
Mr P may not now remember them or remember what they said.   That  does not mean the 
warnings were not given.
I accept that I can consider recent  guidance.   It is however also right that I consider the 
guidance that had been published at the time Mr P applied for his account as I have done.  
And it is my view that warnings  were given as required by the rules and in accordance  with 
the guidance at the time.  
After being told the accounts were not appropriate for him, and after being given the 
warnings, Mr P decided  to open the accounts and trade on one or other of them for some 
time.  It is unfortunate that Mr Ps trading has been  unsuccessful and that he has 
accumulated such large losses  but IG did not advise  him to open the account or advise him 
about which trades to make. Those were Mr Ps decisions and it remains my view,  for the for 
the reasons set out in my provisional  decision and above, it is not fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances that the risks of those  decisions and the consequences of that trading 
should transfer from Mr P to IG. 
my final decision
I do not uphold  Mr Ps complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im 
required to ask Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 30 April 2019.
Philip Roberts
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0344861