K821x#15complaint
Miss B has complained  about  short-term loans granted to her by Active Securities Limited  
trading as 247 Moneybox.com (Moneybox or the lender).
background
I attach my provisional decision of 29 November  2018, which forms part of this final decision 
and should be read in conjunction with it. In my provisional decision I explained why I 
intended to partially  uphold  Miss Bs complaint. I gave both parties a month to provide any 
further comments they may have had before I reached a final decision.
Miss B agreed with my provisional  decision. Moneybox has not responded to it. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As neither party has asked me to
consider further  information or arguments,  I see no reason to depart from the conclusions
set out in my provisional decision. It follows that I partially uphold Miss Bs complaint.
what Moneybox  should do to put things  right
Ive concluded  that Moneybox was irresponsible to lend to Miss B between April 2015 and 
October 2017. In order to put Miss B back in the position she would have been in, had it not 
agreed to this number  of loans over this length of time, Moneybox should: 
-refund all interest  and charges that Miss B has paid for the loans agreed in this period;
-pay interest on these refunds at 8% simple* per year from the dates of payment to the 
dates of settlement;
-remove any adverse information about loans 6 and 7 from Miss Bs credit file (granted  in 
April and May 2015 respectively).
-and remove all information about  loans 8 to 25 from Miss Bs credit file (from June 2015 
onwards)**.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Moneybox to take off tax from this interest. Moneybox 
must give Miss B a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
**Putting Miss B back into the position  she would have been in had she not been impacted 
by repeat lending  requires  the record of these loans  to be completely removed from her 
credit file.  
I understand that in early 2018  there  was still an outstanding balance  on Miss Bs final loan. 
If this is still unpaid, Moneybox should  first remove any outstanding interest owing from this 
and if there  is a capital  balance  outstanding when this is done, it can use the above refund to 
offset this capital balance. 
Ref: DRN01123762my final decision
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decision,  I partially uphold  Miss Bs complaint and 
require Active Securities  Limited (trading as 247 Moneybox.com) to put things  right as Ive 
set out above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 February  2019.
Michelle Boundy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN01123763COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Miss B has complained  about short-term  loans  granted to her by Active  Securities Limited trading  as 
247 Moneybox.com  (Moneybox or the lender).
background
Moneybox agreed 25 loans for Miss B from September 2014 to October 2017.  The lending was 
generally continuous with a few gaps  in their lending  relationship, the longest of which was about  two 
months. The amounts  agreed  ranged from £80 to £500, with an average of about £230. Each loan 
was to be repaid  in one payment. Ive included a table in an appendix to this decision (Appendix 1) 
which sets out some  of the loan information Moneybox has provided.
Miss B says that it was irresponsible  of Moneybox to lend to her because she couldnt  afford  the loans 
and the lender ought  to have known this. She says that her credit reports would have  shown her other 
debt repayments and the problems she had managing these. 
Moneybox disagrees that it lent irresponsibly. It said it took and continue  to take much care when 
making affordability assessments. The lender offered  to remove Miss Bs outstanding balance  (as of 
January 2018) as a gesture  of goodwill and offered  to remove any negative information about her final 
loan from her credit  file. Miss B declined this offer and brought her complaint to this service. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Miss Bs complaint and asked Moneybox to refund  the interest and 
charges on her final eight loans, namely loans 18 to 25. Moneybox did not respond to our 
adjudicators recommendation and so the case has come to me, an ombudsman, for a final decision. 
I am sending  out a provisional  decision  to explain why I agree with our adjudicators recommendation  
and why I think it needed  to go further.  This will allow both parties  to comment  on this matter before  I 
make my final decision.   
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  I have  also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory  rules  
and good industry practice at the time. 
Moneybox agreed all of Miss Bs loans in the period after the 31st of March  2014. It was and is 
regulated by the Financial  Conduct Authority  (FCA)  to carry out consumer credit activities.  Prior to 
this, firms were regulated  by the Office of Fair Trading  (OFT). The rules and guidance issued  by the 
FCA were in close alignment with those of the OFT, and specifically  noted and referred back to 
sections of the earlier  guidance.
As Ive said above, I have  thought  about everything to come to a view about what is fair and 
reasonable in this case.  I have  set out part of the relevant  legal and regulatory  framework that 
Moneybox was subject  to over the period it lent to Miss B in Appendix 2 at the end of this decision.  
This includes some of the provisions of the Consumer Credit Act including later amendments, 
guidance and rules provided  by the OFT and the FCA, and industry codes of best practice.
Under this framework, in order to hold a consumer  credit licence Moneybox was obliged  to lend 
responsibly. As set out by the FCA in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC),  this meant that it 
needed to make a reasonable assessment as to whether  or not a borrower could afford  to meet its 
loan repayments in a sustainable manner. The FCA rules said that in assessing affordability a lender  
needs to consider whats appropriate in the circumstances for example the type and amount of credit 
being sought and the potential risks to the consumer.  Neither the law nor the FCA specified how the 
Ref: DRN01123764assessment was to be carried out but, whatever the method, it needed to be enough  to assess the 
sustainability of the arrangement for the consumer.  
Its important to note that this means the assessment needed to be consumer-focussed.  It was not an 
assessment of the risk to the lender, but of the risk to the consumer. And it needed to be 
proportionate to both the circumstances of the lending and the circumstances of the consumer. 
Therefore, a lenders  assessment of creditworthiness  would need to be flexible  what was sufficient 
for one consumer might  not be for another, or indeed what might be sufficient for a consumer in one 
circumstance might  not be for the same consumer in other circumstances.  
CONC 6.7.21G states
A firm should not refinance high-cost short-term  credit  where to do so is unsustainable  or otherwise  
harmful. [Note: paragraph 6.25 of ILG]
As mentioned,  the OFT was the regulator before the FCA took over in 2014.  It defined  the purpose of 
short-term credit, such as payday loans, as short-term solutions which were  unsuitable for supporting 
sustained borrowing.  Its Irresponsible Lending  Guidance  points to repeated refinancing of such  loans 
as an example of irresponsible lending. 
Paragraph 6.25 of the ILG states that an example of deceptive  and/or unfair  practice would be
repeatedly refinancing (or 'rolling over') a borrower's existing credit commitment for a short-term  
credit product in a way that is unsustainable  or otherwise  harmful.
Highlighting these behaviours specifically in the regulatory guidance  suggests that a lender needed  to 
consider the risk to the consumer of such lending behaviour. And it seems logical to me that the more 
instances of repeated  lending, the greater the potential risk to the consumer  of the credit being  
unsustainable. 
what should have happened  when Miss B applied  for credit and did Moneybox get this right? 
Bearing the above in mind, I would expect an assessment of creditworthiness to vary with 
circumstance. In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance, the greater the potential  risk 
to the consumer. So, for example, Id expect a lender to seek  more assurance by carrying  carry  out 
more detailed checks 
-the higher the loan amount,
-the lower the consumers income; or
-the longer the lending relationship.
In coming to a decision  on Miss Bs case, I have  considered the following questions:
did Moneybox complete  reasonable and proportionate checks when  assessing each of Miss 
Bs loan applications to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable  
way?
oif not, would those  checks have shown that Miss B would have been able to do so? 
taking  into account the short-term purpose of the loans provided, did the overall pattern of 
lending increase  Miss Bs indebtedness  in a way that was unsustainable  or otherwise 
harmful?
did Moneybox act unfairly or unreasonably  in some other way?
Having done so, Ive provisionally concluded that Moneybox was irresponsible to lend to Miss B from 
her sixth loan onwards.  I plan to uphold her complaint from here and ask the lender to refund the 
Ref: DRN01123765interest and charges she paid for this and all her subsequent  loans. I appreciate that this will be 
disappointing for Moneybox and Ill explain  in some detail why Ive reached this conclusion.
did Moneybox carry out reasonable and proportionate checks  when assessing  Miss Bs loan 
applications to satisfy  itself that she would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
the information Moneybox obtained
The lender says that it asked Miss B for her income  and expenditure each  time she applied  for credit. 
Its records show that Miss B said her monthly income  ranged from £2,236 to £2,530 and her monthly 
expenses from £1,150 to £1,700.  This means her stated minimum disposable  income was on average 
about £850 and was generally above £500. 
Moneybox says that it routinely built in a buffer of 55% for a margin of error. This means that the 
consumer was lent a maximum of 45% of their free cash flow figure.   I note that loans  19, 21 and 24 
appear to be above this maximum limit, and loans  18 and 20 within £20 of it. (As I mentioned earlier,  
our adjudicator upheld Miss Bs complaint about the loans  granted  from loan 18 onwards.)
Moneybox also says that it checked Miss Bs credit  file when she applied for her first and second loan 
and that her credit  score was above its minimum threshold for approval. 
The income  and expenditure records provided  run from the time of Miss Bs seventh  loan in May 
2015, eight months after her first. I can accept that the lender  asked Miss B for this information  from 
the beginning in this instance  it has also provided  two credit file reports  from the time of her first and 
second loan applications.  So I think its likely that Moneybox  asked for the income and expenditure 
information also and that it was similar  to the information Miss B provided for her seventh loan  a 
monthly income of £2,236 and expenses of £1,350.
The lender says that when Miss B asked for her third loan it gathered more information from her, it 
asked her Is there any further information that you might wish to bring  to our attention at this time that 
you think may cause us to conclude it is inappropriate  to enter
into an agreement with you (for example,  as a result of any health issues you may have,  bankruptcy, 
levels of indebtedness including any other payday loans, entering  an IVA?).
Moneybox says that this didnt prompt  Miss B to provide  any further information. 
the information Moneybox should have sought
Ive started by looking at the lending history  between Moneybox and Miss B. The regulations required 
lenders to assess the risk to consumers  in a way that was appropriate to the circumstances. On 
investigation, it seems  Moneybox didnt  vary its checks greatly for Miss B over the three years she 
borrowed from it. Logically,  with that approach, Moneybox checks might be proportionate some of the 
time but its unlikely that these checks would be proportionate each  and every  time Miss B applied for 
credit. 
Moneybox agreed Miss Bs first three loans in September, November and December of 2014,  each of 
which amounted to £80. Based on the information the lender  says Miss B provided, she would have 
had a disposable income of £886, which  would  seem sufficient for Miss B to be able to comfortably 
meet her loan repayments.
However, Ive reviewed the credit file reports provided. On the first check  (dated 07/09/2014) I can 
see that Miss B had an active County  Court  judgement for about  £600 which was just over a year old 
at the time she applied  for her first loan. These results also showed a default older than 12 months 
and that one of Miss Bs credit accounts was delinquent  within the last 12 months.  All of this appears 
on her second file, dated  08/11/2014. And both files show a history  of short-term  loans, some of which 
seem to be outstanding.
Ref: DRN01123766I think  this information should have prompted Moneybox to inquire further into Miss Bs finances 
before agreeing to lend to her. Moneybox says it asked Miss B about other short-term loans when she 
asked for her third loan, and that she didnt  provide any further information. It is debateable for me 
whether or not this was enough  to probe into Miss Bs use of short-term  lending, given her credit file 
information. However,  as this was early  on in their lending relationship  I am giving Moneybox the 
benefit of doubt here and putting a greater onus  on Miss B to have  explained the extent of her 
financial affairs when  she first came  to ask Moneybox for credit. So I can accept  that Moneyboxs  
check were  reasonable for Miss Bs first three loans. 
That said, I dont think it was fair of Moneybox to continue to rely solely on Miss Bs information  about  
her affairs over such a long period of time without  asking  for some independent supporting evidence, 
given that it knew she was borrowing from other lenders and knew that she had an active County 
Court judgement. Miss B asked for her fourth loan within a week of repaying her third. This was for 
£150, almost  double the amount of her earlier loans.  Bearing in mind that Moneyboxs  loans were  
intended for short  term purposes  and werent suitable  for sustained borrowing over longer periods  
I think  the lender  ought to have taken steps to assure itself that a pattern of dependency had not 
emerged (and was not emerging). 
If Miss B was using Moneyboxs  loans as a way to meet her usual  expenses  because  of ongoing  
shortfalls in her income then repaying its loans  out of that same level of income was not going  to be 
sustainable for her. In other words its likely she would have difficulty  meeting this repayment without 
having to borrow further or go without.  So I think  Moneybox  should  have done more, for example by 
independently verifying information about Miss Bs circumstances to satisfy itself that her income was 
at the level shed declared and that she had a sustainable  level of disposable income to meet this 
loan repayment when it was due. It could  have done this in a number of ways. It could  have brought  
these concerns to Miss B and asked  further  questions  of her, or asked to see her bank  statements, 
payslips, rent or bill records etc. And so I dont think it did enough here to reasonably asses the risk to 
Miss B.
Miss B asked  for her fifth loan within a week of repaying her fourth. And she went on to borrow more 
or less continuously from Moneybox  for a further two and a half years.  So I dont think the lender 
could reasonably assume her need for its loans diminished at any point and it ought  to have 
continued to look into her finances  in more detail throughout their lending relationship.  Altogether, I 
cant conclude that Moneybox carried out reasonable  and proportionate checks  when assessing Miss 
Bs loan applications for her fourth loan onwards  and so Ive gone on to consider what  it would likely 
have found out, had it done so. 
as Moneyboxs  checks werent reasonable and proportionate, what  would  reasonable and 
proportionate checks more  likely than not have  shown?
Miss B has provided her bank statements  and I can see from these  that what she told Moneybox 
about her income was broadly correct. I dont have a breakdown  of her expense  information  until 
December 2015 (around  the time of her 12th loan) so I dont  know what  she might have said to 
Moneybox about how she spent her money before  this point.  
It seems from Miss Bs statements that she was managing her finances by borrowing  from several  
short-term lenders throughout the time she borrowed from Moneybox. Her statements show that she 
didnt have an overdraft and she sometimes used short-term lenders to avoid  paying unarranged 
overdraft fees. What Miss B owed to short-term lenders at any one time varied so sometimes she 
wasnt left with enough  to pay her Moneybox loans  without borrowing from elsewhere. And I think 
Moneybox would have  understood this, had it carried out proportionate  checks. 
Loans 4 and 5 were  to be repaid in January and February of 2015.  Looking at Miss Bs bank 
statements it seems she would have had enough to meet her repayments on these. This seems to be 
because shed set up several standing orders  for credit  repayments  from January 2015,  two of which 
were to debt management companies and so the amount she repaid on existing  credit was reduced.  
Ref: DRN01123767And her loan repayments  from one of her regular  short-term lenders also reduced as the loans  were 
to be repaid over more  than one month. 
However, Miss Bs repayments to this lender increased again  to over £600 in April 2015 and £300 in 
each of June and July of that year. And this combined with the increasing amount she needed to 
repay to Moneybox  in these months (£224, £238 and £338) means that she wasnt likely to meet 
these repayments in a sustainable way. And so I think Moneybox  was wrong to agree  to loans 6, 7, 
and 8. 
I could continue  to look into the affordability of Miss Bs remaining 17 loans but, as I will go on to 
explain, I dont think Moneybox should have continued to lend to her beyond  this point.  
taking into account the short  term purpose of the loans provided, did the overall  pattern of lending 
increase Miss Bs indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise  harmful?
Although I have explained  that there were indicators of risks and dependency  at an earlier  stage, I 
think the point at which  Moneybox should have concluded  that it was irresponsible to keep  lending to 
Miss B came when she asked for her eight  loan in June 2015. This loan was for £300,  the highest 
amount shed  borrowed  to date. At this point  shed  been borrowing from Moneybox for over nine 
months. Whilst Ive concluded that proportionate checks would likely have shown this loan to be 
unaffordable, Moneybox should also have been concerned that Miss Bs need  for credit was 
continuing beyond what could  reasonably be interpreted as short-term.
As mentioned  earlier, the guidance from the regulator at the time states that short-term  credit is not 
appropriate for supporting  sustained  borrowing over longer periods, for which  other products are more  
likely to be suitable. 
Indeed Moneyboxs own website states that: 
Our loans provide a solution  for your occasional  short-term needs.  They are not suitable for 
supporting sustained borrowing over longer periods,  nor if you are in financial difficulties. The cost of 
our payday  loans can be higher than other types of loans, such as those  requiring you to provide a 
guarantor, which are typically payable  over a longer period, so if you do require  a longer-term  solution  
there are other more  suitable forms of finance available elsewhere.
Miss B says that Moneyboxs loans trapped me in a debt spiral, with the repayment taking so much 
of my wages that I had to borrow again to cover my next months expenses. She said that when she 
repaid them she had to borrow again to get through the next month.  She says I took out other loans 
to be able to pay you back and ended up trapped in a spiral that is majorly  affecting me today.
The average  amount of credit that Moneybox offered to Miss B between  September 2014 and 
October 2017 was £230. For access  to this average amount Miss B paid almost £1,200 in interest1 in 
total. 
I think  agreeing  this number of loans  over this length of time had the effect of unfairly increasing Miss 
Bs indebtedness to Moneybox by allowing  her to take expensive credit  which  the rules  and 
guidance and Moneyboxs own website  make clear was only intended for short-term  use  over an 
extended period of time.
In addition, I think  the number and frequency of these loans  may have had and will, potentially, 
continue to have implications for Miss Bs ability to access mainstream credit because the presence of 
these short-term loans on her credit file is likely to be viewed negatively  by other lenders. 
in summary
1 Based on Moneyboxs account statements for Miss B.
Ref: DRN01123768To sum up, I dont think Moneybox  gathered enough  information to reasonably  assess 
Miss Bs ability to make  her loan repayments in a sustainable way from her fourth  loan.  And its likely 
to have discovered that she was unable  to do so when she applied for loans 6, 7, and 8, had it carried 
out proportionate checks. And when Miss B applied  for her eighth  loan in June 2015 Moneybox ought 
to have concluded that it was irresponsible to keep lending to her. It should  have seen at that point 
that she appeared to be dependent on its loans  for purposes  other than to meet  unexpected 
expenses and was probably in need of a longer-term solution. 
As a responsible lender, Moneybox wouldnt have agreed to any further credit for
Miss B, given  that this would increase her indebtedness  and potentially impact negatively on her 
creditworthiness. Therefore, I think Moneybox was irresponsible to have agreed any further loans for 
her. 
what Moneybox should  do to put things right
As Ive provisionally concluded, Moneybox was irresponsible  to lend to Miss B between  April 2015 
and October  2017. In order to put Miss B back in the position she would  have been in, had it not 
agreed to this number of loans over this length of time, Moneybox should: 
-refund all interest  and charges that Miss B has paid for the loans agreed in this period;
-pay interest on these  refunds at 8% simple* per year from the dates of payment to the dates of 
settlement;
-remove  any adverse information about loans  6 and 7 from Miss Bs credit file.
-and remove  all information about loans  8 to 25 from Miss Bs credit file**.
I understand that in early 2018 there was still an outstanding balance  on Miss Bs final loan. If this is 
still unpaid, Moneybox should first remove any outstanding interest owing from this and if there is a 
capital balance outstanding when this is done, it can use the above refund to offset this capital 
balance. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires  Moneybox to take off tax from this interest. Moneybox must give 
Miss B a certificate  showing  how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
**Putting Miss B back into the position she would  have been in had she not been impacted by repeat 
lending requires the record of these loans to be completely removed from her credit file.  
my provisional  decision
I intend  to uphold  Miss Bs complaint for the reasons given above and require Active Securities  
Limited trading as 247 Moneybox.com to put things right as Ive set out. 
Ill wait a month to see if either party has anything  further  to add  before considering my decision on 
this complaint once more.
Michelle Boundy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN01123769Appendix 1 Miss Bs borrowing history
Loan number Date from Date repaid Principal (£)Total  actual 
repayment (£)
1 08/09/2014 26/09/2014 80 100
2 08/11/2014 28/11/2014 80 102
3 05/12/2014 24/12/2014 80 120
4 29/12/2014 28/01/2015 150 232
5 31/01/2015 13/02/2015 100 111
6 01/04/2015 15/04/2015 200 224
7 02/05/2015 15/06/2015 175 238
8 30/06/2015 15/07/2015 300 338
9 30/07/2015 14/08/2015 300 338
10 29/08/2015 15/09/2015 300 343
11 01/10/2015 15/10/2015 300 336
12 12/12/2015 14/12/2015 300 307
13 01/02/2016 15/03/2016 200 270
14 08/04/2016 13/05/2016 100 129
15 01/06/2016 15/07/2016 200 272
16 05/08/2016 15/09/2016 80 107
17 20/10/2016 15/11/2016 200 243
18 15/11/2016 29/12/2016 385 524
19 03/01/2017 28/01/2017 453 547
20 17/02/2017 30/03/2017 400 534
21 04/04/2017 06/04/2017 500 512
22 26/06/2017 28/07/2017 80 102
23 16/08/2017 29/09/2017 150 204
24 09/10/2017 30/10/2017 400 470
25 30/10/2017 - 300 -
Ref: DRN011237610Appendix 2 Some information on the legal  and regulatory background to the lending
the Consumer Credit Act 1974
Section 25(2)  of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 set out the factors that regulators  had to have regard 
to when  deciding  whether or not to grant  a consumer credit  licence to a lender. It said:
(1)In determining whether  an applicant for a licence is a fit person for the purposes of this 
section the OFT shall have regard to any matters appearing to it to be relevant  including  
(amongst other things) 
(a)the applicant's  skills, knowledge and experience  in relation to consumer credit 
businesses, consumer hire businesses  or ancillary credit businesses;
(b)such skills, knowledge  and experience  of other persons who the applicant 
proposes will participate in any business that would be carried on by him under 
the licence;
(c)practices and procedures that the applicant proposes to implement  in connection  
with any such business;
(d)evidence of the kind mentioned in subsection (2A)
(2A) That evidence is evidence tending to show that the applicant, or any of the applicant's  
employees, agents or associates  (whether past or present) or, where  the applicant is a 
body corporate, any person appearing  to the OFT to be a controller  of the body 
corporate or an associate  of any such person, has
(a)committed any offence involving fraud or other dishonesty  or violence;
(b)contravened any provision made by or under
(i) this Act;
(ii) Part 16 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000  so far as it relates  to 
the consumer credit  jurisdiction under  that Part;
(iii) any other enactment regulating the provision of credit to individuals or other 
transactions with individuals;
(c)contravened any provision in force in an EEA State which corresponds to a 
provision of the kind mentioned in paragraph (b);
(d)practised discrimination on grounds of sex, colour, race or ethnic or national  
origins in, or in connection with, the carrying on of any business; or
(e)engaged in business  practices appearing to the OFT to be deceitful or oppressive 
or otherwise unfair or improper  (whether  unlawful or not)
Section 25(2B) set out an example of the type of practice referred to in Section  25(2A(e)) and said:
For the purposes of subsection (2A)(e), the business practices which the OFT may consider to be 
deceitful or oppressive or otherwise unfair or improper  include practices in the carrying on of a 
consumer credit  business  that appear to the OFT to involve irresponsible lending.
Ref: DRN011237611section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974
All of Miss Bs loans were given to her after Section 140A of the Consumer Credit  Act came into force  
on 6 April 2007. Section  140A sets out circumstances where the court may determine  that the 
relationship between  a creditor and a debtor is unfair to the debtor. Section 140A says:
140A Unfair relationships between creditors and debtors
(1)The court  may make  an order under section 140B in connection with a credit agreement  if 
it determines that the relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of the 
agreement (or the agreement taken with any related agreement)  is unfair to the debtor 
because of one or more  of the following-
(a)any of the terms of the agreement or of any related  agreement;
(b)the way in which  the creditor has exercised  or enforced any of his rights under 
the agreement or any related agreement;
(c)any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, the creditor (either  before 
or after the making of the agreement or any related agreement).
(2)In deciding whether  to make a determination under  this section the court  shall have  
regard to all matters it thinks relevant  (including matters  relating to the creditor and 
matters relating to the debtor).
(3)For the purposes of this section the court  shall (except  to the extent that it is not 
appropriate to do so) treat anything done  (or not done) by, or on behalf of, or in relation 
to, an associate or a former  associate  of the creditor as if done (or not done)  by, or on 
behalf of, or in relation  to, the creditor.
(4)A determination may be made under this section in relation to a relationship  
notwithstanding that the relationship may have ended.
(5)An order  under section 140B shall not be made in connection with a credit  agreement  
which is an exempt  agreement [for the purposes of Chapter 14A of Part 2 of the 
Regulated Activities  Order by virtue of article 60C(2) of that Order  (regulated mortgage 
contracts and regulated home purchase plans)]
Section 140B sets out the types  of order the court could  make should it determine  that the relationship  
between the creditor and debtor is unfair to the debtor. Section  140B says:
140B Powers of court  in relation to unfair relationships
(2)An order  under this section in connection  with a credit agreement may do one or more of 
the following
(a)require the creditor, or any associate  or former associate of his, to repay (in 
whole or in part) any sum paid by the debtor  or by a surety by virtue of the 
agreement or any related agreement (whether  paid to the creditor, the associate 
or the former associate or to any other person);]
(b)require the creditor, or any associate  or former associate of his, to do or not to do 
(or to cease doing) anything specified in the order in connection  with the 
agreement or any related agreement;
(c)reduce or discharge  any sum payable  by the debtor or by a surety by virtue of the 
agreement or any related agreement;
Ref: DRN011237612(d)direct the return to a surety of any property provided  by him for the purposes of a 
security;
(e)otherwise set aside (in whole or in part) any duty imposed on the debtor or on a 
surety by virtue of the agreement or any related agreement;
(f)alter the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(g)direct accounts to be taken, or (in Scotland) an accounting to be made, between 
any persons.
section 55B of the Consumer Credit Act 1974
On 1 February 2011 the majority of the legislation  implementing the provisions of the Consumer 
Credit Directive 2008 came  into force. This included an additional requirement on a lender to carry out 
an Assessment of creditworthiness  which was set out in section 55B of the Consumer Credit Act.
Section 55B said:
Assessment of creditworthiness
55B (1) Before making a regulated consumer credit agreement, other than an excluded 
agreement, the creditor must undertake an assessment of the creditworthiness  of the debtor.
(2) Before  significantly increasing
(a) the amount  of credit to be provided under a regulated consumer credit agreement, 
other than an excluded  agreement,  or
(b) a credit limit for running-account credit under a regulated consumer credit 
agreement, other than an excluded agreement, the creditor must undertake
an assessment of the debtors creditworthiness.
(3) A creditworthiness assessment must  be based on sufficient information  obtained  from
(a)the debtor, where appropriate,  and
(b) a credit reference agency, where necessary.
(4) For the purposes of this section an agreement is an excluded agreement if it is
(a)an agreement secured on land, or
(b) an agreement under which a person takes an article in pawn..
regulation by the Office of Fair Trading 
In March 2010  (updated February 2011), the OFT issued its guidance on the test for irresponsible 
lending for the purposes of section 25(2B) of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. The foreword to its 
Irresponsible Lending  Guidance (ILG) set out its purpose saying:
The primary purpose in producing this guidance is to provide greater clarity for businesses  and 
consumer representatives as to the business practices that the Office  of Fair Trading (OFT) considers 
may constitute irresponsible lending practices for the purposes of section 25(2B)  of the Consumer 
Ref: DRN011237613Credit Act 1974. It indicates types of deceitful or oppressive or otherwise unfair or improper business 
practices which, if engaged in by a consumer  credit business, could call into consideration  its fitness 
to hold a consumer credit  licence.
Whilst this guidance represents the OFT's  view on irresponsible lending, it is not meant to represent 
an exhaustive list of behaviours and practices which  might constitute  irresponsible lending.
Section two of the guidance sets out the general  principles of fair business practice. Section 2.1 says:
In the OFT's view there are a number of overarching principles of consumer protection and fair 
business practice which apply to all consumer credit lending.
Section 2.2 of the guidance  says:
In general terms,  creditors should:
not use misleading or oppressive behaviour when  advertising, selling, or seeking  to 
enforce a credit agreement
make a reasonable  assessment of whether a borrower can afford  to meet repayments in 
a sustainable manner
explain the key features of the credit agreement to enable the borrower to make an 
informed choice
monitor the borrower's  repayment record during the course of the agreement, offering 
assistance where borrowers appear to be experiencing difficulty  and
treat borrowers fairly and with forbearance if they experience difficulties
Section 2.3 lists other expectations of lenders. Amongst other things,  it says:
In addition to the above there should be:
fair treatment  of borrowers. Borrowers should not be targeted with credit products that are 
clearly unsuitable for them,  subjected  to high pressure selling, aggressive or oppressive 
behaviour or inappropriate  coercion, or conduct which is deceitful,  oppressive, unfair or 
improper, whether unlawful  or not
Borrowers who may be particularly vulnerable by virtue of their current  indebtedness, poor credit 
history, or by reason of age or health, or disability, or for any other reason, should, in particular, not be 
targeted or exploited.
Section four of the guidance  is concerned  with the assessment of affordability that lenders were 
required to carry out before granting credit. Section 4.1 says:
In the OFT's view, all assessments of affordability should involve a consideration  of the potential for 
the credit commitment to adversely impact  on the borrower's financial  situation,  taking account of 
information that the creditor  is aware of at the time the credit is granted. The extent and scope of any 
assessment of affordability, in any particular circumstance, should  be dependent upon  and 
proportionate to  a number of factors (see paragraph 4.10 of this guidance document).
'Assessing affordability', in the context of this guidance, is a 'borrower-focussed test' which involves a 
creditor assessing a borrower's ability to undertake  a specific  credit commitment,  or specific additional 
credit commitment, in a sustainable manner,  without the borrower incurring  (further)  financial 
difficulties and/or  experiencing adverse  consequences.
Ref: DRN011237614Section 4.2 of the OFT guidance says:
Whatever means and sources  of information  creditors employ as part of an assessment  of 
affordability should be sufficient to make an assessment of the risk of the credit sought being 
unsustainable for the borrower in question. In our view this is likely to involve more than solely  
assessing the likelihood of the borrower  being able to repay  the credit in question.
We consider that before granting credit, significantly increasing the amount of credit,  or significantly 
increasing the credit limit under an agreement for running  account credit, creditors should  take 
reasonable steps  to assess a borrower's  likely ability  to be able to meet repayments under the credit 
agreement in a sustainable manner.
In a sustainable manner is defined in Section 4.3 of the OFT guidance. And Section 4.3 says:
The OFT regards 'in a sustainable manner' in this context as meaning credit that can be repaid by the 
borrower:
without  undue difficulty   in particular without incurring or increasing problem indebtedness
over the life of the credit  agreement or, in the case of open-end agreements, within  a 
reasonable period of time
out of income  and/or  available savings, without having  to realise  security or assets.
Section 4.4 goes on to describe undue difficulty and says:
The OFT would regard 'without undue difficulty' in this context as meaning the borrower being  able to 
make repayments (in the absence of changes in personal circumstances that were  not reasonably 
foreseeable at the time the credit was granted):
while  also meeting other debt repayments and other normal/reasonable outgoings and
without  having to borrow  further to meet these repayments.
Building on the proportionality principle set out in section 4.1, section 4.10 deals with the issues that 
might influence how detailed the affordability assessment should be. It includes  factors such  as:
the type of credit product;
the amount  of credit to be provided and the associated cost and risk to the borrower;
the borrowers financial  situation  at the time the credit is sought;
the borrowers credit history, including any indications of the borrower  experiencing (or having 
experienced) financial  difficulty
the vulnerability of the borrower
Section 4.12 is a non-exhaustive list of the types and sources of information  that a lender might use to 
assess affordability, including:
evidence of income
evidence of expenditure
Ref: DRN011237615records of previous dealings with the borrower
a credit score
a credit report from a credit reference agency
information obtained  from the borrower, whether on an application form or separately
Section 4.16 specifically touches on the issue of proportionality in the context of short-term credit. It 
says:
Whilst the OFT accepts,  as a general  principle  from a proportionality perspective,  that the level of 
scrutiny required for small sum and/or short-term credit may be somewhat less than for large sum 
and/or long term credit,  we consider that creditors should also take account  of the fact that the risk of 
the credit being unsustainable would be directly related  to the amount of credit granted (and 
associated interest / charges etc.) relative  to the borrowers financial situation
Sections 4.18 to 4.33 of the ILG set out some examples of specific irresponsible lending practices 
relating to how businesses assess affordability. Section 4.20 says this would include where  a lender 
is:
Failing to undertake a reasonable  assessment  of affordability  in an individual case  or cases
Section 4.21 gives another example:
Failing to consider sufficient  information  to be able to reasonably assess affordability,  prior to granting 
credit, significantly increasing the total amount of credit provided, or significantly increasing  the credit  
limit (in the case  of a running  account credit  agreement)
And Section 4.26 says a business would be acting irresponsibly if:
Granting an application for credit when, on the basis of an affordability assessment, it is known, or 
reasonably ought to be suspected, that the credit is likely to be unsustainable.
Sections 4.29 and 4.31 deal with a lenders treatment of information disclosed  by the customer. 4.29 
says it would  be an unsatisfactory  business practice where a lender fails:
to take adequate steps, so far as is reasonable  and practicable,  to ensure that information  on a credit 
application relevant to an assessment of affordability is complete and correct.
And section  4.31 says it would be unsatisfactory for a lender to accept:
an application for credit under circumstances in which  it is known, or reasonably  ought  to be 
suspected, that the borrower has not been truthful in completing the application for credit with regards 
to the information supplied relevant to inform  an assessment of affordability
Section 6 of the ILG sets out other specific  irresponsible lending  practices relating to lender 
behaviour once loan(s)  have  been agreed. Section 6.2 says it would be an unsatisfactory practice  
where a business is:
Failing to monitor  a borrowers  repayment record
Section 6.2 goes on to say:
The OFT considers that creditors  should take appropriate actionwhen/if there are signs of apparent 
/ possible repayment difficulties.
Ref: DRN011237616Section 6.25 focuses specifically  on short-term credit products and says that it would be a deceptive 
and/or unfair practice  where a lender is:
Repeatedly refinancing (or 'rolling over') a borrower's existing credit commitment for a short- term 
credit product in a way that is unsustainable  or otherwise  harmful.
Section 6.25 then goes  on to say:
The OFT considers that this would include  a creditor allowing a borrower  to sequentially enter into a 
number of separate agreements for short-term loan products, one after another, where  the overall  
effect is to increase the borrower's indebtedness in an unsustainable  manner.
The general  purpose of short-term loans, such as 'payday loans', is to provide borrowers with a cash  
advance until their next pay day and they are usually  about 30 days,  or just over, in duration. 
However, in certain circumstances, the borrower  can elect to 'renew'  the loan for a fee and delay 
payment for a further agreed period of time.
The purpose  of payday loans is to act as a short-term solution to temporary cash flow problems 
experienced by consumers. They are not appropriate for supporting sustained  borrowing over longer  
periods, for which other products are likely to be more  suitable.
regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) (from 1 April  2014)
All of Miss Gs loans  were agreed when the FCA was the regulator  for consumer credit.  The FCAs 
Principles for Business (PRIN) set out the high level standards which  all authorised firms are 
required to comply  with.
PRIN 1.1.1G,  says
The Principles apply in whole  or in part to every firm.
The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. And the most  relevant principle here is PRIN 
2.1.1 R (6) which says:
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers  and treat them fairly.
The FCAs  Consumer  Credit sourcebook (CONC) is the specialist sourcebook  for credit-related 
regulated activities.  The purpose of CONC  is to set out the detailed  obligations that are specific to 
credit-related regulated activities and activities connected to those activities carried  on by firms. 
These build  on and add to the high-level  obligations,  for example,  in PRIN and the requirements  in or 
under the Consumer  Credit Act. 
This handbook sets out the rules which apply to providers of consumer credit like 
Moneybox. CONC Section 5 sets out a firms obligations in relation to responsible lending. And CONC 
Section 6 sets out a firms obligations after a consumer has entered  into a regulated agreement.
There is a high degree of alignment between  the OFTs  Irresponsible Lending Guidance and the rules  
set out in CONC 5 and CONC  6. As is evident  from the following extracts,  the FCAs  CONC rules  (in 
place at the time) specifically note and refer back to sections of the OFTs  Irresponsible Lending 
Guidance on many occasions.
Section 5.2.1R(2) of CONC set out what a lender needed to do before agreeing to give a consumer a 
loan of this type. It said a firm must consider:
Ref: DRN011237617(a)the potential for the commitments under the regulated  credit agreement to adversely impact  
the customers financial situation, taking into account the information of which the firm is 
aware at the time the regulated  credit agreement is to be made;  and
[Note: paragraph 4.1 of ILG]
(b)the ability  of the customer to make repayments  as they fall due over the life of the regulated 
credit agreement, or for such an agreement which  is an open-end agreement, to make 
repayments within  a reasonable period.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 of ILG]
CONC also includes  guidance about proportionality  of assessments. CONC 5.2.4G(2) said:
A firm should consider what is appropriate in any particular circumstances dependent on, for example,  
the type and amount of credit being sought and the potential risks to the customer. The risk of credit 
not being  sustainable directly relates to the amount  of credit granted and the total charge for credit 
relative to the customers  financial situation.
[Note: paragraph 4.11 and part of 4.16 of ILG]
CONC 5.3 contained further guidance on what a lender should bear in mind  when thinking  about  
affordability. And CONC 5.3.1G(1) said:
In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1), a firm 
should take into account  more than assessing the customers ability to repay  the credit.
[Note: paragraph 4.2 of ILG]
CONC 5.3.1G(2)  then said:
The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1) should include 
the firm taking  reasonable steps to assess the customers ability to meet repayments under  a 
regulated credit agreement in a sustainable  manner without the customer incurring financial difficulties 
or experiencing significant  adverse consequences.
[Note: paragraph 4.1 (box)  and 4.2 of ILG]
In respect of the need to double-check information disclosed by applicants,  CONC 5.3.1G(4)  has a 
reference to paragraphs 4.13, 4.14, and 4.15 of ILG and stated:
(b)it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the customers income 
and expenditure on a statement of those matters made  by the customer.
And CONC 5.3.7R said that:
A firm must not accept an application for credit under a regulated credit agreement  where  the firm 
knows or ought reasonably  to suspect that the customer has not been truthful  in completing the 
application in relation  to information supplied  by the customer  relevant to the creditworthiness  
assessment or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1).
[Note: paragraph 4.31 of ILG]
CONC 6.7 sets out a firms  obligations in relation  to its post contract business  practices. CONC 
6.7.21G to 6.7.23R contains  specific  obligations  for high-cost short-term credit providers.
Ref: DRN011237618CONC 6.7.21G says:
A firm should not refinance high-cost short-term  credit  where to do so is unsustainable  or otherwise  
harmful.
[Note: paragraph 6.25 of ILG]
CONC 6.7.22G says:
A firm should not allow a customer to enter  into consecutive agreements with the firm for high-cost 
short-term credit if the cumulative effect  of the agreements would  be that the total amount payable by 
the customer  is unsustainable.
[Note: paragraph 6.25 (box)  of ILG]
CONC 6.7.23R  says:
A firm must not refinance high-cost short-term credit (other than by exercising forbearance) on more  
than two occasions.
CONC 6.7.17R  defines refinancing and says:
(1)In CONC 6.7.18 R to CONC 6.7.23 R refinance means to extend, or purport to extend, the 
period over which one or more repayment is to be made by a customer whether  by:
(a)agreeing with the customer  to replace, vary or supplement  an existing regulated 
credit agreement;
(b)exercising a contractual power contained in an existing regulated credit agreement;  or
(c)other means, for example, granting an indulgence  or waiver to the customer.
(2)Exercise forbearance means to refinance a regulated credit agreement  where  the result  is 
that no interest accrues at any time in relation  to that agreement  or any which  replaces, varies 
or supplements it from the date of the refinancing and either:
(a)there is no charge  in connection with the refinancing; or
(b)the only additional charge is a reasonable estimate  of the actual and necessary cost 
of the additional administration required in connection with the refinancing.
(3)The term refinance within paragraph (1) does not include where under a regulated credit 
agreement repayable in instalments a customer requests a change in the regular payment 
date and as a result  there is no charge  or additional  interest  in connection with the change.
other relevant publications and good industry practice
The ILG (and following that the FCAs Consumer  Credit Handbook (CONC)) set out the regulatory 
framework that regulated/authorised  consumer credit providers have to adhere to. But in making  my 
decision, I am also required to take into account any other  guidance,  standards, relevant codes of 
practice, and, where  appropriate,  what  I consider to have  been good industry  practice at the time of 
the events in dispute.
Ref: DRN011237619the OFTs Payday Lending Compliance Review  Final  Report
The OFT published its Payday Lending  Compliance Review Final Report in March  2013.  The 
purpose of the review  was to establish the extent to which payday lenders [were] complying with 
the Consumer Credit  Act, other legislation and [were] meeting the standards set out in the ILG.
The review sought to highlight examples  of what the OFT considered poor practice  and evidence of 
non-compliance with the relevant law and failure  to meet the minimum standards  expected. The 
analysis was also put together to help the FCAs work on payday lending ahead of it assuming  
responsibility for regulating the sector from April 2014.
The report began with an overview section setting out the OFTs  concerns. Page two of the report 
says that the OFT:
is particularly concerned  by the evidence  of irresponsible  lending; too many people are given loans 
they cannot  afford, and when they cant repay are encouraged to extend them, exacerbating  their 
financial difficulties This is causing real misery  and hardship for a significant number of payday users
Page three of the report says:
Our evidence  paints a concerning picture of the payday lending market. It appears that irresponsible 
lending is not a problem  confined to a few rogue traders, but it has its roots  in the way competition 
works in this market. The evidence suggests that many consumers are in a weak bargaining  position, 
and that firms compete on speed of approval rather than price
It then goes on to say:
Additionally, firms describe and market  their product to consumers  as one-off short term loans 
(costing on average £25 per £100 borrowed for 30 days), but in practice  around half the revenue 
comes from loans which last longer and cost a lot more  because they are rolled over or refinanced. 
Lenders do not need  to compete hard for this source of revenue because  by this time they have a 
captive market. This, and the misuse  of continuous  payment authorities to reclaim  monies owed, may 
distort incentives for lenders,  encouraging  them to make loans to people who cannot  afford  to repay 
them first time.
the Consumer Finance  Association Lending Code for Small Cash Advances
The principal trade association  representing  the interests of short-term  lending businesses operating 
in the United Kingdom is the Consumer  Finance  Association (CFA). The CFA published a good 
practice charter entitled Lending Code for Small Cash  Advances in July 2012. I understand that 
Moneybox is a member of the CFA and revised and updated its own lending code2 with regard to the 
CFAs Good  Practice Customer Charter. 
Section 1 of the code  sets out its purpose. Section  1b says:
Members of the Consumer Finance Association offer small cash  loans predominantly from high street 
outlets or online
Section 1c says:
This type of loan allows customers to borrow  a relatively  small amount  of money, (usually between  
£50 and £1000)  which  they repay over a short period  (typically one or two months). The loan is not 
designed for longer  term borrowing, but to improve short  term personal  cash flow
2 https://www.247moneybox.com/news/30012013-247moneybox.com-launches-responsible-lending-
video.html
Ref: DRN011237620And Section 1d says:
The purpose  of this Code is to ensure compliance by members with the minimum standards set by 
the Association, as specified in the Code, and accordingly protects and benefit  consumers
Section 3 sets out the general obligations expected of lenders. Amongst other things Section 3 says 
members shall:
b) trade  honestly, responsibly and treat customers with respect.
l) ensure fairness in all dealings  with customers including,  but not limited to, their dealings 
with customers  both before  and after the making of the agreement and the manner in which  
those agreements  are enforced.
Section 4 of the code  sets out a lenders specific  lending  obligations. Part (a) of this section is 
concerned with advertising and marketing and amongst other  things,  it says:
iii) members  shall ensure  all advertising  is truthful and not misleading and raise awareness to 
the short  term nature  of the loan.
Part (d) of section 4 is concerned with pre-contractual information. And it, amongst other things, says:
v) members  shall provide explanations to the customer, to enable them to assess  whether the 
proposed credit agreement is appropriate  to their circumstances by explaining:
that small cash loans are intended to improve  short term cash  flow, and therefore not suitable  for 
longer term borrowing.
Ref: DRN0112376