K821x#15complaint
Miss M complains that Uncle Buck  Finance LLP, trading as Uncle  Buck, (UBF), gave her 
loans that she couldnt afford to repay. The complaint was brought  to this service  on 
Miss Ms behalf by a claims  management  company. But for ease, I shall refer below to all 
actions being  taken by Miss M.
background
Miss M took out two loans  with UBF and details of these are shown below. Loan 1 has been 
repaid. Loan 2 was rolled over on 24 August 2013  and has since been  repaid.
Loan number
Date Loan amount
Repayment amount Repayment date
1. 18/7/2013 £350 £472.32 26/7/2013
2. 26/7/2013 £500 £674.75 Date of 
repayment unknown
The adjudicator concluded that Loan 2 shouldnt  have  been lent. She said that proportionate 
checks would have  shown  that Miss M had a large  number of outstanding short  term loans 
with other  lenders.
UBF disagreed. It said that Miss M rolled over Loan 2 on 24 August 2013. She then told it in 
late September 2013 that she had entered into a debt management  scheme (DMS). UBF 
said its loan terms said that a borrower  should tell it if she is in or thinking  of going into a 
DMS. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
When UBF lent to Miss M the regulator was the Office of Fair Trading and relevant guidance  
included its guidance  on irresponsible lending.
UBF needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Miss M could  
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and Miss Ms 
income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending relationship, I 
think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that UBF should fairly  and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss M. These  factors  include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
Ref: DRN04151372the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that UBF was required to establish 
whether Miss M could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether  the loan payments 
were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ms complaint.
UBF did a number of checks  before it lent to Miss M. It asked her for details  of her income. 
And before each  of the loans and at the time of the loan extension for Loan  2, it also asked  
about Miss Ms expenditure. Miss Ms declared  income was £1,800  before  Loan 1. UBF said 
in its final response letter  that Miss Ms income  before Loan 2 was £1,800  but she also had a 
further income of £1,800 before that loan. Its not clear what  the source of this additional 
amount was and whether it was a regular amount. I asked the adjudicator  to ask UBF to 
clarify Miss Ms income information. But it hasnt  responded on this. Miss Ms declared 
expenditure before Loan 1 was £508.36. But when she applied for Loan  2, just eight days 
later, she declared  her expenditure as £758.
I note that UBF also carried out a credit check before each loan was granted. It said that its 
checks include the consumers overall indebtedness including secured and unsecured  debt 
and short term loans.  UBF hasnt  provided  us with a copy of its credit  checks because  of the 
time that has elapsed  since  the loans were provided. So Im not aware  of any adverse 
information on those  checks that should have caused additional concerns to UBF.
Miss M has provided us with a copy of her credit report. I can see that Miss Ms credit report  
showed she had taken out other short term loans. I shall refer to this below.
Ref: DRN04151373Miss Ms first loan with UBF was for £350  with a repayment amount of £472.32. Miss M had 
declared an income of £1,800. I think the loan repayment amount was a significant 
proportion of her income. So, I think it might  have been proportionate at this time for UBF to 
have gathered some further information from Miss M about  her expenditure, which I can see  
it did. So considering  Miss Ms disposable income before Loan 1, I dont think the repayment 
was so large that its obvious it wouldve caused Miss M financial difficulty.
So given Miss Ms repayment  amount for Loan 1, what  was apparent about her 
circumstances at the time, and that this was her first loan with the lender, I dont think  it 
wouldve been proportionate for UBF to ask her for the amount of information that would be 
needed to show  the lending was unsustainable.   
And at this stage there wasnt anything in the information Miss M provided or the information 
UBF shouldve been aware of, which  meant it wouldve been proportionate to start verifying 
what she was saying.  So I dont  think UBF was wrong to give Loan 1 to Miss M.
Loan 2 was taken out on the day Loan  1 was repaid and the loan amount had increased to 
£500 with a loan repayment of £674.75.  I think this might have caused  some concerns to 
UBF. Miss M had declared  an income of £1,800 and an additional income amount of £1,800 
although UBF hasnt  clarified this additional  amount. So its not clear if it should  be treated 
as income or if it was intended  to be used  for something specific,  and so not available  for 
use to repay  Loan  2. Miss M had also declared  expenditure of £758. 
I think Miss Ms repayment amount on Loan 2 was a relatively large proportion of her 
income. So, I think it might have been proportionate  at this time for UBF to have gathered  
some further  information from Miss M about her other short term lending. Had it done so, its 
likely that UBF wouldve learnt that Miss M had at least five other short  term loans with other  
lenders at the same time as she was borrowing from UBF. I have seen these loans on 
Miss Ms credit report. I think it would have been clear  to UBF from the number and amount  
of Miss Ms other outstanding short term loans that Miss M was facing significant problems 
managing her money and unlikely to be able to repay Loan  2 in a sustainable  manner. 
I note that Miss M asked to roll over Loan 2 on 24 August  2013  but it wasnt then repaid on 
the due date. UBF told this service  that Miss M has now repaid that loan although I cant  see 
that weve received  the date of repayment.
UBF also told us that Miss M told it in September 2013 that she had entered into a DMS. It 
referred to its terms and condition which require a customer  to attest they are not in, or 
thinking of going into, a DMS. But I note that both the loans were taken out in July 2013  and 
Ive not seen anything to show  that Miss M was in a DMS at that stage or thinking of going 
into one. I also dont  think that such a provision absolves UBF of its obligation to assess the 
risk to Miss M and make a fair assessment. I dont think it did this with regard to Loan 2.
So Im upholding  this complaint in part and UBF should put things  right as follows.  
putting things right  what UBF needs  to do
refund  all the interest and charges that Miss M has paid on Loan 2, and pay 8% 
simple interest* a year on the refunds  from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement.
remove all adverse  entries about  Loan 2 from Miss Ms credit file.
Ref: DRN04151374*HM Revenue & Customs requires UBF to take off tax from this interest. UBF must give 
Miss M a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one. 
 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I order Uncle Buck Finance  LLP, trading as Uncle  Buck, to:
1.Refund all the interest  and charges  that Miss M has paid on Loan 2;
2.Pay 8% simple interest* a year on the refunds from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement;  and
3.Remove all adverse entries  about Loan 2 from Miss Ms credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires UBF to take off tax from this interest. UBF must give 
Miss M a certificate showing  how much  tax it has taken off if she asks for one. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 October  2019.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0415137