K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that American  Express Services Europe Limited  (Amex) sent him an 
amended final bill of £276.53, two months  after he closed and settled his charge card 
account. 
background
In 2017 Amex temporarily credited  Mr Ls account with £276.53 to cover some missing  
payments. Amex later located and credited the payments to his account, but they didnt 
reverse the temporary credit until two months after Mr L closed it in 2018. Amex asked him 
to repay  the £276.53 within two weeks, but Mr L didnt  think he should have to because  hed 
already settled the account. Amex credited his account with £75 compensation, but 
continued to pursue him for the rest of the outstanding balance. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld, but Mr L disagreed.  
He felt he didnt  owe Amex anything, and that the £75 compensation wasnt  enough to make 
up for the impact this had on him in his circumstances.  He was also unhappy  with the way 
Amex chased  him for the debt. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, and in particular all the detail Mr L 
has provided, to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr Ls frustration, as he believed his account had been  closed  and settled. 
However, the key issue here is that, in effect, Mr Ls account was credited  with £276.53 
twice in 2017  even  though he only paid that money into his account once. Amex  should 
have reversed the temporary credit sooner, and before the account  was closed, but Mr L 
would always have  had to settle  the outstanding balance  whenever this happened. Im 
therefore satisfied  Mr L owed Amex the money, even after the account closure, and that - 
overall - Amex acted  reasonably by asking  him to pay it back.  This also means Amex were  
entitled to pursue him for repayment  when  he didnt, and I dont  think  they acted 
unreasonably in the way they contacted him.  
Given that this situation  arose because of Amexs  administrative error in delaying  the 
reversal of the temporary credit, they could have given Mr L longer to repay  it, and I 
understand this would have caused  him some stress and inconvenience. But I think the £75 
payment Amex gave  him was, in all the circumstances, reasonable to recognise  this. 
I understand Mr L has now repaid the outstanding amount owed, and his credit  file hasnt 
been adversely  affected.
Ref: DRN09860042my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2019.
Joanna Brown 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0986004