K821x#15complaint
Mr K complains that Provident  Personal Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma) lent him money  
that he couldnt afford to repay.
Mr K wants  Satsuma  to refund the interest and charges that he paid.
background
Mr K took out five loans with Satsuma between  December 2015 and November 2016. A 
summary of the loans  is bellows:
No. Date of loan Amount borrowed
Term Repayments (monthly)
Date repaid  
1 26/12/2015 £350 52 weeks £58 25/11/2016
2 12/11/2016 £200 4 months £81 (combined £139
26/03/2017
3 28/01/2017 £350 9 months £78 (combined £159)
28/10/2017
4 30/09/2017 £1,000 12 months £166 (combined £244)
unpaid
5 04/03/2018 £800 12 months £133 (combined £299)
unpaid
Mr K says that he struggled  to stop borrowing  money  from Satsuma. And he ended up 
borrowing larger amounts  to try and get back on track with his finances.
The adjudicator recommended that Mr Ks complaint be upheld in part. The adjudicator  
thought that Satsuma shouldnt have agreed loans  three to five. She recommended that 
Satsuma refund the interest and charges Mr K had paid on the affected loans.
The adjudicator recommended that Satsuma remove loans three  to five entirely from Mr Ks 
credit file. 
Satsuma disagreed with the adjudicators view. It said it carried out individual affordability 
assessments. Satsuma didnt agree that the number of loans alone was sufficient to indicate  
they were unsustainable.
As Satsuma  didnt agree with the adjudicators  recommendation, the complaint  came to me.
my provisional findings
After considering all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  I was minded not to uphold  Mr Ks 
complaint about  loan three. But I agreed  with the adjudicators  recommendation in relation to 
loans four and five.
Ref: DRN02904172Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
When Satsuma lent to Mr K, the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and 
the relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit  Sourcebook (CONC).  
The CONC  carried guidance for lenders about  responsible lending.
Satsuma needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr K 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I thought less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that 
Satsuma should  fairly  and reasonably  have  done more to establish that any lending  was 
sustainable for the consumer. These  factors included:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Satsuma was required to establish whether Mr K could sustainably repay his loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were  affordable on a strict pounds  and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the CONC defines sustainable as being  without  undue  difficulties 
and in particular  the customer should  be able to make repayments on time, while  meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the repayments. 
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if they will need to borrow  
more money to afford the repayments.
Mr K didnt make any comments about  the adjudicators opinion as it related  to loans and 
two. As I didnt think there was any ongoing  dispute  about these loans, I wasnt  going to 
make a decision about this lending. But as the loans were  part of the borrowing relationship 
that Mr K had with Satsuma, I took them in to account when considering  his other loans.
Ref: DRN02904173loan three
This was where I was minded  not to uphold  Mr Ks complaint. I wasnt persuaded that the 
length of time that Mr K had been  borrowing from Satsuma - 13 months  - was enough  to 
indicate, by itself, that Mr K had become persistently reliant  on unsuitable short  term loans.
Although I appreciated that Mr K asked to borrow more than for loan two, it was the same 
amount that he asked  for when he took out loan one. So I couldnt say that there was a 
dramatic increase in the level of Mr Ks borrowing from Satsuma.
Although loan two remained outstanding at the time,  this still meant  that Mr Ks combined 
monthly repayments didnt exceed £160.  And I couldnt see any evidence  of missed or late 
payments on loan two which might  have indicated that Mr K was already struggling with his 
finances.
Satsuma gave us evidence that it also asked  Mr K for details of his housing  costs, credit 
commitments and other outgoings.  And Satsuma carried out a credit check and included any 
undeclared credit commitments that it could see together  with a further buffer.
Mr K had declared a monthly income  of £2,200. Given the amount that Satsuma expected  
Mr K to repay each  month, I was satisfied  that it carried out adequate checks. Based on 
what Satsuma knew about Mr K, I didnt think it was unreasonable to agree loan three.
loans four and five
I also looked at the overall pattern of Satsumas lending history  with Mr K with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Satsuma should  reasonably  have seen that further  
lending was unsustainable or otherwise harmful. And so Satsuma should have realised that 
it shouldnt have given  Mr K any more loans.
By loan four, Mr K had been borrowing from Satsuma  for more than 21 months. As far as I 
could see there hadnt  been a day when Mr K wasnt in debt to Satsuma. Furthermore, when 
Mr K applied for loan four, he still owed money on loan three. So Mr K was repaying more 
than one loan at the same time.
Loan four was the highest amount  so far at £1,000.  So I thought that Satsuma shouldve 
been alerted to the fact that Mr K was reliant  on short  term lending  and wasnt using the 
loans as they were  intended  for unexpected  expenses.  And that it was likely that Mr K 
couldnt afford to repay the loans  in a sustainable way.
Mr K wasnt  making any real inroads into what he owed Satsuma and his indebtedness was 
being prolonged. This meant that Mr K had been paying large amounts of interest to, in 
effect; service a debt to Satsuma over a long period.
I thought that Mr K lost out because Satsuma continued to lend money  from loan four 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ks indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
Ref: DRN02904174the extended period of time he owed Satsuma money was likely to have had 
negative implications on Mr Ks ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in 
the market for these  high-cost  loans.
So I upheld Mr Ks complaint about loans four and five.
further submissions
Neither Mr K nor Satsuma  responded to my provisional decision with any comments or 
evidence to consider.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint   
As I havent  been  asked to consider any more information or evidence,  I find that its fair to 
make my final decision along the same lines as my provisional decision. 
putting things right  what Satsuma needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges that Mr K paid on loans four and five;
 
add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum  to each  of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;  
remove any unpaid interest and charges from loans four and five;
if it chooses to, apply the refund  to any outstanding principal balance  before paying the 
remaining balance (if there is any) to Mr K; and
the number  of loans taken by the time of loan four means that any information about 
loans four and five is negative. So all entries about loans four and five should be 
removed from Mr Ks credit file once the outstanding principal balance on each loan has 
been settled.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Satsuma  to take off tax from this interest. Satsuma  must  
give Mr K a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one. If Satsuma 
intends to apply the refund to reduce  any outstanding  balance,  it must do so after deducting 
the tax.
**If after taking the above steps there is still a principal balance  due, I remind Satsuma of its 
obligation to treat Mr K fairly and reasonably in any settlement discussions. 
Ref: DRN02904175my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ks complaint in part. In full and final settlement,  I require  
Provident Personal Credit Limited  (trading as Satsuma) to put things right as detailed  above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 November  2019.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0290417