K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that a car supplied with finance  from First Response  Ltd was taken away  by 
the police  due to an error  by his insurance  company. 
background
In July 2018 Mr M was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement with 
First Response.
Mr M was stopped by the police for having no insurance. The car was seized and taken  to a 
police compound.
Mr M says that his lack of insurance was due to an error by his insurance company not 
automatically renewing his policy.
Mr M spoke  to First Response about getting the car back. First Response  advised him that 
he would  need  to pay the compound fee and provide proof  of insurance before the car could 
be released. 
First Response gave Mr M time to pay the fee but he didnt pay this or arrange insurance.  
First Response then offered to terminate  Mr Ms agreement under the voluntary termination 
rules. It said that in the alternative it would repossess the car.
Mr M wasnt happy with the response  and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said the underlying issue was the car wasnt  
insured. He said that First Response  hadnt done  anything wrong  by not giving the car back  
until Mr M could  provide evidence of valid insurance.  The investigator found  that First 
Response had acted  reasonably in offering Mr M the option  of voluntary termination.
Mr M didnt  agree. He felt that First Response had misled him about  the return  of his car.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to assure Mr M that Ive thought carefully  about what hes said. But having done so 
Ive decided not to uphold  the complaint. Ill explain why in more detail.
The car was seized by police because  Mr M didnt have insurance. I appreciate that Mr M 
feels that this was the fault of his insurance  company but theres no evidence  to suggest that 
this was the case. 
I can see that First Response  made Mr M aware  that in order  for the car to be returned to 
him he would  need  to pay the compound fee and provide proof  of insurance. This was the 
case whether Mr M wanted  to collect the car himself or whether First Response  collected it 
on his behalf.
Ref: DRN07497562There appears to have been  some confusion as to whether Mr M would collect  the car 
himself or whether the uplift agents would collect it. Irrespective of that confusion, the police 
wouldnt allow the car to be released  because Mr M hadnt provided insurance documents.
Whilst I appreciate that there was some  confusion as to who would collect  the car and this 
would have been frustrating for Mr M, Im unable to say that First Response was responsible  
for the polices refusal to release the car. Im satisfied  that it was Mr Ms obligation to provide 
valid insurance documents. First Response  wasnt  under any obligation to provide these  on 
behalf of Mr M.
When it subsequently came to light that Mr M had never held full insurance on the car, First 
Response advised  him that he was in breach of the agreement. The terms and conditions  of 
the agreement  require Mr M to keep  the car fully insured. So Im unable  to say that First 
Response acted unfairly here.
Im satisfied that Mr Ms failure to keep the car fully insured was a breach of the agreement. I 
dont think it was unreasonable  for First Response to tell Mr M that it intended to repossess 
the car. I can see that First Response  offered  Mr M the opportunity to voluntary terminate the 
agreement. It wasnt  under  an obligation  to do this because the agreement had been 
breached. I think First Response acted fairly in offering this because it wouldve been  a more 
cost effective option for Mr M.
I understand that Mr M will be disappointed  by my decision but I dont think First Response 
has done anything  wrong.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 July 2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0749756