K820x#14Complaint
Mr K is unhappy because he says U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has quoted  the registration 
number of his car incorrectly  on the car insurance policy he has with it.
Background
Mr K has a car insurance policy with UKI. He says UKI has incorrectly  detailed  the 
registration of his car on the policy document. He says it should be OWO3 JXX (oscar,  
whiskey, oscar, three, juliet,  x-ray, x-ray).
UKI has quoted  the registration  as OW03 JXX (oscar, whiskey,  zero, three, juliet,  x-ray, x-
ray). Mr K wasnt happy with this and complained  to UKI, repeating what  he considers to be 
the correct registration.
UKI says its checked with various official sources and its quoting the registration correctly.  
Mr K wasnt  happy with this and brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator  
checked with a number of government  websites, insurance and car valuation websites and 
confirmed UKI has quoted  the registration correctly on the policy  document.
Mr K wasnt  happy with this and asked an ombudsman to make  a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Ive reached the 
same conclusion as the investigator and for the same reasons. Ill explain my reasoning.
It seems  to me the confusion in this case  arises from the similarity between  the letter O and 
the number zero in certain type fonts.  Having looked  through the various documents  
submitted by the parties, I think there are times when the difference between the two is 
obvious and times when  its not, dependent on the type font.
To reach a conclusion  on this matter, it seems  to me the best place to seek guidance is from 
official resources. So my starting point is the guidance provided by the Driving  and Vehicle  
Licencing Agency (DVLA) which is the government organisation that keeps records  of all 
drivers and vehicles in the country. 
The DVLAs  guidance  on vehicle registration  plates explains that the UKs standard format is 
letter, letter, number, number, letter, letter, letter. So this format  is in line with UKIs view of 
the correct registration.
Ive checked with the DVLA  website  and Mr Ks car was registered  in June 2003. The two 
numbers in the registration  represent  the year the car was registered. In this case, if I 
assume UKI is correct,  the two numbers  in question are zero and three.  The DVLA  confirms  
cars with these numbers  in the registration  were registered between  March and August 2003 
and that fits in with the date Mr Ks car was registered. So thats also in line with UKIs view 
of the correct registration.
Ref: DRN01089072Ive then gone on to look at other resources such as the Motor  Insurance  Database, the 
governments MOT database and various  car valuation websites that this organisation uses. 
Searches on each  of these return details for Mr Ks make and model  of car when UKIs 
version of the registration is input. When I use Mr Ks version  with an O instead of a zero, 
the websites fail to return  any information  and say that the registration  format isnt correct.  
From this, Im satisfied  that the registration  that UKI has quoted on the insurance documents 
is correct as it agrees  with the governments DVLA and MOT  records and those of other key 
motor resources. Im not persuaded UKI has done  anything wrong and so I wont be asking it 
to do any more. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 August 2019.
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0108907