K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains that Aviva Life & Pensions  UK Limited failed to set up his pension in a timely 
manner.
background
Mr G reached  state retirement  age in July 2018. He held a pension fund with Aviva  that he 
wished to convert into pension benefits to supplement his state pension  and provide for him, 
and his partner,  during  his retirement.
Although Mr G started discussing his pension  options with Aviva  in early 2018  he didnt 
conclude those decisions until July 2018.  Aviva then provided him with the paperwork 
necessary to set up his pension. After receiving those forms Aviva  noticed that Mr Gs 
partner wasnt married  to him, or in a civil partnership.  So it asked Mr G, and his partner, for 
some further  information and identity documentation. This was received by Aviva  on 
20 August 2018  and the pension benefits commenced the following day.
When Mr G first complained to Aviva  it accepted  that it had caused  some delays to Mr Gs 
pension when it issued  the paperwork to him in July. So it paid him £100 in respect  of the 
trouble and upset  hed been caused.  But it didnt  consider the time taken after that point, 
particularly since it needed more information from Mr G and his partner, had been  
unreasonable. Mr G was unhappy  with the compensation  Aviva  had paid so brought his 
complaint to this Service.
Mr Gs complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He agreed that the delays 
caused by Aviva in issuing the original paperwork had been unreasonable. But he didnt 
think Avivas actions  after that point had caused further unnecessary  delays. He asked Aviva 
to pay an additional  £100 to Mr G to reflect the trouble and upset hed been caused. Aviva  
agreed to make that payment.
But Mr G didnt agree  with that assessment.  He thought that a payment of £1,000  would 
more fairly  reflect the inconvenience hed been  caused, and the delays to the start of his 
annuity payments.  So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been  passed 
to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our process.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service.  This service isnt intended  
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct  
Authority. Instead  this service looks to resolve  individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide  that something  has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things  right by placing the consumer,  as far as is possible, in the position 
they would  have been if the problem hadnt  occurred.
Ref: DRN07114372I have looked  carefully  at the information we have been given by Mr G and Aviva about their 
communication in setting  up the pension arrangement. I can see that there  were  a number of 
discussions between Mr G and Aviva from April onwards. But Aviva needed to ensure in 
those discussions that it was only providing information to Mr G  it wasnt  appropriate for 
Aviva to provide  him with advice or a recommendation about how his pension should  be 
structured.
It seems  that Mr G considered,  and discussed  with Aviva,  a number of options. But by 
9 July 2018 Mr G had decided to take some tax free cash and an annuity with provision for a 
dependents pension after his death. So he asked Aviva to issue  the forms he would  need  to 
complete to set up these  arrangements.
I can see that Mr G needed to chase Aviva  on a number of occasions over the following 
weeks when he hadnt received the forms. I can understand  how frustrating this must have 
been for him, when he was looking to use these  benefits to provide an income after he had 
retired. Avivas  notes  suggest that the forms werent successfully received by Mr G until 
30 July. I think a delay  of around three  weeks in sending these forms is unreasonable.
Mr G returned the forms the following day. When he checked they had been successfully 
received just a couple of days later Aviva  let him know that it needed some  additional  
information about his partner since they werent married or in a civil partnership. It wrote  to 
him six days later to formally ask for that information.
Mr G, and his partner,  returned some information  to Aviva on 13 August. But Aviva needed 
to request some additional information which it did on 17 August. This was returned to Aviva 
on 20 August. The following  week Aviva wrote to Mr G to confirm  his pension had been  set 
up with effect from 21 August and paid the tax free cash lump sum to him.
Until Mr G returned the original paperwork to Aviva it had no way of knowing  that his partner 
wasnt married  to him or in a civil partnership. And I note that those forms do say that some 
more information  would  be needed in those circumstances. So I dont  think it was 
unreasonable for Aviva to make that request.
I can see that Mr G says his partner was already in receipt of a pension  from Aviva,  and so it 
should have been able to perform its identity checks from those records. But I dont agree  
these checks are designed to ensure that Mr Gs partner would be entitled to receive 
dependents benefits after his death.  I dont think it would be right for Aviva to draw that 
conclusion based  on the information it held in relation to another  pension  policy.
From the end of July it seems to me that Aviva  responded within a reasonable time, both in 
requesting and processing  the additional  information  it needed  from Mr G and his partner. 
And I think it was reasonable for Aviva to request that information. So I dont think it fair to 
ask Aviva to pay any compensation in relation to the additional  delay this caused in putting  
Mr Gs pension into payment.
I can understand that Mr G is disappointed  that it has taken longer than he would have 
wanted to get his pension  payments  set up. But I dont think that time was solely  the result of 
unreasonable delays caused  by Aviva. But as I said earlier I do think Aviva should have 
issued the initial paperwork to Mr G in a more timely manner. I agree with our investigator 
that total compensation of £200 for the inconvenience caused  by those delays would be 
reasonable. So Aviva needs to pay a further £100  to Mr G.
Ref: DRN07114373my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Gs complaint and direct Aviva  Life & Pensions  UK 
Limited to pay the further sum of £100 to Mr G in addition  to the compensation it has already 
paid. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 April 2019.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0711437