K820x#14complaint
Miss S has complained  about  the service she received from Santander UK Plc in relation to 
an overseas payment.
background
In April 2019 Miss S instructed Santander  to transfer  a sum in excess of £10.000  to a foreign 
bank to pay for a surgical procedure. The Santander employee who processed the transfer 
made an error and the funds werent  received by the intended recipient.
Miss S contacted Santander  and explained that the recipient needed  to receive  the funds 
later that week as she was travelling  overseas  during the following week  to have  the surgery. 
Attempts to make the payment  by alternative means  were unsuccessful and in the end 
Miss S had to take cash with her when she went overseas to make the payment.
Miss S complained to Santander.  It apologised for its error and credited £500 to Miss Ss 
current account to compensate  her.
Miss S wasnt happy with Santanders response to her complaint and referred it to this service.
our initial conclusions
Our investigator thought the £500 compensation Santander had paid to Miss S was fair and 
reasonable. Miss S doesnt agree  with this. She says she lost a days work for which she 
would have been paid £850 and incurred other losses.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander has admitted  it made an error.  My role is to decide  if the compensation it has 
already paid Miss S is sufficient to compensate  her for the consequences of that error.
Santanders error caused Miss S a lot of unnecessary trouble and upset. But she was able to 
make the payment in cash and her surgery  went ahead as planned. I havent seen enough 
evidence to enable  me to reasonably conclude that Santanders error prevented Miss S from 
working. So Im not persuaded she should  be paid compensation for loss of earnings.
Miss S has also referred to a weekend break being ruined and other losses.  I appreciate she 
would have been worried about the payment and this could have detracted from her 
enjoyment of her weekend break. But I think the amount paid by Santander was sufficient to 
cover such  loss of enjoyment. Im not persuaded I could reasonably decide the other losses  
claimed by Miss S were directly attributable to Santanders error.
In all the circumstances Im satisfied the payment of £500 Santander has made  to Miss S is 
fair and reasonable.
Ref: DRN00500932my final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold this complaint because  I think Santander UK Plc had paid 
Miss S a reasonable  amount of compensation before she referred her complaint to this service.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 November 2019.
Charles Bacon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0050093