K821x#15complaint
Mr R says MYJAR Limited (trading as Txtloan) irresponsibly made  4 loans to him which were 
all unaffordable.
background
This complaint is about 4 loans MYJAR provided to Mr R between  April 2012 and June 
2012. Mr Rs borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Highest  
Monthly 
Repayment
1 17/04/2012 02/05/2012 1 £100 £117
2 07/05/2012 21/05/2012 1 £100 £117
3 21/05/2012 01/06/2012 1 £100 £117
4 01/06/2012 21/12/2012 1 £200 £234
Mr R said MYJAR  shouldnt  have made  any of the loans because it was irresponsible 
lending and they were all unaffordable. He says that if MYJAR  had done  proper checks,  it 
would have seen  he was struggling to repay  the loans  for various  reasons.
Our adjudicator upheld  part of Mr Rs complaint.  He thought loan 4 shouldnt  have  been  
given. MYJAR accepted  our adjudicators view and made an offer to Mr R on loan 4. Mr R 
disagreed with our adjudicators view and rejected MYJARs offer. He then asked for the 
matter to be looked at again. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr R 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that MYJAR should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ref: DRN08894402the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable  but I dont think  that point is reached  in 
Mr Rs case.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Mr R could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Rs complaint.
MYJAR has already  agreed to uphold the complaint in respect of loan 4, so I wont say any 
more about that loan.  Mr R has however said that he doesnt  think any of the loans were lent 
responsibly. He says he was borrowing just to keep paying back  these  loans and that a credit 
check (or his bank  statements) would have revealed  he had numerous outstanding  loans 
with other  payday  lenders. He also says that loans 2 and 3 were taken out on the same day, 
or close to, the day the preceding loan was repaid which showed he was dependent  on 
them.
I can understand why Mr R feels loans 1 to 3 were also lent irresponsibly, but I dont agree. I 
accept there  were some emerging  signs, particularly  given that loan 3 was taken out on the 
day loan 2 was repaid,  that Mr R may have  been struggling to repay  the loans sustainably. 
But hed only been borrowing from MYJAR  for about a month and the size of his loans didnt  
increase. So I dont think, at this stage, that it was wrong for MYJAR to lend to him. I dont 
think it wouldve been proportionate for MYJAR  to ask Mr R for information such as bank 
statements given the size of the loans. And although  Mr R may have had some other short-
term loans, Ive not seen that proportionate checks would have  suggested these made  
loans 1 to 3 unaffordable  for Mr R.
For these reasons, Im upholding  the complaint about loan 4 only.
putting things right  what MYJAR Limited needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr R paid on loan 4;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loan 4 from Mr Rs credit file;
Ref: DRN08894403 HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR Limited to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR 
Limited must  give Mr R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Rs complaint. MYJAR Limited 
should put things right for Mr R as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 February  2020.
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0889440