K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Nationwide Building Society didnt electronically transfer their 
money as theyd requested. Theyre also unhappy  that written information  they were  given 
by Nationwide  Building Society,  and the payment system its using to make electronic 
transfers, arent suitable.
background 
On 13 July 2018 Nationwide wrote to Mr and Mrs M to explain that their Fixed Rate Bond 
(bond) would be maturing on 3 August  2018. This letter asked Mr and Mrs M what they 
wanted Nationwide to do with their funds  and it enclosed a leaflet called receiving your 
maturity money electronically . 
Mr and Mrs M said they visited  their local Nationwide branch on 31 July 2018  to arrange an 
electronic transfer  of their funds to a current account with another  bank because they wanted 
to invest their money elsewhere. But they said the cashier told them  their money  couldnt  be 
transferred electronically.  Mr and Mrs M disputed  this and showed the casher the leaflet 
theyd received earlier that month. So, Mr and Mrs M were  referred  to the branch bank 
manager, who confirmed  that their money  could be transferred electronically. Mr and Mrs M 
said they gave  the bank  manager all of the details  Nationwide  needed  to transfer their 
money together with their passports and cheque  book. And they said Nationwide  told them 
theyd receive their payment electronically  by 3 August 2018.
But, on 7 August 2018 Mr and Mrs M received  a letter from Nationwide enclosing  a cheque 
for the full bond amount. This letter said Nationwide hadnt been able to transfer the money  
electronically as it hadnt  been able to validate  the details of the current  account 
Mr and Mrs M had given  it. Mr and Mrs M complained to Nationwide  the same day about 
what had happened. They said theyd had their current  account for over 30 years and 
received electronic payments there  from other financial  institutions in the past. So, they 
couldnt understand why Nationwide hadnt  followed their instructions to electronically 
transfer their money into that account.
On 13 August 2018 Mr and Mrs M received a telephone call from Nationwide. It apologised 
for what had happened and said Mr and Mrs M shouldve  been told that if an electronic 
transfer couldnt be completed a cheque would be sent to them. So, it offered Mr and Mrs M 
£60 compensation  to reflect the poor information  theyd been  given. Mr and Mrs M rejected  
this offer and said they wanted  to know why their money hadnt been sent to the 
electronically. But Nationwide said it couldnt provide any further  explanation.  And, on 
22 August 2018,  it wrote  to Mr and Mrs M with its final response  to their complaint. It also 
increased its offer of compensation to £75. 
Mr and Mrs M rejected this offer and brought their complaint to us. They said they wanted to 
know the specific reason  why an electronic  transfer  couldnt be made here. They  also 
wanted Nationwide to remove the electronic payment  system  it was currently  using  and to 
immediately withdraw  the leaflet  theyd  received in July because they thought the information  
it gave about electronic  transfers was misleading.
Our adjudicator investigated. But, while they empathised with Mr and Mrs M, they didnt think 
Nationwide needed  to do anything more here. They thought that the £75 compensation that 
Nationwide offered to resolve this complaint was appropriate and fair. Mr and Mrs M 
disagreed and their complaints now been  referred to me for a final decision
Ref: DRN09065752my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  For the purpose of this complaint,  Ive 
considered whether Nationwide has done anything wrong.
The starting point  here is that Nationwide should  follow its customers requests, unless 
theres good reason not to. Here, Mr and Mrs M gave it instructions to electronically transfer 
a large sum of money to a specific account elsewhere. Nationwide said it tried to transfer  
Mr and Mrs Ms money in accordance with their instructions.  But it wasnt  able to do so 
because its system couldnt match the details of the account Mr and Mrs M gave it. And it 
says this is why the transfer failed. 
Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs M gave Nationwide  correct account information.  So, this wasnt 
the reason why the money  couldnt be transferred. Instead, I think the most likely reason, on 
balance, that the transfer couldnt take place electronically was because  Nationwides  
system couldnt verify the details  of Mr and Mrs Ms bank account  on its database. I say this 
because this is what they were told when they spoke with Nationwide on 7 August 2018. 
Because Nationwide couldnt match up the bank account information it was given by 
Mr and Mrs M it decided  to send them their money by cheque.  Im persuaded that there  was 
good reason here why Nationwide couldnt follow Mr and Mrs Ms instructions. And I think  it 
was reasonable  for it to send them a cheque in those circumstances. Im satisfied that 
Nationwide issued that cheque promptly once it realised it couldnt transfer their money in 
the way Mr and Mrs M wanted.  It follows that I dont think it acted unfairly or made  a mistake 
here.
Nationwides accepted that Mr and Mrs M werent  given correct  information when they 
attended their local branch. It said branch  staff shouldve told them  that if the electronic 
transfer failed  a cheque would be sent instead. I think this was the only error  Nationwide  
made. And I also think had this been explained  to Mr and Mrs M their expectations wouldve 
been managed.  So, I appreciate the frustration they experienced  when they received a 
cheque on 7 August  2018 - expecting to receive an electronic transfer  four days  earlier.
Ive seen a copy  of the leaflet that was sent to Mr and Mrs M in July 2018. While 
Mr and Mrs M want Nationwide to withdraw or amend the leaflet we cant  make it do that. 
Were not the regulator of banks. Thats the role of the Financial Conduct Authority. So, we 
cant tell a business what information  to include in leaflets that it circulates  to its customers. 
And we cant make  it change the content  of the leaflet in the way Mr and Mrs M would like. 
Nationwides made a commercial decision about the information it includes in this leaflet, 
which its entitled to do. And how a business treats  suggestions for improvements to service 
made by its customers is purely  a matter for each individual  business to determine.
While I do appreciate Mr and Mrs Ms concern,  I think Nationwides  leaflet clearly says that 
sometimes electronic payments cant be made and that if that happens a cheque will be 
sent as soon as possible.  Im satisfied that Nationwide followed  this process here.  And so I 
dont think the information Mr and Mrs M were  given in the leaflet was misleading.
Mr and Mrs M want Nationwide to remove  the electronic payment system its using. They  
say its inadequate  because they gave  correct account details and, so, theres no reason 
why the transfer  shouldnt  have  taken place. But we cant  tell Nationwide  to change its 
Ref: DRN09065753systems because, as Ive already explained,  its not the role of this service to comment on 
the validity of processes  a business  uses. 
Our role is to look at individual complaints  and, when a business  makes a mistake, to 
consider how that mistake  should be put right. So, Ive thought  about  whether the 
compensation Nationwide offered Mr and Mrs M, for the poor information they were given in 
branch, is fair. Its clear that Mr and Mrs M dont think £75 is sufficient.  They think  
Nationwide should  pay more given the trouble  and upset they say they were caused.  
When deciding what potential compensation to award I must take two things into account: 
financial loss as a result of any business  error  and non-financial loss, including  
inconvenience and upset. Its my role to consider what impact  the banks actions have had 
on the consumer  and to decide,  within guidelines set by our service, how much would be 
appropriate in the circumstances. 
Having done so, Im satisfied Nationwide has already accepted it made a mistake in not 
informing Mr and Mrs M that a cheque could be sent to them  if their money  couldnt  be 
transferred electronically.  And I think it acted promptly in sending  Mr and Mrs M a cheque 
once it had established it couldnt transfer  their funds electronically. I appreciate this caused 
a delay. And I understand Mr and Mrs Ms frustration that Nationwide hasnt been able to be 
more specific in why their electronic transfer couldnt take place.
But, while I acknowledge their strength of feelings about this complaint, I think  the overall 
compensation Nationwide offered to Mr and Mrs M takes into account the overall 
circumstances of what happened.  Its a reasonable amount to resolve this complaint and it 
adequately recognises the inconvenience  and distress they experienced here. 
I know that Mr and Mrs M will be disappointed by this decision but I will not be ordering 
Nationwide to pay any more than its already offered. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part only to the extent  that Nationwide  
Building Society should pay Mr and Mrs M £75. This is to reflect the poor information they 
were given in branch.  But other than this I dont need it to do anymore. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 April 2019.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0906575