K821x#15complaint
Ms C complains about Allianz  Insurance Plcs  handling of her claim under her building  
insurance policy for damage to her home from an escape of water.
background
Ms Cs inherited property suffered an escape of water in March 2018 which was covered by 
her insurer,  Allianz. Ms C said there was almost a years delay in Allianzs contractor starting 
the repairs and the work  was sub-standard. Ms C said the contractor agreed that the work 
was poor.  In March 2019 the contractor  and Ms C noticed a second leak which  appeared to 
be due to a radiator not being capped. Ms C said this led to damage to a downstairs room.  
Ms C said the contractor initially agreed  that the uncapped radiator was their fault and 
provided her with dryers  the next day, but he later denied  responsibility. 
Allianz said damage caused  by the second escape  of water should be a separate  claim for 
which an excess was payable. Allianz sent a forensic specialist and Ms C said they told her 
the leak as due to the radiator but couldnt  say if the cap was left off or removed. The 
specialist said Ms C probably wouldnt have removed the cap and that it was left off by the 
contractor. Ms C didnt think it fair that she should have to make a second claim. 
The drying out of the property was completed  in July 2019  and quotes  were obtained by Ms 
C based on a re-scope of the repair work.  Allianz  agreed to cover the damage from the 
second leak under Ms Cs original claim.  Allianz  obtained a costed scope of works in 
November 2019  which it provided to Ms C in January 2020. Ms C said her carpet and boiler 
had been damaged by the previous contractors and should be replaced  by Allianz.
Ms C said the house is empty and is going through probate  but it could have been sold or 
rented out if the claim had been  dealt with properly. She said she wont  be able to afford the 
inheritance tax if she cannot  sell or rent. Ms C said there have been further delays  with the 
work and poor communication and she brought her complaint  to our service. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint  be upheld. She thought Allianzs offer to check 
the carpet and boiler with a view to replacing  or repairing was fair. She thought the delays 
were avoidable  and the customer  service  unacceptable and recommended Allianz pay 
£1,000 compensation. She made no award for loss of rent without evidence of this intention.
Ms C said the compensation didnt even cover  her for the days  she had taken off work. Ms C 
said Allianz should have some  responsibility for the interest she would have to pay on her 
tax debt as she cant  afford to pay this until the property is sold. She sent a statement from a 
solicitor showing that the estate of her relative had incurred inheritance tax interest of over 
£12,500. She said the second phase  of work  finally began in September 2020.
Allianz agreed with the investigator  and paid Ms C the £1,000  compensation recommended. 
Allianz subsequently replaced Ms Cs boiler  and carpet.
Our investigator said most  of the interest would have been due without the delay caused  by 
Allianz. She thought Allianz should pay nine months of the interest on Ms C providing more  
detailed evidence of the interest  incurred. Allianz hasnt responded on this point.
Ref: DRN06747452my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Large and complex escape of water  claims do take some time to resolve.  Our role is to 
decide where there has been unnecessary difficulties and avoidable delays and we would 
look to award compensation where  this has happened. Where these problems have caused 
foreseeable losses we would  award  redress to put the consumer back in the position  they 
occupied were it not for the poor service.
Both parties  agree that Allianz and its agents have caused avoidable delays in the handling 
of Ms Cs claim.  I sympathise with her for the problems and frustration shes  been  caused, 
and the impact this has had upon her, but I think the £1,000  compensation paid to her by 
Allianz is fair in the circumstances. Im pleased that Allianz has replaced Ms Cs boiler and 
carpet.
Ms C is seeking redress for loss of rental income/ value of the property, saying that it was 
her intention to rent or sell the property. I agree with the investigator that in the absence of 
any evidence of the intention to rent, or of decreased  value, we can't make an award  of 
redress. 
Ms C suggests that Allianz should be responsible for the interest accrued on the inheritance  
tax that is unpaid on the estate of her relative. This has been added from 2016  to date. 
Given that the tax wasnt paid for 18 months before the claim arose and that this claim in my 
view would  in any event  have taken several  months to resolve, then the interest  
accumulated for over two years of this period isnt due to Allianzs handling of the claim. 
But, as I have said, the progress of Ms Cs claim shows  that there were avoidable delays. 
There was a gap of 11 months  before  Allianzs  contractor began  work although not all of this 
time was wasted as preparatory work and assessments were  required. However, Allianz  has 
accepted that much  of this was a delay. Following this period of preparation, Allianzs  
contractor carried out work that was considered sub-standard and a second leak was 
discovered, requiring  the property to re-dried. This all took time as well as the several 
months it took for Allianz to tell Ms C that it accepted this damage as part of the original 
claim. 
All-in-all I agree with the investigators assessment that Allianz  is responsible for nine 
months delay. And so, I think Allianz should pay nine months  worth  of the interest  accrued 
to the estate of Ms Cs late relative  that is associated  with the value of the property that 
forms part of the estate. I dont think Allianz  should have to pay this until it has seen the 
probate statement to show  the amount of inheritance tax payable on each part of the estate 
and proof  that this has been paid by Ms C.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given it is my final decision that the complaint  is upheld.  I require 
Allianz Insurance Plc to pay Ms C a proportion of the interest accumulated  to the inheritance 
tax on the estate of her late relative.  This will be nine months  accumulated interest that has 
accrued to the value of the house  that forms part of the estate. Payment to be made by 
Allianz Insurance Plc on production of the probate statement that shows the value of the 
property accepted for inheritance tax purposes and proof  that the interest has been paid.  
Ref: DRN06747453Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2021.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0674745