K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wrongly advised him to invest  in an excessively risky 
product given his circumstances and financial situation.
background
Lloyds upheld the complaint, accepting that the UK Growth Fund  exposed  his money to too 
much risk given he was living on benefits and was unlikely to return to work. Instead, it felt it 
should have advised Mr B to keep both the £1,000 lump sum and the regular monthly  
payments of £50 in risk-free savings accounts.
However, it said that when it had calculated how much his money would have grown by in 
these circumstances  (using the formula  recommended by this service) this showed that he 
had not made loss, and that the UK Growth  Fund has outperformed  the no-risk indicator.
An investigator at this service agreed with Lloyds approach. Given  this, while  he also felt the 
original advice had been inappropriate he did not believe  the complaint  should be upheld  as 
Lloyds had acted  correctly when dealing with it, assessing things along the lines we would 
have expected.
Mr Bs representative did not agree. He said that Mr B was happy to invest  this money, 
particularly the regular monthly  sums  which he had maintained  for years  but should have 
been advised to invest in a low risk product. Potential  compensation should therefore be 
calculated using a low risk formula.
There were further exchanges  about  Mr Bs background,  finances  and objectives but the 
investigator did not change his view that Lloyds approach had been reasonable.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the investigator  and for the same reasons.
In my view it is clear  that Mr B was wrongly  advised  to invest  in a product which posed a 
substantial risk to his money.  Beyond that, I dont  think the evidence is clear  cut. 
I accept that Mr B may have been  keen to take a small risk with this money,  particularly the 
monthly sums, but equally  I dont think it would have been wrong to advise him to keep it in a 
savings account  where  it was completely  free from loss (and guaranteed to deliver  a steady 
return). Overall, I think  his circumstances  were such that either recommendation would have 
been acceptable.
I therefore cannot fairly conclude that Lloyds  redress approach was clearly  wrong.  I fully 
understand why Mr B may be disappointed  that it has recognised it gave him poor advice but 
then said he was still not entitled  to compensation. But this services role, where a business  
has made a mistake (whether it agrees or not) is to put the customer back into the position 
theyd now be in if given  reasonable advice.
Ref: DRN02083752In this case I am satisfied  that it would have been reasonable to advise Mr B to keep this 
money in a deposit or savings account. I therefore  do not accept  that Lloyds redress 
approach was wrong.   
my final decision
Given Lloyds Bank  PLCs actions before this complaint was referred here, I do not uphold 
this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 December  2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0208375