K820x#14complaint
Mr B and Mrs M say Bank of Scotland plc (Halifax) mis-sold them  a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy  in 1997 and in 1999.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr B and Mrs M bought  the first policy in 1997.  Due to the time that has passed  since  the 
sale Halifax isnt able to determine the sales channel  for the policy. It has said in fairness to 
Mr B and Mrs M it would look at this as a branch sale and treat it as an advised sale. 
In 1999 they took out another  PPI policy. This time they applied  for the policy  in branch.
The policy in 1997 provided cover for Mr B and Mrs M for accident, sickness,  and 
unemployment  subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay £550 a month,  
split equally 50/50  between Mr B and Mrs M towards their mortgage  balance in the event of 
a successful claim. At the time, it cost £27.83 a month.
The policy they bought in 1999 also provided cover  for Mr B and Mrs M for accident, 
sickness and unemployment  subject to its exclusions and limitations.  This policy  offered to 
repay £403.80 a month towards  Mr B and Mrs Ms mortgage balance in the event of a 
successful claim. Again,  this was split equally between Mr B and Mrs M. At the time, it cost 
£21.40 a month.
In 1997, Mr B was employed as an area planning  manager and Mrs M has confirmed  she 
was also employed  in 1997 as a business travel  consultant. In 1999 Mr B was still employed 
as an area planning manager  and after checking  Mrs M wasnt a new starter  in any of her 
roles, she confirmed in an email she was employed as an assistant to the food and drink 
manager of her employers. I understand Mr B and Mrs M went travelling at the end of 
October 1999 after they bought the second PPI policy in September  1999. 
In 1997 Mr B has told us he was entitled to at least three months sick pay. Mrs M hasnt 
confirmed if she had sick pay, but both had between three and six months  worth  of savings 
and Mr B said he had death in service cover and redundancy pay if he lost his job.
In 1999, Mr B said he had would  have received at least six months sick pay. Mrs M couldnt 
remember what sick pay she got. Mr B had death  in service cover  and redundancy pay. Mr B 
said he had suffered with back pain in 1989.  On further enquiry  Mr B has gone into detail 
about a rare condition he had but this was many  years post the sale in 2018.  Mrs M was in 
good health at the time of the sale. 
Halifax has sent us screenshots  to show that the mortgage account closed in 2004. 
Mr B and Mrs Ms representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr B and Mrs Ms representative says:
Halifax failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr B and Mrs M 
Ref: DRN03542042wouldnt have taken  out the policies  and the complaint should be upheld. Mr B and 
Mrs Ms representatives believe  there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policies excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress, which are some of 
the most  common reasons people are off work.  This significantly reduced the value 
of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policies  were of inherently poor value as shown by the 
low claims ratio.  The common law duty of utmost good faith means  Halifax should 
have told Mr B and Mrs M about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Halifax  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr B and Mrs 
M and the impact  they would have had on their chances of making  a claim;
The policies only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr B and Mrs M received was misleading. These  policies were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr B and Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr B and Mrs Ms. I dont intend to set 
that out in much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr B and Mrs Ms 
complaint.
This sale took place  in 1997 and 1999 before the General Insurance  Standards Council 
(GISC) published its code of practice  in June 2000 and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
Ref: DRN03542043FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2004. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Halifax at the time. So, Im satisfied I should  take the ABI Code  and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr B and Mrs Ms case. 
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Halifax was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr B and Mrs Ms complaint. 
Ref: DRN03542044key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Halifax gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr B and Mrs M with reasonable care and 
skill  in particular,  whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given 
their needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Halifax gave Mr B and Mrs M sufficient, appropriate and timely information 
to enable them to make an informed choice about whether  to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr B 
and Mrs M, I must then go on to consider  whether and to what  extent Mr B and Mrs 
M suffered loss or damage  and what I consider would amount to fair compensation 
for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr B and Mrs M 
and Halifax, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr B and Mrs Ms complaint. Ive set out my 
reasoning below. 
did Mr B and Mrs M know they had a choice?
Halifax had to make it clear that the PPI policies were  optional.  
I have first considered the sale in 1997. Halifax no longer has any of the paperwork from the 
time of the sale. This is unsurprising and not unusual given how long ago the sale took 
place. Mr B and Mrs M have not raised  specifically that they had no choice. Rather they say 
they did not require the PPI policies. In any event,  where the evidence  is incomplete,  I have 
made my decision based on the balance of probabilities   that is whats more likely  to have 
happened considering the evidence that is available,  what the parties have told me and what  
we know generally  about these types of sales. 
From what  we know about these types of sales, its more likely  Mr B and Mrs M were given a 
choice in 1997. They likely would have had to choose the PPI if they had wanted  to take it 
out and would have more  likely received paperwork giving them details  of the cover they had 
chosen. I also think the charge for the PPI would have appeared on their mortgage 
statements so if theyd  wanted to question the cover they could have done so at any time.  
The evidence doesnt suggest they did so.
In 1999, Halifax  has provided a copy of Mr B and Mrs Ms application for PPI. The form is 
headed Mortgage Repayments  Insurance  Application. The form has been  completed with 
Mr B and Mrs Ms details and they have signed and dated the application.  As they were  
taking on a new financial commitment, I think it most likely they would have read the form 
they were signing,  and it likely reflected a discussion they had had with the representative.
Following this application, they received an insurance schedule showing the policy  number, 
the start date of the insurance and that they were insured in case  of accident, sickness and 
Ref: DRN03542045unemployment for the monthly mortgage  repayment plus an amount of 25%. I think this likely 
shows they made a choice about  the cover they wanted and taking everything  into account, I 
think its more likely  that Mr B and Mrs M knew the policies were optional  and they agreed  to 
take them both out without undue  pressure. 
did Halifax provide advice?
Mr B and Mrs M havent  precisely recalled whether either sale was an advised sale. Halifax 
has said it will look at the 1997  sale as an advised  sale. This is to be fair to Mr B and Mrs M 
as it put more responsibility  on Halifax  for how it sold the policy.  In 1999 Halifax says this 
was an advised  sale in branch. I think thats  right. From the paperwork  thats  available and 
the screenshots I think its likely  some  discussion took place. Again, this put more 
responsibility on Halifax for how it sold the policy  so I will look at both sales in 1997 and 
1999 as advised sales.
This means  Halifax had to advise Mr B and Mrs M with reasonable care and skill, in 
particular whether the policy was appropriate  or suitable given their needs and 
circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Halifax took to establish  whether the policy was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr B and Mrs M. It seems Mr B and Mrs M cant  remember clearly what 
happened and there is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy in 
1997. This is unsurprising in respect of a sale during  a meeting. 
In 1999 there is some  paperwork. I can see the adviser had some  limited information about 
Mr B and Mrs Ms financial circumstances, but there is no specific evidence to show  the 
adviser took steps to establish whether Mr B and Mrs M would have been caught by the 
significant exclusions and limitations which might have meant  the policy did not fully meet 
their needs.  For example,  there is nothing to suggest Halifax  considered whether Mr B and 
Mrs M had any pre-existing medical  conditions in 1997. In 1999 the Insurance Application 
form asks various questions about  medical  conditions and about Mr B and Mrs Ms 
employment circumstances. But I cant say that Halifax discussed all the terms and 
conditions of the policy or whether Mr B and Mrs M would have been caught  by any of the 
significant exclusions and limitations.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policies were  suitable for Mr B and Mrs M given their 
circumstances. So Im not persuaded Halifax advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done to make sure the policies were 
suitable for Mr B and Mrs M, I do think its more likely than not that the policies were 
ultimately suitable for them.  In reaching  that conclusion Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr B and Mrs M met the eligibility  criteria  for the policies.
-Mr B and Mrs M had a need  for the policies  it seems likely that Mr B and Mrs Ms 
ability to continue to meet  their mortgage repayments would have been put under 
strain if either Mr B or Mrs M were not working for an extended period of time  even 
allowing for the redundancy benefits, sick pay benefits and savings they say they 
would have been entitled to. I say this because these policies would have paid out in 
Ref: DRN03542046addition to and likely  for longer than any sick pay they would have received and 
would have enabled them  to leave their savings or redundancy pay intact or use the 
lump sums for other important living costs  if either  couldnt work or lost their jobs.  Any 
death in service pay isnt the same as PPI as this benefit would only be paid out in 
the unfortunate event of death not if Mr B lost his job or couldnt work.
-The monthly cost of each policy appears  to have been affordable for Mr B and 
Mrs M.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policies unsuitable for Mr B and 
Mrs M. There was nothing  about Mr B and Mrs Ms employment or occupation  which 
would have made it difficult for them to claim.  Mrs M hasnt told us about  any pre-
existing medical conditions that could  affect  her ability to claim. Ive thought carefully  
what Mr B said about his bad back but on further enquiry whilst Im sorry that later he 
was diagnosed with a rare condition this was much later in 2018, over 20 years after 
the first sale. Nothing hes said about  his bad back in 1989 makes me think it caused 
him prolonged periods  off work  and Mr B has said it was largely tolerated. So, I still 
think the PPI was suitable. 
-While  the policies  would only pay benefits for a maximum  of 12 months for each 
claim for disability and unemployment  in 1997  and 24 months  for each claim for 
accident and sickness as well as unemployment  in 1999,  they still provided useful 
cover given  Mr B and Mrs Ms circumstances.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Halifax gave Mr B and Mrs M sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policies to enable  them  to understand what 
Halifax was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow  
that advice and take out the policies.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr B and Mrs M were given a broad description  of 
what the policies  were intended  to cover (that is that the policies would protect  their 
payments if either Mr B or Mrs M were unable to work  through  accident, sickness  or 
unemployment) and of the approximate costs. I have reached this conclusion because  I think 
its unlikely Mr B and Mrs M would have taken  out the policies without any sense of what the 
policies were for and of how much the premium  might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Halifax gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr B and Mrs M agreed to take out the policies. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policies were a suitable  recommendation for Mr B and Mrs M Im not persuaded 
Halifax did enough to present information  about the policies it was recommending in a way 
that was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded  Halifax  gave Mr B and Mrs M all of 
the information they needed about the policies to make an informed decision about whether 
to follow  the recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
Ref: DRN03542047In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr B and Mrs Ms representative has raised  
a number of general  points  in regards to the requirements on a business  when providing  
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr B and 
Mrs Ms. Ive considered these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr B and Mrs Ms representative considers to 
be poor value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather 
than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr B and Mrs M about the limitations  and exclusions,  it should  have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr B and Mrs Ms representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr B and Mrs M has suggested. And taking  into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Halifax ought to have done either. 
what effect did Halifaxs  shortcomings  have  on Mr B and Mrs M? To what extent  did 
Mr B and Mrs M suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Halifax  didnt do all it should  have done when it sold these policies to Mr B 
and Mrs M. So I have  gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to 
conclude Mr B and Mrs M suffered loss and damage as a result.  To answer  this, I must 
decide whether  or not Mr B and Mrs M would have  still taken out the policies,  had Halifax 
done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Halifax took the steps  it should have done to establish whether  the 
policies it recommended were suitable for Mr B and Mrs M, I have found  that the policies 
were ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr B and Mrs M have suffered 
loss or damage in this case primarily depends on whether,  if Halifax had explained things  
properly, Mr B and Mrs M would have acted  differently, or whether they would have taken  
out the policies in any event.
Mr B and Mrs M say they wouldnt  have  taken it out and believe I should presume this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
Ref: DRN03542048The evidence in this case suggests that Mr B and Mrs M had some  interest  in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when Halifax  advised  them  that there was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  they 
were unable to work because of accident,  sickness and unemployment, they concluded they 
wanted that product. But they made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning 
what they thought they were getting is not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr B and Mrs Ms circumstances 
at the time of the sale that the policies were  not fundamentally  wrong or unsuitable for them.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr B and Mrs M knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policies, it doesnt  appear  Halifax told them  the exact premium at the point 
Mr B and Mrs M applied for the policy in 1997.  In 1999 I think they would have had an idea 
of the cost but not necessarily the exact  cost as this was set out on the proposal form for the 
PPI. Having said that, it seems likely Mr B and Mrs M would have been told the cost before 
the policies started  and they paid for each policy for a number of years, so if the costs were  
significantly at odds  with their expectations at the point of sale,  its possible they might  have 
raised that with Halifax at the time, or reconsidered  their decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr B and Mrs M would have found the cost unacceptable if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meetings in which  they agreed to the policies.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Halifax made clear exactly  what Mr B and Mrs M would get 
back in return in the event they made  a successful claim. But I think  its unlikely Mr B and 
Mrs Ms expectations about what the policies would pay in the event of a claim (an amount 
sufficient to meet their mortgage  payment) were  significantly different to what the policy 
actually did  if anything, it is more likely than not that the policy in 1999 actually paid more 
in the event of a claim than they would  have expected as there was an additional  25% 
payment on top of their monthly  mortgage cost.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr B and Mrs M thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
In 1997, the policy  excluded claims relating to any sickness, disease, condition or 
injury which Mr B and Mrs M knew about or for which they received advice, treatment 
or counselling from any doctor during  the 12 month before the start date and which 
recurred within 24 months of the start date; In 1999 there was no exclusion simply 
that a doctor certified Mr B or Mrs M as disabled;
The policies contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policies limited,  and in some situations,  excluded unemployment cover if Mr B 
and Mrs M werent  permanent employees;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  In 1997  and 1999 
Mr B and Mrs M be unable to do their own job, a similar job or any paid work which  
their experience, education  or training reasonably qualified  them to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months in 1997 and 24 months in 1999, 
rather than the remaining  term of the mortgage.   
Ref: DRN03542049I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr B and Mrs M pause  for thought  and may well have caused them  to conclude the 
policies werent  as good as they thought, and they might have decided not to proceed.  The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr B and Mrs M from 
taking out the policies.  
But, the evidence  about Mr B and Mrs Ms circumstances at the time of each sale shows  that 
the policies werent  fundamentally  wrong or unsuitable for them. Mr B and Mrs M were 
eligible for its benefits and they provided  cover  that, despite its limitations  and exclusions,  
couldve proved  valuable to them should  the insured risks have become a reality. I also 
havent seen any evidence to suggest  Mr B and Mrs M wouldve been caught by any of the 
significant exclusions  Mr B and Mrs M were  in permanent employment in 1997 and 1999. 
Mrs M had no pre-existing  medical  conditions. While Mr B told us about his back  pain in 
1989 for which he took over the counter medication  he does not appear to have taken time 
off work then and the policies were sold many  years later. I can also see that in 1999 the 
policy didnt exclude  cover for existing medical conditions. So, I still think  they had some 
good reasons  to take the policies out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr B and 
Mrs M might reasonably have  expected. But its unlikely they would have expected to be 
able to make  a disability  claim without  having to provide  some  evidence to support that 
claim. And while this limitation might have  dissuaded  some consumers in slightly  different 
circumstances to Mr B and Mrs M from taking out the policies, Mr B and Mrs M, in their 
circumstances, still had some good  reasons to take it out.
If Mr B and Mrs M had known they could only claim for disability if they were not only unable  
to do their job or any similar  job but also unable to do any job which in the insurers  view they 
might reasonably be qualified for, it might have played  into their thinking  about what  they 
would do. And I accept  it may have given  them pause for thought  although given Mr B and 
Mrs Ms circumstances , on balance, I still think they would have been interested in taking out 
the cover  in 1997 and 1999.
Halifax may not have  told Mr B and Mrs M that any claim they made would be limited to a 
12-month period  in 1997 and a 24-month  period in 1999. This may have  differed  from what  
they expected and might have hoped for  but 12 months in 1997 and 24 months in 1999  
was a longer period than Mr B and Mrs M would have received full sick pay for, and their 
redundancy entitlement was also significantly less than 12 months pay in 1997 and 24 
months income in 1999.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr B and Mrs M would still have thought a policy 
that paid up to 12 or 24 monthly mortgage  payments  would have been of benefit to them  and 
would help them manage the consequences  should Mr B and Mrs M be unable to work in 
the circumstances covered  by the policy. The policies allowed for multiple claims to be 
made, it could help reduce their outgoings  at a difficult and uncertain time ensure their home  
was not placed at risk and might potentially  help preserve Mr B and Mrs Ms sick pay or 
redundancy money for other use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr B and Mrs M would still have taken out the policies. The policies were  suitable 
Ref: DRN035420410for them, were sufficiently close to what its likely they thought they were getting and 
provided benefits that would help them manage the consequences if Mr B and Mrs M were
made redundant, or unable  to work  through accident  or disability. In the circumstances I 
consider it more likely  than not Mr B and Mrs M would have taken out the policies in any 
event notwithstanding  the limitations  on cover.
Mr B and Mrs Ms representatives say the rules  about how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr B and Mrs M would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr B and 
Mrs Ms circumstances  as detailed above,  I consider it reasonable to conclude the position 
Mr B and Mrs M found  themselves in as a result of the sale in 1997 and in 1999  was the 
same position they would have been  in had the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mr B and Mrs M believe  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policies. I am not persuaded by these arguments.  
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr B and Mrs M in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policies. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policies 
in either  1997  or 1999, I am satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely  than not that 
they would  still have taken out the PPI had they been given clear, fair and not misleading 
information about the policies they were buying.  So Im not persuaded it would  be fair and 
reasonable in those  circumstances, to conclude Halifax  should  pay Mr B and Mrs M 
compensation, as that would put them  in a better position than they would  have been  in if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr B and Mrs M think Halifax misrepresented  the terms of the policies in 
how it described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude some  
of Halifaxs statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Halifax  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Halifax gave Mr B and Mrs M, in 
the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
Ref: DRN035420411expect it to have  met in 1997 and 1999 when providing information  about  an insurance  
policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr B and Mrs Ms representative says a court  might  
take if it were to find Halifax negligently  misrepresented the contract  to Mr B and Mrs M and 
about the remedy a court might award  if it were to find that Halifax  had been in breach  of its 
duty of utmost  good faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what 
is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the complaint  including what  I think  is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr B and Mrs M in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done.
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint about the policies  sold in either  1997  or in 1999. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 June  2021.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0354204