K821x#15complaint
Mr K says Novaloans Ltd (trading as cash4unow) lent to him irresponsibly.
background
Mr K borrowed once  from cash4unow  a loan for £350 in May 2018. The loan was 
repayable in four instalments of about £150  per month. I understand the loan is still 
outstanding.
Two of our adjudicators have considered Mr Ks complaint. The most  recent  
recommendation was that it should  be upheld. In summary, the second adjudicator  thought 
cash4unow ought to have  realised, primarily as a result of the credit check  it carried  out, that 
Mr K was having problems managing his money and so it shouldnt  have lent to him. 
cash4unow didnt  accept the adjudicators recommendation, so the complaint was passed  to 
me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending on our website and Ive taken this into account in 
deciding Mr Ks case. 
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ks complaint and have  explained why below.
cash4unow needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt  lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr K 
could repay  his loans in a sustainable  manner. 
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and Mr Ks income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in 
the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough  checks might be reasonable 
and proportionate.
I think the initial steps cash4unow  took before lending  to Mr K were proportionate. It carried  
out an income and expenditure check  asking Mr K to provide this information  and also 
checked Mr Ks credit  history.
However, I dont think cash4unow properly interrogated the information  provided by Mr K  
especially in light of the results of its credit check. When  Mr K applied  for the loan, he told 
cash4unow that he paid £40 a month  towards  his regular loans and £20 towards  his credit 
cards. He also said he owed nothing to other  payday lenders.
cash4unows credit  history check told it that Mr K had debts of over £4,000, of which about 
£2,640 were loans.  The check also said that Mr Ks outstanding payday loan balance was a 
little under £1,000 and that he had five outstanding payday loans. Our adjudicator 
highlighted that the report also said that Mr K had paid £2,200 towards payday loans in the 
previous month  an amount  which  exceeded Mr Ks monthly income.  cash4unow hasnt 
disputed any of the figures  or how they were categorised by our adjudicator.
Ref: DRN03135542I think cash4unow ought to have realised  from the credit report  that Mr K was likely to have 
been struggling to manage his money. He had five outstanding payday loans, had recently 
paid a very large sum (relative to his monthly  salary) to other payday lenders and had other  
credit commitments  to manage too. In this context, I dont think it was reasonable for 
cash4unow to conclude that Mr K would be able to make the monthly instalments required in 
a sustainable  manner.
cash4unow says that Mr K had no defaults  or delinquencies when it checked his credit  
history. I have not seen any evidence of him having recently defaulted  on loans but he did 
have a number  of delinquent accounts and the worst payments status on the credit report  
suggested he was in six months  arrears on at least one account.  Additionally,  hed opened 
13 accounts in six months   about  one a fortnight   suggesting hed regularly been relying 
on expensive credit in that time period. This,  in addition  to the above, reinforces my view that 
he was already in difficulty before applying to cash4unow.
Ive considered the other points cash4unow raised in response to the adjudicator. It said the 
adjudicator had placed too much reliance  on credit report data and that she hadnt 
considered the other  543 variables that the customer  must pass  to reach  our manual 
underwriting stage.  But I havent seen any evidence  of these other variables, or seen any 
explanation of why they might tell me something different from the credit report  data. So Ive 
placed little weight on this statement.
cash4unow also said it was reasonable to expect Mr K to provide accurate information about 
his income and expenditure. I dont disagree  but where a lender has clear reason to 
believe the information isnt correct, its reasonable to expect it to look more closely  at 
self-declared income and expenditure and I think its unreasonable  for a lender  to rely on the 
same self-declared information. cash4unow has said Mr Ks monthly  disposable income was 
£1,580 per month, so it appears it did rely on Mr Ks self-declared income  and expenditure, 
despite what its credit check said. I dont think cash4unow acted reasonably in doing so.
The points cash4unow raised have therefore not persuaded me to change  my mind.
I understand that there is still a balance  outstanding  on Mr Ks loan. He should be aware  that 
the redress below may still leave an amount to be repaid.
putting things right 
cash4unow should rework  Mr Ks loan account to remove all interest and charges from the 
outset and treat any payments made as if they were payments towards the principal.  
If this still leaves a balance to be repaid, it will need to talk to Mr K about a repayment plan. If 
on the other hand Mr K has already repaid more than £350, cash4unow must refund any 
overpayments to Mr K, adding 8% simple  interest  from the date of the overpayment(s) until 
the date of settlement.
cash4unow should also remove any adverse information it has recorded  about the loan  
although it doesnt have to do this until the principal has been repaid.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires cash4unow to take off tax from this interest.  cash4unow  must  
give Mr K a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN03135543my final decision
I uphold Mr Ks complaint.  Novaloans  Ltd must put things right by taking the steps  set out 
above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 October  2019.
Matthew Bradford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0313554