K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains about issues  hes experienced with a car supplied with finance  from RCI 
Financial Services Limited.
background
In December 2017 Mr G was supplied with a second hand car and entered  into a hire 
purchase agreement  with RCI.
Mr G says he experienced issues with the centre  console freezing from the outset. He says 
he put up with it for several months  but when it got worse he reported it to the dealership in 
September 2018.
The dealership didnt find any faults with the console freezing but found an issue with the sat 
nav system  and re-set it.
Shortly after this Mr Gs wife was reversing  the car when  the reverse camera  stopped 
working and wasnt  showing on the console.  The reversing sensors also failed to operate 
and Mrs G hit another car.
Following this, Mrs G was on the motorway when the emergency braking system operated 
for no apparent reason.
Mr G returned the car to the dealership. The car was tested  extensively  but no faults were 
found. The dealership told Mr G he could obtain an independent report if he wished and if 
faults were found  it would cover the cost of the report.
Mr G continued to experience the emergency  braking  system  operating  for no reason. He 
retuned the car to the dealership in January 2019. An inspection  of the car confirmed a fault 
with the front distance sensor.  This was replaced.
Mr G has continued to experience issues with the console and has provided several videos 
showing the fault. The dealership looked at the videos but said these didnt prove that there 
was a fault.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She said she was satisfied that there was a fault with 
the emergency braking system  and the centre console. She said RCI should arrange  for the 
fault to be repaired  and pay compensation to Mr G for the inconvenience caused  by the 
issues.
Mr G didnt agree. He felt hed already  given  the dealership more than one opportunity  to fix 
the fault and he was still experiencing  the same issues.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because RCI has supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement  theres  an implied term 
that the car has to be of satisfactory quality. Cars are of a satisfactory quality if they are of a 
standard that a reasonable person would expect, taking into account all of the relevant 
Ref: DRN06952222circumstances such as (amongst other  things) the age and mileage  of the car and the price  
paid. In order to uphold this complaint I would need to be satisfied that the car was not of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Mr G and RCI disagree about whether the car had a fault at the point of supply. In order to 
reach a decision  I need  to look at the available evidence and determine, on the balance of 
probability, whether  the car was of satisfactory  quality  at the point of supply.
Mr G says he experienced problems with the console from the outset. He didnt report the 
issue until September 2018. I find it strange  that, given Mr Gs comments  that hed 
experienced this exact same problem with another car of the same  make,  he didnt report  
this to the dealership straightaway. I wouldve expected him to have complained  about  the 
issue immediately. 
When the car was inspected by the dealership, it found that the sat nav system wasnt  
working in daytime  mode. This was resolved by resetting the system. Mr G says that this 
didnt fix the fault with the console.  Hes provided evidence  showing the recent problems with 
the console. Its not clear whether the issues with the console now are the same  as the 
issues which Mr G experienced  previously. But it does appear from the videos that there  are 
ongoing issues with the console.
Mr G also experienced problems with the emergency braking system.  Initially the dealership 
was unable to replicate  the fault but in January 2019 a fault with the distance  sensor  was 
found and the sensor  was replaced. RCI has said that no further faults have occurred with 
the distance sensor since it was replaced. 
Taking into account all of the available evidence, including the dealerships  notes/job cards 
and the video evidence provide by Mr G, Im satisfied that theres an ongoing  problem with 
the console. Im not persuaded that there  is an ongoing problem with the emergency  braking 
system because theres a lack of evidence to support such a conclusion.
Under the relevant law, where  a fault presents  itself in the first 6 months, its generally up to 
the business to put things right. The business  is allowed  one opportunity to repair the fault.  
Mr G says the business has already had this opportunity.  I dont agree, because  on previous 
occasions the dealership  hasnt been able to replicate or diagnose a fault with the console.  
That said,  Im satisfied  that the video evidence suggests that there  is a fault and I think  the 
business should be given an opportunity to inspect the car and repair (or replace) the 
console.
In relation to the emergency braking system, the distance sensor has already been  replaced. 
As Ive said,  Im not persuaded on the available evidence that there are ongoing issues with 
the emergency braking system.  However, if Mr G still has concerns, I think  the business  
should test the distance  sensor  to make sure it is working as expected. This can be carried 
out at the same time as the repairs to the console.
Taking all of the available evidence into account,  Im satisfied that there is a point of supply 
fault with the console. Im not recommending  rejection  of the car because I think the 
business should be given the opportunity  to repair the console. RCI should arrange  for the 
dealership to contact  Mr G and book  the car in for repair.
my final decision 
Ref: DRN06952223My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  RCI Financial Services Limited  should  
arrange for the dealership  to contact Mr G and book the car in for repairs  to the console. The 
distance sensor should also be tested  at the same time if Mr G wishes.  RCI must also pay 
Mr G compensation of £100.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 October  2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0695222