K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund just over £37,000 that they lost 
when they were the victims of a scam.  
background
In September  2018 Mr and Mrs R were the victims  of a scam. It is not in dispute that what 
happened was a scam, so Ive used the term scammer  throughout to refer to the third party  
involved.
On 11 September  2018, while Mrs R was at work, she received a phone call from a 
scammer who purported  to be from Her Majestys Revenue and Customs (HMRC).  She was 
told she had an outstanding tax bill and that immediate  payment was required to avoid her 
arrest. 
Mrs R was told that an audit had been conducted  going back  to 2011. This gave the call 
additional credibility with Mrs R who had inherited around £50,000 in 2011. When she 
received the inheritance she didnt think tax was payable,  but she had some doubt when she 
received the call. 
The scammer told Mrs R she needed to act promptly  if she wanted the arrest warrant  to be 
cancelled and to avoid significant public embarrassment. The language the scammer  used 
was formal and technical. He quoted acts and sections of legislation  and referred  to tax 
evasion, wilful misrepresentation and intentional misappropriation of funds. Mrs R was told 
she was only being given this opportunity to avoid arrest as she was of previous good 
character. 
The scammer appeared to know some of Mrs Rs account history  and he calculated the 
amount he said she owed. Mrs R was told she needed to make an initial  payment of £3,780 
to a government  escrow account where  it would be held until the case against her was 
cancelled. The scammer gave Mrs R the account  details  and instructed  her to send a copy 
of the transfer  receipt to an HMRC email address. Mrs R left her work immediately to make  
the payment,  telling a manager  she had an urgent personal matter to attend  to. 
A few hours later the scammer told her she needed  to make a second payment, this time it 
was for a court certificate. Mrs R went to a different branch and made the transfer. She 
explained she went to a different branch to arouse less suspicion. This carried on over the 
next couple of days  with the scammer providing  a reason for each payment.
Mrs R can no longer  remember  all the different reasons for each payment  but at the time 
she was convinced by what she was being  told. Mrs R describes how she felt exhausted, 
worried and locked in  fearing that there  would be serious  consequences  if she didnt 
follow through with the payments. Shes  provided us with screenshots to show  how long she 
was on the phone to the scammers. These show she was on the phone to them for hours at 
a time, including when she was in branch making the payments.
The scammer told Mrs R not to disclose information to the bank staff or she would violate 
the terms of the arrest  warrant.  But if she was asked, she should say the transfers were for 
a personal matter.
Ref: DRN08306992Ive set out all the payments Mrs R made  to the scammer below. All these payments were 
made from Mr and Mrs Rs joint current account.
NUMBER DATE TIME BRANCH AMOUNT METHOD BENEFICIARY
1 11 
September  
201811.25am A £3,780 Kiosk 1 (New Payee)
2 11 
September  
20182.52pm B £3,200 Kiosk 2 (New Payee)
3 12 
September  
201810.18am C £5,365 Counter 3 (New Payee)
4 12 
September  
201812.13pm B £3,560 Kiosk 3
5 13 
September  
20189.58am C £7,200 Counter 4 (New Payee)
6 13 
September  
20181.42pm B £4,320 Counter 5 (New Payee)
7 13 
September  
20181.44pm B £4,900 Counter 6 (New Payee)
8 13 
September  
20182.00pm B £4,900 Counter 7 (New Payee)
(HSBC have explained  that kiosks are in-branch machines  that allow for the servicing  of 
accounts. Customers can set up new payees and make payments from their accounts at a 
kiosk. And whilst there might  be staff helping to do this, the staff would generally respect the 
customers privacy  and wouldnt have  the same level of involvement as they would in an 
over the counter transaction). 
At 2.26pm on 13 September  2018 the recipient  bank  for transaction eight notified HSBC  that 
they had concerns about the transaction because the funds were  withdrawn  in full from the 
recipient account  immediately.  HSBC took steps to freeze Mr and Mrs Rs account  as a 
precaution. 
After making the above payments, Mrs R says she tried to make  a further transaction in a 
different branch again on the morning of 14 September 2018. But on this occasion she says 
she was taken into the managers office and asked if she wanted to go ahead  with the 
transfer. She says that as the scammer was still on her phone, she made her excuses and 
left saying she needed to seek advice. 
HSBC dont have  a detailed record of that interaction. So it isnt entirely clear whether the 
questions she was asked  and being  taken  aside was as a result  of the account being 
blocked (following  contact from the recipient  bank  for transaction eight) or whether the 
branch staff identified that Mrs R was at risk of financial harm,  and chose to ask her further 
questions about  the payment(s). 
Ref: DRN08306993At around 2.15pm on 14 September 2018 HSBCs  fraud team called Mr R (as the account 
was held jointly with him) to assess whether the transactions  were  genuine.  Mr R said he 
hadnt made the payments, but hed need  to check with his wife as she might have done. 
On the morning of 15 September  2018,  having discussed the matter with her husband, 
Mrs R contacted HSBC  and reported that shed been the victim of a scam. HSBC  contacted 
the receiving banks but its my understanding that only a negligible amount remained.
Mrs R was unhappy about this. She thought HSBC should have done  more to protect her 
and so she made a complaint. HSBC didnt  uphold her complaint and declined to offer Mrs R 
a refund. They said they had checked  her identity and followed  her instructions, so they 
thought it was reasonable that they hold her liable for the transactions. 
Mrs R disagreed and referred her complaint to our service. She says she was taken in by a 
convincing and compelling scam. And if HSBC had asked  her questions, they wouldve 
realised she wasnt ok. Mrs R believes that intervention from HSBC  wouldve caused her to 
realise it was a scam and then she wouldnt have made the transactions.
HSBC have told us that their staff dont remember anything unusual  about the payment 
requests Mrs R made during the period  of the scam. They  said that at the time Mrs R didnt 
fall within  vulnerable customer guidelines so there  was no reason to ask additional  questions  
or consider the banking protocol.
In March 2020 I issued a provisional decision in which  I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank  is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  them to make, in accordance with the Payment 
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account.  And I have 
taken that into account  when deciding  what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:
 The law recognises that a bank may be liable  to their customer  if they make  a 
payment in circumstances  where they have  reasonable  grounds (although  not 
necessarily proof) for believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to 
misappropriate the funds of their customer (known as the Quincecare duty).    
 Regulated firms like HSBC are also required to conduct their business with due skill, 
care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle  6).  
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  taken 
proactive steps  to: 
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers from 
Financial harm  as a result  of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice, which a 
number of banks  and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
Ref: DRN08306994 
in relation to branch transactions  follow  the Banking Protocol when available.     
This means  that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion,  fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make  a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.  
This is particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated  
fraud and scams in recent  years  - which banks are generally more familiar  with than the 
average customer. 
In this case, I need to decide  whether HSBC acted  fairly and reasonably  in their dealings  
with Mrs R when she made eight payments totalling  just over £37,000, over a period of three 
days, or whether they should have done more than they did.
The Banking Protocol  has some relevance  in this case, so Ive set out more information  
about that below. 
The Banking  Protocol 
The Banking Protocol  is a multi-agency initiative between the Police, financial sector  
organisations (including banks, building societies and the post office), and Trading 
Standards aimed  at identifying customers who are in the process  of being defrauded and 
implementing safeguarding procedures to prevent their repeat victimisation and further loss 
of funds. It has been fully in force  since March  2018.
In broad terms, according to UK Finances  toolkit, financial businesses commit to:
Look out for any unusual or out of character withdrawals and to implement the 
Banking Protocol procedure when such transactions are identified.
Discreetly  question  the customer about  the withdrawal or transaction and their 
reasons for making it, keeping in mind that the customer may have been told they are 
helping to catch a corrupt bank employee  and may have been  given a cover story  to 
tell if asked about the transaction.
Consider the responses provided by a customer against what  they expect normal  
activity on that customers account  to be. If they are concerned  or suspicious that the 
customer may be the victim of fraud,  they should notify a senior member of staff,  who 
should take the customer to a quiet area and ask further questions to establish  more 
details.
If the senior member  of staff believes the customer  is a victim of fraud, either as a 
result of the answers provided or through their general behaviour,  they should call 
the Police immediately.  The Police  will then come  to the branch and speak to the 
customer. 
It also sets out that bank  staff are encouraged to contact the Police even if they arent sure 
the customer is a victim  of fraud. For example, UK Finances Bank Colleague  FAQs says:
Ref: DRN08306995I think a customer may be a victim but Im not sure. Should I still follow the Banking 
Protocol?
Yes. If you have questioned the customer and are still not sure, the police  urge you to still 
call them. It is not possible to answer  every what if so if you are suspicious or concerned  
but are not completely sure then still report this following the Banking Protocol. You might 
prevent a customer becoming the victim  of a crime.
Did HSBC act fairly and reasonably in this case?
As Ive explained, I consider that as a matter  of good practice HSBC should have been on 
the lookout for unusual and out of character transactions. This is particularly important during 
a period of time, which sadly we are in, where fraud is increasingly prevalent. 
Ive looked at the account statements going  back to June 2017, which I consider gives a 
good sample size to assess what was typical activity for Mr and Mrs Rs account.  The 
account was well managed and appears  to have primarily been used for day to day 
spending. There are card payments, direct debits  and cash  withdrawals and there is one 
large credit to the account in 2017 which Mrs R says was an inheritance payment that she 
received. But other than that, most transactions were generally for a few hundred pounds or 
less  with occasional larger debits or credits of up to around £1,500. 
Im satisfied that the pattern  of payments Mrs R made to the scammer over three  days  was 
out of character and unusual.  I think HSBC  ought  fairly and reasonably to have made 
enquiries about the payments at an early stage, and Ive thought  carefully about the point at 
which I think they ought to have done  this.
Having done so, I think that when  Mrs R attempted  to make the first transfer, HSBC ought 
fairly and reasonably to have made additional  enquiries about the payment before 
processing it. Ill explain why. 
Payment one 
Payment one was in and of itself out of character and unusual for Mr and Mrs R. It was much 
larger than payments that were commonly, or had recently been made on the account and 
Mrs R had to set up a new payee in order to make the payment. Mr and Mrs R also hadnt 
previously made payments through an in-branch kiosk. This payment was also made to an 
account held with another financial business  that Ill refer to as W. 
W primarily specialise  in pre-paid cards.  And based on the evidence  Ive seen this transfer  
did indeed  go onto a pre-paid card.  In my experience a lot of fraudulent payments go on to 
pre-paid cards  and this is something I think HSBC  ought fairly and reasonably to have been 
aware of at the time.  Its commonly known by banks that pre-paid card companies are 
vehicles that fraudsters often use when asking  fraud  victims to transfer  money. So the 
recipient bank and pre-paid card presented  an additional risk to the transaction. And on top 
of this, Im mindful the payment Mrs R made  was substantial - nearly £4,000.  This is a large 
amount for someone to move onto a pre-paid card. 
I think its fair and reasonable for a bank to look out for anything unusual  and so for the 
reasons Ive explained, Im persuaded HSBC, as a matter of good practice, ought fairly and 
reasonably to have  carried  out some additional  checks, and made enquiries about the 
purpose of the payment before processing  it. 
Ref: DRN08306996While this payment was made in branch, it would appear that both parties agree there  wasnt 
really any meaningful interaction  with branch staff. But I believe HSBC ought  to have 
contacted Mrs R to ask her some  questions about  the payment at the time. Had they done 
so I think its more likely than not Mr and Mrs Rs losses  wouldve been prevented. Ill explain 
why.
Mrs R has said if I had been questioned  by ANY of the cashiers  my state of complete 
tension and emotional strain  could easily have unravelled and this whole nightmare could 
have been stopped. Mrs R has provided us with detailed and persuasive submissions about 
her state  of mind at the time  shes said she was unable to look anyone in the eye and was 
frequently in tears because of the pressure and fear she felt. Based on what  Mrs R has told 
us its difficult to imagine that shed  have been able to have a credible conversation about 
the purpose of the payment if she had been asked  any questions  about it.  
This is supported by what happened on 14 September  2018  when there  was interaction 
between a branch  manager and Mrs R. As Ive explained its unclear why Mrs R was taken 
aside by the branch manager,  but whatever the reason, this resulted in Mrs R making her 
excuses, leaving the branch and not following through with transaction  nine. 
 
Ultimately, Mrs Rs reaction to intervention from HSBC branch staff suggests she wasnt able 
to answer questions or have a conversation about the payment(s)  because  of the pressure 
she was under. And I think its more likely than not that shed have reacted similarly had 
HSBC contacted Mrs R and spoken to her when she attempted  to make payment one.
Im also mindful the scammer told Mrs R she should say, if asked, that the payments were 
for a personal matter.  So had Mrs R provided  only this response  in answer to any questions  
she was asked, Im not persuaded  this wouldve done anything to reduce any concerns that 
HSBC ought reasonably  to have held. In the circumstances  Id have expected  HSBC  to 
probe further  to challenge the purpose of the payment, rather than accept the reason given 
at face value (particularly as providing  a cover story is a common feature of a scam).
In all the circumstances HSBC could, for example, have  asked  Mrs R to provide  more detail 
about what the payment was for and to which bank the payment was being made. Had 
further questioning happened, I think its more likely than not the story Mrs R had been given 
(a personal  matter) wouldve begun to unravel. 
I say this because  while the scammer  told her to use a specific  reason for the transaction  (if 
asked), based on what Mrs R has told us Im not persuaded  this story was any more 
detailed than for a personal matter. So, I dont think it wouldve stood up to more  than the 
most basic level of enquiry. 
And in the circumstances of this complaint, I think asking about the bank the payment was 
going to (something HSBC would  have been  able to verify via the sort code) seems a 
sensible thing to do to verify the credibility of what Mrs R might  have told them if asked.  I 
think that would have been  a reasonable step for HSBC to take  to help satisfy themselves 
that Mrs R wasnt likely to be at risk of financial harm. 
In this case Mrs R has told us she didnt  know, at the time, that the payments were going  to 
a pre-paid card or who the receiving bank was. So, I think she wouldnt have been able to 
pro-actively offer this information, or account  for it if challenged by HSBC. I think  Mrs R 
Ref: DRN08306997wouldve found it difficult to explain why she was transferring nearly  £4,000 to a pre-paid 
card for a personal matter.
For the reasons  Ive explained, had HSBC  made  contact with Mrs R, and had the 
conversation unravelled  in the way I think it likely  wouldve,  I think its more likely than not 
the scam  would have  come to light. I dont think Mrs R wouldve then made the payment or 
any of the subsequent payments, and Mr and Mrs R wouldnt have financially lost out as a 
result of the scam. 
I do however note that Mrs R was on the phone to the scammer most of the time during the 
days she was affected by the crime;  in particular at the exact time the payments were made. 
So Ive considered the possibility that even if HSBC  had tried to contact Mrs R they might not 
have been able to.
But Im persuaded  that even if HSBC were  unable to speak to Mrs R, I dont think they ought  
fairly and reasonably to have taken Mrs R not answering their call as reassurance  that she 
wasnt at risk of financial harm. Given Im currently minded  to conclude that HSBC shouldve  
made further enquiries with Mrs R before  processing the payment, it follows  that they 
shouldnt have processed the payment until they had done  so. 
Payment two
Just a few hours later Mrs R transferred a further £3,200 to the scammer. This payment 
again went through without any intervention from HSBC.  I think HSBC ought  fairly and 
reasonably to have  contacted Mrs R to find out whether she might  be the victim of a scam  
because by this stage: 
Mrs R was making a substantial out of character and unusual  payment just a few 
hours after making the first payment to the scammer (which as Ive said I also 
consider to be out of character and unusual)
Mrs R had set up a second new payee just a few hours after sending  the first 
payment to a different  new payee   once again this was an account  with W who 
specialise in pre-paid cards, and the evidence suggests the money went onto a pre-
paid card.
The second payment was made in a different  branch to the first
That means that if the payment went through  (which it did) Mrs R would have 
transferred nearly £7,000 to two new payees, two pre-paid cards, in two different 
branches in a matter  of hours.
Im persuaded HSBC  ought fairly and reasonably to have questioned  why Mrs R was making 
a second large  payment just a few hours after making  the first.  
Had HSBC contacted Mrs R (as I think they ought fairly and reasonably to have done), I 
think shed have struggled to provide a plausible explanation as to why she was making two 
payments totalling  nearly £7,000 onto two pre-paid cards / two new payees in two different 
branches over a matter  of hours.  Mrs R has told us she was not in a good state of mind, and 
had not been provided with a detailed cover  story.  So I think  Mrs R wouldve  struggled to 
provide a plausible or detailed explanation for the payments, and again I think  its more  likely 
than not this wouldve resulted in the scam  being  exposed, for the reasons Ive previously 
explained. 
Ref: DRN08306998And if, as before, HSBC had been  unable to speak to Mrs R, I think  they ought to have held 
the payment until theyd  done so, for the reasons Ive previously explained. 
Ultimately, following intervention from HSBC (the nature of which Ive set out above), Im 
persuaded Mrs R wouldnt  have made payment  two, and wouldnt have gone  on to make any 
of the subsequent payments. And had HSBC not processed it had they not been able to 
speak with Mrs R, I dont  think  they shouldve gone  on to process  the subsequent 
transactions before checking Mrs R wasnt at risk of financial  harm.
   
Payments three to eight
Im not going  to make detailed findings on what happened  or shouldve happened when 
Mrs R made  payments three to eight. As Ive already said,  Im minded to conclude HSBC  
ought to have prevented all of Mr and Mrs Rs losses. 
But Im mindful payments  three, five, six, seven and eight were made in branches B and C,  
and the payments were made over the counter with interaction from a cashier, rather  than 
via a kiosk. I find it surprising, given the pattern of payments made,  that all the payments 
were processed with what appears  to be very little challenge (if any) from branch staff  I 
consider this to be an opportunity that was missed. 
Mrs R says she wasnt asked anything about  the payments  in branch and that branch  staff 
didnt make eye contact with her. She feels  that if they had looked at her or asked her any 
questions at all theyd  have recognised  she was frightened and under duress.  She does 
however remember one cashier saying something  like youre having a big day.
HSBC say branch  staff dont remember anything unusual about  the requests Mrs R made or 
anything notable regarding her behaviour. HSBC have also said that Mrs R doesnt fall within 
potential vulnerable customer guidelines so her payments wouldnt have prompted additional 
questioning or consideration  of the banking protocol.
As Ive explained, according to UK Finances toolkit, financial businesses like HSBC commit 
to look out for out of character and unusual transactions and to implement the Banking  
Protocol when such transactions are identified. By the time Mrs R made her third payment, 
(which was processed by a cashier  in branch)  there  is no doubt that she was making  an 
unusual and out of character transaction.  
By this stage Mrs R was attempting to make a third substantial  payment to a third new payee  
in 24 hours.  She also used a different branch again   which  Mrs R says was deliberate  as 
she didnt want to raise suspicion with the branch staff. 
Im persuaded the cashier wouldve  been  able to establish Mrs R was attempting  to make a 
third substantial payment  to a third new payee  at a third branch in 24 hours.  I think these 
factors and Mrs Rs 24 hour account  activity ought to have  caused  some concern and 
prompted the cashier to ask her questions  about  the payment  there  is no evidence that this 
happened here. And no evidence that questions were asked about any of the subsequent 
payments either. 
I think its important to highlight that branch staff should be on the lookout  for any unusual  or 
out of character transaction  whether a customer  is vulnerable  or not. So, Im afraid  I 
disagree with HSBCs  submissions here.
Ref: DRN08306999Its disappointing that it appears  Mrs R managed to make the third payment with no 
questions asked about its purpose, and particularly disappointing that after making this 
payment Mrs R went on to make another five payments and attempt a ninth payment before  
the matter was investigated  (based on the evidence Ive seen the investigation into the 
payment was only prompted following  contact  from one of the receiving banks). 
Overall
As Ive previously explained, at the time the scam  took place HSBC ought  to have been alive 
to and on the lookout for fraud.
Everything that Ive identified  above as being  unusual ought fairly  and reasonably to have 
raised red flags with HSBC. Ive thought  carefully about the exact point HSBC couldve 
prevented Mrs R from either being the victim  of a scam, or continuing to be the victim of a 
scam. And as Ive set out above, Im persuaded that if HSBC  had acted fairly and reasonably  
they could have prevented all the transactions, and Mr and Mrs R would not have lost the 
money they did. In the circumstances I am currently minded to conclude  that HSBC  should 
fairly and reasonably compensate Mr and Mrs R for the losses they have  suffered.
In reaching my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable  in this case, I have taken into 
account everything HBSC  has said, including their view that Mrs R should take responsibility 
as she said when reporting the scam that shed been gullible and didnt validate  the requests 
with HMRC. But I dont think it would be fair to say Mrs R acted unreasonably here.
I appreciate that in hindsight it might be difficult for those,  particularly those who havent 
been affected by this type of crime or who have greater knowledge of fraud and scams as 
banks do, to understand why Mrs R didnt contact  HMRC  to verify she owed them  money. 
But Im persuaded  that at the time Mrs R was under the spell of a sophisticated and cruel 
scam that was intended to intimidate and frighten her  as Mrs R has explained  she was on 
the phone  to the scammer for hours  at a time over a three day period, and has described 
feeling like a hostage. Because of this I think its understandable that Mrs Rs thoughts were 
less rational and logical than might usually be the case; particularly because  of the pressure 
and fear the scammer applied.  That is why scams  like this are so successful. And ultimately,  
as I set out earlier, that is why HSBC should  fairly  and reasonably  have taken the steps I 
have found they should have taken to protect Mrs R from fraud.
Finally Ive considered  whether HSBC should pay Mrs R compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience shes experienced as a result of HSBCs actions. In considering  whats  fair 
compensation, Ive specifically  thought  about the impact of HSBCs actions rather than the 
impact of the crime itself.  
Im persuaded that HSBCs failure  to act, and prevent financial harm, has had a lasting 
impact on Mrs R. Mrs R has said she has gone  through hell and suffered a considerable 
amount of emotional  pain. She still gets upset talking about what  happened and is reluctant 
to answer her phone  even  18 months later. So for these reasons I think HSBC should pay 
Mrs R £300 in compensation.  
putting things  right
Ref: DRN083069910For the reasons  Ive given, Im currently minded to uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. I dont 
think it was fair or reasonable for HSBC not to refund the losses  Mr and Mrs R suffered as a 
result of this scam.
I intend on requiring  HSBC to:
Refund Mr and Mrs R £37,225 (less  any amount recovered and returned to 
Mr and Mrs R).
Pay interest on the amount at the account interest rate from the date of each 
payment to the date of settlement. 
Pay Mr and Mrs R £300 compensation for the material  distress  and inconvenience 
they experienced. 
Mr and Mrs R responded  to say that they accepted my provisional decision. 
HSBC also responded.  They said they wanted to make the following observations:
Mrs R was not considered vulnerable;
If Mrs R hadnt  discussed the matter  with Mr R, then its highly unlikely she would 
have easily discussed matters  with HSBC, if at all;
There has been no consideration of Mrs Rs negligence in not checking directly with 
HMRC, and querying why all these payments were being sent to individuals  at non 
HMRC accounts;
HSBC have no insight  into what reasons  the scammers gave for requiring all the 
payments other than the first and second,  and how believable  those  reasons  were;
HSBCs staff may have in fact asked  questions,  but they dont have records  available  
to indicate this.
Further to this HSBC  also said that in summary and not limited to the brief observations 
above, they didnt necessarily agree with everything  in my provisional decision. However, as 
a gesture, and without  any admission of liability they are prepared the settle  the matter  as 
proposed to bring things to a close. 
Now both sides have had an opportunity to comment, I can go ahead with my final decision. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about HSBCs observations and comments  as above.  But they do not 
persuade me to alter my view about  what is fair and reasonable  in this case.  
Whilst HSBC did not agree  with my findings, I note that theyve agreed to pay the redress I 
proposed. As such I see no reason to change or amend  the outcome.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
HSBC UK Bank PLC must:
Ref: DRN083069911Refund Mr and Mrs R £37,225 (less  any amount already recovered and returned to 
Mr and Mrs R).
Pay interest on the amount at the account interest rate from the date of each 
payment to the date of settlement. 
Pay Mr and Mrs R £300 compensation for the material  distress  and inconvenience 
they experienced.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 July 2020.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0830699