K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy that Santander UK Plc sold their Scottish Provident investments 
to a different  business in 2006.  They  feel theyve  lost £10,000 as a result of this.
background
Santander said there had been no major  changes  to the way the policies were  invested or 
administered so they didnt need  to seek policy holders agreement. It offered £100 by way 
of apology for referring to the wrong  policy provider in its initial response.
An investigator at this service did not feel the complaint  should  be upheld.  She said that a 
business was entitled to make a commercial decision  to sell part of its business and this isnt
something that we would expect customers to be involved in.
Further, the Financial  Ombudsman Service doesnt have the power to tell a business how it
should be run or to comment on its commercial decisions. That means we dont have the 
power to investigate the sale of all, or any part of the sale Santander made in 2006.
Santander is regulated by the FCA who is responsible for regulating  financial businesses  
and any commercial activities.
It also follows that if Mr and Mrs B have concerns about the mis-management of the funds
from 2006 onwards,  after the business was sold, Santander isnt responsible for this. They 
may choose to direct  their complaint to that business.
In this context she noted  that Mr and Mrs B had already  complained about the initial advice  
back in 2006 and this issue cannot therefore  be now reconsidered.
Mr and Mrs B did not agree, and said:
Their complaint is not about the selling of the business but the resultant breach in 
their original  terms and conditions which stated that their investment would be 
managed by a team  of fund managers  in order to deliver the projected returns
This part of Santanders predecessor business  was sold to a company specialising  in 
handling closed  funds when prior to this the funds were still active
So the sale breached their terms and conditions that they were  investing in a fund 
open to new business,  thereby putting  the projected  returns  at risk
So it should have  warned them of the implications of selling the fund to this new 
business
Further, the internal memo  theyd sent showed  Santander was wrong to claim the 
sale did not breach  customers  terms and conditions
As they were paying a monthly  fee they should  have been told when the fund was 
being sold to a business that managed zombie funds
The investigator responded, saying:
The terms and conditions remained the same when the investments were sold to 
another business
The internal  memo sets out details of the commercial decision  that Santander made 
at the time. So its not something that we have the power  to comment on
Ref: DRN03592102If Mr and Mrs B don't  think Resolution has managed  their investment in line with their 
terms  and conditions  then this is a complaint that needs  to be directed to it
Financial businesses  are entitled to keep existing customers and decide  not to take 
any new customers
Any concerns  about Santander  breaching  regulations such as the 2000  FSMA need 
to be addressed to the Financial Conduct  Authority
Mr and Mrs B said they were not aware  of the internal memo when their complaint was 
considered by this service  in 2006  and for this reason this issue should be reconsidered.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the investigator  and for exactly the same reasons. This is why I 
have outlined in detail her initial assessment and her response to Mr and Mrs Bs further  
objections. Its also why I will not repeat all of her explanation as to why she didnt uphold  
this complaint.
Firstly, I dont accept that the memo  is significantly  new or persuasive evidence  to warrant 
reopening or reconsidering Mr and Mrs Bs earlier complaint about the original sale. In my 
view it simply states that clients terms and conditions were  not being  affected by the sale. I 
have seen no evidence  to suggest  they have been.
This is because I do not agree that closing a fund to new business does represent a change  
to a clients terms and conditions. Companies have,  for many years, closed funds to new 
business, frequently retaining them in-house.  This is a commercial  decision they are entitled 
to make.  In my experience the regulator  has never  ruled that they are not entitled to make 
such a decision.
So the fact that Santanders predecessor sold these funds to a business specializing  in 
closed funds is equally not something that would be a breach of a clients  terms and 
conditions. As such, I dont accept that Santanders  predecessor firm was required to inform  
clients individually of such a sale.
Finally, as the investigator said, if Mr and Mrs B believe that the new business has not kept 
to their original terms and conditions they are entitled to make a complaint to it. But if that 
complaint were solely about the fund being closed to new business it would, in my view,  
have no chance  of success.
Ref: DRN03592103my final decision
I do not uphold  the complaint or make any financial award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 November 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0359210