K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complaint relates  to the trade  positions  she held in her Contracts  for Difference 
(CFD) Options  account with Plus500UK Ltd (Plus500). She says that false pricing from 
Plus500 resulted  in a margin call and her positions being closed unfairly.
background
Mrs S position
Mrs S held a CFD account with Plus500  with five positions in Oil Call Option 52.5 January 
the opening prices  being  between 2.06 and 2.54.  She says these positions were  affected by
an alleged  price manipulation.  She says it took the form of a sharp  movement in price  
against her position   which would  last for a short period and would affect equity in her
account.
Mrs S was required  to maintain a margin level of 20% in account equity. The margin level
was triggered  when the account equity dropped to £179.86. As a result of the margin  call,
Plus500 closed  the five positions she held in November 2018 at a price  of 1.16 and 1.31
This resulted in her losing approximately £800  from these five trades.
The drop in account equity correlated with a drop in Plus500s pricing for the trade  at the
time. The legitimacy of the drop in price is what Mrs S disputes.  She says,  essentially, that
the price drop was false/manipulated/inconsistent  with the underlying and wider market,  and
that but for Plus500s price drop,  the margin call would not have occurred. She says the drop
in price was only for a few seconds before it is then corrected  and returned to the correct
level.
Mrs S says there was no market volatility or liquidity issue that applied to these oil trades
that would  explain  the movement in Plus500 prices.  There  was no change in the underlying
market that would justify this.
Mrs S also complains that a stop order was in place  on 52.50 for 2.01, if it fell below 51.80
but this wasnt  executed.
Mrs S says Plus500s platform reflected the alleged price movement only in the price for the
trade, there was little to no reflection within the Put Oil instrument and the same  was the
case for the Call versions of the same  instrument. It is arguably impossible for an alleged
(and significant) price  movement for an instrument to behave in this manner  that is,
affecting her Put trade but hardly  (if at all) affecting  other relevant Puts and Calls in the
options chain  based on the same instrument.
Mrs S says evidence (including screenshots) presented by Plus500 in support of its position
cannot be relied on as it has probably also been manipulated.
She also says there have  numerous other instances  when Plus500  have  manipulated prices
and that shes  lost a total of £8700 since opening  her trading account.
Plus500s position
Plus500 say their prices  reflected the prices available in the underlying market plus a
dynamic spread  tolerance which they are entitled to do. They say the prices were derived
Ref: DRN00636382from a feed of rates  received  from independent data providers who obtain their data directly
from the relevant  exchanges. In this case for Oil based CFD Options the source  would be
the Chicago Mercantile  Exchange (CME). They didnt just consider the underlying  market
but also took into account various other factors such as Options  pricing and market
conditions. Their terms and conditions clearly explain this.
They reject the allegation  of false/manipulated pricing or that their pricing did not reflect the
underlying market. Plus500 explain  that their pricing  and pricing for CFD Options  is not
solely dependent on the relevant underlying market price. They  are reflective  of the
underlying market price  but could differ, after taking other factors related to Options  pricing
into account. Its terms and Order Execution Policy (OEP) explain this.
The terms agreed by Mrs S also confirmed that her account was based on an execution  only
service and that it was her sole responsibility  to manage the account trading and monitor  her
margin. They say that margin  call closures  were applied when margin  requirements were
breached and that they are not obliged to give alerts  of the margin  call. They  say the terms
make clear  their contractual right to apply margin call closures  where necessary to maintain
their margins  and so the margin  call closures were valid.
On one specific occasion, Plus500  accept  that the price difference  Mrs S has mentioned  was
a technical error in the graph that was used. They say the price updated but not the time that
was noted, so the prices showed  against  an incorrect  time. They  offered Mrs S £25 as a
good will gesture,  but rejected her complaint on the basis that the price drop was not false or
manipulated as Mrs S says.
investigators view
Our investigator looked at the complaint and said Plus500s prices  should closely  mirror  the
price of that underlying instrument and then a mark-up in spread should be added.  He said
Plus500 wasnt able to justify the difference in their prices and the underlying market and so
they should bring her positions  to the same price as the underlying market at the time they
were closed. He also said that they should  pay Mrs S £100 for distress and inconvenience  in
addition to the £25 they had already offered. His complaint focused  on the five Oil trades
Mrs S complained about and not the overall losses shes mentioned  since trading with
Plus500.
Plus500 didnt  agree  with the investigator  and maintained their position,  so this has come to
me for a final decision. 
I issued a Provisional  Decision on 11 December 2020, explaining why I didnt  intend  to 
uphold this. I include this below.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
wider issues
Mrs S allegations about previous pricing  wrongdoings  by Plus500 were  mentioned  in the
initial complaint she made  to this service and the complaint raised  with Plus500, but the
Ref: DRN00636383focus of the complaint has been  the five Oil trades I have mentioned above. It was agreed at
the initial investigation stage that the focus of this complaint would be the five Oil trades as
she has been able to provide us details of these.
For the remainder issues to be addressed, Mrs S would need  to provide relevant details for
consideration, especially as relevant particulars do not appear to have been included  in the
complaint Plus500  addressed. Complaints to this service should be made  after they have
been properly  presented  to the respondent firms and after those firms  have been  given  an
opportunity to address them.
stop order
Mrs S says that a stop order was in place  on 52.50 for 2.01, if it fell below 51.80  but this
wasnt executed  when it should  have  been.  This point  has been queried  with Plus500 and
they say that it was not executed to a position  since Mrs S didnt have enough  funds in order
to open it and maintain the position  open, so they proceeded to take closure action. Whilst I
appreciate Mrs Ss frustrations at this, the terms and conditions make clear  that it remains
Mrs S responsibility to maintain her account so I cant say that Plus500 did anything wrong
in not exercising the stop order.
margin call closure
The margin  call closure itself isnt in dispute  as Plus500 had a contractual right to apply
margin call closures to positions in circumstances where a margin  breach has occurred on
an account. The user agreement for Mrs S account  expressly made it Mrs S responsibility
to monitor and manage margin requirements in her account. The agreement  gave Plus500
the right to close open positions within an account where  such  a breach occurs  without prior
notice to the accountholder as the accountholder  ought to have been monitoring margin.
Plus500 were also not obligated to give prior notice of margin  call closures.
The evidence shows the margin requirement was breached in Mrs S account and that is
what led to closure of the five positions she highlighted. I have  considered below Mrs S
complaint about  the pricing that led to the margin breach. But in terms of Plus500s
application of the margin call closures,  I do not consider that it did so wrongly.
legitimacy and source of the price feed
Mrs S accepted the terms and conditions for her execution only account and that included
her acceptance of their OEP. The OEP confirmed that her CFD Options trades  would be
based on Plus500s prices and not any relevant exchanges. A third party  provided  the price
feed for Plus500, so this service has not been in a position to look into how the relevant price
feed was produced.  In the circumstances, it is reasonable for Plus500 to disclose  evidence
of the price feed they used and to rely on that as justification for the price  it applied  to the
trade. They have  provided  screenshot evidence  of their price chart for the trade  showing the
sell rate at the time the trade was closed  and screenshot evidence of their price feed
showing the spread  at the time the trade was closed. They  have also submitted evidence
which illustrates price feeds received and pricing on their platform  consistent with those price
feeds. They  have also highlighted that the price feeds relate to data from the CME and that a
link to this is available  on their platform. This suggests that Plus500 wanted  a degree of
transparency in their platforms Options prices.
Mrs S provided evidence from Bloombergs  rates for the underlying instrument which  she
Ref: DRN00636384says doesnt show a price  drop around the same time the trade  was closed. I have
considered the price  feed Plus500 use, as the OEP say they get their price feed through
their parent company. The OEP explains that independent third parties are the source of the
price feeds, they determine the prices and their price feeds then pass  through Plus500s
parent company to reach Plus500.  The independent third parties that provide the source
feed can vary as is the case here.  I dont contest  the information  Mrs S provides  but Plus500
has shown that they obtain their data from a different provider.
Mrs S has questioned the reliability of the price feed and screenshots Plus500 have used to
evidence their position. She says they are likely  to have  manipulated the evidence  and so it
cannot be relied on. Both parties  have submitted and relied upon screenshot evidence. I
havent seen any evidence that would  persuade  me that Plus500 evidence  has been
manipulated in anyway.  I apply the same  approach  to the screenshot  evidence  that Mrs S
has submitted. I dont consider either set of screenshots to be unreliable.
options pricing
I have noted the key points that Mrs S has made  and what should  be expected in an Options
chain based on the behaviour of a common  underlying market. Im not suggesting that what
she has argued is wrong in principle,  and I think it is reasonable for her to question  why
pricing for the other  long Calls and Puts she has referred to are different from pricing for the
trades even though they share the same  underlying  market. But this doesnt factor  in any
variations that can sometimes apply given the nature  of Options pricing.
As both parties will be aware, Options  pricing  is unique. The concepts  used  to determine
Options prices presents  multiple pricing  elements  that are not common in pricing for other
securities. Options pricing is impacted by not just the price of the underlying security or
market, they extend  to factors  like time. This includes time decay which  measures the
decreased value of an Option  as the expiry  approaches. Essentially this means the less time
being available to make  a profit, the more the value decreases.
Another factor affecting the pricing  is implied volatility  based on a theory for future  volatility,
which is separate from current volatility and is arguably an uncertain factor.  Implied volatility
is very important in Options pricing. It is a key measure that allows traders to speculate what
future volatility might be. Traders view the likelihood of future price changes  by examining
the underlying  instruments  volatility  behaviour in the current time frame.  In this context, it
cannot reasonably  be assumed that a change in an Options price must be a mirror image  of
 or must be directly linked to  a change or a similar sized change in the movement of the
underlying market it relates  to.
dynamic spread
The terms required Plus500 to use its price feed, so I expect to see prices that reflect that
price feed. Plus500 say their prices reflected the prices available in the underlying market
plus a dynamic spread  adjustment that is applied within tolerance levels.  The terms and
policy allowed them  to apply spreads within a certain tolerance level of those prices or of the
wider market prices. I would expect that the arrangements for applying spreads  and the
levels relevant to them should be reasonably transparent and accessible to an account
holder. I have seen  that their dynamic  spread adjustment is noted on their website for each
trade so I do think Plus500  have  shown a level of transparency here.
The evidence Plus500 has shown largely  are reflective of the prices  in the underlying
Ref: DRN00636385market. I think  to go beyond this and begin  to determine what  is or is not reasonable
tolerance, could  arguably be interfering  with the firms commercial discretion   a discretion
which are they entitled to exercise. Our role here is not to interfere with a firms commercial
decision but to consider  whether they have done anything  wrong.  I think  anything further
than this would be crossing over to the remit of regulation which  is for the regulators to
consider, not this service. Whilst I appreciate Mrs S strength of feelings  on this issue, I
havent seen any evidence that Plus500 have done anything  wrong  here.
Mrs S does not appear to have presented evidence to support the manipulation that she has
described. Plus500s source its price feeds from independent data providers. They  provide
the feeds to Plus500 through  its parent company  and this is explained in the OEP. The
automatic spread adjustment  that is applied is listed on their website and there does  not
appear to be scope for Plus500 to manipulate  the prices provided  by independent sources.
Overall, on balance and for the above  reasons, I am not persuaded that the closing price for
the trade was false or manipulated and do not intend to uphold  Mrs Ss complaint.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  given  above, my provisional decision is that I dont intend to uphold  this
complaint against  Plus500UK  Ltd.
Ill consider any comments I receive by the date specified before I issue  my final decision.
responses to my provisional  decision
Plus500 responded to accept the provisional  decision. 
Mrs S responded to say she was disappointed  with the provisional decision. She said she 
didnt agree with the outcome and that we hadnt  considered that the evidence  was hard to 
capture. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered what Mrs S has said but I dont think shes  provided  any new information 
that hadnt previously  been considered so I wont repeat these points  again.  
As there is nothing further for me to add, I see no reason to depart from my provisional 
findings and make the same findings here.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint against Plus500UK Ltd.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 February  2021.
Naima Abdul-Rasool
Ref: DRN00636386ombudsman
Ref: DRN0063638