K821x#15complaint
Miss K and Mr K complain that Inter Partner  Assistance SA (IPA) wouldnt pay their travel 
insurance claim. My references to IPA include  its agents.
Miss K and Mr K are represented by their father in their complaint.
background
In March 2017 Mr K took out an annual  multi  trip insurance policy  starting in April 2017. His 
sister, Miss K, was also insured under the policy. The insurer was IPA.
Miss K became unwell returning  home from holiday in September  2017. She was taken to a 
private hospital abroad where she received treatment for seizures,  a urinary  tract infection  
and diarrhoea. She had to stay in hospital  for about  a week.
Miss Ks mother called IPA immediately  to notify it of the claim. IPA obtained Miss Ks 
medical history. Miss Ks GP told it she had similar  episodes  of seizures/body shaking in 
April 2013 and in August  and September 2017.  The GP said it had been  suggested the 
symptoms might be linked  to panic attacks/anxiety.
IPA wouldnt pay the claim. Its final response  letter to Miss K said it declined the claim as the 
policy didnt cover pre-existing medical  conditions.
Miss K and Mr K complained to us. On Miss Ks return home unfortunately her symptoms 
had worsened  and shed been diagnosed  with acute mania.  Their  representative  sent a letter  
from Miss Ks psychiatrist which  said he believed  the episode  Miss K experienced on holiday 
was the early stages  of a manic episode and not related to a pre-existing condition.  The 
representative also said he and Miss Ks mother had repeatedly  asked IPA to help move 
their daughter from a private to a state  hospital  as they couldnt afford medical costs  but 
Miss K wasnt moved.
IPA still refused to pay the claim. It told us that when  Miss K bought  the policy she should 
have told it about  her pre-existing medical condition from April 2013.  If shed  done  so it 
wouldnt have offered the policy to her as the policy doesnt cover any claim where  Miss K 
had a previous  illness  within the last 5 years. It also said Miss K should  have told it about her 
change in health after she bought the policy.
Our investigator thought IPA hadnt  fairy declined the claim and should pay the claim in line 
with the remaining policy terms  and conditions.
IPA disagrees and wants an ombudsman's decision.
Before I made my decision I asked Miss K and Mr K's representative about what  other  costs  
they had incurred in relation to the claim incident  apart from the medical  costs.  Ill detail the 
response in my findings below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN04011832I uphold this complaint.
I have to decide whether IPA fairly and reasonably declined the claim, for the various 
reasons it's now given,  and I dont think it did. Ill explain why
sale of policy
IPA has sent us screen shots of the policy sales process. It says Miss K should have 
answered yes to the question:
do you or anyone  in your party have or... had any pre-existing medical 
conditions.
There's no explanation of what  pre-existing medical conditions means on the screen shots 
Ive seen. 
The policy was taken  out in March 2017. Miss Ks medical history at that time is the evidence  
relevant to whether she reasonably answered the question. 
Miss Ks medical notes show that in April 2013,  when  she was in her early teens, she had an 
episode of what the hospital  initially thought might be a possible seizure.  The hospital notes 
say shed been doing a lot of studying and socialising. The consultants conclusion was:
No focal neurology was found on examination.  It is suspected that the collapse has 
been a body stress response to sleep  deprivation.
The hospital  notes say a follow up to a seizure clinic was arranged  to exclude  the possibility 
of a seizure. Miss Ks representative says a follow up never happened but it looks as if the 
follow up happened on the day. Theres no evidence that Miss K was diagnosed with a 
medical condition  at that time. 
So I think Miss K acted reasonably in answering no to the above question. Ive seen no 
medical evidence  that she was diagnosed with a medical condition  following the April 2013 
episode or that she was told she did have  a problem other than body stress  due to sleep 
deprivation. Theres  no medical evidence of her having another  episode  of a possible 
seizure until after the policy was taken out, over four years later.
IPA cant fairly decline the claim on the basis that it wouldnt have offered the policy to 
Miss K if it had known  about her April 2013 possible seizure symptoms.
pre-existing medical condition
Ref: DRN04011833The policy says:
At the time of taking  out this policy you will not be covered for any claim arising 
directly or indirectly from:
a) any medical condition  you have,  or have had, for which you are taking or have 
been taking prescribed  medication; and
b) any medical condition  you have,  or have had, for which you are waiting to receive, 
or have  received treatment (including  surgery, tests  or investigations)  within  the last 
5 years.

c) any medical condition for which you have received a terminal prognosis;
d) any medical condition  you are aware  of but for which you have not had a 
diagnosis;
e) any medical condition  for which you are on a waiting list;
f) any medical condition for which you know you need surgery  or treatment;
g) any medical condition  for which you are awaiting the results from any tests or 
investigations
h) any medical condition  affecting you, that you are aware of, that could reasonably 
be expected to result in a claim on this policy.
The policy defines  medical condition as any medical or psychological disease, sickness,  
condition, illness or injury.
Ive seen IPAs medical teams opinion. In brief it says Miss Ks seizure-like symptoms  on 
holiday were a recurrence  of her previously symptoms for which  she was seen at A & E on 
more than one occasion  the last being in August 2017. It concludes  that the seizure-like 
symptoms were pre-existing.
As Ive said,  at the time Miss K took out the policy she only had the seizure-like  symptoms  in 
2013. Theres no evidence of a medical condition being diagnosed in 2013.  Its not clear  
from IPAs evidence what its medical team's opinion would be if it just looked at the medical 
evidence for Miss Ks 2013 symptoms,  and importantly the conclusion the hospital 
consultant came to at that time.
However, Miss Ks psychiatrist is clear that the episode  Miss K had on holiday could in no 
way be attributed  to a pre-existing condition. After her return  from holiday sadly  Miss Ks 
symptoms worsened and shes been  diagnosed with acute mania.  Her psychiatrists  opinion  
is that in retrospect Miss Ks episode on holiday can only plausibly be assumed to be the 
early stages of a manic  episode that has now declared itself.
There's no evidence  at all that Miss K had been diagnosed with the medical condition of 
acute mania at the time she took out the policy. And at the time she took out the policy  she 
wasnt aware she had the condition  but was awaiting diagnosis. Shed been  told her body  
had reacted to sleep  deprivation.
Miss Ks psychiatrist is her treating specialist doctor.  Im more persuaded by his evidence 
than the evidence of IPAs  medical  team particularly as Ive seen no direct comments from 
IPA on the psychiatrists  opinion.
IPA cant fairly say Miss Ks seizure-like episode on holiday was related  to a pre-existing 
medical condition  she had at the time she took out the policy. 
Ref: DRN04011834I also note IPAs medical teams opinion  is that while Miss K was in hospital  abroad  the: 
overriding acute concern was her febrile  (fever) illness accompanied by diarrhoea. 
She remained febrile for up to 3 days with a significant leucocytosis  (increase in 
white blood cells)the febrile illness,  being the priority in this instance is not 
considered related to any pre-existing illness 
As IPAs medical team accepted that at least some of the medical costs  didnt  relate to a 
pre-existing medical condition IPA should have  fairly  offered to cover  at least some of the 
claim anyway.
change of health
After Miss K took out the policy and just before she went  on holiday she had two seizure-like  
episodes.
The policy says:
Our travel policies are offered on the understanding that you are fit to travel  on the 
day the policy is issued.  If your health changes after the purchase of your policy  
and/or the date your travel tickets  or confirmation of booking were issued, you should 
telephone (IPA)  ...
Most, if not all, travel policies require a policyholder to tell an insurer about a change of 
health after theyve  bought the policy. I generally think  an insurer can fairly rely on the 
requirement if the requirement is clear and the policyholder knows or should  reasonably  
know their change in health is significant (which means medical issues which are so 
significant that they fundamentally  affect  the risk being insured).
The only mention of Miss K needing  to tell IPA about  a change of health after the policy is 
bought is on page 13 of 45 pages in the policy document, which I don't think  is particularly 
clear.
Even if I did think the requirement  was clear, I dont think  Miss K knew  or should  reasonably  
have known she had a significant change  in health.
Miss Ks medical notes show that after the August and September 2017 episodes in the UK 
her GP referred her to the neurological  department. I understand at the time of the holiday 
she was waiting to be seen. 
But at the time of those episodes the medical  notes show the hospital thought shed had an 
uncomplicated presyncopal (dizziness) episode probably related to anxiety. So although  
Miss K was referred just before she went on holiday I dont think  she had any reason to 
believe she had a significant change of health at that point. Theres no evidence  that she 
wasnt fit to travel.
Miss K acted reasonably in not informing IPA about her change  in health at that stage.  IPA 
can't fairly decline  the claim on the basis that she should have told it about a change  in her 
health.
Ref: DRN04011835settlement
The parties have  concentrated on the medical costs Miss K incurred, which are still 
outstanding. 
But Miss K and Mr Ks representative has now told us that in addition to the medical  
expenses they had to pay for Mr Ks flight to the hospital to be with his sister,  return  flights 
for Miss K and Mr K, taxi and food costs. Miss Ks friend also incurred  costs  when she 
remained with Miss K in hospital until Mr K took over.
The policy covers Miss Ks reasonable additional transport and/or accommodation expenses 
if its medically necessary  for her to stay beyond her scheduled return  date. It covers 
additional travel  expenses to return her home  if she couldnt use the return ticket. The policy  
also covers reasonable  additional transport and/or accommodation expenses  for a travelling 
companion, friend or close relative  to stay with her or travel  to her from the UK or escort her. 
So IPA needs  to pay the medical costs and the additional related costs,  in line with the policy  
terms, conditions and limits. Interest is payable on those amounts which  have already been  
paid, as detailed  below.
Miss K and Mr K's representative  also raised that IPA didnt ensure Miss K was moved to a 
state hospital as they requested. I havent looked into that issue  as I think IPA needs to pay 
the claim anyway.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Inter Partner Assistance  SA to pay Miss K and Mr Ks claim in line with the 
remaining policy terms, conditions and limits.  Interest*  is payable at 8% simple a year on the 
covered expenses that they have paid from the date of claim to the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 October  2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman 
*If Inter Partner Assistance SA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to 
take off income  tax from that interest  it should tell Miss K and Mr K how much  its taken off. It 
should also give Miss K and Mr K a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN0401183