K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Nationwide  Building Societys  Automated Teller Machine (ATM)  didnt 
credit his account with money he paid in. And hes unhappy with the responses he had in 
branch when raising this issue. 
background
On 7 December  2018 Mr D went into a Nationwide branch  to pay in £910. The ATM didnt 
accept a £20 note so returned  this and gave a message that said cash  retracted.
Mr D expected to get a receipt which said £890  had been received. And when he 
complained to the branch  staff about  this he says they tried to make him feel like he should 
leave the branch without evidence hed paid in any money.
Nationwide said their procedures are to check the ATM the following morning, and make 
adjustments to accounts then  something  they say they explained to Mr D.
He didnt accept  this  and ultimately  the branch  manager opened  the ATM, and paid in the 
£890 that hadnt been credited. I can also see the remaining £20 Mr D wanted  to pay in was 
credited to his account the same  day. The branch manager also explained theyd be 
checking the ATM in the morning, and if there  were  any adjustments needed  theyd do it 
then. This was because  there was more cash in the purge bin than the amount Mr D said 
hed paid in. 
When Mr D complained to Nationwide they reiterated their procedure was to check  the ATM 
the next day. And said the branch manager  went over and above  to help him because they 
looked into it the same day.
Mr D was still unhappy with this. He feels their process shouldnt  be to send people away 
with no evidence they paid any money in. And he said he was caused a lot of stress  and 
anxiety overnight as a result of not knowing if the £890 Nationwide  had credited to his 
account would stay there. Hes said this is a lot of money for him.
Because of this he asked us to look into his complaint. Our adjudicator considered  Mr Ds 
complaint, and felt it shouldnt be upheld. In summary she said:
Nationwide were  following their policy when saying theyd look into it the next day  
and she didnt think this was unreasonable.
Nationwide helped  Mr D outside  of their usual process by looking into it the same day 
 which  she thought was reasonable and meant the society  hadnt done  anything 
wrong, or treated him unfairly.
Mr D didnt accept this. He felt the procedures were unfair  so the case has been passed  to 
me to decide.
Ref: DRN01253312my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr Ds complaint,  which  I know will be disappointing for him. Ill explain why.
Ive looked at Nationwides policy in these  situations.  This says if theres an issue  with 
paying money in through an ATM  the customer should check  their account  the following  day, 
as the ATM  and account balance will have  been  corrected.
So Im satisfied Mr D was given the correct information  by Nationwide  about  their procedures 
when paying in money through  an ATM goes wrong.  Mr D has said he wasnt  happy  at the 
way in which Nationwide let him know about this process. I cant know  how they spoke to 
him, but I am satisfied they told him the correct information.
Nationwide have said they went over and above  in helping Mr D get the money credited to 
his account. I can understand why Mr D didnt see it this way, as the ATM not accepting his 
money isnt something  he expected or had any control over.  But based on what Ive seen 
Nationwide didnt have  to look into the ATM,  and credit his account, that day. So although 
Mr D disagrees,  Nationwide  have  helped him to get this matter  resolved earlier  than their 
procedures required them to.
Mr D has said he was concerned when he was told the account could be adjusted  and 
feels their procedures mean he was worrying for 24 hours whether the money  would be 
removed. I can understand his concern,  but I think it was sensible for Nationwide to explain 
to him this was a possibility  as at that point they needed to look into whatd happened fully. 
And ultimately none of the money  hed paid in was taken back.
Mr D feels that their process is unfair, and people shouldnt be made to walk away from the 
branch without a receipt. Ive thought about  everything Mr D has said. But I can only look at 
what did happen  and in Mr Ds case by the time he left the branch  the money had been 
credited to his account. So, overall,  Im satisfied Nationwide  have acted reasonably.
my final decision
It follows that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019.
Jon Pearce
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0125331