K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) to Mr D. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 1996.  Barclays sold Mr D the 
policy at the same time that he applied for the card.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Mr D disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive considered what Mr D and he representatives  have said,  but Ive decided the policy  
wasnt mis-sold.  I will explain why:
I think Barclays made Mr D aware that the PPI was optional  and that he chose to 
take it  although I can understand if he can no longer remember this. I have seen 
the credit  application form that he signed,  and there is a choice of ticking yes or no 
for PPI and the yes box is ticked.  So I think its likely there  was a discussion and 
Mr D agreed to take PPI.
Barclays recommended the PPI to Mr D, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable, 
based on what Ive seen of he circumstances at the time. The PPI could have helped  
pay the credit card bill for a period longer  than Mr Ds employer full sick pay is likely 
to have lasted;  and it doesnt  seem  Mr D had other significant resources he could 
have relied on. So the PPI was potentially useful. It also looks like the PPI was 
affordable. And I cant see any other reason why the recommendation was 
unsuitable.
Its difficult now to know how well Barclays explained the PPI. Its possible the 
information Barclays gave  Mr D about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it should  have  been.  
But I dont think, in his circumstances, full information about  costs and benefits would 
have affected  whether  he took the PPI. And it doesnt look like hed have been 
affected by any of the significant exclusions in the policy. 
This means  Barclays doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr D. But 
Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr D because:  
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr D about that. Because  Barclays  didnt  tell Mr D, 
that was unfair. 
Ref: DRN02944382To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr D.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mr D any commission  and profit share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, and 
so Im not awarding  any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0294438