K820x#14complaint
The estate  of Mr V, acting via its executors, has complained about difficulties receiving funds 
from Citibank Europe plc (the bank)  and regarding the banks valuations of the estates 
assets. 
background
Our adjudicator considered the evidence and concluded the bank had accounted to the 
estate and its solicitors in full. He also concluded  there were  valid explanations for the 
variations in the figures shown in the banks valuations. 
Subject to one or two points  of detail, which I dont think are material  to the outcome of the 
complaint, the estate  largely accepted the adjudicators  findings.  The executors would, 
however, like the bank  to pay some legal costs. 
The bank had earlier offered to repay £500  in respect of other  costs,  as a gesture  of good 
will. I understand this offer can still be accepted. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
As the adjudicator explained,  it appeared the legal costs had been paid by the executors  
personally, not by the estate. The ombudsman service has no power to require a bank or 
other financial business to pay compensation to executors where, as here, the customer is 
the estate. 
The executors have submitted some evidence and arguments about  the legal costs.  The 
evidence shows the costs were indeed paid by the executors (which the executors had 
already freely confirmed). The executors  have put forward arguments why the costs  should 
nonetheless be treated  as if they were  due from the estate.
Ive carefully considered  those arguments but Ive not been persuaded by them. The facts  
are clear: the costs  were paid by the executors not by the estate. As such  they cant be 
considered a loss or a cost incurred  by the estate.  
The executors have also queried  what the ombudsman services view might  be about  the 
possible allocation of responsibility elsewhere.  But the ombudsman service is only 
authorised to adjudicate on the actions of financial  businesses. 
Although not substantially  challenged by the estate,  I confirm Ive otherwise come  to the 
same conclusions as the adjudicator and for the same reasons. 
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint made  by the estate of Mr V. 
If the estate  wishes to accept the banks good  will offer, it should contact the bank direct. 
Ref: DRN05127992Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the estate of Mr V 
via its executors to accept  or reject  my decision before 17 February  2020.
Roger Yeomans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0512799