K821x#15complaint
Mr L complains  about the advice  he was given by BlackStar Wealth Management Ltd 
(BlackStar) to transfer his pension into a self-invested personal  pension (SIPP). He says the 
funds he was advised to invest in were  too risky and unsuitable. 
background
Mr L was introduced to BlackStar by a third party in 2014. He wished to receive advice on 
his pension arrangements.  BlackStar recommended that he transfer his benefits from his 
existing personal  pension into a self-invested  personal pension (SIPP). It also recommended 
the investments  that the SIPP should be invested in. These included investing  in Colonial 
Capital Corporate  Bonds and Dolphin Capital GmbH. 
The transfer took place and £30,000  was invested equally between  Colonial Capital and 
Dolphin Capital. The balance of the SIPP fund, just over £3,000, was ultimately invested in a 
general investment  account (GIA). 
In 2017, Mr L complained  to BlackStar.  He said hed received notification  from the 
administrator of Colonial Capital, and wanted  to complain about the advice hed been given. 
BlackStar didnt uphold the complaint.  It said Mr L had been referred by the third party  with a 
view to receiving advice  on some  specific investment objectives. BlackStar said the advice 
was compatible with Mr Ls attitude to risk, capacity for loss and objectives for his pension 
benefits. His main objective was to improve the returns.  
Mr L remained dissatisfied  and referred his complaint  to us. 
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  succeed. He noted that BlackStar said that Mr 
L was predetermined to invest in Colonial Capital and Dolphin Capital prior to its 
involvement. But Mr L was paying  it for advice and was entitled to rely on it. Whether Mr L 
may have  wanted  to invest in the named funds was irrelevant  in this circumstance. This was 
because BlackStar could not have been in a position to have provided suitable  advice and 
also met its regulatory obligation to act in Mr Ls best interest  on the basis of documents 
provided to it by an unregulated introducer or one telephone call it had with Mr L.
The adjudicator noted that a risk assessment questionnaire was used primarily to determine 
Mr Ls attitude to risk. But Mr Ls self-assessment of his risk capacity should not be 
depended on to determine his overall  attitude to risk. He said that BlackStar  should  have  
taken steps to ensure Mr L understood what the attitude to risk meant  (9 on a scale  of 1 to 
10) and also to have further  explored his past investments experience to see whether this 
matched his claimed capacity for loss. There was no documentary evidence  that this was 
done.
The adjudicator didnt believe that BlackStar  met its regulatory obligation to know  its client, 
nor did it truly establish Mr Ls capacity  for loss and risk. BlackStar relied on the involvement 
of the unregulated introducer to release itself of any regulatory duty of care to Mr L when it 
advised him to invest in high risk funds.
In his conclusion,  the adjudicator said that if suitable advice been given Mr L would have 
kept his existing pension and not started  a SIPP to make these investments. He set out how 
redress should be calculated.
Ref: DRN05222962BlackStar didnt agree  with the adjudicators view. It said that Mr L had requested  advice 
about these two specific investments. These  were  non-readily  realisable securities (NRRS).
The main  objective  was to improve returns. Mr L had held investments in the past and was 
correctly classified as a moderately  experienced investor. His capacity for loss was 
assessed and Mr L understood the meaning of the attitude to risk of 9. He wanted  to do 
something more speculative. The recommended investment selection  was suitable taking 
into account his entire  circumstances.  
BlackStar said that it had given advice. It was not attempting to avoid any regulatory duty. It 
said that the adjudicator had been contradictory saying that Mr L had capacity  for loss as his 
primary objectives were met but on the other  hand,  saying  that he should only take a low 
level of risk.
The adjudicator considered the points made but didnt change his view. As no agreement 
has been reached the case  has been referred  to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I agree with the adjudicator and broadly  
with his reasoning.  I uphold  this complaint.
Mr L was referred to BlackStar by a third party, who I understand werent authorised to give 
financial advice. BlackStar  accepted  Mr L as a retail client, and wrote to him with its 
recommendations. It arranged the transfer from his existing pension  plan into the SIPP.  Im 
therefore satisfied  that BlackStar is responsible for the advice Mr L was given. I dont believe 
that BlackStar disagrees. 
Mr L wished to consider  his retirement  provision in 2014. He had an existing personal 
pension plan valued at around £33,000. He also had pension benefits in a former employers 
scheme. His wife was also a member  of an occupational pension scheme.
A fact find completed in May 2014 recorded  more  of Mr Ls circumstances. He was in his 
early fifties and in skilled employment.  He  had a salary of £25,000 and had no dependents.  
He had an outstanding mortgage of £80,000  and a car loan of £6,000. He wanted to retire at 
67. He wanted more  from his pension and therefore  wanted to invest his pension  in Colonial 
Capital and Dolphin  Capital.  He believed the fixed  return would be a good way to grow his 
pension.
Mr L was assessed  as having  an attitude to risk of 9 on a scale  of 1 to 10. 
A SIPP was arranged and the transfer completed with £30,000 being  invested into the two 
NRRS.
Im not satisfied that the advice BlackStar  gave Mr L was suitable, and Ill explain why. 
Mr L was assessed  as having  a high attitude to risk (9 on a scale of 1 to 10). I dont find it 
likely this was an accurate assessment. It seems Mr L actually had little investment 
experience. He was not a sophisticated investor. Theres nothing  to suggest that he had 
taken this level of risk in the past.
Ref: DRN05222963Almost all of the SIPP  funds were to be placed  in unregulated funds. BlackStar has said the 
Colonial Capital and Dolphin Capital investments were NRRSs. These were high risk 
unregulated investments. Each carried a risk of total loss. 
Colonial Capital was a new start-up with no track record. It invested in distressed residential 
property (which had been  foreclosed)  in the USA.  I understand that Colonial Capital Group  
went into administration in March  2017.
Dolphin Capital was German-based company which invested in the conversion and 
refurbishment of listed buildings (in Germany) for residential use. 
Both these  investments were highly specialised and non-mainstream.  They  involved similar 
underlying assets,  which  were based  overseas. I think they presented  a high degree of risk. 
Also, there was no ready  market for the investments, and so both were  potentially illiquid. So 
Mr L may have faced difficulty in selling or redeeming the investments. This could have 
impacted on his pension planning. 
On balance, I dont  think these investments were suitable for Mr L. BlackStar says that the 
risks involved were  discussed. But Im not convinced Mr L fully understood the nature or 
extent of the risks. Whilst he may not have been  dependent on this pension in retirement,  it 
was still a substantial  fund and Im not satisfied that it was good  advice to invest almost  all of 
it in this way. Not only were the investments unregulated and overseas but they had similar  
features and so there was a lack of diversification.  
I appreciate that Mr L was recorded as wanting  to take a more speculative  approach.  He 
wanted to increase the returns on his pension. But less risky options could have been taken 
to try and achieve those  objectives. I think this approach was too risky and was unsuitable.
putting things  right
I think Mr L would have  invested differently. It is not possible  to say precisely what he would 
have done, but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair given his circumstances  
and objectives  when he invested.
To compensate Mr L fairly BlackStar  must:
Compare the current transfer value of Mr Ls SIPP with the notional transfer value his 
previous pension would now have had he remained in it. If the fair value  is greater 
than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation  is payable.
If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
BlackStar should also pay any interest set out below.
If there is a loss, BlackStar should  pay into Mr Ls pension plan, to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should allow for the effect  of 
charges and any available tax relief.  BlackStar  should not pay the compensation into the 
pension plan if it would conflict  with any existing protection or allowance.  If BlackStar  is 
unable to pay the compensation into Mr Ls pension plan, it should pay that amount direct  to 
him. But had it been  possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a taxable  income.  
Therefore the compensation should be reduced to notionally  allow  for any income tax that 
would otherwise have been paid.
Ref: DRN05222964The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr Ls expected marginal rate of tax at 
his selected retirement  age. Mr L is likely  to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected 
retirement age, so the reduction would equal the current  basic  rate of tax. However, if
Mr L would  have been able to take a tax-free lump sum the reduction  should be applied  to 
75% of the compensation.
In addition, BlackStar should  pay Mr L £300  for the inconvenience caused to him as a result  
of the unsuitable advice.
It must also provide the details of the calculation to Mr L in a clear, simple  format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If BlackStar  consider  that it is required by
HM Revenue & Customs  to deduct  income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr L how 
much it has taken off. BlackStar should also give him a tax deduction certificate  if he asks for 
one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
actual value
This means  the transfer value  of the SIPP on the date of the redress  calculation. If, at that 
date, any of the investments in the SIPP is illiquid  (meaning it cannot be readily  sold on the 
open market), it may be difficult  to find the value of that investment. So, its value should be 
assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Blackstar should take ownership of the 
illiquid investment  by paying a commercial  value acceptable to the pension provider. This 
amount should  be deducted from the compensation and the balance paid as above.
If BlackStar  is unable to purchase  the investment its value should  be assumed to be nil for 
the purpose of calculation. It may wish to require that Mr L provides an undertaking to pay it 
any amount he may receive from the investment  in the future. That undertaking must  allow  
for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the pension plan. 
BlackStar will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
fair value
This is the combined  notional transfer  value,  as at the date of the redress calculations,  of the 
pension transferred into the SIPP,  had they remained in force and invested in the same 
funds as they were  at the time of transfer.
Any additional sum paid into the SIPP should  be added to the fair value calculation from the 
point in time when  it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the SIPP should be deducted from the fair 
value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation  from 
that point on. If there are a large  number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, I 
will accept  if BlackStar  total all those payments and deduct that figure at the end instead of 
deducting periodically. If settlement is not made within 28 days  from the date of the redress  
calculations then interest should  also be added. The rate of interest should be 8% per 
annum simple and calculated between the date of the redress  calculations  and the date of 
settlement.
Ref: DRN05222965final decision
I uphold this complaint  about BlackStar Wealth Management Ltd. It must calculate and pay 
redress as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 June  2019. 
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN0522296