K822xcomplaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank PLC took over five months to complete the transfer of 
his self invested personal pension (SIPP)  portfolio to a new provider. He also says Barclays 
gave him incorrect information on a number  of occasions and did not respond  promptly to his 
letters. Mr M says he had to spend  time chasing Barclays and he found the delay in 
completing the transfer worrying.
In order to resolve this matter Mr M wants Barclays to pay him £750.
background 
Mr M had held a SIPP  with Barclays for a number of years.  In June 2017 Barclays  wrote  to 
Mr M about the move to its Smart  Investor platform.
Mr M decided to transfer his SIPP to another provider  as the Smart Investor charging 
structure meant his charges would increase if he remained  with Barclays.  
In the information pack  Barclays set to Mr M, it explained that he could  choose  to transfer his 
SIPP to another  provider  without incurring any charges. It said the transfer should take four 
to six weeks, but it noted:
In some cases, often  with more complex products, and in times of high demand, it could take 
up to 12 weeks. It could  also depend on the response time from your new provider .
On 17 August 2017 Barclays  received  the completed transfer forms from Mr M. The SIPP 
transfer to Mr Ms new provider was not completed  until 9 January 2018.  
Whilst the transfer taking  was place Mr M wasnt able to access  his SIPP  account  on-line. 
This meant that he had to call Barclays if he wanted updates  on his holdings.  Due to high 
demand, Barclays phone lines were often either  engaged, or there were long waits to speak 
to an adviser.
In mid September 2017 Mr M complained  to Barclays about the time the transfer was taking, 
and that he couldnt access his SIPP account on-line. Mr M said that not having on-line 
access was a significant issue in terms of monitoring  a large portfolio with many holdings.  
Barclays upheld Mr Ms complaint and offered to pay him £250  for the delays and 
inconvenience he had experienced.
Mr M didnt  accept Barclays  offer.  He said he felt it was too low for the trouble and 
inconvenience this matter had caused. 
Barclays reconsidered its handling of his transfer  and increased  its offer to £400 and a 
hamper (valued at £55.05). It later offered to pay Mr M the cash value of the hamper, if he 
would prefer it to do so, as well as the £400  it had already offered.
Mr M remained dissatisfied with the offer made. He said he would  be willing  to accept £750 
in order to resolve his complaint.
As Barclays was not willing to increase  its offer Mr M brought  his complaint to this service.
Ref: DRN02774212Our adjudicator said he had asked Barclays to increase its offer to £500  but it wasnt  willing 
to do so. Having  considered the offer Barclays had made, he said he felt it was fair and he 
didnt think it needed to do more to resolve  Mr Ms complaint. 
Mr M didnt  accept our adjudicators view. He made the following points:
he said he felt that the offer Barclays had made was too low, particularly  in view of 
the size of his investment portfolio.
 he provided information to show he had actively traded investments in his SIPP 
before the transfer was initiated. Mr M said he didnt think it was reasonable say he 
could have used  Barclays telephone  dealing service  given the number of trades he 
made.
Mr M said he had chosen not to place any trades  while  the transfer was in progress  
and he didnt want to complicate matters.  But he said this didnt  mean he hadnt 
suffered any financial  loss as he had lost the opportunity  to place trades.  Mr M noted 
that at the time he initiated the transfer  he had around £100,000 in cash in his SIPP.
He also said that he didnt understand why our adjudicator felt the offer Barclays had made 
was appropriate  when he had told Mr M that he would  ask Barclays to increase its offer to 
£500.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is not in dispute  that Mr M experienced delays and poor service when he moved  his SIPP  
to another platform. 
What is in dispute is whether the £455.05  Barclays has offered is sufficient to compensate 
Mr M for the poor service he received. Mr M says he feels Barclays  should  pay him £750.
I am sympathetic to Mr Ms position.  There is no dispute that the transfer took longer than 
Barclays had said it would  take.  But it has apologised and offered  to pay Mr M a total of 
£455.05.
Mr M says he doesnt think Barclays offer is adequate for the inconvenience  this matter has 
caused him. Mr M says he wants compensation in line with the Financial Ombudsman 
guidelines. 
Awards made for trouble and upset by this service are intended  to compensate  a customer 
for the inconvenient and distress they have suffered as a result of the business failure. Its 
my role to assess what is appropriate  in a particular case.
As such,  there are no rules about how much a business should pay in a particular situation. 
The amount  of the amount should reflect a number of factors;  the customers  personal 
situation and any vulnerabilities which might  have heightened their worry and upset;  the fear 
that their money or assets might be lost; the length of time the problem lasted; the impact on 
a customers life and the amount of time they have had to spend  trying to resolve the issue 
complained about.
Ref: DRN02774213Mr M doesnt appear to have suffered any financial  loss. Although it was difficult  of him to get 
up-to-date information on his SIPP portfolio and place trades, he wasnt prevented from 
doing so. 
I appreciate that Mr M has provided  evidence to show that he was trading regularly before 
he instructed Barclays to transfer his SIPP to another provider. And I note Mr M says he 
chose not to trade while the transfer  was in progress. But this was Mr Ms choice  he wasnt  
prevented from doing so by Barclays. 
I am also mindful that, from the information Barclays has provided, it appears  that Mr Ms 
new broker was responsible for some of the delays Mr M experienced. 
And I also note that from Barclays  records it appears Mr Ms cash  balance was transferred 
to his new SIPP provider  in early October. 
Having carefully considered all that has been said and provided  I think  the offer Barclays has 
made is fair and I dont  think it needs  to do any more  to resolve  this matter.
I do understand that this is not the decision Mr M was hoping for, but I 
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 April 2019.
My decision  is that I think the offer Barclays Bank PLC had made to pay Mr M a total of 
£455.05 for the trouble  and upset this matter has caused him is fair. I simply leave it to Mr M 
to decide if he now wishes to accept this offer.
Suzannah Stuart
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0277421