K820x#14Complaint
Mr B complains that a fixed  sum loan agreement taken through Caledonian Consumer 
Finance Ltd was mis-sold.   
Mr B also complains that the agreement wasnt cancelled when he requested it.
Background
In September  2018 Mr B took out a fixed sum loan of £5460.00 with Caledonian to fund a 
third-party training  course. Mr B says the course was misrepresented  and he also didnt 
agree to take the loan agreement  as he thought he was paying on a pay as you go basis.  
He has gone on to say that he tried to cancel  the course within  the cooling off period, but 
Caledonian say they have no record of Mr B contacting them.
Mr B logged a section 75 misrepresentation claim with Caledonian, but it wasnt  upheld. It 
said there was no record  of Mr B contacting Caledonian  or the training course supplier within  
the cooling off period  to cancel the agreement.  It also said Mr B signed a credit  agreement,  
so it was clear what he was entering  in to. 
As Mr B remained unhappy, he brought a complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think the agreement had been mis sold.  
He found there was enough evidence to suggest  Mr B knew  he was entering into a credit 
agreement. He went on to say that there was no evidence to suggest Mr B did contact 
Caledonian within the cooling  off period. At this point Mr B also complained that he didnt 
sign the credit agreement and the signature had been falsified. The investigator  looked into 
this point but found the signature on the agreement matched the signature on Mr Bs 
complaint form - so he found on balance that the agreement had been signed by Mr B. 
As Mr B didnt agree  with the investigators  view,  the complaints  been  passed to me to issue 
a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two elements  in this complaint. So, I will deal with them  in turn. 
Cancellation 
Mr B has complained that he tried to cancel the agreement within  the cooling off period. He 
said he contacted  the college who provided the training and the finance company. 
Caledonian have  said they have no record of a letter  sent by Mr B and advised him that she 
should have sent it recorded delivery. Mr B has said that as it was sent to a Po Box, this is 
not possible. 
Ref: DRN07524462Having checked  the credit agreement,  there is a number of ways  to contact Caledonian to 
cancel the finance. These  are listed as telephone, postal address and email. I understand Mr 
B says he didnt get copies of this agreement  at the point of sale, but he did get these shortly 
after. Mr B hasnt been able to evidence that he followed  the cancellation process on the 
agreement or use the number of contact methods available when he didnt get any response 
to his letters to the course  provider.  
Having also checked  the Caledonian website, there is several contact numbers  Mr B could 
have used when  he says he didnt get a response  to his letters,  there  is also the business full 
address that would have accepted tracked mail. Caledonian have also checked  with the 
course provider and there is no record of any contact made with them. Having checked  the 
course providers website, there is a facility to email.
So, it follows  that I dont  find Caledonian have done  anything wrong  when they didnt cancel 
Mr Bs agreement  within the cooling off period. Mr B has been  unable to evidence  that he 
sent any cancellation letters or that he followed the correct cancellation process given by 
Caledonian. 
Its worth  noting that even  if the course  provider cancelled the course  within the cooling off 
period, Mr B would still have finance agreement that he would need  to cancel. So, he 
wouldve had to also contact Caledonian and follow its cancellation process. 
Mis-sale of agreement 
Its important to note that our service can look at things that the credit  broker  did or 
said/general mis-brokering  during  the pre-agreement negotiations under  S56 Consumer 
Credit Act (CCA)
In this complaint,  Mr B has said that he was unaware  he had entered  into a loan agreement, 
he didnt complete the paperwork, he didnt receive  any paperwork and he is dyslexic and 
unable to read. 
Mr B has said that he was asked to sign the loan agreement without seeing what he was 
entering in to. Having  seen  the loan agreement, on the page  Mr B has signed it clearly states 
that its a Fixed Sum Loan Agreement.  It goes  on to list the total amount borrowed and how 
it will be paid back  over monthly instalments. I appreciate Mr B has said this wasnt  
explained to him, but having  seen  the structure  of meeting Caledonians advisors are trained 
to follow, I find it most likely a conversation has taken place regarding what Mr B was 
entering in to. 
I appreciate Mr B has said that he only provided  his signature, and it may well be the case 
that the salesperson completed  the forms on Mr Bs behalf, but I dont find thats  enough to 
say Mr B wasnt  aware of what  he was entering  in to. Certain information contained on the 
forms could only be obtained  by having  a conversation with Mr B, such as his income  and 
expenditure. I also find this is another indication  that Mr B had an awareness that he was 
entering into a loan and he would be required to make  a monthly payment. 
I appreciate Mr B has said that he is dyslexic and unable to read, but I cant  see any 
evidence of Mr B making the sales person aware  of that. The course provider has said they 
can make  adjustments  for Mr B, so Id urge him to contact the provider to explore these 
further. 
Ref: DRN07524463After our investigator issued their view, Mr B said he didnt sign the credit  agreement and the 
signature had been  falsified. By this point  in the investigation Mr B had already told our 
investigator that he had just signed the agreement.  So, Mr Bs story hasnt been consistent 
throughout our investigation.  I also agree with the investigator when he has said the 
signature on the complaint form matched the signature on the agreement  so on balance  I 
find it most likely Mr B did sign the agreement.
Mr B has said that the course was sold on a pay as you go basis.
Having not been present at the meeting between Mr B and the sales  person, Im unable  to 
say exactly was discussed regarding the monthly  payments   but I can see that on 28 
September 2018 Caledonian  sent a welcome  letter to Mr B that explained how payments 
would be taken. This explained  that monthly  payments would be taken until the full balance 
was repaid. This was sent to the correct  address  and 7 days  after the loan agreement  was 
signed. Although  Mr B has said that he couldnt read what  was on the agreement, he had an 
opportunity to get support  in understanding what he had entered in to when this paperwork 
arrived. So, Im satisfied  Mr B was made aware  of the type of payments hed be making, and 
this was also another opportunity to contact Caledonian if he was unhappy. 
In summary,  Im satisfied  Mr B knew what agreement he had taken out and how it would be 
paid. And it follows that I wont  be asking Caledonian  to do any more here. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2021.
Tom Wagstaff
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0752446