K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL), as the 
insurer, should  accept responsibility for the complaint. To keep things  simple, Ill refer 
to FICL as the seller in my decision.
Mrs J says FICL mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  added  to a store  card account in November 2000.  
The policy was sold at the same time as Mrs J took out her store card.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mrs Js account. Mrs J disagreed.  She said, in summary, 
PPI was not explained to her. She said she was not told PPI was optional,  and the costs  
and benefits were not made clear. She said she didnt need or want PPI because  of her 
significant sick pay arrangements  through her work  and her private  healthcare policy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As some of the evidence  is either 
incomplete or contradictory,  Ive made  a decision on what I think  is most likely to have 
happened  based on whats available.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our 
website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Js case.
Im not going  to uphold Mrs Js complaint.  Ill explain why.
FICL had to make Mrs J aware that the PPI was optional and get her consent before 
adding PPI to her account.  I cant know what was discussed in the store. But, Ive seen 
Mrs Js store  card application.  I can see that the box selecting  PPI has a cross in it and 
Mrs Js signed separately alongside that to show that she wants PPI. So, I think  it likely 
that PPI was added  because  Mrs J said she wanted it. I can understand why she may not 
remember it that way now after so much time. I think the paperwork made it clear that it 
was an optional policy and Mrs J didnt  need  to take it to get the card.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs J so it didnt have to check  if it was right for her. But 
it did have to make sure Mrs J got clear  information  so she could make and informed 
choice and decide if it was right for her and she wanted to buy it.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs J about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been, so I have to go on and consider whether Mrs J wouldve likely made  a different 
decision if she had been given clearer information.  I cant see that she wouldve. Ill say 
why.
Mrs J appeared eligible  to take out the policy  and I cant see that it was unaffordable. Mrs J 
couldve cancelled the monthly paid policy at any time.
Mrs J said she wouldve  got six months worth of sick pay at full pay and six months worth  
at half pay from her employer if she was off work sick. The PPI wouldve paid out on top 
Ref: DRN05992462her work benefits, allowing Mrs J to use these  to meet her other living expenses at what  
might be a difficult time for her financially if she wasnt working. She wouldve also been  
covered if she was made redundant.  So, I still think the PPI wouldve provided useful 
cover in her circumstances.
I cant see that Mrs J was affected by any of the main exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover. As she couldve benefitted from everything  the policy offered, I dont  think having 
better information about these things wouldve affected her decision take out PPI. 
I cant see that Mrs J has lost out because of anything that FICL did wrong,  so I do not to 
uphold her complaint.
my final decision
I do not uphold  Mrs Js complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 October  2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0599246