K821x#15complaint
Mrs C has complained that Advantage Insurance Company Limited incorrectly told her that 
her No Claims Bonus (NCB) wouldnt be affected  when she made  a claim under her car 
insurance policy. 
All reference to Advantage includes its agents.
background
Mrs C bought a car insurance policy in July 2018.  Mrs C hadnt earned  any NCB years  when 
she bought this policy. In September 2018 Mrs C made a claim as the wheels to her car had 
been stolen. 
Advantage dealt  with the claim. In January 2019 it told Mrs C it had closed the claim and her 
NCB has been disallowed. 
Mrs C complained to Advantage. She said in September 2018 it told her that the claim 
wouldnt affect her NCB. She said if it had told her the claim would have affected her NCB, 
she would  have bought second hand  wheels and wouldnt  have made a claim. To put things 
right, she wanted  Advantage  to confirm that the claim wont prevent her from earning  a 
years NCB at renewal  in July 2019. 
Advantage apologised to Mrs C for giving her incorrect information when she made her 
claim. It paid Mrs C £35 compensation for the distress and inconvenience its error caused 
her. 
Mrs C remained  unhappy, so she asked  us to look at her complaint. She believes the price 
of her policy in July 2019 will be about 30% less if she earns one years NCB. She wanted 
Advantage to stand  by what it originally told her.
Our investigator considered what Mrs C would have most likely done   if Advantage had 
provided the correct  information at the time.  Advantage said the claim costs came  to 
£6,184.70. Mrs C paid an annual premium of £787.98 in July 2018.
Advantage said Mrs C could buy back the claim, so pay the costs of it to Advantage. If she 
did this, Advantage  would be able to restore her NCB. So  if no other claim was made  in 
July 2019 Mrs C will have earned one years NCB. 
The investigator put Advantages offer to Mrs C. Mrs C told us that if Advantage had made 
the offer at the time,  she could have afforded to do this. But due to the time thats passed, 
she didnt think this was something she could now consider.
The investigator thought  on balance   that it was more  likely that Mrs C would have made 
a claim  even if Advantage had correctly told her the claim would affect her NCB. But she 
thought that Advantage  hadnt paid enough  compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience its error caused Mrs C. So she recommended Advantage pay Mrs C a further  
£100. 
Mrs C didnt agree. She says she would have sourced her own wheels at the time rather  
than made  a claim to prevent her NCB  from being affected. 
Ref: DRN07153622Advantage didnt  provide any comments. As Mrs C didnt agree, the case  has been passed 
to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why.
I think its clear  that Advantage didnt provide Mrs C with correct information when she 
reported the theft of the wheels from her car. Advantage says the costs  of the claim came to 
over £6,000. 
I can see articles  online  that refer to a comment made by the Association of British  Insurers 
which says that having  one years  worth of NCB can equate  to up to 30% off an insurance 
premium. 
Mrs C paid Advantage a yearly premium of £787.98  in July 2018.  I cant predict what  
premium Mrs C might have paid in July 2019 if shed earned a years NCB. And it isnt our 
role to do that. But  even  if I apply a reduction of 30%  the difference  in premium  that 
Mrs C might pay  based on July 2018s  premium  - would be approximately £236.
Mrs C says that if Advantage  had explained  that by making a claim her NCB would be 
affected, she would have bought second  hand  wheels  instead and not made a claim under 
her policy.  For me to agree  on the balance of probabilities   Id need to see more  
persuasive evidence  that Mrs C is in a worse position as a result of Advantages error. 
Even if Mrs C had been able to source  second  hand wheels, I dont think its likely that the 
costs would have  been less than the possible difference in premium  price she might  pay at 
renewal  if shed  earned one years NCB.  I think  the difference  between  the costs of the 
claim and the potential reduction in premium is too wide  even  taking into account the fact 
that the costs  may be less by using  second  hand  wheels   to say its more likely than not that 
Mrs C would have acted  differently if Advantage hadnt made  its error. 
I dont think Advantages  offer of £35 is enough to compensate Mrs C for the distress  and 
inconvenience its error caused her. I think it should increase the award to a total of £135  as 
Ive no doubt its error  caused Mrs C upset. Advantage apologised for the error it made. With 
the increased compensation award  and offer for Mrs C to buy back  the costs of the claim,  I 
think overall Advantage has done enough to put things right.  This means I dont think 
Advantage should reinstate Mrs Cs NCB to one year  subject to the remaining conditions  
of the policy  - at the end of the policy year.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint in part. I 
require Advantage  Insurance  Company Limited to pay Mrs C a total compensation award  of 
£135 for the distress and inconvenience  caused.
Advantage Insurance Company Limited must  pay the compensation within  28 days  of the 
date on which we tell it Mrs C accepts  my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also 
pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 
a simple rate of 8% a year.
Ref: DRN07153623If Advantage Insurance Company Limited considers  that its required by HM Revenue  & 
Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs C how much its taken 
off. It should  also give Mrs C a tax deduction certificate  if she asks for one, so she can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
If Advantage has already paid Mrs C £35 of the £135 compensation award, any interest and 
tax will apply to the balance of £100.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 June  2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0715362