K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC paid a refund  she was due on her credit card 
account to a debt purchaser instead  of her. 
background
Mrs H had a credit card account that defaulted  in 2012. The debt on the account was sold to 
a debt purchaser in 2014. 
In December 2017 the debt purchaser  wrote to Mrs H explaining that Lloyds was paying a 
refund of £7,122.80 because it had failed to send her Notice  of Sums  in Arrears letters since 
2010  something  it was required  to do by the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
The debt purchaser  explained to Mrs H in this letter  that the refund had been set off against 
her existing debt with it  reducing it from around  £11,000 to around  £4,000.  
Mrs H complained to Lloyds because she thinks it should have paid the refund directly to 
her. 
Our investigator didnt  think Mrs Hs complaint should be upheld.  She said she didnt think  
Lloyds had to pay the refund to Mrs H because it related to interest and charges shed never 
paid.
Mrs H disagreed with the investigator and asked an ombudsman to look at her complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds says it made a refund because it didnt  send Mrs H information it was required to 
send by the Consumer Credit  Act when her credit card account  was in arrears.  The effect of 
the relevant part of the Act is that Mrs H has no liability  to pay interest or charges for the 
period Lloyds didnt send  what  it was supposed  to  which Lloyds says was from 2010  
onwards. Ive not seen anything to make  me think the refund Lloyds made  was wrong.  
Lloyds says it bought the part of the debt it was refunding back  from the debt purchaser  and 
then offset the refund  against  this amount. Account statements from the debt purchaser 
show the debt on the account  reduced by £7,122.80  in November 2017. So whatever  the 
arrangement between Lloyds and the debt purchaser looked like, the overall result was the 
same. 
Mrs H thinks the refund  should have been  paid directly to her. I can see why she might  think 
this given her relationship  with Lloyds on the account ended when it sold the debt.  But I also 
have to consider  whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances. The refund  relates  only to 
interest and charges on Mrs Hs credit  card account.  She owed more  than this to Lloyds at 
the point the debt was sold, and to the debt purchaser at the point the refund was made. In 
effect, in this case the refund is more  like an account correction because Mrs H had never 
paid the interest  and charges and wasnt out of pocket in this respect. 
Ref: DRN05314882On this basis, I dont find it would be fair to require Lloyds to pay the £7,122.80 directly to 
Mrs H. I dont think Lloyds acted unreasonably by arranging to reduce Mrs Hs debt with the 
debt purchaser.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above my final decision  is that I do not uphold Mrs Hs 
complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2019.
Michael Ball
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0531488