K822xcomplaint
Mrs Ls unhappy about information  Lloyds  Bank  PLC recorded  on her file which  she says 
stopped her applying for a business loan.
background 
Mrs L says when she applied for a business loan Lloyds said there was a marker on her 
personal account which prevented her applying for one. But it hasnt explained what this 
relates to and she wants it removed. 
Lloyds said in its final response that Mrs L had experienced problems after applying for a 
business loan.  The application was rejected due to a risk indicator on her personal  account. 
It accepted shed received poor service  when contacting it about the loan and there was also 
some confusion about its understanding of her complaint. To acknowledge the 
inconvenience itd paid her £150 and £9 to cover call costs.
Lloyds later said if Mrs L could show there  was no adverse information relating to her 
account with the credit  reference agencies it would agree  to remove the marker. Mrs L 
provided this information  but Lloyds hasnt removed the market from its records.
Our investigator felt this complaint  should  be upheld. He said:
Lloyds hasnt given  Mrs L clear and accurate information about  the marker on her 
personal account. It hasnt been  able to explain what it relates to or why it affects her 
applying for a business loan.
Lloyds has also failed  to remove the marker  when  provided with more  information by 
Mrs L. And it now says the marker  was recorded as credit bureau data but it cannot 
explain exactly what this meant and hasnt provided a clear reason for the marker. 
If Lloyds cant give Mrs L a clear  explanation  as to what the marker is actually for, 
when it was added and why it affects  her ability to apply for a loan then Lloyds should 
make every effort   to remove it. If it cant then it should come up with a clear  solution 
to work around the issue so it will not affect  future applications.  
Lloyds should  also pay Mrs L an additional  £100 compensation for the service shes 
received.
Lloyds then suggested theres  a credit bureau data marker on Mrs Ls customer  profile 
relating to a notice of correction completed by her husband. But it still couldnt say why this 
affects Mrs Ls ability to obtain a loan. It agreed  to pay the additional £100 compensation. It 
also said the credit reference  agency  had confirmed the data is accurate and a notice of 
correction was added to Mrs Ls file. And if she disputes this she will need to go to the credit 
reference agency. Although Lloyds couldnt  sanction  an automatic borrowing request Mrs L 
can go through a business loan manual application.
Mrs L responded that neither she nor her husband  completed a notice of correction  as 
Lloyds has suggested  is the case.  She remained unhappy. She said she has spent hours on 
the phone  and has paid staff to cover for her. She wanted to buy machinery with the loan. 
Shes lost about  £600. 
Ref: DRN05605342Our investigator issued  a second view. He said:
The credit  reference agency has told him that a notice  of correction on one persons 
account shouldnt  attach to another person. Lloyds  has also explained things. Even 
so its still not clear what the marker means.  And Lloyds  cannot remove  it. But its 
internal and will not affect applications made elsewhere. 
Lloyds has agreed to add notes to its system  so that any future lending applications 
arent affected. Its accepted it made  a mistake by not allowing Mrs L to make  a 
formal loan application even with the marker  in place.  
Mrs L says she lost out financially dealing with Lloyds and by missing a low price for 
buying the machinery. But theres nothing to show it was being sold at a substantially  
reduced price or for a limited time.  She couldve also applied  for a loan elsewhere. 
There was also no guarantee any loan application wouldve been successful. 
Lloyds offer to pay a total of £250 compensation is reasonable. 
Mrs L remains unhappy. She says her financial loss is about £600.She was offered a 
considerable price  reduction on the machine. She had to cancel client  appointments to deal 
with Lloyds. She also thought there  was a problem with her credit record  and thats why she 
didnt seek a loan elsewhere. Its disgusting that Lloyds cant  give a valid reason for the 
marker being on her account and that it cant remove it. Shes been stressed, upset and 
inconvenienced over a five month period. Shes also sent us a copy  of a letter from the 
Information Commissioners Office  confirming that in its view Lloyds has infringed her rights  
under the General Data Protection  Regulation  (GDPR). 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear Lloyds  couldve dealt with Mrs L better throughout.  
Lloyds accepted in its final response  letter that Mrs L had received poor service when 
contacting it about the loan and there was also some confusion  about its understanding of 
her complaint. To acknowledge the inconvenience  itd paid her £150 and £9 to cover  call 
costs. I think that was reasonable at that time.
Since then matters have  progressed  without Mrs L being given a definitive explanation of 
whats happened. Lloyds has suggested a credit bureau data marker on Mrs Ls customer 
profile related  to a notice of correction  completed by her husband.  But our investigator has 
confirmed the credit reference agency  says this shouldnt  have affected Mrs Ls record. And 
in any event Mrs L says neither  she nor her husband have filed a notice of correction.
Lloyds also originally said if Mrs L could  show her credit report  didnt have any adverse 
information on it the marker  would be removed. But despite her giving it the relevant 
information the marker remains  as Lloyds then said it couldnt  in fact remove  it.
Lloyds also couldnt  explain  why the marker on Mrs Ls personal account stopped her from 
applying for a business loan. And it doesnt appear  to have fully advised her that she 
Ref: DRN05605343couldve made a manual  formal loan application  in the first place even with the marker on 
her record.
Lloyds has confirmed the marker is on its internal  system and shouldnt therefore  affect  any 
applications made elsewhere.  But Mrs L wouldnt have known that. And I can understand 
why she didnt seek a loan elsewhere believing  her credit record was adversely affected. 
Lloyds has now added  a note on Mrs Ls record on its internal system explaining the 
situation and says this will allow future  applications  to go ahead.  Thats fair and appears to 
be the best it can do. Although this may be academic for Mrs L as she has mentioned  that 
she is moving her accounts from Lloyds.
Mrs L says she lost out on the opportunity  to buy some machinery at a heavily discounted  
price. She has shown she was offered a reasonable  discount on the machinery. But even if 
she had been  able to apply for the loan theres  nothing to suggest she wouldve definitely got 
the money or ultimately bought the machine.  So, on balance, I dont think  I can fairly ask 
Lloyds to pay her anything towards this lost opportunity or her notional loss.
Mrs L also says she had to use staff to cover  some of her business appointments when she 
was dealing with the bank  and that she had to cancel others. Ive no doubt that was the 
case. But all consumers spend some  time in dealing with a complaint and putting things 
right. We wouldnt generally recommend theyre  compensated for this and Im not persuaded 
that I can reasonably  depart from this approach in this case.
Despite this I think its clear Mrs L has been put to a significant amount of inconvenience 
dealing with matter  over a number of months and this has clearly, and understandably,  
caused her considerable distress and frustration.  
I think this warrants a payment of more compensation. Our investigator felt at the time of his 
first view that a further £100 was fair for this. And Lloyds agreed to pay this. The investigator 
confirmed he thought this was enough  when he issued his second  view. But Im not 
convinced this is now enough to reflect the ongoing  distress and inconvenience Mrs L has 
been caused since then. 
Taking everything into account  I think a payment of a further £165 compensation is fair and 
reasonable in this case. Thats in addition to the £150 and £9 phone costs already paid to 
Mrs L. And it takes the total payment of compensation  to £324 including the £9 phone 
charges. 
I will not make any comments on any data protection issues Mrs Ls mentioned  to us as 
theyre a matter for the ICO.
 
Ref: DRN05605344my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  To put things  right Lloyds Bank PLC should, if it hasnt already done 
so pay Mrs L a total of £324 compensation. 
Lloyds must  pay the remaining compensation within 28 days  of the date on which we tell it 
Mrs L accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest  on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
If Lloyds considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Mrs L how much its taken off. It should also give her a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0560534