K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs Js complaint  is that Santander  UK Plc didnt give them  adequate warnings 
before they made a transfer  and that it didnt do enough to recover their funds from the 
scammer.
background
On 19 June 2018, Mr and Mrs J sent a payment  of £2,005.95 via online banking  to a 
currency exchange company. They were supposed to receive their currency  on 21 June and 
became suspicious  when it didnt arrive. They contacted  Santander on 25 June to notify  it of 
the scam.  
Santander contacted the beneficiary bank immediately to request a recall of the funds. It 
received a response on 21 August  confirming  there  were no funds remaining in the 
beneficiary bank  to return to Mr and Mrs J. 
Mr and Mrs J referred  their complaint  to our service and an adjudicator  completed  an 
investigation. He felt that Santander did the right thing  in following Mr and Mrs Js instruction 
to complete the £2,005.95  payment and that it did enough to try and recover  the funds.  Mr 
and Mrs J disagreed and felt Santander should  have warned them of the risks involved in 
making faster payments.  
As an informal agreement  couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed  to me for a 
final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry  
practice at the time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank  is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment  
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account. And I have 
taken that into account  when deciding  what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:
The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes  a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of its 
customer (known as the Quincecare  duty).    
Regulated firms like Santander  are also required to conduct their business with due skill, 
care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle  6).  
Ref: DRN01738912And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  taken 
proactive steps  to: 
identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  circumstances, 
including those  at risk of financial exploitation  (something recognised by the FCA in 
recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February  2016 report improving 
outcomes for customers in vulnerable  circumstances);  
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers from 
Financial harm  as a result  of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice , which a 
number of banks  and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
 
in relation to branch transactions  follow  the Banking Protocol when available.     
This means  that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion,  fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make  a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm. 
This is particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated  
fraud and scams in recent  years  - which banks are generally more familiar  with than the 
average customer. 
In this case, I need to decide  whether Santander acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings  
with Mr and Mrs J when they transferred £2,005.95 , or whether it should have done more 
than it did. 
Mr and Mrs J accept they authorised the transfer of £2,005.95 themselves. This means  that 
Santander had an obligation to follow their instruction. But there are some situations in which  
it should reasonably have  had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding the transfer 
and this is what Ive considered.
To do this, Ive looked at the statements for Mr and Mrs Js account which Santander has 
provided. And Ive considered the payment of £2,005.95 in the context of the other payments 
on the account. Having done  this, I dont think the type of payment or the amount was 
particularly unusual or suspicious in comparison to their normal account activity.  I say this 
because I cant see that theres anything remarkable  about the payment in terms of either its 
value or payment type as Mr and Mrs J regularly made similar transactions  at around the 
same or higher values. So, I think the fact that Santanders systems didnt flag this payment 
as suspicious was fair and reasonable given the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs J raised  a scam complaint with Santander on 25 June 2018. I can see that 
Santander contacted the beneficiary bank almost  immediately  to request a recall  of the 
funds. It then chased the beneficiary bank when it didnt  receive  a response after 30 days. 
On 21 August, the beneficiary bank responded to advise that, unfortunately, no funds 
remained. From what Ive seen, I think Santander did all it could to try and recover  Mr and 
Mrs Js funds and chased appropriately when it didnt receive a response  from the 
beneficiary bank. Unfortunately, the funds were  removed  from the beneficiary  account on   
19 August, the same  day Mr and Mrs J made the transfer.
Ref: DRN01738913Mr and Mrs J have pointed out that other consumers received  refunds when they sent 
money to the same  scammer and raised complaints. I understand this must  be frustrating, 
but Im not able to comment on what has happened in other consumers cases. Having 
carefully considered  the evidence in relation to the transfer Mr and Mrs J made, I can see 
none of their funds  were  remaining  when they made Santander  aware theyd been victims of 
the scam.
Mr and Mrs J have said there were inadequate warnings on the online banking page  prior to 
them authorising the payment and that Santander  now have these in place. Theyve also 
said they would not have  sent the payment if they knew it couldnt be reversed. Santander 
says that the warnings  were already in place when Mr and Mrs J made the payment. 
Santander has provided an internal communication announcing the introduction  of the 
warnings dated  February 2017. This was some sixteen months before Mr and Mrs J made  
the transfer. So, I think its more likely the warnings  were implemented before Mr and Mrs J 
authorised the transfer. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs J have said they wouldnt have carried  on with the payment if they 
knew it couldnt be reversed. But every method of payment has its risks, and I dont think 
Santander needed to highlight all of these  before  a transfer was made. 
After carefully considering  everything available to me, while  its clear  Mr and Mrs J have 
been the unfortunate victims of a scam, I think Santanders decision not to refund Mr and 
Mrs J in this instance  was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. It followed Mr and     
Mrs Js instruction to make the transfer of £2,005.95, and I havent  seen any reason why it 
shouldnt have done this. And I think it took sufficient  steps  to try and recover  the funds once 
it was aware of the scam . 
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 July 2020.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0173891