K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Clydesdale  Bank  Plc trading as Virgin Money  wont  refund a payment 
made on his credit card to a secondary ticket selling website (the Website) for a ticket to an 
event abroad.
background
In June 2017 one ticket  was purchased through the Website  to attend an event  abroad  
taking place in August  2017 using Mr Rs Virgin credit card.  The total cost charged to his 
card was £3456.53.  This purchase  was part of a group of purchases  for the same  event by a 
group of people  intending  on attending the event together. But due to the costs of the tickets 
had been purchased by a number of individuals.
Mr Rs brother was the account holder with the website through  which the purchase was 
made. Mr R was the account  holder  for the credit card and authorised his brother to make  
the transaction to buy the ticket on his credit card. A confirmation email  was received which 
included a delivery charge for the tickets to be delivered to his home  address.
After that the website  then wrote to Mr Rs brother to say that the ticket couldnt  be delivered 
and would have  to be collected at the box office of the event abroad. But Mr R and the rest 
of the group  didnt want to travel without  having  possession of the ticket due to the 
substantial travel and accommodation  costs. So they complained to the Website. But the 
Website felt it hadnt  done anything wrong.  So Mr R complained to Virgin.
Virgin looked into the matter, but it didnt think it could help. This was because it didnt think  it 
could pursue a chargeback because it didnt  have a reasonable  prospect  of success in its 
view. It also thought a Section 75 claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 should be 
unsuccessful. So it didnt think it could do any more for Mr R.
Mr R didnt think this was fair, particularly as within  his group of people attending the event  
there have  been  cases of other banks refunding transactions  for the same  event.  So he 
brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into the matter. Overall,  she didnt think  Virgin  had acted unfairly by 
declining Mr Rs request  for a refund.  Mr R didnt agree.  So the complaint has been passed  
to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should make very clear that this decision  is not about the secondary ticket  selling  Website, 
which isnt a financial service provider and so doesnt fall within my remit. Nor is it about the 
original purchaser  of the ticket who then decided to sell the ticket through the secondary 
ticket selling Website (which was then bought in this case).  
I should add that this decision  is only about whether Virgin has treated Mr R fairly in not 
refunding the transaction. I appreciate Mr R points to evidence  of similar issues  with other  
banks within  the group of people buying  these  tickets  here.  However those are different 
Ref: DRN02007382circumstances and different decisions by those  businesses,  and I can only decide  in this 
decision whether  Virgin has treated Mr R fairly or not.
I can see from Mr Rs representations to the Investigator that they are (understandably) 
focusing on the behaviours of the website. However whatever issues there maybe with the 
websites behaviours over time it doesnt  necessarily  follow that Virgin has treated  Mr R 
unfairly. And as Ive said thats the only thing I can decide on in this decision.
authorising the transaction
Mr R says his brother  had the account with the Website  and was authorised by him to make 
the purchase made here using  Mr Rs credit  card.  This service has built up a knowledge of 
the websites processes  over a number of years. So considering  what  Mr R has said and 
that his complaint is primarily about  the delivery of the tickets I think  the transaction was 
properly authorised and Virgin correctly applied  this charge to Mr Rs credit card account.
could Virgin  challenge  the transaction through a chargeback? 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute about a transaction, as Mr R 
does here,  Virgin  (as the card issuer) can attempt to go through  a chargeback  process.
Indeed, were aware of cases, with some similar features  to this one, where a chargeback 
has been successful.  But I should  add that card providers and indeed  merchants may decide 
to refund the cardholder for a variety of reasons including  goodwill, commercial  pragmatism  
and other  reasons along with outcome of the chargeback being successful through the 
actual chargeback process. So the cardholder receiving a refund doesnt necessarily mean 
that card issuers should refund  every transaction similar to this one. Indeed Mr R points to 
cases where refunds  have been  made. But as I say just because one bank makes a refund 
doesnt mean other banks havent acted  fairly  in not making a refund.
I dont think Virgin couldve challenged the payment on the basis  Mr R didnt properly 
authorise the transaction, given the conclusions on this issue  that Ive already set out.
Virgin is required to consider whether there  is a reasonable prospect of success  when it is 
considering whether to go through the chargeback process or not. If it does go through the 
process, then it must do so properly. The supplier (the Website)  would then receive  that 
chargeback request and may agree  to refund  the payment or may contest the chargeback. If 
it contests, then Virgin should consider this and then if it still feels the chargeback is 
warranted then it can take the chargeback further  and ultimately to the scheme provider (not 
Virgin) who will then make an independent determination on the matter. So Virgin isnt solely  
responsible for the decision whether to refund or not when going through the chargeback 
process. And it can decide to not proceed  at any stage if it doesnt think  there is a 
reasonable prospect of success.
The chargeback process  includes reason codes for making the chargeback, goods not as 
described would be such an example. Virgin says it considered the chargeback  reason 
codes and didnt  think any would have a reasonable prospect of success. Its thinking 
included the argument that the terms and conditions  of the Website  stated that tickets  could 
be delivered to the box office/event venue in certain  circumstances.  So Virgin  decided  that 
Website hadnt done anything wrong in changing  the delivery process.  So it didnt think  
making a chargeback request had a reasonable prospect of success. So considering  what  it 
Ref: DRN02007383knew and the overall  circumstances here, all in all, I dont think  Mr R has lost out due to 
Virgins approach  to chargeback here.
how about the Consumer Credit Act 1974?
The transaction was made using Mr Rs Virgins credit card. Under section 75 of this Act, in 
certain circumstances,  he has an equal  right to claim against Virgin as he does against the 
supplier (the Website) if theres been  a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier. In summary section 56 has the effect of making Virgin responsible  during the 
antecedent negotiations leading up to Mr R entering into the agreement. In essence  this 
means Virgin can be held responsible for the things that were  done or said during the sales 
process before agreement was reached.
For a valid claim  under  this legislation  there  must be a debtor-creditor-supplier  arrangement  
in place. This is often  referred to as the DCS relationship or simply DCS. This means there 
needs to be the necessary three-party relationship. This often looks  like:
A debtor (who makes repayments to the creditor for the borrowing for the purchase)
A creditor (who has to send the borrowed amount direct to the supplier)
A supplier (who has to provide  what was purchased to the debtor)
This means  the person  who paid for the goods,  the debtor, should have a contractual
relationship with the company who supplied the goods, as well as with the credit provider, 
the creditor. But this isnt the case here. It was Mr Rs credit  card account that was used to 
pay for the transaction,  but it was Mr Rs brothers account on the website purchasing the 
tickets.  So  although  Mr R financed  the transaction he isnt the purchaser of the ticket-his 
brother was. So in essence Mr R is a fourth party in this situation.  
Ive reviewed the Websites terms and conditions which  explains that in order  to be able to 
use its services  account holders must  agree to its terms. It also says they will not allow  
customers to buy tickets  unless they have registered  with their service.  In this case  it was Mr 
Rs brothers account that was used  to complete the purchase, so it is Mr Rs brother who 
entered into the contract with the website as he registered with them  and also agreed to their 
terms when he completed the purchase.
Accordingly Im satisfied  that there isnt the necessary  DCS  relationship  present to make 
Virgin responsible  under this legislation. And thus it is fair that Virgin isnt responsible for any 
failings by the Website. So Mr Rs complaint here fails.
For the sake of completeness Ill address  some  of the other  arguments  that have been  
made. It is not wholly clear what happened here and why the tickets couldnt be delivered to 
the home address rather than the event venue. But as the Websites  terms and conditions 
make clear  the website  provides the marketplace  to buy and sell tickets  and the guarantee 
around the tickets.  It isnt responsible for the provision of the tickets  themselves. It isnt clear 
whether the original seller of the ticket dropped out of the sale and the website guarantee 
kicked in to provide  the ticket or whether the logistics of the delivery of the ticket became 
threatened due to time constraints. Either way the terms do allow  for tickets  to be delivered 
to the venue. So I dont  think  Virgin made a mistake  here in not refunding the ticket.  Mr R 
points to the terms regarding delivery method-but  this is a requirement  on the seller to abide 
by this. But the guarantee the website offers doesnt  include such a requirement  on the 
website-just the provision  of the ticket  within its terms,  which  it did do.
Ref: DRN02007384I appreciate Mr Rs comments  about being  unwilling to travel without possession of the ticket  
but there is no evidence  showing  the ticket wasnt available for collection. And Mr R did have 
the option of relisting the ticket on the website.
I also appreciate Mr R can point to two other businesses refunding in very similar situations. 
And I understand that to his mind this makes  Virgins  position look unfair. However Ive 
considered its approach  throughout here and dont  think it has acted unfairly.  I think that Mr 
R hasnt lost out here as I think Virgin made  a fair decision in not taking  the chargeback 
issue further. Im satisfied the necessary  relationship (DCS) isnt in place here so Virgin  
cannot be held liable  for any breach or misrepresentation by the Website.  And I think Virgin  
correctly applied the cost of the tickets to Mr Rs credit card account. So I dont think I can 
fairly require  Virgin to refund Mr R for the tickets. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Clydesdale Bank Plc 
trading as Virgin Money.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr R to let me 
know whether he accepts or rejects my decision before  9 September 2021.
Rod Glyn-Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0200738