K820x#14complaint
Mrs M has complained that Virgin Money  plc allowed a three-month payment holiday on the 
mortgage account she holds jointly with her estranged husband.
background
This complaint arises out of unhappy  circumstances. Mr and Mrs M have a mortgage 
account with Virgin. They are in the process of a divorce and, pending final resolution  of the 
financial issues between them, the court has issued  an interim consent order for financial 
provision. This says (amongst other things) that Mr M is responsible for the monthly  
mortgage payments,  and that he has to indemnify Mrs M in relation to this. 
Simply speaking, the mortgage is a joint and several liability and both Mr and Mrs M are 
equally responsible  for the whole of the payments due under it. But Mr and Mrs M have 
agreed between  themselves  in the consent order that Mr M will pay the mortgage. If he 
doesnt, and Virgin looks to Mrs M to make  the repayments (as its entitled to do under the 
mortgage contract), she can ask Mr M to indemnify  her for any payments she has to make 
towards the mortgage. This is, of course, an agreement between Mr and Mrs M, and is not 
binding on Virgin.
In January 2019 Virgin called Mrs M three  times on her mobile phone and left a message. 
Virgin also tried a landline number which turned out to be unobtainable (Mrs M says she 
didnt recognise  the landline  number  but as no call went through  on it, nothing  turns  on this.)
Mrs M says she received a voicemail  from Virgin which she assumed was about the 
mortgage. She didnt  call back.  Shortly  afterwards, on 5 February 2019 Virgin wrote to 
Mrs M. The letter said Weve been  trying to contact you without  success to discuss  a matter  
on your mortgage account.  Wed  be grateful  if you could contact us at the earliest 
opportunity on [telephone  number].
Mrs M didnt  call back. Instead she wrote to Virgin on 6 February 2019. She said I am afraid 
I am unable  to comment on this matter.  We have a court  order in place that [Mr M] continues  
to pay the mortgage during divorce  proceedings. I have  referred  this matter to my solicitor, 
who I understand has contacted [Mr Ms] solicitors. I am awaiting the outcome of their 
correspondence. Depending  on the outcome of this I may be able to update you on this 
matter..
Virgin says it didnt  receive that letter.  In May 2019  Mrs M received another letter  from Virgin 
advising her of the new payments following a payment holiday. Mrs M complained to Virgin 
that shed never agreed to this. She was unhappy that, notwithstanding there was a marital 
dispute marker on the account, Virgin had nevertheless agreed to a payment holiday.
Virgin didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had tried to contact Mrs M several times and 
wrote to her. Virgin said that it hadnt  received Mrs Ms letter  dated  6 February 2019. Virgin  
said that, even  though  there was a marital  dispute  marker on the account, its procedures  
allowed it to grant forbearance on the account.
Mrs M brought her complaint to us. The adjudicator noted what had happened and Virgins 
explanation for going ahead with the payment holiday. But he explained  that we couldnt  get 
involved in any dispute between Mr and Mrs M about the mortgage. 
Ref: DRN02050022Mrs M asked  for an ombudsman to review  the adjudicators  findings.  
provisional decision
On 2 September 2019 I issued a provisional decision in which I made the following findings:
I note that Mr M hasnt consented  to the complaint being brought.  Hes not likely  to. 
Because Mr M isnt a party to the complaint, I cant comment on any contact or 
discussions he might  have had with Virgin about the mortgage. This means that I 
cant look at any of his dealings with Virgin about this matter. 
But I have reviewed Mrs Ms contact with Virgin at the relevant time. Having done so, 
I dont think Virgin has done  anything wrong.
The records  show that three voicemails were left in January 2019 asking Mrs M to 
contact Virgin. Mrs M has told us she assumed  Virgin  wanted  to speak to her about 
the mortgage but she didnt return the calls. I also note that, even though  Virgins 
letter of 5 February 2019 specifically asked Mrs M to telephone  and provided the 
number for her to call  she chose  instead to write to Virgin. I dont know why Mrs M 
didnt call Virgin as it had asked her to. Virgin hadnt mentioned why it wanted to 
speak to her, so Id have thought Mrs M might want to know what  the issue  was 
about the mortgage. 
Virgin didnt receive  Mrs Ms letter of 6 February  2019, but even  if it had, the letter 
only says that, depending on the outcome of correspondence between her solicitors 
and Mr Ms solicitors, I may be able to update you on this matter . 
There was no update. It was only in May 2019,  after Virgin confirmed what  the new 
monthly repayment would be that Mrs M contacted Virgin again with her complaint 
that a payment holiday had been  granted without  her knowledge or consent.
Ive been provided  with Virgins internal documents about how it deals with requests 
for payment holidays. Im entitled to treat this as confidential because its 
commercially sensitive.  But after looking at Virgins  process for payment holidays,  I 
dont think it has done anything wrong.  Im satisfied Virgin was allowed to grant the 
payment holiday  without the express  consent  of Mrs M, given the steps Virgin  had 
taken to contact her.
I invited Mrs M and Virgin to reply with any further evidence or arguments they might want 
me to consider. Virgin  didnt respond. Although Mrs M said she was going to write to us she 
hasnt done so and the deadline to reply  has now passed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reviewed the complaint afresh and 
Ive revisited my provisional decision.
Having done so, because there is no new evidence or arguments,  I see no reason to depart 
from the conclusions  reached in my provisional decision. Im satisfied that, for the reasons 
given in my provisional  decision  (and set out above),  Virgin was entitled to grant  a payment 
Ref: DRN02050023holiday on the mortgage account. Im also satisfied that it took reasonable steps to contact  
Mrs M before doing so.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 October  2019.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0205002