K820x#14Complaint
Miss L has complained  that Phoenix  Life failed  to consider a claim for own occupation total 
permanent disability benefit under a term assurance policy she held with it.
Background
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties,  so I dont intend to repeat it 
in detail. Instead, I will summarise it as follows.
Miss L took out a mortgage  protection  policy  with a business, now known as Phoenix Life, in 
February 1999 for a term of 25 years. The policy provided a range of benefits including 
mortgage interest waiver  benefit (MIW) and an own occupation  total permanent disability 
benefit (OOTPD).
In November 1999 Miss L was involved in an accident that caused injuries to her back.  She 
was unable to work  in her own occupation  as an IT consultant and in 2002 Phoenix Life 
accepted a claim for MIW benefit.
In 2006, payment of the MIW claim was suspended and following receipt of contradictory 
medical and surveillance  evidence,  Phoenix  Life cancelled the policy.  It thought  Miss L had 
acted fraudulently. Miss L complained about  this and several other issues, including that 
Phoenix Life had withheld  medical  information  from her despite her making  a subject access 
request. This was the subject  of a separate complaint with our service  and a final decision 
was issued in January  2019. The ombudsman concluded that compensation should  be paid 
for Phoenix  Life failing  to help Miss L access a key medical report. But she didnt think 
Phoenix Lifes decision to cancel the policy was unreasonable.
In 2018 Miss L also complained that Phoenix Life ought to have considered and paid a claim 
for OOTPD  benefit in 2004. As this pre-dated the cancellation  of the policy,  she thought  it 
should be paid to her now. This is the subject  of this complaint.
Phoenix Life thought  the complaint had been  referred to our service too late. However,  an 
ombudsman decided that this complaint had been made within  the relevant time limits. So, 
the complaint  was passed to an investigator  to consider the merits of the case.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He was satisfied that Miss L didnt ask Phoenix  
Life to consider a claim for OOTPD benefit  in 2004.  He also didnt think it would be 
reasonable for Phoenix Life to consider the claim now given  the policy had been cancelled 
for over ten years and there were questions over whether the medical evidence from the 
time could  be relied upon.
Miss Ls representative asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision on the matter. 
They said the terms of the OOTPD benefit had clearly been  met so Phoenix Life ought to 
have paid it. It referred to medical evidence that supported this view and said this had to be 
considered separately  to the alleged fraud. The representative said if the claim had been  
paid at the right time, the issues in 2006  and 2007  wouldnt have  arisen. It added  that Miss L 
still strongly refutes that her actions were  fraudulent  and she has provided a medical report  
from 2018 addressing  the alleged inconsistencies.
Ref: DRN06164752My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
largely the same reasons  as the investigator.
Miss L has the benefit of OOTPD under her policy. The policy  document  explains  the 
circumstances under which the benefit  become payable under section 5. Miss Ls 
representative says that it was incumbent  on Phoenix Life to pay the claim for OOTPD upon  
receiving evidence that she satisfied the definition of disabled.  But I dont agree.
Section 5.1 says,  We should be notified of any claim made under this provision as soon as 
possible
Section 5.5 refers  to payment, at the time the benefit is claimed.
Ive also reviewed the terms application  to the MIW benefit under section 8. There  arent any 
terms or provisions that say a claim for OOTPD will be considered proactively by Phoenix 
Life if the MIW benefit is in payment. So, overall, I think the terms show that Miss L has to 
make a claim for the OOTPD benefit in order for it to be considered.
Ive reviewed the evidence provided  but I dont  think theres anything  to show  that Miss L 
formally made a claim for the OOTPD benefit.  Miss Ls representative  has referred to a letter 
from January 2003, but I dont think this shows Miss L made  a claim for OOTPD. The letter 
appears to have been sent in the context of Miss L asking whether moving abroad would 
have an impact on her ability to claim benefits.  I accept  the Phoenix  Life representative said 
it was felt it was too early  to consider a claim for the OOTPD benefit at the time. But they 
said Phoenix Life would be happy to consider a claim for this if Miss Ls hospital  consultant  
considered her condition  was permanent and she had exhausted all treatment options. 
I cant see that Miss L disputed this at the time, or that she ever asked Phoenix Life to 
consider a claim for this benefit before  the policy was cancelled in 2007.
Overall, I dont  think Phoenix Life treated Miss L unfairly by not considering  a claim for 
OOTPD benefit before the policy was cancelled. I also dont think it would be fair or 
reasonable for Phoenix Life to retrospectively  consider the claim now. This is because over a 
decade has passed  since the policy was cancelled. And because  the policy  was cancelled 
due to fraud, I dont  think the evidence from the time can reasonably be relied upon in any 
event.
Miss L has provided a report from September 2018  which she says provides evidence in 
support of her disability  from 1999 to date.  However, as this evidence was provided  after 
Miss L referred her complaint to Phoenix Life and our service, I havent considered it here.
Ref: DRN06164753My Final  Decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 December  2019.
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0616475