K820x#14complaint
Mrs B has complained about a whole-of-life (WOL) policy  that she held with Old Mutual 
Wealth Life Assurance Limited (Old Mutual).  She says that shes  been forced to surrender 
the policy as the premiums she had to pay to maintain  the cover  increased  by an unfair  
amount to a level that was unaffordable.
background
In 2002 Mrs B was given  advice to take out the WOL policy with Old Mutual. The adviser  
was from an alternative business  and so this complaint is not about the sale of the policy 
itself.
Old Mutual is the policy provider.  The  policy was reviewable meaning that after the initial 10-
year guaranteed period,  the premiums Mrs B needed to pay to maintain the policy would be 
reviewed and could  change to reflect the actual cost of cover  and future  costs.   These  
reviews then take place  at regular intervals.
Having paid premiums  since  2002, Old Mutual has recently notified Mrs B that the premiums 
she would  need  to pay to keep her cover under the policy would need to increase 
substantially.  Represented by her son, Mrs B has explained that she had to surrender  the 
policy as the increased  costs were not sustainable.  She received the surrender proceeds 
and cover ended in September 2018.
Mrs B says that Old Mutual hasnt treated her fairly  and she had never  been  advised that the 
premiums could increase  so significantly.  She had thought when buying the policy that it 
would provide cover which would run for the whole of her life.
One of our adjudicators investigated the complaint and explained  why she felt unable to 
uphold it.  In summary she said that the advice to purchase the policy  and explanation how it 
would work  was given by a different business,  and so she could not hold Old Mutual 
responsible for that.  She also reviewed why Old Mutual was increasing  the premiums  and 
confirmed it was reasonable  to reflect the increased actual cost of cover as Mrs B became 
older.
Mrs B disagreed.  She  acknowledged  Old Mutual  had not sold her the policy,  but felt it had a 
duty to her and shed  been treated unfairly.  Notably, she questioned how a policy  can be 
WOL when the cost could increase to such an extent meaning cover  would have to be 
cancelled.
As no agreement could be reached  Ive now been asked to review everything  afresh  and 
make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the adjudicator, and for much the same reasons.
Firstly, I think its important to re-iterate that Old Mutual did not give the advice for Mrs B to 
take the policy and ensure it was suitable  for her needs.  The adjudicator has clarified this 
Ref: DRN00845392and Mrs B has now contacted the business  responsible for the sale of the policy in that 
regard.
I realise this is a frustrating situation  for Mrs B, having paid into a policy  for such a long time 
and now having  to lose that protection  due to the increasing cost.  As the role of Old Mutual 
is to administer the policy I have focussed  my review upon whether it has done so in 
accordance with its terms and conditions.
Having reviewed the policy, Im satisfied  that Old Mutual has operated the policy in line with 
its terms.  The adjudicator  had copied  the relevant terms in her opinion and so I wont  repeat 
them here.  Clause  16 refers to altering the sum assured  and clause 18 refers to the need  
for policy reviews.
I note that Mrs B understands and accepts the policy  is subject to reviews, but it is the extent 
to which  the premiums would increase which particularly concerns her.  The way in which a 
reviewable WOL policy works is based upon  a number of factors   but essentially the 
premiums are linked  to the cost of cover  as the insured gets older,  and the performance of 
the funds within the policy over time.
When a WOL  policy  is first taken out, the premiums paid are actually greater than what is 
needed to pay the actual  cost of cover at that time.  The surplus paid builds up within the 
policy and is a unit linked investment which is used  to subsidise future premiums (as the 
actual cost of cover  increases with the age of the insured). Often with a WOL policy there 
comes a point in time where the accrued funds become insufficient to continue  subsidising  
the ongoing cost of maintaining cover.  In the approach to that point and when a review  is 
undertaken, its necessary for a provider to increase the premiums to ensure cover  can 
continue at the same level.
Unfortunately in this instance, the actual  cost of cover increased  at a rate considerably  
greater than the growth of the funds  in the policy, and so that cost has to be passed on to 
Mrs B.  It is an inherent risk of such policies that whilst cover can continue indefinitely,  the 
premium needed  to keep it going  can dramatically increase.
Rather than let the policy lapse or pay increased premiums, Mrs B surrendered the policy  
and received the proceeds of the fund balance left at that time.  Given her comments now,  I 
understand why she did that, but I cant ask Old Mutual to reinstate cover.
If Mrs B feels that this was not properly explained to her at the time of sale in 2002,  she will 
need to address that with the business responsible for the adviser that sold her the policy.   
But in regards to the actions of Old Mutual, Ive not seen anything  to suggest it has done 
anything wrong.
I realise that Mrs B is likely to be disappointed  with my decision, but I must assure her that 
Ive considered everything afresh  and impartially.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold  Mrs Bs complaint 
against Old Mutual  Wealth Life Assurance  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Ref: DRN00845393Ross Hammond
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0084539