K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Skipton Building Society (Skipton) mis-sold him two mortgage 
payment protection insurance (MPPI)  policies.
background
Mr W took out a mortgage with Skipton  in September  2004. During this meeting he bought  a 
regular premium MPPI policy. The policy protected his mortgage repayments against  
accidents, sickness or unemployment.
Mr W contacted  Skipton in 2012  and took out a standalone  MPPI  policy. He did this over the 
phone.
Mr W says the policies  sold to him in 2004 and 2012 were mis-sold.  He says he was not 
given an explanation of what PPI was on either  occasion and had enough provisions at the 
time of each  sale so didnt  need  the cover provided. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Ws complaint and felt that the policies were  not suitable  for him 
as he had a pre-existing  medical condition.
I issued a provisional decision on 2 July 2019 where I didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. I 
concluded that from the information I had seen, he was more  likely than not given a choice  
to have the MPPI policies and chose to have them, and the policies were  suitable for him. 
I do not intend to repeat  my provisional decision in full here,  but in summary, I found:
Mr W was given a choice to have the two MPPI  policies. In 2004 I could see from the 
sales documentation that it was presented as optional. In 2012 I heard a representative 
from Skipton explain that the policy was optional during a call recording.
I felt both policies  were suitable for Mr W based  on his circumstances at the time of each 
sale.
Mr W had provided  our service with information  about his medical condition. I felt that 
after reading this, that the policies were suitable for him.
I also said that Skipton had paid back some of the cost of the policy because it got a high 
level of commission and profit  share but didnt  tell Mr W about this.
I concluded that I was minded to not uphold Mr Ws complaint about the mis-sale of the 
two policies and invited comments on this from both parties.
my findings
I have again considered all the available evidence and arguments  to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties  have responded  and have said they have nothing  further  to add. Skipton replied 
on 4 July 2019 and Mr Ws representatives  on 8 July 2019.
As neither party has raised any further  points,  I see no reason to depart from my conclusion  
given within  the provisional decision sent on 2 July 2019. So I conclude  that the policies 
were not mis-sold and I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Ref: DRN06692572my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint and I do not make  any award 
against Skipton  Building Society.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 August 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0669257