K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about regular premium payment protection insurance  (PPI) policies  taken 
out in connection with a credit cards. Mr M says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him the PPI.
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out sometime  between 1997 and 2000. 
The policy cost no more  than 79p per £100  of the outstanding card balance  and covered 
Mr M in the event he wasnt working due to accident, sickness or unemployment. Following a 
successful claim, it would repay 10% of the outstanding balance at the point of claim,  for up 
to twelve months.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  comes  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ms case.
This is not an easy complaint to decide;  there  is very little documentary evidence  available 
from the time of the sales, around 20 years  ago. So, I must carefully weigh up the evidence 
available to me when reaching my decision. And having done so, Ive decided  the policy 
wasnt mis-sold.
It appears the PPI policy was sold sometime between  1997 and 2000, which is the first date 
that Lloyds has a record of a PPI premium being  charged on Mr Ms account. Lloyds hasnt 
been able to provide a copy of any application form that Mr M may have completed  at the 
time  so its very difficult for me to know what happened when Mr M met the Lloyds 
representative and took out the credit  card and PPI policy.
I accept it is possible Lloyds didnt  give Mr M a choice about taking PPI. I also accept it is 
possible Lloyds gave  him the impression  he had to take it out. But it seems  equally likely 
Lloyds gave Mr M the opportunity to take out the policy or decline it as part of his credit card 
application, and that he chose to take it out, but has simply forgotten  in the years  that have 
now elapsed.
This means  Im not persuaded (as I must  be to uphold Mr Ms complaint) it is more  likely 
than not Lloyds presented the policy to Mr M as compulsory or that it didnt tell him about the 
policy at all, or indicated  that it would assist his overall credit card application.  And had he 
chosen not to purchase PPI, or had it been  added  to his account  without either  his 
knowledge or his consent, I wouldve expected  him to query or challenge this shortly 
afterwards, especially as PPI wouldve appeared on his monthly  credit  card statements for 
several years.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr M so it had to check  that the PPI was right for him  and 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time,  I think that it was. He told us he 
was in good health, and although he was self-employed  for some  of the time, he wasnt  
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover   it wouldve been no more 
Ref: DRN01261122difficult for him to make a successful claim than an employed person. And he seems to have 
had a need for the cover  he had no occupational sick pay and only a small level of 
savings.
Taking everything into consideration, I dont think that Mr Ms information needs  were fully 
met. However, in this case,  I dont  think  Mr M suffered detriment as a result.  I say this 
because after careful consideration  Ive decided that, on the balance  of probabilities, even 
had he been fully aware of all aspects  of the policy,  Mr M is still likely to have taken  it out. 
Furthermore, the PPI transactions and costs wouldve appeared on his monthly credit card 
statements, and in the event that the cost was not acceptable to Mr M, or it became 
unaffordable, he couldve  cancelled the policy at any point without penalty.
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Lloyds has already paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it shouldve told Mr M about  that. Because  Lloyds didnt  tell Mr M, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr M has said but these  points  dont change  my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr M any commission  and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
Andrew Macnamara
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0126112