K821x#15complaint
Mrs W is unhappy that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) declined a claim for the costs  
her son incurred when  travelling to Dubai and accompanying her home. 
Mrs W is represented by her son in bringing this complaint but, for clarity, Ill be referring to 
all submissions as being made by Mrs W directly. 
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 28 May 2019, an extract  of which is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.  In my provisional decision I explained why I 
thought this complaint should  be upheld, and I asked everyone to send me any further 
comments and information  before  I reached a final decision. 
URV responded and said that it agreed  with my provisional findings. Mrs W responded and 
confirmed that she had no comments to make.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments already sent to us to decide 
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. In the absence  of any new 
arguments, and in view of URVs acceptance of my provisional findings, Ive reached the 
same conclusions I reached in my provisional  decision for the same  reasons.
putting things right
URV should put things right by settling  the expenses claim and paying Mrs Ws sons  costs  
that is his fuel, airport parking and flight costs.  URV  should add 8% simple interest from the 
date the claim was declined to point it is settled*. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above and in my provisional decision, I uphold  Mrs Ws complaint 
against Union Reiseversicherung AG and require it to put things right in the way Ive set out 
above. 
Ref: DRN07794682Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 July 2019.
Jade Alexander
ombudsman
*If Union Reiseversicherung AG considers  that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to 
take off income  tax from that interest  it should tell Mrs W how much its taken off. It should 
also give her a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN07794683Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
Mrs W is unhappy  that Union  Reiseversicherung AG (URV) declined a claim for the costs her son 
incurred when  travelling to Dubai and accompanying her home. 
Mrs W is represented  by her son in bringing  this complaint but, for clarity, Ill be referring to all 
submissions as being made by Mrs W directly.  
background
Mrs W travelled  to Australia in 2017, but on her return journey home she was denied  boarding on her 
connecting flight from Dubai  to the UK. The airline  authorities in Dubai  called Mrs Ws son at the time,  
and told him that Mrs W was unwell and wouldnt be allowed to fly unless someone travelled back 
with her. So Mrs Ws son flew to Dubai  and flew back with her. 
Mrs W submitted  a claim for the expenses her son had incurred in travelling to Dubai  and bringing her 
home. But URV declined it on the basis that the medical  grounds for Mrs W needing to be 
accompanied hadnt been substantiated. The insurer  said that because its own medical  team 
(Emergency Assistance  Facilities (EAF))  hadnt been contacted  at the time, it hadnt been in a 
position to give advice on what  the best course of action for Mrs W would have been.  
Mrs W disagreed with URVs decision  and approached  this service. She told us that her son hadnt 
read her insurance  policy  at the time and, at that particular moment, had only been concerned about 
her safe return to the UK. She said the insurer would have ended up paying more than the expenses 
she was claiming for had shed contacted its medical team. And she said shed since provided letters  
from her GP which demonstrated she was confused and disorientated  in Dubai, had been diagnosed 
with dementia,  and was now in need of 24 hour care. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened but said:
The airline  had confirmed Mrs W had been denied boarding for medical reasons but hadnt 
confirmed what those reasons were. 
The insurer had explained Mrs W would need to have been  assessed by a doctor at the time 
and a companion deemed medically  necessary.  But she hadnt  contacted  URVs medical  
team so it hadnt been able to do that.
The GP hadnt seen Mrs W in Dubai, so wasnt in a position to comment on her condition  at 
that particular time or the medical necessity of the companion. 
Our investigator recognised that it had been a difficult  time for Mrs W and her son but didnt 
recommend this complaint  be upheld. Mrs W disagreed and said the airline  had confirmed she had 
needed a companion  because  of medical  reasons  and URV couldnt comment on that because it 
wasnt there. She also said that shed received medical attention once back  in the UK and had been 
diagnosed with dementia. And neither she nor her son had acted  recklessly, theyd just exercised  
common sense to ensure she returned home safely. 
The complaint has now been passed to me to decide. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
The relevant rules  (which  are set out in full under ICOBS and can be found in the FCA Handbook) say 
that, as an insurer,  URV are required to handle claims promptly  and fairly and mustnt  reject them 
unreasonably.
Ref: DRN07794684Mrs Ws policy says that URV will pay necessary emergency  expenses for additional travel,  
accommodation and repatriation costs to be made for or by you and for any one other person  who is 
required for medical reasons  to stay with you, to travel to you from your home country or to travel with 
you, where it is deemed medically necessary. In the event  of needing  to make such a claim, the 
terms and conditions  of Mrs Ws policy tells policy holders to call our Emergency Assistance  Facilities 
service 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, 365 days a year,  from anywhere  in the world. And details 
about contacting EAF are also listed under the important  information  and your important numbers 
sections of Mrs Ws policy too. 
So in line with Mrs Ws policy, I accept that EAF should have  been contacted. But in considering the 
fair and reasonable aspects of this particular complaint as well, Im not persuaded that I can 
reasonably accept that Mrs W was in a position  to contact EAF. 
The available  evidence in this case suggests that Mrs W was confused and disorientated in Dubai, so 
I dont see how she couldve  have reasonably been expected  to recognise  that EAF needed  to be 
contacted. And given  that Mrs W was the policy holder, I dont reasonably see how her son could 
have known that EAF needed to be contacted before  he made plans to travel to Dubai and meet  his 
mother either. Mrs W has said that her son didnt  know EAF needed to be contacted  and travelled to 
Dubai on the basis of what the airline authorities there had told him  that was, Mrs W was unwell and 
wouldnt be allowed to travel  unless  she was accompanied.
I know that URV has said that its medical team wasnt contacted  so it wasnt able to advise on what  
would have been the best course  of action for Mrs W. But I havent been provided  with anything to 
suggest what  URV may have done differently  in the circumstances of this case.  At the point the airline 
called Mrs Ws son it had already decided  that it wasnt prepared to let her travel on her own.  I 
acknowledge that the airline hasnt cited  anything  more  than medical reasons for the grounds behind  
its decision, and I accept that Mrs W or a representative  on her behalf should have  contacted  EAF. 
But even if a medical  professional had seen Mrs W, Im not persuaded that there would have been 
any other reasonable  course of action for her. 
Mrs W was alone in a foreign country and, as far as Im aware, had no friends  or family near her at 
the time. The airline had already decided  that Mrs W wouldnt be allowed  to travel unaccompanied  
and Im not aware of any other  reasonable transport options  that would have enabled Mrs W to reach 
the UK without flying  I note the only reason for her being in Dubai  was to pick up a connecting flight  
to the UK. So whilst I accept that strictly  in line with the terms  and conditions of her policy EAF should  
have been contacted.  I am not persuaded that itd be fair or reasonable to conclude  that Mrs W was in 
a position to do so. Nor am I persuaded that thered  have  been another reasonable course  of action 
available to get Mrs W back  to the UK. 
The purpose  of Mrs Ws policy was to provide cover  in such  instances and, in the particular 
circumstances of this case, I dont agree that URVs decision to decline the claim was reasonable.  For 
the reasons given above  Im currently minded to uphold this complaint.  
putting things  right
I am intending to tell URV to put things right by settling the expenses  claim and paying  Mrs Ws sons 
costs  that is his fuel, airport  parking  and flight costs.  I am also intending to tell URV that it should 
add 8% simple interest  from the date the claim was declined to the point its settled*.
 
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I intend to uphold this complaint. If either  side has anything further to 
add, they should do so by 11 June 2019. I will then reconsider the complaint before reaching my final 
decision. 
Ref: DRN0779468