K822xcomplaint
Miss B complains  that the vehicle  she acquired through  a conditional sale agreement  
financed by Clydesdale Financial Services Limited  trading  as Barclays  Partner Finance was 
not of satisfactory  quality.  She wants to reject the vehicle and end the agreement.
background
Miss B tells us she acquired the vehicle through a dealer Ill refer to as T. She says that 
although she took on the finance agreement in October 2017, it was only several weeks later 
that she was able to take possession of the vehicle as the dealers did not have the V5 (log 
book) document. And she says there  was a delay in T settling her previous  finance so that 
she ended  up having two finance  agreements open in her name  for a short time. Miss B said 
that within a few days the vehicle had broken down with various faults to the air conditioning. 
Miss Bs told us that she was informed that the air conditioning would be fine once the head 
unit had been  repaired. But she said it wasnt until February 2018  that T did repairs and that 
shed been left without the use of the vehicle  for some of this time. She says the air 
conditioning is still faulty and she doesnt  think the vehicle  has been fit for purpose  since it 
was sold to her.
BPF told us that Miss B had initially raised a complaint,  in November 2017, about the delay 
in taking possession  of the vehicle.  It said it had agreed to delay the start of repayments and 
had offered £25 as a goodwill gesture. In February 2018, BPF states that Miss B complained  
about a head unit fault and a loose air conditioning panel. It reported that T had said it (T) 
had repaired  the head unit in March  2018.  But later, in April 2018, BPF told us that Miss B 
had also complained about  noise  and smoke coming from the vehicle. As a result  it said it 
had arranged for the vehicle to be inspected by A, a company. It said As report had not 
identified any smoke  or sounds  and the vehicle  had performed as it should. It said that a 
fault was identified with the heater control  display unit being loose and falling out. But it said 
A had concluded that this was not a fault that had been present at the point of supply.
Two of our adjudicators have issued views on this complaint.  The first adjudicator  said that 
that the vehicle had been inspected by A, and it had reported  no faults other  than that the 
heater controls  within the central dashboard were insecure. It had said this fault hadnt been 
present at the point of supply. But he said that Miss B had later again raised the issue of the 
air conditioning and that BPF had agreed to pay for an inspection report  into this. He saw 
that this report had found the air conditioning to be fine. But he said that BPF had recognised  
that since she acquired the vehicle, Miss B had experienced some  inconvenience. So it had 
offered to pay £150 in compensation together with the refund of one monthly payment to 
cover the period when she did not have  use of the vehicle whilst it was in for repairs.  He 
thought that this was fair.
Ref: DRN01821652Our second adjudicator said that hed been  asked to give a further  view,  as Miss B had not 
been satisfied  that the first adjudicators view dealt with the air conditioning fault. He 
explained that after As inspection had not found  any fault with the air conditioning, Miss B 
had taken it to a local garage Ill call S. This inspection was carried out in December 2018 
and had also found no fault with the air conditioning.  But later,  following a further 
examination of the air conditioning system by S, on 29 June  2019,  a fault with the air 
conditioning had been identified. The report of this inspection said that there was no cold air 
blowing. The adjudicator  said hed spoken with the service advisor about this and had been  
told that a further  examination would be required to establish the cause of the fault. But that 
the advisor felt that with a car of this age and mileage it was likely to experience  faults of this 
kind. Our adjudicator  felt it was likely the cause of the fault reported was wear  and tear. So 
he wouldnt  be asking BPF to do any more.
Miss B wasnt happy with this outcome and said shed made complaints about the air 
conditioning from the time she acquired  the vehicle.  As its not been possible to resolve this 
complaint an ombudsman has been asked  to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Miss B has experienced some problems with this vehicle. Unfortunately things 
sometimes go wrong and with used vehicles this risk is increased. I can see the vehicle was 
four years old when  acquired by Miss B with a mileage  of just over 30,000  miles.
Miss Bs conditional sale agreement is a regulated consumer  credit agreement and our 
service is able to consider  complaints  relating to it. BPF supplied  the vehicle  and its 
therefore responsible for a complaint about the quality of the vehicle. Whilst I dont apply the 
law - directly - I do take it into account. And relevant law here includes the Consumer  Rights 
Act of 2015 (CRA). 
Briefly summarised, the CRA requires that - in order to conform  to contract  - goods should  
be of satisfactory quality when supplied. And its presumed that any faults which  arise  within  
the first six months after supply - and which result  in goods not being of satisfactory quality - 
were present  at the point of supply.  This may give a customer the right to reject goods or 
have them repaired.
Where evidence is unclear or incomplete  - as some of it is here - I have  to make my decision 
on the balance  of probabilities. That is I decide  what is the most likely explanation to account 
for whats happened.
Ive seen an RAC diagnostic report from 20 November 2017  which  showed several faults 
with the air conditioning system. Miss B has said the vehicle was taken in by T for repairs  
and returned to her a few days later. However,  Ive seen  no information to show  what repairs 
were done.  But Ive seen notes that suggest  the vehicle returned to T in November 2017 
(turbo pipe replaced) and January 2018  (sat nav connector fitted).  But T says it has no notes 
of issues with the air conditioning having  been  recorded at these times. 
Ref: DRN01821653Miss B reported a loose air conditioning panel and fault with the head unit in February 2018, 
and T later reported to BPF that it had repaired the head unit. As a result BPF issued its final 
response letter in March 2018 saying  it understood the issues  had been resolved but for 
Miss B to contact it if that were not the case.
In early April 2018 Miss B reported  smoke  and noise coming from the engine and as a result 
of this, BPF arranged for the vehicle to be inspected by A, on 9 April 2018. A reported  that it 
found no faults other than with the heater  control display unit which fell out. But A said it 
didnt think this fault was present at the point of supply. The mileage recorded at the time 
was 38,829.
In May 2018, Miss B complained to this service and during  the course of his investigation  our 
first adjudicator asked  BPF to pay for an inspection of the vehicles  air conditioning. This 
inspection was carried out in December 2018,  by S, but no faults were found.  The mileage at 
this time was 52,943. Miss B said shed spoken with S separately and had been told to bring 
the vehicle back  in summer  so it could be looked at again - but the invoice of the December 
inspection makes no mention of this.
I can see Miss B followed through with this and on 29 June 2019 the vehicle was again  
examined by S. This time it reported  that it had found the air conditioning system to be faulty 
and that there was no cold air blowing. I can see the mileage recorded as 61,030. But whilst  
it diagnosed a fault, S was not able to say what the cause of that was or when it had 
occurred. And it told our adjudicator that a further examination  would be required to establish  
the cause of the fault. Im not aware  that any further  examination has taken place so neither 
the cause of the latest fault or when it occurred  has been established.
I accept that Miss B has experienced issues with the vehicle at various times. I also note that 
it has covered in excess of 30,000 miles in the period of around 20 months  since supply and 
the last recorded mileage  which Ive seen, in June 2019. This is well above average and I 
think it unlikely that a vehicle which was not of satisfactory quality when supplied wouldve 
been able to achieve this mileage. 
Its to be expected that vehicles of this age will start to experience wear and tear issues and 
that some  components  will need  replacing. And whilst I accept that Miss B reported  issues 
with the air conditioning system shortly after the date of supply, repairs to the head unit were 
carried out in early 2018. Although Miss B says this didnt solve  the problem, Ive got to 
consider that in April 2018 (A) and December  2018  (S) provided  independent  reports which  
did not identify  faults with the air conditioning.
The fact that S now says - some months  after its first inspection - that there is a fault with the 
air conditioning, might  indicate either that a new fault has occurred  or that the nature of the 
fault is intermittent and did not show at the two earlier inspections.  In either case,  Ive 
insufficient information to say the fault was present at the point of supply  or that it meant the 
vehicle was not of satisfactory quality at that time.
I understand that BPF has already offered £150 compensation and agreed to pay the cost of 
the first inspection by S, as well as refund one monthly payment (£197.79). I think in the 
circumstances that is fair and reasonable and I shant be asking it to do anything else.
Ref: DRN01821654my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
Clydesdale Financial Services Limited  trading as Barclays Partner Finance has made  an 
offer to settle this complaint which I think is fair and reasonable.
So I now require it to take the following action:
1.Refund one monthly  payment of £197.79;
2.Pay £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience;
3.Pay the cost of December 2018 vehicle air conditioning inspection  - £95.94;
Simple interest at the rate of 8% per year should  be added to items 1 and 3, from date of 
payment to date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 October  2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0182165