K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  about how Royal & Sun Alliance (RSA) handled the claim they made
under their household contents insurance policy, following a burglary. The claim was
declined.
background
Mr and Mrs B took out household contents insurance with RSA in 2016 and the policy
renewed in 2017.  Their  property was burgled  in October 2017, while Mr and Mrs B were out.
They made a claim under  their policy, but this was declined by RSA, as it said
Mr and Mrs B were  in breach of a policy endorsement, because  they didnt have window
locks fitted.
Mr and Mrs B complained to RSA.  They said theyd declared, when the policy was taken out,
that they didnt  have  window locks and this is noted on the policy. They  also complained that
after making the claim RSA had told them  to obtain a valuation  of the stolen property, which
cost £600, and it was unreasonable  for RSA to request  this when they didnt intend  to pay
the claim.  RSA werent prepared to review  their decision.
Mr and Mrs B then complained to our service. Our investigator considered the case  and she
didnt think RSA made it clear to Mr B that he wouldnt be covered for theft, unless he had
window locks fitted. So she felt RSA sold Mr and Mrs B a policy which  wasnt suitable and
didnt cover them for theft. She recommended that RSA reassess the claim  disregarding the
exclusion added to the policy stating thered be no cover unless window locks  were fitted.
RSA didnt accept  our investigators  opinion.
RSA hasnt actually  considered the contents claim in terms of the value of the goods stolen 
and the relevant sums insured to establish  how much it will pay.
I made  a provisional decision  about  the complaint in March 2019. In it I said:-
My determination of this complaint is made in line with the Financial Conduct Authoritys
Dispute Resolution Rules (DISP). These rules say I must make  my decision by reference to
what I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. DISP 3.6.4R
says I need to take into account relevant:
law and regulations
regulators rules,  guidance and standards,
codes of practice; and
(where appropriate)  what  I consider to have been good  industry practice at the time.
The Insurance Code of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) 8.1 says an insurer must not
unreasonably reject a claim. And continues that a rejection is unreasonable  (except where
fraud) for breach  of warranty  or condition unless the circumstances of the claim are
connected to the breach. And theres  also a general  principle that the business needs to
treat its customers fairly and must  communicate  with them in a way thats  clear  and not
misleading.
Mr B went  online to find household buildings and contents insurance. He obtained  an online
quote which mentioned endorsements and this prompted him to call RSA.
Ref: DRN08270482Ive listened to the sales call between Mr B and RSA. Mr B told RSA that his property didnt
have window locks  on all the windows. He was told this was why an endorsement had been
flagged. But RSA didnt mention that he needed  to have locks fitted to be fully covered. The
discussion effectively told him he would be covered if he removed keys from the locks  he
had when the property was unoccupied. Mr B bought the policy on the strength of this
discussion and cover started on 1 July 2016.
I think Mr B bought the policy  on the understanding he only needed to remove  the keys from
the windows locks he had to meet the endorsement. During the sales  call Mr B seemed to
be particularly concerned to check exactly what he should do to ensure he was covered, and
even asked what type of locks would  be required.
Mr and Mrs B were  sent their policy documentation  which contained an endorsement
requiring security devices  to be fitted to all ground  floor opening windows. But because  of
what Mr B was told during  the sales call he didnt think  the endorsement would impact the
policy cover.
Mr and Mrs B renewed their policy with RSA in May 2017 and the endorsements  regarding
security are the same as those set out in the earlier policy. Nothing  had changed so I dont
think Mr B would have been  alerted to there being a problem with his cover.
Where a policy endorsement has been breached, its only fair for a claim to be declined  if it
can be shown the breach  was material to the loss. The only information I have about  the
circumstances of the loss, is that a sash window in Mr and Mrs Bs kitchen  was forced. RSA
have said had window  locks been fitted,  the thieves  are likely to have found it more  difficult
to gain entry, and this could have been a deterrent.  But given the rural location of the
property they believe  its likely the thieves would have stayed and broken in regardless.  On
the basis of these comments Im not satisfied that the breach of the policy endorsement  was
material to the loss.
I dont think RSA properly  explained the policy endorsement  to Mr and Mrs B and as a result
of this they didnt  have  the cover they required.  Because of this I dont think it would be fair
for RSA to rely on the endorsement to decline the claim.  And further as Ive said Im not
satisfied the breach of policy endorsement  was material to the loss.
Mr and Mrs B have  told us that after they submitted their claim to RSA it required valuations
for the stolen items. And on 7 November 2017  RSA were still pressing  them  for this
information. Mr and Mrs B paid £600  for the valuations, which they received on 13
November 2017.  And they complain that they were put to the expense  of obtaining the
valuations when RSA didnt intend to pay their claim.
Under the terms of the policy Mr and Mrs B are required to provide evidence  to support their
claim, including valuations where appropriate.  At the time the valuation  was provided their
claim was still active and it wasnt  until late November 2017 that RSA made  the decision to
decline the claim. So I dont think it was unreasonable for RSA to request the valuation.  And
as RSA will now be settling the claim,  Mr and Mrs B wont, after all, have spent money on an
unnecessary valuation.
I think that if RSA had made it clear to Mr B, during  the sales  call that he needed to have
security devices fitted to all ground  floor opening windows, he would have arranged this. And
his claim would then have been  assessed  when submitted after the burglary in October
Ref: DRN082704832017. So I think RSA should pay Mr and Mrs B £250 for the distress and Inconvenience
theyve experienced.
So, my provisional decision was that I upheld Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Mr and Mrs B responded to my provisional  decision  saying they had no final points they 
wished to make, apart from pointing out that the thieves forced a window in their dining 
room, rather than in their kitchen, as I stated.
RSA responded  to my provisional decision saying  they understand the comments in respect 
of the sales process  and concerns raised regarding the locks.  They  believe there was some  
confusion and the call could have flowed better. They  accept the call handler could have 
been clearer in advising Mr B he must ensure  key operated locks are fitted to all ground floor 
and accessible upper floor windows. They  say the handler did point out that the windows 
must have  locking system  on them and keys must be removed. However they agree  the 
wording of the call could have been misunderstood.
But they say the wording  of the endorsement is clearly set out in the inception documents 
and also the 2017 renewal documents,  which includes details of the required security, 
including the implications of not complying.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the information provided by Mr and Mrs B regarding the location of the 
window forced by the thieves to gain entry to their property. I incorrectly referred to the 
kitchen window in my provisional decision,  but the location of the window through which  the 
thieves gained entry doesnt change my decision.
Ive also considered the points raised by RSA regarding the sales call and the wording of the 
policy endorsement.
RSA have agreed that the wording of the call could have been misunderstood by Mr B. They 
say Mr B was told that his windows must  have a locking system  on them and keys must be 
removed. But what Mr B was told, after he told the adviser he didnt have locks  on all 
windows, was that windows with locks  needed  to have the keys removed when the property 
was unoccupied.  This is different to telling him windows needed to have a locking  system  
and the keys must be removed.
Mr B wasnt  told during the call that window locks needed to be fitted to all accessible 
windows and he bought the policy on the strength of the information he was given.
Ive considered what RSA have said about  the wording of the endorsement but I still think,  
because of what Mr B was told during the sales call, he didnt think the endorsement would 
impact the policy  cover.  And I dont  think RSA properly  explained the policy endorsement  to 
Mr and Mrs B and as a result of this they didnt have the cover  they required.  Because  of this 
I dont think it would  be fair for RSA to rely on the endorsement to decline  the claim. And 
further as Ive said Im not satisfied the breach of policy endorsement was material to the 
loss.
Ref: DRN08270484my final decision
For the reasons  set out above my final decision is that I uphold  Mr and Mrs Bs claim against 
Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plc. To put things  right I require it to settle the claim, 
ignoring the endorsement requiring window  locks to be fitted, in accordance with the 
remaining policy conditions together with interest  at 8% simple  on the settlement value of 
the claim from 4 October 2017 until the date the settlement is paid. And to pay 
Mr and Mrs B £250 for the distress and inconvenience theyve experienced.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 June 2019.
Patricia OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0827048