K820x#14Complaint
Mr F, who is represented  by a relative, Mr L, complains that Vauxhall Finance plc refused  to 
allow him to reject a faulty car.
Background
In December 2017 Mr F acquired a second had costing  £18,995  car funded  mainly  by a 
conditional sale agreement. It was some  six years old and had done  69,301  miles. In the first 
few months Mr F encountered some  problems which were addressed by the dealer. In 
September 2018 the rear bake pads were replaced and the rear heat shield was adjusted. 
The car was road tested  and no issues were identified. It had done 74,182 miles at this 
point. In late October when the car had done  74,938 miles the car broke down and was 
taken to the dealer and a snapped crankshaft was diagnosed. This fault was not covered by 
the warranty. 
Mr F left the car and keys with the dealer and stopped making  payments to Vauxhall. The 
dealer didnt accept  any responsibility.  Mr L identified that this was a relatively well know 
problem with the car from social  media  and he also found that the manufacturer  had issued 
a bulletin regarding crankshaft failures  in the model  of car acquired by Mr F. This said:
Crankshaft/ crankshaft bearing failure TD6 Diesel Engines 
Cause
Low incidents of crankshaft/crankshaft bearing  failure are being encountered caused mainly  
by incorrect location  of the main  bearing shells during  assembly, or through  rotation of the 
shells during normal  use. A new procedure has been implemented to ensure:
more rapid resolution of customer concerns,  and 
greater visibility of failure models to improve repair process and parts  delivery.
The bulletin  goes on to recommend contacting the relevant team  for details of the enhanced 
customer handling procedure. The dealer didnt accept responsibility and said it would put 
the car back  together and Mr F could take it to an authorised dealer. Vauxhall  rejected 
Mr Fs complaint and said he had used  the car for 10 months and had driven it for 5,000 
miles. It noted the car had undergone  general  maintenance and concluded that it was fit for 
purpose at the point  of sale. 
Mr F brought  his complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who didnt  recommend  it be upheld. She said that given  the age and mileage of 
the car it was reasonable to conclude that the fault had arisen due to wear and tear. She 
noted the reports on social media,  but didnt think there was enough evidence  to say the car 
was of unsatisfactory quality at the point of sale.
Mr L didnt agree and set out in some  detail why he thought Mr Fs car was one of those 
likely to have been covered by the manufacturers bulletin. I issued provisional decision  as 
follows:
I noted that Mr Fs car didnt have a high mileage and while it wasnt  new it wasnt  of such  an 
age that one would expect the crankshaft to fail. I believed it is rare for a crankshaft to snap  
and if it does it is most likely to be due to a lack of oil and which would stem from poor 
Ref: DRN00760952maintenance. Having looked at the log book  and the dealers records I could see nothing 
that would  suggest poor maintenance. 
I said that one of the other reasons a crankshaft could fail is due to manufacturing faults.  
Mr L had submitted a lot of information  from owners forums which show  this engine is one 
which suffers crankshaft  issues.  While  these  were of interest I explained I would not normally  
rely on such reports as the basis for reaching a conclusion  on an individual  complaint. 
However, in this case I noted we have evidence from the manufacturer  that there  were  
manufacturing problems  with the model  Mr F bought. Not all cars made with the particular 
engine manufactured  at the same  time will have suffered crankshaft failure,  but it was clear  
to me that the manufacturer accepts that some of them  do.
I explained I had seen nothing which provided  a credible reason why the crankshaft snapped 
other than a manufacturing  fault.  Therefore, I thought that on a balance of probabilities  the 
most likely explanation was that the car had a manufacturing fault.  I gathered a main  dealer 
was contacted, but I wasnt aware if the car was inspected  by an approved  manufactures 
mechanic. Vauxhall  has said that before any inspection took pace the engine  needed to be 
delivered to a main  dealer at Mr Fs cost. Mr L says that the dealer refused  to let a 
manufacturers mechanic  investigate  the car.
I was aware Mr L had written to the manufacturer, but I had seen no official response.  The 
car had been  sold and an independent inspection is no longer possible so I have to rely on 
the available  information. As my conclusion was the car had an inherent fault I believed  I 
should uphold  Mr Fs complaint. 
Mr L accepted  my conclusions on behalf  of his brother and the business said it had nothing 
further to add.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Vauxhall is also the supplier of the goods  under  this type of agreement, and responsible  for 
a complaint about their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Ref: DRN00760953Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
Both parties  have, in effect, accepted my provisional decision so I have no reason to alter 
my original conclusions. Mr L says his brother  is not seeking any additional costs.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. As the car has been returned I direct 
Vauxhall Finance  plc to:
unwind the agreement  with Mr F only responsible for monthly payments up to the 
date the crankshaft snapped. 
refund  any payments  made after this date plus interest at 8% simple from the date of 
payment until the date repaid.
refund  any deposit he paid plus interest  at 8% simple  from the date of payment  until 
the date repaid.
refund  the cost of diagnosing the crankshaft  fault on submission  of an invoice
remove any entries relating to the account from Mr Fs credit history.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2020.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0076095