K820x#14complaint
Mrs M and Mr M (the complainants) have complained about their Gold  investments within a 
Self-Invested Personal  Pension (SIPP).  They question the usage of funds transferred  into 
the SIPP, the valuation of Gold  held within it, the proceeds remitted to them  upon liquidation 
of the Gold and the fees they incurred in the course  of the investment. The respondent is 
Intelligent Money Ltd (IM),  which was the SIPP provider. 
background
The complainants  complaint form referred to IM, to a third-party financial adviser  firm (the 
FA) that arranged the SIPP  and to a third-party  firm that traded the Gold (the Gold Trader). 
However, there is a telephone conversation record from January this year which  says the 
complainants were informed, by this service, of the need to consider submitting a separate  
complaint about  the third-party presence in the case. The present complaint  is only about IM.
Mr M appears to have led the SIPP venture  and he engaged with the concerned parties. 
Correspondence evidence shows  that the Gold Trader  recommended the FA and IM to him, 
in addition to the notion of investment in Gold.  There is also evidence that the FA instructed 
IM, on the complainants  behalf, in terms of investments to be made  in the SIPP. The 
following, in the main, took place:
£18,984.11 from an AXA pension was moved into the SIPP in February 2013; the FA 
instructed IM to use £18,500 to invest in Gold through the Gold Trader; this amount 
was sent by IM to the Gold Trader; £18,242.78 was used to buy 470g of Gold;  the 
remainder of £257.22 (minus a total of £124.45  deducted for the Gold Traders 
storage, insurance  and delivery costs) returned/remained into the SIPP.
£6,377.42  from a ReAssure pension was moved into the SIPP in March 2013;  on the 
FAs instruction, IM used  £4,340.70 to buy 110g of Gold  from the Gold  Trader;  the 
remainder of £2,036.72 (minus  a total of £41.04 deducted for the Gold Traders 
storage, insurance  and delivery costs) remained in the SIPP.
In January 2019 the total of 580g of Gold in the SIPP  was sold and the proceeds of 
£17,856.46 were  remitted  to the complainants.
The complainants  are unhappy  that the funds transferred into the SIPP  were  not exhausted  
on the Gold investments   they are dissatisfied  that some of those funds were retained as 
cash within the SIPP instead of being invested;  they are unhappy  that the valuation they 
received for their Gold holding in 2018 (£20,281.64)  was not followed by a valuation  for 
2019; they say record  of the price of Gold around  the time their holding was sold shows that 
it was a little higher than the price  on which the 2018 valuation  was calculated and that the 
price should  have meant sale proceeds around £21,478 (not the £17,856.46  they received); 
they are unhappy  with (and query) how the total cash holding retained  in the SIPP  was used; 
and, also in relation  to the total cash holding, they dispute the fees deducted from the SIPP  
and argue that they should  have been invoiced separately for all relevant  fees.
One of our investigators  looked into the matter and reached the following main  conclusions:
There are potentially  three firms involved in the case, but his assessment is about IM.
IM did not give advice in the case,  it received investment  instructions  from the FA 
and the FA was acting on behalf  of the complainants, so it was reasonable for IM not 
to question those  instructions.
Ref: DRN09280242A copy of a comprehensive breakdown  of fees paid out of the SIPP  was attached  to 
the investigators view.  He considered  it reasonable that funds were retained in the 
SIPP to cater for these fees, and the fees charged by IM were as stated in the terms 
agreed for the SIPP.
IMs evidence  is that it sent an annual statement for the SIPP  but that it was unaware 
the complainants wanted a statement of the balance  in the SIPP  before the Gold was 
sold. The investigator invited the complainants to present evidence of any request for 
such a statement.
Any aspect of the complaint related, in isolation,  to performance of the Gold 
investment is beyond what this service  would address (we do not normally treat 
matters of performance in isolation)  and was beyond IMs responsibility.
The complainants  did not accept this outcome. In the main, Mr M said:
It remains unacceptable that they incurred  a loss of around  30% from the SIPP,  not 
because of a fall in the value of the Gold holding but because  of inappropriate, 
excessive and hidden  charges.
It was wrong for fees to have  been  deducted  from the SIPP, instead they ought to 
have been invoiced  separately for such fees.
The complaint  is not about  the performance  of the Gold holding  and it is wrong  to 
suggest or consider otherwise.
There are concerns about the FA  including  its unauthorised instruction to IM to 
retain some funds in the SIPP (thereby depriving  the complainants  of a choice in the 
matter), the lack of contact from it after the initial investment  and the lack of 
paperwork from it  but it has been impossible to have them addressed  because  the 
FA appears to have folded  up its operation.
It remains their position that they never  received a SIPP  statement for 2019  and that 
they asked, over the telephone, for a valuation before the sale  furthermore, the 
latter should  have  been provided by IM as standard and as a minimum in terms of 
client care.
The investigator was not persuaded to change his view. He noted that IMs role was limited  
to its largely administrative function  as the SIPP provider  which did not include the 
provision of advice  and did not extend  to investment decisions  and that the charges that 
were applied were as stated. The matter  was referred to an ombudsman.  
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the 
conclusion that the complainants complaint about IM is not to be upheld.
I should make clear that my considerations have been limited to matters  relevant to IM and 
its role in the case, given that it is the respondent to the complaint and given  that it cannot 
reasonably be held responsible for obligations  or liabilities  held by the FA or by the Gold  
Trader. 
In this respect, I understand the wider points Mr M has made about how funds were 
managed and invested in the SIPP but evidence he submitted shows that the agreed 
arrangement  proposed by the Gold Trader at the outset  was for the FA to arrange  and 
manage the setting  up of the SIPP and the Gold investments within it on behalf of the 
complainants. This is precisely what happened  and there is a copy of correspondence from 
Ref: DRN09280243the FA to the complainants  confirming that it was the latters instruction  to the former to 
undertake  on an execution only basis  the task of setting up the SIPP, transferring funds 
into it and investing  those funds in Gold.  The correspondence also confirms that the SIPP  
was set up to  cover fees for 2 to 3 years  and it refers to the holding  costs for the Gold  
purchased.
Like the investigator, and given the aforementioned  evidence, I too do not consider that IM 
was wrong to take and follow instructions from the FA. I have not seen enough evidence of 
the full details of engagement between the FA and the complainants.  However, as quoted 
above, there is evidence they were made aware fees would be deducted from the SIPP   as 
opposed to the separate  invoicing they say they expected and/or should have been the 
case. There is also separate evidence of the FAs fee document, signed by Mrs M, 
confirming that its fee of £250 would be taken from IM. 
In any event, if the complainants consider that the FA acted beyond  an agreed  remit, that is 
a matter remote to IM (and to the present  complaint).
Mrs M signed  the SIPP application form, and by doing so she confirmed that she had read, 
understood and agreed the related terms and the related fee schedule.  The FAs fee 
document she signed confirms her awareness that its fee was essentially to be deducted 
from the SIPP. IMs fee schedule also confirmed that fees would be deducted  either from the 
cash account in the SIPP or from liquidation of assets in the SIPP   either  way, they were  to 
be deducted from the SIPP.
Overall, on balance and in light of available evidence, I am not persuaded by the 
complainants claim that the deduction of fees from the SIPP  was wrong  and I do not 
consider it was contrary to their agreement and awareness at the time. In terms of the 
suitability (or otherwise)  of the fees that would have  been a matter for advice to the 
complainants at the time and IM was not responsible for, or obliged to give,  such  advice.
The investigators view referred  to enclosure of the transaction statement for the SIPP.  The 
fee schedule agreed with IM included reference to an annual  fee of £150; transfer related 
fees of £150/hour; a Chaps payment fee of £30; and an investment valuation fee of £30. In 
addition, the Gold  purchase included insured storage  costs  of 1% (of the value of the 
holding) per year  which amounted to around £200 (plus) per year;  VAT on that; and a 
delivery fee that totalled £30. These were all deducted from the SIPP. The FAs fee of £250 
was an additional  expense deducted from the SIPP.
If, as it now appears,  the longer-term impact of fees upon their investment is something the 
complainants wanted  to consider  or should have considered  in the course of their 
venture into the Gold (and SIPP) investment it is a matter that they should have sought  
advice on. I do not address this further, because I do not need to. I do not need to because, 
as I said above,  IM held no advisory duty towards  the complainants.  However, overall  
evidence shows that costs and fees associated with the SIPP and the Gold  investment were 
not concealed from the complainants and that they appear to have been agreed by Mrs M. 
I have not seen evidence that these were not the costs and fees deducted from the SIPP.  
The transaction statement evidence reflects deductions of the fees stated above and reflects 
that the sale proceeds in 2019 were  duly accounted  for and remitted (minus transaction 
related fees)  to Mrs M. In terms of obtaining a particular price  for the holding  at the point of 
sale, I remain mindful that IM acted  on an execution only basis  and upon instructions. I have 
not seen evidence that it was instructed to sell the holding at a particular price, and it was 
Ref: DRN09280244not obliged to advise the complainants on the price at which  to sell. I understand how and 
why the complainants  could have benefited  from such advice, but that was not IMs duty.
As Mr M has confirmed, the performance of the Gold holding is not in dispute  so this is not 
a matter to address; and, as the investigator  noted,  this service would not normally address  
the isolated matter of an investments performance.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mrs Ms and Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 December  2020.
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0928024