K820x#14complaint
Mr H has complained about Brewin Dolphin Limited  and his independent  financial adviser 
(IFA) Sovereign Asset Management  Limited. Sovereign is an appointed representative of 
TenetConnect Limited. The complaint  covers  the period  of time since  Mr H started using 
Brewin Dolphins services. This was for his SIPP and PEP/ISA account.  He says:
The terms of the engagement were misrepresented to him. He was told that it was a 
regulatory requirement to have an IFA to be able to use Brewin Dolphins account.
Brewin Dolphins use of benchmarks  misrepresented the performance as they were  
quoted gross of any fees.
He had an agreement  with Brewin Dolphin that he would not be charged an exit fee 
of he was dissatisfied with their service. He was charged an exit fee when he left.
Mr H has a separate complaint about  Brewin Dolphin.
background
One of our adjudicators investigated the complaint. He set out the background in his letter  of 
16 December 2019. I have summarised  the key points.
Mr H was first introduced to Brewin Dolphin by Sovereign in 2007. Meetings with two other  
investment managers  took place before Mr H settled on Brewin Dolphin. During  the 
discussions, Mr H and Sovereign reached  an agreement with Brewin Dolphin about  exit 
fees, noted in a letter dated 9 July 2007:  
I now write to confirm  again that we [Brewin Dolphin] will not levy any charges should [Mr H] 
or yourself  [Sovereign] be dissatisfied  with the services and you wish to transfer  the 
investment mandate to another firm of investment managers.
Sovereign produced a suitability report containing  their advice on 16 July 2007. It said:
With all the discretionary fund managers, we fully discussed the approach  they would take 
to managing your assets within your SIPP portfolio, together with your attitude to investment 
risk. We also covered in detail the costs and charges of entering such arrangements.
The report  went on to say about charges:
The overall management charge will be 1.3%, of which, 0.5% is payable to Sovereign  Asset  
Management Ltd. It has also been agreed with Brewin Dolphin Securities that they will not 
charge you an exit fee if you wish to transfer your portfolio  elsewhere  in the future.
And finally:
I confirm  that Brewin Dolphin Securities have provided you with a copy  of their client  
agreement Terms and Conditions and schedule of charges. I have made you aware, and 
you understand that you will be paying  a higher  level of charges with Brewin Dolphin than 
you are currently  paying  with your existing  pension providers.
The report  also clarified the roles of both organisations. Brewin Dolphin, as a discretionary 
fund manager,  would  manage  Mr Hs funds at an agreed level of risk while  Sovereign  would  
provide advice to ensure that level of risk was appropriate.
Ref: DRN01187912Mr H continued to meet with Sovereign and Brewin Dolphin on an annual basis.  Agendas  
from meetings from 2008 to 2012 listed the following, amongst others, as topics for 
discussion:
Current investment Breakdown.
How does this compare if (Mr H) had not transferred to Brewin Dolphin?  (2008/9  
only).
Reasons for stock  selection.
How do Brewin  Dolphin compare against  the APCIMs benchmarks?  
PEP's, Isa & SIPP accounts (net of charges).
Value  for Money: Is the Discretionary Fund  Management route working? (2008/9 
only)
In 2010, just over £25,000 was added to the SIPP account from a personal pension.  The 
report from 2010 also stated that the charge would continue to be 1.3% with 0.5% payable to 
Sovereign. 
In December 2012, Mr H invested a further  £250,000 with the same charging structure, 
though the funds were not invested  in a pension wrapper.  Brewin Dolphin wrote  to Mr H in 
January 2013  regarding  his investment. It said of charges:
I understand that fees have already been  discussed and that you have been provided with a 
schedule outlining the charges. For clarity  I confirm  that the total annual  fee is 1.3%  of the 
portfolio value, of which 0.5% is paid to Sovereign  Asset Management. The fee is levied 
quarterly and in arrears. No commission is charged  on transactions.
Further review meetings took place in 2013  and 2014. The notes confirm most of the 
discussions were concerned with fund performance. 
In June 2016 further discussions  took place about fees. Sovereign sent an email to Mr H 
dated 22 June  2016 saying:
Further to our conversation, I have spoken with Brewin Dolphin, and I am pleased to 
confirm that should you remove us as advisers on your SIPP,  they will still consider you as a 
Sovereign introduced client, and your fees will remain at the negotiated 0.75% + Vat rate. As 
discussed, should you opt to instruct us on an hourly rate, our fees are £250 + vat per hour.   
Mr H received an email from Brewin Dolphin the same day saying:
It does  not matter to us as to how you settle your bill with your financial adviser.the 
charge to you would  remain  at 0.75%. 
At this stage charges were reduced to 0.75% plus VAT. Just over a year later on 
24 July 2017,  Mr H received an email  from Sovereign saying: 
As you will be aware we are heavily regulated, and I write to reconfirm your current  service  
status levels as we have not met in the last 12 months.  I also write because  Brewin  Dolphin 
Securities still deem  that you are a Sovereign client. For the avoidance of doubt,  I confirm 
that we are not monitoring your Sipp or investments, or ensuring that your investment 
strategies or your risk profiles remains suitable to your requirements. I also confirm  that we 
Ref: DRN01187913have agreed that you will instruct  Sovereign Asset Management Ltd on an hourly rate as and 
when you require our services.
Mr H replied a few days later confirming his understanding of the arrangement. Sovereign 
sent an email to Brewin Dolphin on 3 August 2017 saying:
The client [Mr H] should not now really be benefitting from discounted  Brewin fees.
Mr H emailed Sovereign on 18 August 2017  asking:
[Brewin  Dolphin] tells me that there  may be a need  for a suitability report for my SIPP.  This 
is not an urgent matter,  as I understand it. What would you need to prepare  the report in 
terms of information  and how much would it cost to prepare such  a report?
Sovereign replied suggesting they meet with Mr H to discuss charges and their relationship.  
Brewin Dolphin wrote  to Mr H a few months  later in a letter dated 6 October  2017  saying:
In order for me to undertake a discretionary investment management service  for you, there  
is a regulatory  requirement for a qualified adviser  to assess your needs, including suitability 
of any products, services  and the level of risk you are prepared  to take.   
A later email between  Brewin Dolphin and Sovereign clarified that the word  regulatory 
should have been company, because it was not a regulatory requirement to have an 
adviser for a SIPP account, but a Brewin Dolphin requirement.    
The October letter went on to state that Mr H could  use an in-house adviser from Brewin 
Dolphin for ongoing advice. Brewin Dolphin said that Mr H had been  charged the 
Intermediary Partnership Rate of 1.25%  (0.5%  going to Sovereign  and VAT charged on 
management), but that a Wealth Management  Rate of 1.14% (which included 0.19%  
commission), with no fees going to an adviser could  be charged if Mr H did not want  an 
adviser attached.  
Mr H complained to Brewin Dolphin, stating, among other things, that he did not think  it fair 
that Brewin Dolphin  increase the charges on his account. Brewin Dolphin agreed to maintain 
the reduced 0.75% charging  structure in the short term.  
After further discussions  about fees between all parties, Sovereign  emailed Mr H on 
20 November 2017 stating: 
I think  the confusion here is because where  Brewin Dolphin clients  are introduced  by 
Sovereign Asset Management Ltd, our clients benefit by the reduced fees that have been  
negotiated by us. Whereas  direct clients are charged higher fees As Sovereign Asset 
Management were  no longer  representing  you, it was my understanding  at some  point that 
Brewin Dolphin would be writing to you with a revised fee structure.
The letter also said:
As you are aware, IFAs are heavily regulated, and because  Brewin Dolphin Securities still 
currently deem that you are a Sovereign client, we could in theory,  be held responsible  for 
not conducting our usual  due diligence and client reviews during this period. Obviously, over 
the longer term this is not good business  practice for us to take this risk without any form of 
Ref: DRN01187914remuneration and without sounding too harsh, we will need to request that Brewin  Dolphin 
Securities remove this association.
In January 2018, Brewin Dolphin offered Mr H a new cost structure with a maximum fee of 
0.75% per year. Mr H has subsequently  arranged a new investment manager and ended his 
relationship with Brewin Dolphin and Sovereign.
Our adjudicator concluded:
The written evidence  cited was not an example of misrepresentation because he 
thought Sovereigns concerns were justified. 
There was no further evidence beyond Mr Hs disputed recollections. 
Mr H benefited from Sovereigns services  since 2007, and they fulfilled  their part of 
the agreement. 
It would  not have been possible for Mr H to have retained Brewin  Dolphin on just a 
0.75% fee structure without the involvement,  and therefore payment to, Sovereign.
Mr H didnt agree. He made the following points:
Brewin Dolphin acted in concert  with Sovereign. It was important to consider the 
misrepresentation by both firms  together.
He only met with the adviser from Sovereign after his existing IFA retired  in 2006. 
Sovereigns adviser had a substantial existing  relationship with Brewin Dolphin. The 
presentation in July 2007 was against  this background.
There are two strands of the misrepresentation:
oThe alleged need for an IFA on a continuous  basis due to regulatory  or 
Standard Lifes  requirements.
oThe alleged cost effective way to meet the requirement to attach Sequence to 
his accounts with a commission fee of 0.5% a year.
The way it was explained to Mr H at the presentation was that if he did not appoint 
Sovereign that Brewin Dolphins  fees would increase,  and he would have to appoint 
another IFA.
Brewin Dolphin have admitted that it was not cost effective to have Sovereign 
attached to the account being  paid 0.5%  a year rather than paying higher fees to 
Brewin Dolphin.
Tenets letter of 11 September 2018 said that the costs were  represented  to Mr H on 
the basis of information supplied by Brewin Dolphin.  This has not been dealt with in 
any detail and Mr Hs account has not been  denied.
It cannot be seriously argued  that he did not ask in the meeting in July 2007  about 
the need for two sets of advisers and fees that were  more than he was used to 
paying.
Brewin Dolphins letter  of 6 October  2017 is based on a standard  template. The letter 
said:
"In order  for me to undertake a discretionary investment management  service  
for you, there is a regulatory  requirement  for a qualified adviser to assess  
your needs,  including suitability of any products, services and the level of risk 
you are prepared to take. ... without  this I am unable to continue to provide 
you with our Discretionary Investment Management service. ... You will need 
to appoint a new financial adviser to act as your 'agent'  to enable me to 
continue providing  our Discretionary Management  services to you."
Ref: DRN01187915Brewin Dolphins internal position on this is that it is a Standard Life requirement 
(based on regulation) for an IFA to be appointed. Brewin Dolphins representative 
apologised to him in the June 2016 meeting; and Brewin Dolphin has never denied 
this false position.
He did not agree with the adjudicator about  the calculation of his loss. If the 
misrepresentation was made,  then the starting  assumption should be that the 0.5% a 
year charge would  not have been made.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
adjudicator and for broadly the same reasons. Mr H made the point the complaint is about 
both Sovereign and Brewin  Dolphin.  I have reviewed the files together  and my conclusions 
are similar.
Mr H says the requirement to have  an IFA was misrepresented  to him as being a regulatory  
requirement. The evidence he relies upon  to support  his assertion is from 2016 and later. It 
is clear by that time Brewin Dolphin was saying it was a regulatory requirement  for an IFA to 
be attached to his SIPP  account.  There is no regulatory requirement, although Brewin 
Dolphin have their own requirement for an IFA to be attached to the account.
The adjudicator described the evidence of a misrepresentation  in 2007 as being  thin. I 
agree. There is some  evidence of email correspondence and that mentions charges. The 
correspondence Mr H relies upon  to support his claim  is nearly ten years after he says the 
misrepresentation was made. I am not satisfied that there is sufficient evidence  of the 
misrepresentation Mr H claims was made to him.
I would also observe that representations were  made to Mr H by Sovereigns adviser, but 
based on Brewin Dolphins understanding of the position. However, none of this affected the 
cost of Sovereigns  services. In 2016 a different deal was negotiated for ad hoc fees to be 
paid; and an alternative of 0.25% a year fees was offered by Sovereign.  It seems to me that 
Mr H could have negotiated about Sovereigns  fees in 2007.  So, even if I were to conclude 
that a misrepresentation was made, I agree with the adjudicator that it is difficult to see that 
Mr H suffered a financial loss as a result of the misrepresentation.
I am also satisfied that Sovereign did provide  services to Mr H in accordance with the 
agreement. 
my final decision
I do not uphold  the complaint and make  no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 October  2020.
Roy Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0118791