K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that British Gas Insurance Limited  is responsible for mishandling a home 
emergency insurance policy.
background
The Financial Ombudsman  Service deals with one complaint  against  one regulated  financial 
firm at a time. We deal with complaints about mis-selling as complaints against the firm that 
sold the policy. We deal with complaints about  mishandling of claims as complaints against 
the insurance company.
Where I refer to British Gas I refer to the insurance  company of that name  and I include 
engineers and others for whose  actions  I hold that company responsible.
With effect from 1 January 2017  Mr K took out a British Gas HomeCare Two policy. In March 
2017 British Gas did a first visit. 
In September  2018 Mr K called  British  Gas for help with his central heating system.  British 
Gas said he had a problem with his energy management system - that wasnt  covered. 
Mr K paid £299.88 for a new policy with another insurance company which fixed his problem 
on 9 October 2018. He complained that British Gas should refund the payments he had 
made to it and to the other insurer.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought  that 
British Gas had followed  the terms of Mr Ks policy correctly.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr K 
and to British  Gas on 30 September 2019.  I summarise my findings:
The policy  terms excluded  energy management systems.
British Gas did enough to bring that exclusion to Mr Ks attention when he bought the 
policy. So I didnt find that British Gas treated Mr K unfairly by relying on that 
exclusion.
Subject to any further information from Mr K or from British Gas,  my provisional  decision was 
that I wasnt minded  to uphold this complaint. I didnt intend  to direct British  Gas Insurance 
Limited to do anything further  in response  to this complaint.
Mr K disagreed with the provisional decision. He says, in summary, that:
What constitutes an energy management system isnt defined on pages  4 and 5 of 
the policy.
Ref: DRN01323212He wouldnt have  been comfortable taking  out an insurance policy which  didnt cover 
all his central heating  and hot water  equipment.
British Gas left a job sheet on 16 March 2017  but he is unable to find it. British Gas 
hasnt provided  any evidence as to what was recorded on the job sheet.
He doesnt  agree that the computerised record is enough evidence that he was 
aware he had an energy  management  system.
On the first visit, British Gas should at least have  offered a cheaper product that 
covered only the boiler - or invited him to cancel the policy.  If British Gas had done  
so, he wouldve taken  out an appropriate policy immediately and avoided  being 
without central heating and hot water for such a long time.
He contacted the boiler manufacturer in September 2018. Its minimum call out 
charge was £300.00.
He took out a repair and care plan with another insurer at a cost of £299.88.  The 
primary purpose was to repair his central  heating and hot water system. It also 
included ongoing  protection  until 27 March 2019.  At the very least British Gas should 
reimburse the cost of £299.88. 
British Gas is in agreement with the provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From what  Mr K and British Gas each say, I find that Mr K had a central heating system  with 
an external sensor  and a controller to make  adjustments in line with the weather.
I find it likely  that Mr K got some  information  from the British  Gas website about HomeCare. 
But I think that information was subject to the detailed terms of the policy.
In December 2016 Mr K bought the British Gas policy to cover  his central heating system 
including an annual  boiler service. British Gas hasnt sent us a call recording. But I find it 
unlikely that there was any mention  of energy  management  systems.
At that time the current British Gas policy terms were those dated October 2015. There was 
a general exclusion  as follows:
Energy/central heating management systems
We wont repair or replace  energy or central  heating  management  systems 
British Gas wasnt responsible for giving Mr K advice about whether the policy  met his 
needs. And the policy was one from which he could get some benefit,  for example an annual  
service and boiler repairs. For that reason  I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct British  
Gas to refund his premium.
The exclusion of energy management systems was a significant term for any customer  with 
such a system. I wouldnt usually find it reasonable for British Gas to rely on such an 
Ref: DRN01323213exclusion unless British  Gas did enough to draw  the exclusion  to the attention  of the 
customer at the time of sale of the policy. 
The exclusion was on page 31 of the policy terms. 
But there was a clear  index on page 2 leading to the General Exclusions on pages 30 and 
31. And the summary  of insurance products on page 9 also highlighted those general 
exclusions. Those exclusions werent  too numerous  and had clear sub-headings including 
the last one Energy/central heating management systems .
So on balance Im satisfied that British Gas did enough to bring the exclusion to Mr Ks 
attention when he bought  the policy.
The policy provided  for a first visit for British  Gas to check that it could cover Mr Ks boiler 
and central heating. The policy provided  as follows:
If we find its not on the approved list or it has a pre-existing fault well either:
 Tell you what  needs to be done to fix it  and how much itll cost
 Or, offer you a different  product or level of cover
 Or, cancel  your agreement or product 
A first visit took place on 16 March 2017.  Ive seen a British Gas record  as follows:
CODE0/1ST VISIT COMPLETE/CUSTOMER AWARE ENERGY MANAGEMENT 
SYSTEM NOT COVERED/COD TESTED/FLUE SEALED
I find it likely  that British  Gas left Mr K a job sheet. I havent seen such  a sheet. The main  
purpose of the visit was to check that British  Gas could cover Mr Ks system. So  from the 
computerised record - I find it more likely  than not that British Gas had ensured that Mr K 
was aware that he had an energy  management  system that the policy didnt cover.
I dont think thats  the same as finding that the boiler or central heating system wasnt  on the 
approved list or had a pre-existing fault. So I dont  find that British  Gas had to cancel the 
agreement or offer a different product.
Ive seen a British Gas record dated 24 March 2017  as follows:
CODE 0/COMBINATION  VALVE  PRV FITTED
From that I think that British Gas had - under  the policy - fitted a pressure release valve.  So 
Mr K did benefit from the policy. 
With effect from 1 January 2018,  the policy was automatically renewed.  At that time the 
current British Gas policy terms were  those dated September 2017. There was the same 
general exclusion as quoted above.
In June 2018 British Gas did an annual  service.
On 26 September  2018 British Gas responded to Mr Ks report that his central heating 
wasnt working. British Gas declined to fix it. 
Ref: DRN01323214Mr K has shown  us a handwritten job sheet saying that there  was a fault with his weather 
compensating controls.  Thats not the same wording as its computerised record that says 
FAULT WITH ENERGY MANAGE SYSTEM.  
And the policy covers  the boiler and its controls  without defining  what  it excludes as energy 
or central  heating  management systems.
But  from the note of the first visit  I find that Mr K did have an energy management 
system and British Gas had told him he had one. And  from the notes of the visit on 26 
September 2018  I find that there was a fault with that system.
Ive found that the policy terms excluded energy management systems and that British Gas 
did enough to bring that exclusion to Mr Ks attention when he bought the policy.  So I dont 
find that British Gas treated Mr K unfairly  by relying  on that exclusion.
Mr K chose to take out a policy on 27 September 2018 with another insurer. That cost him 
about £300.00. That covered the repair and six months cover.
In the event, Mr K was left without heating or hot water for about 14 days. I dont doubt that 
was inconvenient and distressing.
But I havent found that British Gas treated him unfairly.  So I dont find it fair and reasonable 
to direct British Gas to make any payment or to do anything further in response  to his 
complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  explained, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint. I 
dont direct British Gas Insurance Limited to do anything further in response to this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 November  2019.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0132321