K820x#14complaint
Ms D complains that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) has unfairly declined a claim she made 
under her buildings  insurance, and mis-sold her policy.
background
Ms Ds neighbour  completed some work on their own property, including the removal  of a 
supporting wall. As a result, a crack  appeared in Ms Ds wall. Ms D said her neighbour had a 
building warrant, and the works  didnt  require planning permission, meaning  these cracks  
were outside  of her control. 
Ms D made a claim  on her buildings insurance  policy with UKI but it was declined. UKI said 
the event would be classed as accidental  damage  unforeseen  and unintentional damage  
caused to the property   and this would fall under an optional cover Ms D had chosen to not 
take. And it said Ms D didnt have legal cover in place at the time, so it couldnt support any 
civil action against  her neighbour.
Ms D said these works were  not accidental, and the damage was not sudden.  So UKI had 
unfairly declined  the claim. She said the policy contained contradictory  statements about the 
cover, did not highlight  the limited cover  provided, and as a result  she felt shed been given 
misleading information and was mis-sold the policy.
Ms D brought her complaint to our service  and one of our investigators looked  into her 
concerns. He said having looked at the insurance policy  he agreed the incident wouldnt fall 
under any of the core elements of the policy, and would  instead fall under the definition of 
accidental damage.
The investigator explained accidental damage cover was an optional  extra  to the policy,  and 
hadnt been taken by Ms D. So he thought  UKI had acted fairly in the circumstances  by 
declining the claim.
Ms D responded to say she felt UKI had failed to interpret  the policy wording correctly. She 
said the cover was advertised as providing cover  for her walls,  roof and floors and in this 
instance damage had been  caused to a wall of her home. So she said the claim should  be 
covered. Ms D also said the incident was not an accident as it occurred as a result of the 
negligent work carried out by her neighbour.
Ms D also asked our service to consider  differences in the law between different  countries in 
the UK. She said The Party Wall Act (PWA)  1996, for England and Wales, specifies all work 
to load-bearing  and party walls must be insured by the party  carrying  out the work.  And she 
said this protects any neighbouring properties.
Ms D lives in Scotland, and said because the PWA does not exist there this means home 
owners whose buildings are damaged arent covered by a home insurance. So she said as 
the policy is advertised as buildings insurance , it is implied for all common  scenarios 
related to the fabric of the building in Scotland.
Ref: DRN06626742Our investigator looked again, and said while the policy does cover the walls, roof, and floors 
of the property, it only covers insured events. So he said it wasnt  right to assume  the 
property was covered  for every eventuality. He also said the legislation  Ms D had referenced 
didnt mean  cover was implied, or change that she hadnt taken the additional accidental 
cover. So he said he couldnt ask UKI to consider a claim for cover  she hadnt  taken.
Ms D asked for an ombudsmans final decision so the complaint  has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain  why.
Ms Ds buildings  insurance policy provides a core cover for loss or damage caused by 
certain insured  perils,  such  as storm damage, fire or escape of water. This policy also 
included optional extra  insurances  that could be taken at an additional  cost.  These  additional 
insurances include accidental cover,  legal assistance, and home emergency cover.
mis-sale
Ms D has said she believes  the insurance  isnt fit for purpose as her home would  be never 
covered for any works carried out by third parties.  And had she known the limited  level of 
cover under her policy she wouldnt have  taken it.
Under ICOBS 2.2.2 UKI has an obligation to provide its customers  with information  that is 
clear, fair and not misleading. So Ive considered what  she wouldve seen when she took out 
her policy.
Ms D took out her policy  online  around  June 2017.  UKI has provided me with screenshots  
from the time that it says she wouldve seen. Having looked  through these screenshots, I 
can see Ms D wouldve had to have selected  the levels of cover she took under  the policy.  
And its not in dispute that Ms D selected the level of cover  she wanted.  
Each of these sections  summarised the additional cover that could be added.  So I think  UKI 
did provide her with clear,  fair and not misleading  information allowing Ms D to make  an 
informed choice when  deciding whether or not to take these additional insurances. 
Ms D has said these  screenshots are irrelevant as this policy would not have covered this 
type of damage  regardless  of the cover she took. And shes sent us a section of promotional 
material that says buildings insurance  will cover the structure of a home  including  walls and 
floors. Ms D has said this shows  the damage to her property should be covered. Like most 
insurances, buildings insurance provides protection against certain  insured events and 
subject to exclusions, terms, and conditions. I dont  think this statement  especially read in 
isolation  suggests  that UKI would cover all possible damage caused  to a property. And as 
a result I dont think Ms D was mis-sold this policy.
Ref: DRN06626743the claim
Ms D has said her wall is damaged as a result of the works carried  out by her neighbour. Ive 
read through  Ms Ds policy carefully and Im satisfied this damage or loss doesnt fall under 
any of the insured perils laid out in the core cover she had taken.
UKI has said it would  have considered a claim under accidental damage  cover had Ms D 
taken this additional insurance.  It defines  accidental damage as sudden  and unintentional 
physical damage  that happens unexpectedly.:
The damage Ms D has described  does  appear  to be unintentional  and unexpected as it 
doesnt seem her neighbour wouldve meant to cause damage to her property. Ms D has 
said she doesnt believe this claim would have been  considered accidental  damage.  But I 
disagree. And Im satisfied UKI would  have considered a claim under this section as it has 
said  had she taken  the additional  cover.
Ms D has argued the incident should be described  as negligence as the workmanship is the 
reason for the damage to her property. I disagree that the damage  couldnt be described  as 
accidental. But in any case, negligence from a third party isnt an insured peril that Ms D is 
covered for under her policy. So I dont think this changes anything.
Another optional  cover that couldve  been taken with this policy  is legal assistance. This 
provides cover for a number of different  scenarios, including property protection. This says:
You are covered for a civil dispute relating to your principal home which you own or for 
which you are responsible following:
an event which causes physical  damage to your principal  home, provided that the 
amount in dispute is more than £100.
Had Ms D taken this additional  cover, its possible she may have been able to pursue her 
neighbour for costs of the damage to her property through civil action, supported  by UKI. But 
again this cover wasnt taken so I cant expect UKI to consider this. This doesnt  mean  she 
cant pursue legal action just that UKI isnt bound by the policy  to fund this.
Ms D has argued the absence of the PWA in Scotland means  cover  for walls should be 
implied within her policy. Ive considered this point and I disagree. Ms Ds home is insured, 
and she is covered for various insured perils. Unfortunately  she hadnt taken additional 
insurances that may have helped her in this situation, and I dont see the PWA has any 
bearing on this.
For these reasons I think UKI has acted fairly in declining this claim and I wont  be asking it 
to do anything further. 
Ref: DRN06626744my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2019.
Jack Baldry
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0662674