K820x#14complaint
Miss G complains  that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) is pursuing her for repayment of 
a debt that she thinks is satisfied.
background
Miss G has a bank account with Barclays. During  2015, she began  to use her overdraft and 
go over the overdraft limit regularly. Barclays wrote to Miss G in September  2015 saying it 
was terminating  her banking facilities and in January  2016  transferred her account to its 
collections department.  The debt was passed to a third party  debt recovery agent in 2016.
Barclays records show Miss G phoned the bank about this in January and February  2016.  
The notes from the first call say Miss G explained she was unemployed and discussed a 
payment plan. A plan wasnt finalised although  Miss G said she would make cash payments. 
The notes from the next phone call say Miss G phoned to check how and when to make a 
payment. Miss G didnt  make a payment that month and hasnt made  any since.
In December 2017, Barclays wrote to Miss G saying an internal review had found  her 
account couldve been handled  better, and she would  be refunded some fees and charges. 
Miss G contacted Barclays in May 2018, complaining  that this refund  hadnt been paid 
directly to her and that she shouldnt have to repay anything because Barclays  wrote to her 
in January 2016 saying her debt was satisfied  and the bank had told her the same  thing on 
a phone call. Miss G has shared a copy of the letter with our service and says she was given 
it in the branch. Miss G also asked Barclays to remove the debt from her credit file. Shes 
told us that her difficulties  with Barclays have caused her distress  and shes been diagnosed 
with stress.
Barclays didnt uphold  Miss Gs complaint because it said it was right to apply the refund to 
her remaining debt,  and it had no record of the letter shed referred  to  and that the letter 
wouldve been incorrect even if it had sent it. Barclays said Miss G was still expected  to 
repay the debt and her credit file reporting  wouldnt be changed because it was accurate.
Miss G wasnt satisfied  with this response and brought her complaint to our service. An 
adjudicator considered Miss Gs complaint but didnt uphold it because  they thought Miss G 
knew that she hadnt repaid the debt,  so Barclays was entitled to ask her to repay  it. Miss G 
disagreed with this view because she says Barclays had told her she didnt  need  to repay it. 
She asked  for an ombudsman decision so her complaint was referred to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconsistent or contradictory, I have  made  my decision based  on the balance of probabilities  
- that is, what I consider is most  likely to have  happened in light of the available evidence  
and the wider circumstances.
Ref: DRN00635362I can see Barclays contacted Miss G several  times  in 2015 to explain that her account was 
being transferred  to its collections department.  Barclays letters  clearly  explain what  would 
happen if Miss G didnt do anything. From this, Im satisfied that Barclays  took reasonable 
steps at that time to explain  to Miss G what was happening, that she was expected to repay 
her debt and that her credit file would be affected  if she didnt do anything. 
So then Ive considered whether its fair for Barclays to continue to seek repayment from 
Miss G in light of the letter shes sent this service, apparently from Barclays,  saying that her 
debt has been  satisfied. Barclays has no record of sending a letter  like this. Its shared 
details of unsuccessful  efforts  to trace the letter  although one system  cant  be searched 
because its no longer used. Theres also no record of the Barclays systems being updated 
to show the debt as satisfied   which Id expect to see if the bank had decided  not to pursue 
it in the way this letter  says.
Miss G says she was given the letter in the branch so theres no proof of postage. But the 
letter also has mistakes and was addressed  and written differently to Barclays  other letters  
to Miss G around that time,  suggesting it was produced manually. Taking all these points 
into consideration, even if I was persuaded that Barclays sent this letter  and, based on the 
available evidence, Im not  I think  it wouldve  been  sent incorrectly  because I dont think  
Barclays ever did consider the debt as satisfied. That means that this letter  alone isnt 
sufficient reason for me to fairly  tell Barclays  that it shouldnt continue to pursue the debt.
I can see that Miss G spoke to Barclays about  her debt in February 2016. I think  this is likely 
to be the call Miss G is referring  to when she said she was told she didnt have to repay  
anything. But Barclays has kept call records and while the relevant call recording isnt 
available - these  records  say that Miss G called to check how and when she should make  a 
payment. Theres no mention of the letter or the debt being satisfied. Without the recording,  I 
cant be sure that the call notes are correct - but the advisors notes  are otherwise thorough  
and plausible  and I cant find a good reason for them to have misrepresented the call. On 
balance, I think the most  likely explanation here is that Miss G and the advisor discussed a 
payment as the notes say  which leads  me to think Miss G knew then that she was 
expected to repay the debt.
Miss G has shared a copy of a letter she sent  through  a debt management charity  to 
Barclays later in 2016 asking for confirmation that the debt was satisfied.  Barclays  hasnt got 
a record of this so doesnt know  if she received a reply. But because I think  Miss G knew  
when she spoke to Barclays in February  2016  - after she wouldve received  the letter - that 
she was expected to repay the debt,  and because the debt recovery agency was contacting 
her, I think she can be reasonably expected  to have known the debt was still outstanding.
From the available evidence, Im not persuaded that Barclays told Miss G she didnt need to 
repay her debt. All the evidence  Ive seen  although its admittedly inconclusive  suggests 
that Barclays and the debt recovery agents  wrote to Miss G several times about repayment 
before and after January 2016. And Im not persuaded, on balance, that Barclays ever 
considered what  she owed to be satisfied. So taking  everything together, Im not persuaded 
that Barclays did anything  wrong here. So if Barclays  is recording information that reflects 
this on Miss Gs credit file, I think its entitled to do that as an accurate record of the conduct  
of the account.  I know Miss G will be disappointed with my decision,  but I wont be asking 
Barclays to do anything  more here.  
Ref: DRN00635363my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Miss Gs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 May 2019.
Katy Pillai
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0063536