K822xcomplaint
Ms P is unhappy with the service  AXA Insurance  UK Plc has provided after she had made a 
claim on her motor  insurance policy. 
background 
Ms P had a road traffic  accident  in December  2017. AXA wrote  to Ms P and explained that 
its approved repairer  had been appointed to repair the car. It also confirmed as it was a non-
fault accident Ms Ps excess fee would be waived. But it said that if the circumstances 
changed Ms P may be liable to pay her excess.
Later Ms P was asked to pay the excess by the approved repairer.  She was confused  by this 
as the accident wasnt  her fault and she had previously been advised  that the excess  would 
be waived. But AXA explained  that as it hadnt  received admission of liability  from the third 
party the excess would need to be paid.  But once  it had, it would refund the excess fee.
Ms P is also unhappy with how long it took for her car to be repaired by AXAs  approved 
repairer. She says it took over a month  to get the car booked in for repairs  and over two 
months for the repairs  to be completed. And during that time, she was given a manual car 
when she drives an automatic. When the car was returned to her in April 2018, Ms P says 
she took it for a service  and was told the spare  wheel bracket was missing.
Ms P has also said that as a result of the road traffic  accident  her premiums were  affected. 
So, she complained  to AXA.
AXA investigated Ms Ps complaint and issued  it final response. It agreed it had caused  
some delays and because of this it offered  Ms P £100. Ms P remained unhappy,  so she 
brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into the case and she thought  AXA needed to do more to put things 
right. To summarise she said that AXA had caused  severe delays which had impacted Ms P 
and she also thought AXA could have done more to ensure they were communicating  with 
Ms P. So, she recommended that AXA paid Ms P a further £150 for the trouble and upset it 
had caused. AXA accepted the recommendation. But Ms P didnt  agree,  she felt the offer 
wasnt reflective of the trouble and upset  she had experienced. So, she asked  for the case to 
be passed to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigators findings for broadly the same reasons. I will explain why.
Its clear that Ms P experienced significant  delays  while she was waiting for her car to be 
booked in for repair and while the car was being  repaired. And from the evidence  provided I 
can see she received  conflicting information about  what was causing  the delays. Having 
reviewed the contact notes I can see that Ms P also spent a lot of time contacting  AXA and 
asking for updates. This undoubtedly would have caused Ms P a degree of trouble and 
upset. 
I have considered the terms of the policy and I can see that Ms P was entitled to a class A 
courtesy car while her car was in for repairs. I am pleased to see this was provided. I also 
Ref: DRN03884342note that Ms P agreed to accept a manual rather than an automatic.  But having considered 
the length of time she was without her car, I dont  think its unreasonable  to suggest she 
would have opted for an automatic (which  was the same as her car) if she had been made 
aware how long it would have taken. So again,  I can see how this would have caused  Ms P 
a degree of inconvenience.  
When the car was eventually repaired  Ms, P established there were further issues with the 
car and while  this was rectified, it would have been very frustrating to have  been  without a 
car for that period and when it was returned  there  were still issues with it.
I have seen evidence  to suggest Ms P was told her excess  would  be waived as it was a non-
fault claim.  But it appears the approved repairer insisted  of Ms P paying the excess  while  the 
repairs were being  carried out. And while Ms P was reimbursed for this, she was still 
misadvised. AXA shouldnt have confirmed that the policy was going to be waived  when 
the approved  repairer had every intention  of requesting it. 
So, having  considered all the above,  I think its clear Ms P did experience trouble and upset 
due to delays  and poor communication from AXA. AXA had offered £100 but I agree with the 
investigator that this wasnt enough.  I think the recommendation made by the investigator 
was reasonable.  I say this because whilst Ms P did have to regularly chase for updates and 
was without her own car for a significant amount of time, she did have access to a car which 
was in line with her policy terms. So, when I considered the level of inconvenience caused,  I 
am largely  looking at the mis-communication and delays of not having access  to her specific  
car. And I dont think its fair to say she experienced a degree of upset which exceeds a total 
of £250. 
Ms P was unhappy  as she says the incidence has affected her premium and no claims 
discount. But AXA has said this was due to the fact the claim was recorded as a fault claim 
when Ms P was renewing her policy. Now the claim has been closed, Ms P has received a 
refund. So, I cant say she has been disadvantaged  by this or that her no claims discount 
has been affected.
So, with this AXA should compensate Ms P a further £150. Meaning the total compensation, 
it will have  paid Ms P is £250.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Ps complaint and require AXA Insurance  UK Plc to pay 
Ms P a further £150  meaning the total compensation  it will have paid Ms P is £250.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 January 2020.
Jade Rowe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0388434