K820x#14complaint
Mr C says Santander UK Plc (Santander)  mis-sold him a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
I issued my provisional decision on 28 November 2018. A copy  of my provisional decision is 
attached and forms part of my final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background to this complaint. It explains why I 
provisionally decided  the complaint shouldnt be upheld.
Both parties  confirmed receiving my provisional decision, but neither party responded to my 
provisional decision with any further comments or information that they wished for me to 
consider.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party replied  with anything further for me to consider I confirm the findings in my 
provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, the PPI wasnt mis-sold  
to Mr C and Santander  UK Plc doesnt  need  to do anything. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN00924192Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
Mr C says Santander UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold him a mortgage payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about  the sale of a regular premium PPI policy taken out in 2005 to protect  Mr Cs 
mortgage. Mr Cs mortgage was taken in 2004,  but in 2005 he took some further additional borrowing 
to consolidate some debt. And it was at this point that PPI was sold to protect  the further borrowing 
and his new monthly mortgage repayment.  
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. They considered that Mr C wasnt eligible for the policy,  as he 
had only been employed for one month at the time of taking the policy. And to be eligible for the 
policy, Mr C had to have  been in paid work of at least  16 hours per week for at least  six months.  Our 
adjudicator thought Mr C wouldnt have been able to benefit from the policy  as he wasnt eligible for it 
from the outset.
Santander disagreed, it said while Mr C was only employed for one month at the time of the sale the 
policy had a caveat that did allow him to claim once he had been employed continuously for six 
months. So Santander  argued  that the policy was still useful for Mr C.
As the matter  hasnt been resolved the complaint has been passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive provisionally considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mr Cs case.  
Having done so, Ive decided  that the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
did Mr C have  a fair choice  to take out PPI?
Mr C says he cant remember PPI being  added or discussed. Mr C took out his initial mortgage in 
2004, but the PPI was added later on in 2005 when Mr C took out some further borrowing. 
Santander has provided the customer profile  high level needs analysis form that it competed with, 
and for Mr C. Having looked at this paperwork it seems as if there was detailed discussion  around Mr 
Cs financial needs and as a consequence PPI was recommended and accepted by Mr C.
All things considered, I think given that Mr C already had his mortgage in place the policy wasnt a 
requirement of any borrowing. And I think he would  have  been aware that he had a choice as to 
whether to accept the policy or decline it. But given the time that has passed since the sale of PPI it is 
understandable that he cant remember  this.
Ref: DRN00924193was Mr C eligible for the policy?
It was in dispute as to whether Mr C was in fact eligible  for the policy. So was he in continuous  paid 
employment of at least 16 hours per week for at least six months  at the time of taking  out the policy?
Our adjudicator rightly  thought  Mr C wasnt as he had only been employed for one month at the time 
of taking out the PPI in 2005. And Mr C had had break in his employment of one week from his last 
employer. So our adjudicator thought Mr C hadnt been in continuous employment of at least six 
months.
But Santander  pointed  out that within the policy terms (for eligibility), it allowed  consumers to go 
ahead with the PPI but they would  only be allowed  to claim once they had been employed for six 
months continuously.
So Mr C could  take out the PPI  but would only be eligible to claim  under the policy once he had 
been employed for six months.
why is this important? 
As I said earlier, Santander completed an in-depth review of Mr Cs circumstances when it sold him 
the policy.  And from its review Santander recommended the PPI to Mr C. This is important because  it 
meant Santander had to make sure the PPI was right for him. And based on what  Ive seen  of Mr Cs 
circumstances at the time  I think it was. 
Mr C could claim under  the policy once he had been employed for six months continuously.  Given  
that the PPI was there to protect Mr Cs mortgage which was due to be in place for a number of years 
I think  Mr C wouldnt have been put off by the fact he had to wait a further five months before  he could 
claim. So I dont think Santanders recommendation was unsuitable for this reason.
Taking a mortgage is a large, long term financial commitment.  And borrowers  stand  to lose their home 
if they dont keep  up with repayments. And Mr C was solely responsible for his mortgage repayments. 
So while Mr C received  good employer benefits,  the PPI would have protected Mr Cs mortgage for up 
to 12 months  per claim, if he was unable  to work due to an accident or sickness or if he lost his job. 
Also, it would have paid out in addition  to any work  benefits  meaning he could use his work benefits 
for any other priorities. 
I also note that Mr C didnt have any other savings or insurance policies that he could have  used to 
meet his repayments.  While Mr C has said he could  have relied on his family to help, they may not 
have been in the position  to help when Mr C needed it. Having PPI meant that he had the security in 
place and peace of mind  that he would not have required his familys assistance. 
So, all things  considered, I think the cover could  have provided a useful benefit  and I cant say that 
the advisers recommendation was unsuitable.
I cant  be sure how well Santander explained the cost of the policy. But Ive thought  about  the benefit 
Mr C could have got if he made  a claim,  together with the cost of the policy and his circumstances at 
the time. And, even  if Santander had explained  the cost clearly, I think he would have still bought the 
policy for the reasons I have  explained above.
Ive also seen  nothing  to suggest  that paying for the PPI was a problem for Mr C  and Im satisfied 
that its likely  he took it out when he didnt  have to, so it seems he wanted the cover.  
Ref: DRN00924194Its also possible Santander didnt point out the main things  the policy didnt  cover. But Mr C doesnt 
appear to have been  affected by any of those things. So I dont think  clearer information  about  these 
things would have stopped him from taking out the policy.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, I am of the provisional opinion that Mr Cs PPI policy wasnt mis-sold.
I invite both parties to provide me with anything further they wish for me to consider  by 
28 December 2018. I will then consider anything I receive and issue my final decision.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0092419