K822xcomplaint
Mr K complains The Plan Group Limited  (PGL) issued the wrong documents for his taxi 
insurance policy which meant he was unable to use it for work.  
background 
I issued a provisional decision on 16 September 2019. A copy of my provisional decision is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.  Both sides to the dispute have seen my 
provisional decision on this case. I wont repeat all the details here, but I will give a brief 
summary.
Mr K was unhappy with the taxi insurance  documents issued to him by PGL.  He says this 
meant he failed and had to rebook  a test for his car with a company Ill refer to as T. Mr K 
says he wasnt able to work as a taxi driver for T as a result.  
In my provisional decision I was minded to uphold  the case  in part. I accepted  PGL had 
made an error when  it sent out documents  with the incorrect start date of the policy. But I 
didnt think PGL was aware of the test Mr K had before it made its error or before it issued 
him with a handwritten insurance note.  And PGL wouldnt have been aware the note it gave 
Mr K wouldnt be enough  to pass his test with T. I did think that the errors  in sending out the 
documentation had caused Mr K inconvenience  and frustration.  So I felt £100  was a fair 
amount. 
Since I issued my provisional  decision PGL has accepted my findings. Mr K hasnt. He feels  
he should still receive compensation for his loss of earnings as he wasnt  able to provide for 
his family  at the time.  
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr K is unhappy  about  the documents PGL sent to him. And that this led to 
a delay in him being able to work for T. But he hasnt provided  any further evidence which 
shows PGL was aware of his test before  it issued  him with the handwritten  note. And without 
this Im not satisfied PGL was aware  the handwritten  note wouldnt be enough to pass his 
test. So I cant ask it to cover Mr Ks lost earnings here. 
Im satisfied PGLs handling of this issue caused  inconvenience and frustration to Mr K at the 
time. PGL has agreed to pay the £100  compensation. Mr K hasnt provided any further  
evidence to show why this figure  should be increased. So I see no reason to increase the 
£100 here. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that The Plan Group Limited should pay Mr K 
a total of £100 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 January 2020.
Ref: DRN09142352Mark Dobson
ombudsman
copy of my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence  is incomplete,  inconclusive, or contradictory, I have to make my decision  on the 
balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider  is more likely than not to have happened  in the light 
of the available  evidence  and the wider  surrounding circumstances.  
Mr K asked PGL to change  the vehicle  on his insurance  policy with a start date of 27 April. PGL has 
confirmed that it had the correct start date at this point. Mr K then called back to pay for his cover. 
Following this call an internal e-mail  was sent at PGL asking for Mr Ks policy  to start on 29 April. 
Unfortunately the call with Mr K isnt available so I believe - on balance  a mistake was most likely  
made by PGL when typing the start date for the change in vehicle. This is because  after receiving the 
Ref: DRN09142353insurance documents with the wrong start date Mr K immediately called PGL to ask it to rectify  its 
mistake. 
PGL said it sent out the correct documents by e-mail  before  it sent out incorrect ones so Mr K could 
have taken these to his vehicle inspection. But as far as Mr K was aware PGL had made  an error on 
the last insurance  documents  it had sent. So I dont think it was unreasonable he contacted  PGL to 
ask it to rectify this situation.  And when  he did I think PGL could have told him on the phone it had 
previously sent out documents  with the correct start date on which would have meant Mr K didnt 
need the hand  written  note. 
Mr K has said he has lost a weeks worth of earnings as a result of the error by PGL. Although he has 
said an average taxi driver  could  earn £1,250-£1,450  a week he hasnt been able to provide any 
evidence of his loss of earnings for that period. But even if this was provided Im not satisfied  - on 
balance - PGL was aware Mr K needed the new insurance  certificate for his vehicle  inspection  before 
it made its error. Im satisfied its more likely PGL wasnt aware of the test when Mr K called back to 
tell it a mistake had been made so it issued a hand written note so Mr K would  be insured for his new 
vehicle. And PGL wouldnt  have been  aware the handwritten note wouldnt be enough to pass  the test 
at this point.  I believe its up to Mr K to be aware  of what documents he needed  for the inspection.  So 
I dont believe PGL should  have to pay any loss of earnings here.
The investigator asked PGL to cover  the cost of the additional test Mr K had to book because  of the 
hand written  note. Mr K has confirmed he only had two tests for his new vehicle. The vehicle test 
certificate - which Mr K failed  on 29 April - confirms that if you rebook the test within 21 days  then its 
free. As Mr K rebooked the test for 3 May I dont agree that PGL needs to cover the cost of the 
additional test here. 
Having taken  into account  PGLs handling  of this issue Im satisfied its error caused inconvenience 
and frustration  to Mr K at that time so it should  offer him some  compensation. And I agree with the 
investigator that £100 would be a fair and reasonable  amount in the circumstances. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my provisional decision  is that The Plan Group Limited should  pay Mr K a 
total of £100 compensation.
Ref: DRN0914235