K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) declined a claim made
on their travel insurance policy.
background
Mr and Mrs S went abroad,  on holiday, in August 2017. Very sadly,  a few days into that
holiday, Mrs Ss father (Mr C) died. They cut their holiday short and travelled back  to the UK,
spending in excess  of £3,000 on flights home.
They made a claim on their policy to cover  a portion of the cost of those flights   up to the
maximum policy limit. URV declined the claim on the basis  that the cause of Mr Cs death
was related to a condition that he had before  Mr and Mrs S had travelled abroad.
Mr and Mrs S didnt  think that was fair so complained to us. Our investigator upheld  their
complaint. Thats because, although she felt Mr C did have an existing condition  as defined
by the policy,  Mr and Mrs S had booked  their trip before he was diagnosed. She also said 
the medical evidence suggested Mr Cs chronic medical conditions were being  managed  and
his admission to hospital  in August  2017  was sudden, and his death unexpected. So it
wasnt fair to decline the claim.
URV disagreed. It says Mr and Mrs S bought the policy  in June 2017 and between then and
booking their holiday in January 2017  Mr C had been hospitalised and treated twice for 
matters which were  identified as the cause of his death. So the complaint was then passed  
to me to look make a decision.  I issued a provisional decision on 24 May 2019 explaining 
why I wasnt intending  to uphold the complaint.  URV accepted my provisional decision. 
Mr and Mrs S responded saying they thought the policy was sold to them in March 2017,  
and not June 2017 as URV says.  But they didnt have anything else to add.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  it. 
Before I explain my reasons for doing  so I want to reassure Mr and Mrs S that my decision is 
in no way meant to underestimate the distress  and shock  they mustve  felt by Mr Cs 
passing. And I can of course understand why they wanted to fly home when they did and not 
continue with their holiday.  But it doesnt necessarily follow that URV  acted unfairly by 
declining their claim to cover part of the costs they incurred flying  home.
The policy does provide cover if a policyholder  is required  to cut short their holiday because
of a death of a close family relative who lives in the policyholders home  country. A father is
considered to be a close  relative and Mr C lived in the UK, as did Mr and Mrs S. So theres
no issue there.
However, cover isnt provided  if the close relatives  death was caused  by an existing medical
condition, or a known  complication of it. An existing medical condition is defined as:
Any serious or recurring medical  condition which has been previously diagnosed or been
investigated or treated in any way, at any time prior to travel,  even if this condition is
currently considered  to be stable and under control.
Ref: DRN02745552Mr Cs GP has confirmed  that Mr C was:
diagnosed  with heart failure with mild left valve systolic  impairment  in February  2017
and started new medications  to manage this;
diagnosed  with various  conditions  including congestive  cardiac  failure and type 2
myocardial infarction in May 2017; and
under  the care of the heart failure  service as an out-patient  in June 2017.
So Im satisfied Mr C had an existing  condition as defined by the policy.  Hed been treated 
for  and was diagnosed with - various issues relating  his heart. And this all took place in the 
months leading  up to Mr and Mrs Ss holiday in August 2017.
I understand the cause of Mr Cs death was stated to be congestive heart failure, ischaemic
heart disease and valvular heart  disease.  So, all in all, I think  URVs decision  to decline Mr 
and Mrs Ss claim under the terms of the policy wasnt  unfair.  I think  it reasonably  concluded 
that Mr Cs death was caused  by a medical  condition for which hed been diagnosed with - 
and been treated for - prior to Mr and Mrs Ss travel.
Ive taken into account that Mr Cs GP says that his various medical  conditions  were being
managed and his admission to hospital  in August  2017 was sudden, and death unexpected.
However, that doesnt mean Mr C didnt have an existing medical condition as defined by the
policy - as it was a condition that had been  diagnosed and was being treated.
I also note what Mr and Mrs S say about Mr C having a valve  fitted  when he underwent  
bypass surgery at the age of 58, and that he was also diagnosed with heart failure  back in
2015. That provides some context to the Mr Cs medical history. But I dont think  it follows
that because his heart problems mightve been managed over a prolonged period of time, he
didnt have an existing  medical condition as defined by the policy.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial  Ombudsman  
Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to accept  or reject my decision before 12 July 
2019.
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0274555