K821x#15complaint
Mrs H has complained about the way UK Insurance Limited  (UKI)  dealt with her travel  
insurance claim. 
background
Mrs H has a Black Account packaged  bank account with Royal Bank  of Scotland.  One of the 
account benefits is worldwide travel  insurance underwritten by UKI. 
In December 2018, Mrs H travelled to Austria with her partner, Mr C. On the day they were 
due to fly back to the UK, there was heavy snowfall and an avalanche in their resort. The taxi 
theyd booked to take them to the airport was late. Their journey was then further delayed  as 
a result of road closures, so they missed their flight. As there were no further  flights  that day, 
Mrs H and Mr C arranged to stay overnight  in an airport hotel. In addition  to the cost of their 
hotel and an evening  meal, they also had to pay for their return  flights the following day.
Mrs H notified a claim to UKI under her travel insurance policy  for the additional expenses 
that she and Mr C had incurred. UKI told her that Mr C didnt meet  the definition  of partner 
under the policy  terms and conditions. When Mrs H phoned UKI to query this, the 
representative led her to believe that she would  be able to claim for Mr Cs expenses on her 
policy after all. Indeed, it emailed Mrs H whilst her claim was still being  investigated  and 
mistakenly told her that settlement was agreed. 
However, UKI later advised that it was turning down her claim altogether  because  the delay  
wasnt covered under  the terms of the policy as there was evidence  that it was due to her 
having an argument with the taxi driver about other passengers, not extreme weather  
conditions.  
Mrs H complained to UKI, which responded with a written apology.  It agreed it had wrongly 
advised her on the phone about whether her partner was covered. And it agreed that, having 
received further  information about  why she missed her flight, it would now settle her claim
but not Mr Cs. UKI admitted that it had made other  errors whilst processing the claim, so 
offered Mrs H compensation  of £125  for her distress  and inconvenience.
It took several more  weeks  before UKI settled Mrs Hs claim. Further  delays occurred whilst 
it waited for her to provide  additional  documents. UKI finally settled Mrs Hs claim at the end 
of March 2019. The settlement figure  was half what shed  claimed,  as UKI continued to 
decline cover  for Mr C. Two days later, it paid Mrs H a further £50 compensation because it 
had provided her with misleading information  and because  of the further  delays in settling. 
Mrs H thinks that UKI should  pay Mr Cs expenses as well as her own.  And she thinks  it 
unfair only to pay half the cost of the hotel  room because it would have cost the same  
amount whether or not Mr C had shared it.
Our investigator partially upheld the complaint, agreeing with UKI that there was no cover for 
Mr C under the policy. But the investigator  thought UKI should  still pay the full cost of her 
hotel roomfor the reasons given  by Mrs H. 
Both parties  disagreed, hence  this referral to me. Mrs H maintains that UKI should pay for 
her partners costs as well as hers. Whereas  UKI submits that it isnt fair for it to cover the 
Ref: DRN09681402full cost of the hotel  room because, as Mrs H shared  the room with an uninsured  person, it 
was reasonable  that he should pay half. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
The starting point  is the policy terms and conditions,  as these evidence the parties 
contractual rights and responsibilities. They provide that this policy  automatically  covers all 
Black account holders,  their partner and every  dependent child,  so we do not automatically 
issue any documentation  showing their names  (other than if you add on any of the upgrades 
outlined above). The upgrades include,  amongst  other things, the ability to add guest 
cover, i.e. cover for anyone other  than the account holder, their partner or any dependent 
child. 
Partner is emboldened  in the original text as a defined term:
The person the account  holder lives with at home in a relationship, whether  married or 
cohabiting, as if husband and wife or civil partners regardless of gender.    
Theres a phone call which took place between Mrs H and UKI shortly after she submitted 
her claim. When she was asked whether she and her partner lived together,  she replied, 
Not permanently  no. In my judgment, this is persuasive evidence that Mr C would  have 
needed to be added  as a guest in order to benefit from this insurance. 
Mrs H later submitted a photo  of a letter addressed to Mr C at her home address, as 
evidence that they lived together. However,  its merely an advertising circular  from a holiday 
companyand its not disputed that they are holiday companions. I dont  consider  that its 
enough to prove that Mr C fulfils the above-quoted policy  definition  of partner; and when 
UKI asked  Mrs H for further or better evidence, such as a utility  bill in his name, she was 
unable to provide  it. As is often the case,  the answer initially given, before an issue  becomes 
contentious, is more  probative from an evidential point of view. I therefore consider that it 
was fair and reasonable for UKI to decline cover for Mr C, as it was never asked to assume 
travel risks for him. 
On that basis, UKI says its only responsible  for half of Mrs Hs claim, as her policy  only 
covers her expenses, not Mr Cs. I agree its correct to pay only the cost of her flight and for 
half the cost of the evening meal. However, I dont think its fair to pay only half the cost of 
the hotel room. 
Under the delayed  or missed departure section  of the policy, it says:
We will cover you for reasonable additional accommodation and travel expenses  to get you 
to:
your trip destination  on your outward journey; or
return you to your home on your return journey
if you fail to arrive at your point of international departure  in time to board  your pre-booked  
aircraft, ship or train as a result of:
the scheduled  public  transport or connecting  scheduled flight on which  you are 
travelling to your point of international  departure not running to timetable; or
Ref: DRN09681403the private car in which  you are travelling being involved  in an accident or breaking  
down.
My first observation is that UKI has seemingly given Mrs H the benefit of the doubt with 
regard to this cover  because, strictly speaking, its arguable  that cover is only triggered by 
the latter two bullet points, not extreme weather  conditions. Plus, there  is evidence  that the 
delay might have been  caused  or contributed to by Mrs H herself.  For example,  she emailed 
her hotel on 8 January  2019 complaining about  the taxi firm, saying:
I disagree that the late arrival  was due to weather!! That taxi arrived for us with 4 other people 
already in it!! We had booked a private transferit  was so wrong to even ask us to get in 
together and I am going  to report it to your authoritieseven if we had left 45 mins earlier  we 
would have made itas you will recall, it was at least 45 mins of arguing trying to get the 
other people out!!
In the circumstances, this does help explain some of the delay by UKI in settling the claim; 
and I dont think it was unreasonable of it to investigate the cause of the delaybecause if it 
was due to Mrs Hs own acts or omissions, there may well have been no right to cover  under 
the policy terms and conditions. 
Nevertheless, as Mr C had no cover under the policy, its fair for UKI to treat Mrs H as 
though she were travelling alone  when calculating her settlement. It has effectively already 
done this when indemnifying her flight and food. But there is no persuasive  evidence that 
she could reasonably have booked a cheaper room; and UKI hasnt shown that any single 
rooms were in fact available. Its common knowledge that single rooms are usually  in short  
supply and fully booked,  especially at short  notice.  I can take notice of matters  in the public 
domain in the absence of clear evidence  to the contrary. Single travellers often have to pay 
the cost of a double room; at best they might get a small discount for single occupancy  of a 
double room if it includes a meal planbut its rarely  if ever 50%.  In the circumstances, as 
UKI agreed  to cover this event, I think it would  be fair and reasonable for it to reimburse the 
full cost of the airport hotel room irrespective of how many guests occupied it. 
Finally, Ive considered  whether I should  make an award for distress  and inconvenience. UKI 
has conceded that it made mistakes in the handling of Mrs Hs claim. However, it has 
acknowledged its errors and apologisedand  has offered a total of £175  compensation. 
Given the legitimate  concerns UKI had which Ive mentioned already, I consider this to be 
fair compensation in all the circumstances. The casefile indicates that UKI has already  paid 
this. 
my decision
For the reasons  explained above, I partly  uphold this complaint against UK Insurance 
Limited and require it to pay Mrs H the full amount it cost her to stay at the airport  hotel 
subject to the normal policy terms and conditions. It should also add interest at the simple 
rate of 8% a year (less any tax properly deductible) on the sum(s) still owed  from the date of 
loss to the date of reimbursement. I make no further  award. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 July 2019.  
Mark Sceeny
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0968140