K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains about the way American Express  Services Europe Limited (Amex)  dealt 
with his complaint  about a claim he made under section  75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(section 75).
background
Mr S bought a laptop on 20 September 2017 for about £700  using his Amex credit card. He 
says he soon noticed a slight flickering  on the screen intermittently.  He thought  this was an 
internet connectivity  issue. But over the following weeks it got progressively worse with 
horizontal and vertical lines appearing in the top corner  of the screen. Around 14 December 
2017 he asked  the supplier to repair it. The supplier wouldnt  repair  the laptop because  it 
thought the problem was a result of accidental damage that had occurred while  the laptop 
had been in Mr Ss possession.  
Mr S started the process of taking  the supplier to court and he made a claim against Amex  
under section 75. Amex said it wouldnt consider his claim while court  action was ongoing, 
so Mr S suspended court  action. Amex  considered the claim but decided  not to accept it. 
Mr S complained to Amex  saying it should  accept  his claim. He also said he was unhappy 
hed been told he needed to suspend  court  action  and that hed been led to believe his claim 
would be accepted. Amex didnt think it had done anything wrong.
The complaint came to our service and an investigator looked into it. She concluded that it 
was most likely the problem was a result of accidental damage,  so she thought  it was fair for 
Amex to decline Mr Ss claim for a refund under  section 75. She also thought Amex had 
acted reasonably and accurately in its communication with Mr S. 
Mr S didnt agree, saying  there was no physical damage to the laptop,  and in any case,  
under the Consumer Rights Act 2015  (CRA) it was for the supplier to prove  he damaged  it. 
He also remained of the opinion he shouldnt have needed to suspend  his court action and 
that Amex had misled  him. As an agreement couldnt be reached  the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I dont think Amex has 
acted unfairly. 
Mr S bought the laptop using his Amex credit card. Under section 75 he has an equal right to 
claim against Amex as he does the supplier if theres been a breach of contract  or 
misrepresentation by the supplier. 
The CRA implies a term into the contract  between Mr S and the laptop supplier that the 
laptop should be of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory quality is what a reasonable person 
would expect, taking  into account all of the relevant  circumstances, such  as the age and cost 
of the laptop at the point  of sale. In this case the laptop was new and cost about £700. I think 
a reasonable person would expect  it to be fault free at the point of sale.
If the laptop supplied to Mr S wasnt fault free hed have a claim  against  the supplier for 
breach of contract.  And under section 75 hed have an equal right to claim against Amex. 
Ref: DRN09476062Mr S is right in saying that because of how soon after being supplied  with the laptop he 
reported the fault the onus is on the supplier to show the laptop was of satisfactory quality 
when it was supplied.  But when theres a dispute  about what  (and who) caused  a fault this 
isnt straightforward.  And I think the laptop suppliers inspection and conclusion  was 
sufficient to refute Mr Ss claim.
Theres no dispute that theres  a fault with the laptops screen. So what I need to decide is 
whether I think the fault was present or developing at the time of sale meaning the laptop 
wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
whats the supplier  said
The supplier  thinks that the fault with the laptop  screen was a result of accidental damage 
while the laptop was in Mr Ss possession.
The supplier  has an in-house  computer repair department. This department issued  a repair  
report which said:
I am sorry that I have not been  able to repair your product as after an inspection  I have  
found physical  damage and this is not covered by the manufacturers [sic] warranty
It also made an internal  note which said:
Screen is cracked in top left hand corner. Rang [Mr S] to offer fault and fix (cost £120).
[Mr S] is adamant that there has been  no physical damage to the screen and requested  that 
I send a photo to [the manufacturer] showing fault. Requested screen  from [the 
manufacturer] with photo 
The manufacturer replied  to say:
System  does not have  Accidental Damage cover, we are unable  to approve requests 
relating to damages, spillage, etc
whats Mr S said
Mr S accepts theres a fault with the laptop screen.  But his opinion  on the cause of the fault 
has differed. In a response to the investigators conclusion he said:
[The repair  report]  states that there  was physical damage to the computer but this is simply 
untrue and even  now this can be easily confirmed  by a visible  examination of the computer 
and screen. I can categorically  state that there is no damage whatsoever to the computer  
case or screen surface 
Later, when  asked if he would get an independent engineer  to look at the laptop  screen  Mr S 
said:
It is immediately evident that the laptop's LCD display is damaged, but a computer forensics  
expert would  be unable to conclusively say when  it was damaged .
In his most  recent email Mr S accepted the laptop  screen could have been damaged, but 
said this damage wasnt  caused by him. He said, among  other things, that the laptop  screen  
may have  been  defective or damaged in transit from the manufacturer  to the supplier. He 
Ref: DRN09476063further commented that it was a heavy laptop  and the packaging was no more than a flimsy  
cardboard box without  any shock absorbers. 
What Mr S has said about realising there was a problem with the laptop has also differed. 
Initially he said:
Within a few days of using the computer, I noticed  a slight  flickering on the screen which 
almost immediately disappeared.
Later he said:
the fault had appeared as soon as we began using the laptop.
my thoughts
Where the evidence is inconclusive, as some  of it is here, I reach  my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely to be the case in light of the 
available evidence and the wider surrounding  circumstances.
Ive looked at the photo of the laptop  screen the supplier sent to the manufacturer  and a 
photo Mr S has provided. I think these  show a crack in the top left hand  corner of the screen. 
Not a crack  in the glass, but a crack  in the panel beneath the glass.  So Im satisfied  there is 
a fault with the laptop screen. 
The suppliers repair department (the only computer engineer to assess the laptop screen in 
person) concluded  the crack was the result of accidental damage,  rather than a 
manufacturing defect.  The manufacturer (through viewing a photo) reached the same  
conclusion. And the nature of the fault makes  me think accidental damage is the more  likely 
cause of the crack. So Im satisfied - on balance - that the crack  wasnt a manufacturing 
defect. 
The laptop  wasnt  a display model,  so I think its most likely  the laptop  was shipped from the 
manufacturer to the supplier, stored  and then passed to Mr S in its sealed original 
packaging. Mr S has said the packaging was flimsy. But the manufacturer is a very large  
one. So I think the packaging it uses would most likely have been well tested  and fit for 
purpose, meaning it would stand up to (and protect  the laptop  from) the vigour of shipping.   
Mr S says as he began using the laptop/within a few days  of using the laptop he noticed 
slight flickering intermittently on the screen but he thought this was an internet connectivity  
issue. From  the photos Ive seen I think the crack in the panel beneath the glass  would have 
been apparent  immediately.  So I think if it had been there when he first unboxed it and 
turned it on he wouldve  known something  wasnt right,  even if, as Mr S says,  it got worse  
over time. And I think it wouldve been apparent that the flickering was the result of the crack  
rather than a connectivity issue, especially as the flickering would have likely happened  
whether browsing the internet, or using a program not connected  to (or reliant  on) the 
internet. Despite the connectivity problems Mr S says he thought  he was having, it wasnt 
until about two months  after getting  the laptop  that he ordered a new router. And it wasnt  
until nearly three months after Mr S was supplied with the laptop that he told the supplier 
about an issue with the screen.     
Overall, I think its more  likely the laptop  screen was damaged sometime during the nearly 
three months the laptop was in Mr Ss possession. So I dont think the supplier (or Amex) 
Ref: DRN09476064was responsible for putting it right. The supplier has agreed to repair the laptop screen at 
half the usual  cost. This offer is still available if Mr S would like to accept it. If he does, he 
should contact  the supplier directly.  
Mr S thinks  Amex  gave him poor information  while  it was considering  his claim, such  as that 
he should suspend  court action and that he was led to believe his claim would be successful. 
I dont think he was. If a court was deciding a claim against the supplier, the outcome would 
impact on Amexs section 75 considerations. So I dont think it was unfair of it to say it 
wouldnt consider  his claim concurrently with the court.  And having considered Mr Ss 
contact with Amex I dont think he was led to believe his claim would be successful.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2019.
James Langford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0947606