K821x#15complaint
Mr A has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd has given incorrect information  
about a loan he has to Credit  Reference  Agencies  (CRAs).
background
Mr A took out a loan with Creation in 2009.  Creation subsequently instructed its solicitors to 
commence proceedings against Mr A for recovery of the balance due on the loan.
In 2014 Mr A reached an agreement with Creations solicitors whereby he agreed to pay 
Creation a reduced amount of £7,200  by instalments of £50 per month.  This agreement was 
recorded in a court order.
In February 2015  Mr A complained to Creation that his credit  report was still showing the full 
balance of the loan as outstanding. Creation then made an adjustment  to the information it 
was providing to CRAs.
In January 2019 Mr A again complained to Creation about the information it was giving to 
CRAs. It didnt uphold his complaint and he referred it to this service.
our initial conclusions
Our investigator recommended the complaint  should be upheld. He thought the outstanding 
balance on the loan Creation had reported to CRAs  was incorrect and it had also incorrectly  
stated Mr A was in arrears with the payments he was due to make. He thought Creation 
should correct  Mr As credit file and pay him £100 compensation for the trouble and upset 
hes been caused.
Mr A didnt accept our investigators recommendation. He says hes been  refused loans and 
mortgages due to the incorrect information given by Creation.  He says hes been unable to 
move house  and has had to take out loans at high interest rates.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation has a duty to ensure that information it gives to CRAs is accurate. Im satisfied that 
the information its provided about  Mr As loan hasnt always  been completely accurate. I 
think Creation should  take appropriate  steps to ensure Mr As credit  file records the 
agreement that was made in 2014 and the payments hes made since then.
Ive carefully considered  Mr As comments about  the affect the incorrect information shown 
on his credit file has had on his ability to take out further loans and mortgages. On the 
evidence Ive seen,  Im not persuaded I could reasonably decide that Creation was solely 
responsible for Mr As problems. Mortgage lenders each have their own criteria  for deciding 
whether or not to lend to a particular individual. I havent seen  sufficient evidence  to show  
that the issues recorded on Mr As credit file about  his loan from Creation were the only 
reason he couldnt  meet  a lenders  criteria.
Ref: DRN07371922Its clear the incorrect information Creation has given to CRAs has caused  Mr A 
unnecessary trouble  and upset. In all the circumstances, Im satisfied £100  is a reasonable 
amount for Mr A to receive in compensation.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is I uphold this complaint. I require Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd to:
1 Take appropriate action to correct  the information shown on Mr As credit  file about his 
loan; and
2 Pay Mr A £100.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2020.
Charles Bacon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0737192