K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains that Formax  Prime  Capital  (UK) Limited isnt paying him the profits  that he 
considers he legitimately made from trading Contracts for Differences (CFDs) on its platform. 
background
In September  2018 Mr E opened a CFD trading account with Formax and deposited  
€12,000. He placed over 630 trades  on a variety of currency  pairs  between 26 September 
2018 and 12 October  2018 when trading stopped. By that stage, Mr E had made  over 
€11,000 in profits.  Mr E attempted to withdraw his funds, but Formax froze his account and 
cancelled his trades. It said that he had been  trading using an abusive strategy as defined  
under its terms, and it wouldnt honour the trades he had placed. Some correspondence 
ensued, at which point Formax  allowed Mr E to withdraw his initial  deposit   but it 
maintained that it would not pay him any profits from his trades. 
Mr E referred his complaint to this service. One of our investigators  looked into Mr Es 
complaint but didnt  consider it should be upheld. In short, she considered that Formax had 
provided sufficient evidence that Mr E was gaining an unfair advantage by employing an 
abusive trading  strategy as defined under the terms of his agreement  with it. In particular, 
she noted that:
Mr E was exploiting price latency in Formaxs  feeds by testing the execution  speed 
and slippage  of certain currency pairs  and, once a particular feed was found to be 
lagging or slower, larger trades were placed in order to profit. 
Mr E also used  these smaller  test trades  to slow down the relevant  feeds  in order to 
better exploit them.  
Mr E was also using a trading strategy  common  to other  traders  and this was 
corroborated by specific trades, of the same  size, opened at exactly the same  time 
on other accounts. These other  trades also stopped  trading at the same times as 
Mr E. The investigator  also noted  that this in turn meant the same successful trades, 
at the same times,  on other  traders accounts.  
All the traders,  including Mr E, who used this strategy were  using the same  
Virtual Private Server  provider  (VPS). 
The investigator concluded that it was unlikely that several traders would  place trades from 
similar IP addresses, belonging to the same VPS, at exactly the same time, and all stop 
trading at the same time, and make the same profitable trades. The investigator  said that 
under the terms  of the agreement Mr E agreed  with Formax, it was entitled  to revoke trades  
that were placed  using  an abusive trading strategy. So she didnt think  it had done  anything 
wrong. 
Mr E disagreed with the investigator. In short, he said:
The investigator clearly wasnt sure of what she was saying because she repeatedly  
used the words believe and think when explaining her findings.  
Mr E said that even if his trading pattern or where he was trading from were  similar  
with other traders, it didnt  justify Formax  withholding his profits. It said that this 
service needed  to have strong evidence in order to allow  Formax to remove  profits 
from its clients accounts. 
Ref: DRN02207372my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusions as the investigator. 
The starting point  when looking at this complaint is to consider the terms and conditions of 
trading which  Mr E agreed  to when he opened his account with Formax. In particular, section 
31 Abusive Trading Strategies explains what Formax considered  to be unacceptable 
trading on its platform. This section says that abusive trading strategies:
include practices (without limitation) such as attacking the System in order  to create and 
abuse price latency opportunities, internet of System connectivity,  trading instruments  which 
are clearly  misquoted (arbitrage)
The section explains that these practices need not be illegal, but instead, simply confer a 
benefit to the trader which  Formax  did not envisage when it opened the account. Section 
31.2 explains that, if trades are placed using abusive strategies, Formax:
may, at our sole and absolute discretion,  revoke  Transactions resulting from Abusive 
Trading Strategies,  without prior notice to you and regardless of whether such revocation 
would result in Losses in your account.
 Furthermore, the terms confirm that Formax  has the right to: 
take all necessary steps including making corrections or adjustments  to your Account 
without prior notice for example, any Transaction placed through  the System  which  relies  on 
price latency or arbitrage opportunity may be modified, adjusted, corrected, rejected, 
terminated or voided at any time,  without  prior notice, at our sole and absolute discretion.
In my opinion these terms make clear  the type of trading which Formax forbid  on its system. 
The question I therefore need to answer  is whether Im satisfied, on the balance of 
probabilities, that it was fair and reasonable for Formax to conclude  that Mr E was using a 
strategy which was expressly  forbidden under the terms  of the agreement and which allowed 
him to trade in a way which was unfair and guaranteed him winning trades. 
And in my view, it was reasonable for Formax to conclude that the evidence  showed Mr E 
was adopting  a strategy designed to exploit a price lag in Formaxs feeds. I say this bearing 
in mind the following circumstances:
The size of the profits in the profit-making  trades,  versus  the losses  in the loss-
making trades demonstrates that Mr E was able to successfully predict the 
overwhelming majority of the time when to increase the size of the trades, and when 
not to. Of the approximately 630 trades  placed by Mr E, over half were loss-making 
trades  yet accounted for just over €3,200 worth of losses.  While the rest accounted 
for almost €16,000 worth of profits. This is because over two thirds of Mr Es larger 
trades (lots of 0.8 or 1.4) generated  significant profits of over €14,000, while only just 
over a third of his smaller trades (0.01  or 0.1 lots) had the same success. 
An example  of how this ratio was so successful is that Mr E was able to predict within  
seconds when  to close larger trades  versus  smaller ones. This means theres  an 
absence of any individual large  loss-making trades  for example only two of his 630 
trades made a loss of €100. Whereas  56 trades made profits of more  than €100, 12 
Ref: DRN02207373of which  more than €300. This indicates a remarkable ability to predict, in advance, 
when to increase  the size of his trades  and when  not to on an extremely consistent  
basis.
This ratio of being  able to place larger profit making trades, versus smaller loss-
making ones was further aggravated  in some of Mr Es preferred currency pairs  for 
example when trading GBP/USD, around 60% of his trades were profitable  and 
made over €3,300.  While the remaining 40% were loss-making  yet lost just over 
€240. 
Mr Es trades were  replicated across other accounts in exact  terms  hours, minutes,  
seconds and size of the trade,  as well as the correct currency pair. 
The other accounts were opened  at nearly  identical  times as his  the accounts in 
question ended in 41, 43, 44, 47 (Mr Es account),  49 and 60. Im persuaded this 
demonstrates that the accounts  were  opened  within a very short  time and Mr E was 
part of this sequence. 
The IP addresses of all these accounts  used the same  VPS.  
Combined, Im persuaded that the above demonstrates that it was reasonable for Formax to 
apply the terms  of its account which  allowed it to void the profits Mr E made  from trading  
using a strategy which it was considered was designed to allow him to profit without 
essentially taking any market risk. 
On that basis, Im satisfied that Formax has done nothing wrong.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Es complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 December  2019.
Alessandro Pulzone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0220737