K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that CashEuroNet UK LLC (trading as Quick Quid) gave him loans  that he 
couldnt afford to repay. He asks that interest and charges are refunded and the loans are 
removed from his credit file.
background
Mr S took out 18 loans  with Quick Quid between January  2013  and March 2017, some  of 
which were topped up. He says he couldnt afford to repay the loans without taking out new 
loans.
Our adjudicator said it wasnt wrong  for Quick Quid to offer loans 1 to 6. But by loan 7 Mr Ss 
pattern of borrowing suggested  hed become reliant on short term loans and these loans 
were unsustainable.  Our adjudicator said that Quick Quid  should refund interest and charges  
on loans 7 to 18, with 8% interest,  and remove all information about them from Mr Ss credit 
file. 
Quick Quid didnt agree. It said it had assessed  the affordability of the loans.  Quick  Quid said 
Mr S showed a pattern of responsible borrowing with variations in the amounts borrowed, 
breaks between loans and a sound  repayment history. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Mr S took out 18 loans  with Quick Quid. Before offering these loans to Mr S, Quick Quid  
needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make sure Mr S could repay 
the loans in a sustainable manner. These  checks could take into account  a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and Mr Ss 
income and expenditure. 
Loans 1 to 6 (January 2013 to June 2014)
When he applied for loans 1 to 6, Mr S told Quick Quid his monthly income was £1,300. 
Loan 1 was for £150 (plus  a £250  top up), and loans 4 and 6 were each for £50.
In the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks  might be reasonable and 
proportionate. Given the amounts of the loan and Mr Ss stated income, I think Quick  Quids 
checks were proportionate for loan 1. But I think it would have been  proportionate for Quick 
Quid to ask Mr S about his expenditure before offering the top up  this increased the 
repayment due to £460. And, given the amount of loan 3 (£250), I think it should have asked 
about Mr Ss expenditure. 
The amount  Mr S borrowed reduced  after loan 3 and the length of the gaps between  loans 3 
and 6 increased. So I think Quick Quid could reasonably have believed that Mr Ss 
circumstances were  improving and he wasnt becoming reliant on its loans.  
Ref: DRN06181552I think it would have  been proportionate  for Quick Quid  to make more  checks  before the top 
up of loan 1 and loan 3. But, had it done so, I think its unlikely it would have known  these 
loans werent affordable.  The information Mr S later provided to Quick Quid  about his 
expenditure wouldnt have suggested  this. And at this point it wouldnt have been  
proportionate for Quick  Quid to verify  what he said by, for instance, asking for bank 
statements. 
Loans 7 to 18 (September 2014 to March 2017)
I think that Quick Quid should  have considered whether further lending was sustainable 
when Mr S asked for loan 7. 
By this time, Mr S had been  borrowing for 20 months. The gap between loan 6 and loan 7 
was less than between the previous two loans. The amount borrowed increased compared 
to loan 6. I dont think at this point it was reasonable for Quick  Quid to believe Mr S was 
making a consistent  reduction in his use of the loans. 
Mr S continued to borrow. By loan 18 hed been borrowing for more  than four years  without  a 
significant break. Mr S didnt always take out a new loan immediately. But I dont think any of 
the breaks between  his loans were enough for Quick Quid to reasonably  believe his finances 
had improved. 
The amounts Mr S borrowed varied. The amounts  he borrowed between  September 2014 
(loan 7) and May 2015 (loan 12) were  between £100  and £200. But I dont think  this means  
the loans were sustainable  especially taking account of the number of loans, the time over 
which Mr S borrowed and that the general trend was for the amounts of the loans to 
increase. Five of Mr Ss last six loans  were his largest  of £250 or more.  I think Quick  Quid  
ought to have realised Mr S was having to borrow further to cover the gap in his finances left 
by repaying his previous loan. As a result, his indebtedness was unsustainable. 
I think that Mr S lost out because Quick Quid continued to provide borrowing from loan 7 
onwards. These loans  had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ss indebtedness by allowing 
him to take expensive  credit intended for short-term use over an extended  period  of time. I 
also think his use of these  loans was likely to have had negative implications on his ability  to 
access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
So Im upholding  Mr Ss complaint about  loan 7 and the later loans. Quick Quid should:
refund  all interest and charges Mr S paid on loan 7 and the later loans;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove all entries about  loan 7 and the later loans from Mr Ss credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Quick Quid to take off tax from this interest. It must give 
Mr S a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN06181553my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order CashEuroNet  UK LLC to take the steps 
and pay the compensation set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 July 2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0618155