K820x#14complaint
Ms T complains on behalf of her company, U Ltd, about the way The Royal  Bank of Scotland 
Plc handled its accounts over a number of years. The company itself is in liquidation, but the 
liquidators have  given Ms T authority to represent  it and for this service to consider  the 
complaints.
background
The events leading to U Ltds  complaints  go back several years,  and Ill summarise each 
complaint separately. But, because of the time thats  passed,  much of the information about  
some aspects of the complaints is no longer available. And in some  cases, the passage  of 
time means  that the Financial Ombudsman  Service has no power to consider the 
complaints. 
The particular events  that Ms T has asked us to consider are these:
The bank  failed  to keep up to date records  and signatories between  about 2007 and 
2011.
The bank  didnt  properly follow lending and other procedures,  resulting in a breach  of 
contract.
The bank  didnt  properly assess or carry out regular reviews of U Ltds  business.
It didnt provide  a business relationship manager as it should  have  done.
It removed banking  facilities without notice.
It made  payments to third parties  in error.
The bank  didnt  transfer money from the companys savings account to its current 
account as it should  have  done.
It mis-sold a loan to the company. 
It didnt offer basic banking  facilities.
It allowed someone other than a company director to apply  for lending.
It used incorrect correspondence addresses.
It wrongly placed  the companys account  in collections for 11 months  and refused to 
discuss it until shortly  before  a winding-up petition was issued. 
Ref: DRN05579002The bank  wrongly cancelled direct debits.    
By way of further  background,  Ms T has complained  on several occasions, both to RBS and 
to this service, about the way her own and her companys accounts have been handled. Im 
concerned here only with the accounts of U Ltd, although there is a good degree  of overlap 
between Ms Ts treatment and the treatment of her company. 
The companys complaints  were considered by one of our investigators.  He wasnt,  however, 
minded to uphold  any aspect of them  and in some  cases concluded  that this service didnt 
have any power to look at them. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And where the investigator concluded that 
we have no power to consider any aspect of the complaint, Ive reviewed that conclusion.  
Having done those things, however, Im broadly in agreement with the investigators overall 
findings. Ill explain why, again dealing with each  part of the complaint in turn. 
failure to keep up to date records and signatories
We cant generally consider a complaint  which is referred to us more  than six months  after 
the date of a final response letter issued by the financial business concerned. The 
investigator concluded that RBS issued a final response letter in relation to this matter in 
March 2012. But the complaint wasnt brought to this service until more than six months 
later. The investigator  wasnt able to identify any specific reason for the delay (which might  
have led to him disregarding the six-month time limit) and so he concluded  that it had been 
brought too late.
I agree  with the investigator that this part of the complaint was referred  to the ombudsman  
service more than six months  after the banks final response letter, and so we have no 
power to consider it.
failure to follow banking and lending procedures
Ms T hasnt provided very much  information  about this, although she does say that she 
didnt authorise  a company overdraft which, as its sole director, she should have done. She 
doesnt appear to be saying,  however,  that the companys account had been compromised 
(for example, as a result  of fraud); and if that had been the case,  Id expect her to be able to 
identify specific transactions or payments, and to have done  so very much sooner. It may be 
that she didnt  formally  apply for or authorise an agreed overdraft  facility,  but I dont 
understand her to be saying that the company didnt use the overdraft. 
The investigator concluded that there was insufficient information about this part of the 
complaint to enable  him to take it any further,  and I agree  with that assessment.  
Ref: DRN05579003failure to carry out regular reviews of U Ltds  business
Our investigator concluded that this issue was covered in the banks final response letter of 
March 2012, and that it was therefore referred  to this service  outside the relevant time limits. 
Again, there was no explanation for the delay, and I agree that we have no power to look at 
this aspect of the complaint.
failure to provide a business relationship  manager
This is a further issue which the investigator  concluded was covered  by a final response 
letter issued in March  2012  but which wasnt referred to the ombudsman  service until more 
than six months later.  So, for the reasons Ive already explained in relation to other  parts of 
U Ltds complaint, I agree  with the investigator that we have no power to consider this aspect 
of it.  
removal of banking facilities without notice
As with the complaint about  lending procedures, Ms T hasnt really provided  any detail about 
this  and RBS hasnt identified anything  in its records either.  In the absence  of any such  
information or evidence,  I dont believe  I can fairly conclude that RBS did anything wrong 
here, or that I should require  it to do anything to put things right. 
payments to third parties
Again, the information that Ms T has provided about  this is very limited, but I do note that the 
companys account  hasnt  been  operational for many years. Its most unlikely therefore that 
any meaningful  investigation would be possible  and the investigator  wasnt  able to find out 
very much about it, other than that payments had been made in 2007  and 2010. I can see 
that the bank did write to one recipient as long ago as July 2010,  but the circumstances in 
which the original  payment  was made  are not at all clear.
The investigator concluded that, given  the lack of evidence, it wouldnt be safe for this 
service to investigate this part of the complaint. I would add only that we couldnt safely  or 
fairly make any kind of award  in favour of U Ltd, given how long ago the events must have 
happened and how little information  is available.    
failure to transfer money  from the companys savings account  to its current  account
The investigator concluded that RBS was under no duty to do this. It was primarily for the 
company to decide how to run its accounts  including switching funds between accounts if 
necessary. Again, I agree with those conclusions. Theres  no evidence that the bank agreed 
to do anything differently  here.
mis-sale of a loan
The company took out a loan in September 2011.  It was used to repay business debt and 
replaced a loan in Ms Ts own name. The investigator  said he hadnt seen anything to 
persuade him that the loan was mis-sold, and I agree with that assessment. On the face of it, 
it was a way of trying to deal with arrears on the company account. 
Ref: DRN05579004failure to offer  basic  banking facilities
Again, its not entirely clear what Ms T means  by this; the investigator thought this part of the 
complaint might be linked  to Ms Ts concerns about the lack of a business relationship 
manager. I havent seen any evidence though that U Ltd applied  for banking facilities  that 
werent made available.  So, again,  given the lack of any real detail about Ms Ts specific 
concerns, it wouldnt be fair for me to uphold this part of the complaint.  
allowing someone other than a company  director to apply for lending
The investigator wasnt able to identify any evidence that RBS had allowed anyone  other 
than a company  director to apply for lending  and, again, Ms T has provided very little specific 
detail and I dont  believe that I can fairly conclude that the bank did anything  wrong. 
incorrect correspondence addresses
This is an issue which Ms T has raised  in relation to her personal accounts, and I shant 
comment on that here. But the banks records (to the extent they are still available) indicate  
that it was using either the companys business address or that of the company secretary. 
To the extent that records are available, therefore, Im not persuaded that RBS was using an 
incorrect address for the company.  
placing the companys account in collections
Ms Ts main complaint here seems to be that RBS refused to discuss the companys 
account. But she says too that there  were  discussions about repaying  the companys  debt.  I 
accept that those discussions didnt go the way she would have liked, and that she felt they 
were concerned only with debt recovery, rather than supporting  the company and its 
business. But I dont  believe  it would be fair for me to conclude that RBS did anything wrong 
here  the bank  was entitled  to seek proposals  for repayment.   
cancellation of direct debits    
Again, Ms T has provided little by way of detail about what  company direct debits were 
cancelled and what effect that had. But I would comment generally that banks will generally 
stop direct  debits and standing  orders  where  there are arrears on an account. It remains  the 
responsibility of the account holder to ensure that creditors are paid, and I dont believe RBS 
can properly be held responsible if they werent.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is not to uphold  this complaint.  Under the 
rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask U Ltd to accept or reject my 
decision before  26 July 2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0557900