K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage application Mr F and Mr B made to 
HSBC UK Bank Plc online.  Although  an offer issued in December 2018 was valid for six 
months, it was cancelled in the spring  of 2019 and HSBC said the application would need to 
start again. Mr F and Mr B have accepted redress of £850 compensation for earlier delays in 
the process, but they remain unhappy that HSBC hasnt properly addressed the cancellation 
of a valid mortgage offer.
background
In what follows, I have  summarised events in rather  less detail than theyve been presented, 
using my own words to do so, and rounding  some  of the figures  involved.  No discourtesys 
intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I dont  mention  
something, it wont be because Ive ignored  it. Itll be because I didnt think  it was material to 
the outcome of the complaint. 
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows  me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn. Another reason I have left 
out a lot of the detail is to avoid the risk of identifying the consumers when my decision is 
published.
The circumstances of this complaint, briefly,  are that Mr F and Mr B applied for the BTL 
mortgage in the autumn of 2018. The application  didnt proceed  smoothly  and in November  
2018, a complaint was raised. The offer was eventually issued on 12 December 2018. In 
January 2019,  HSBC  responded  to the complaint by agreeing to pay Mr F and Mr B £650. 
In March 2019, HSBC told Mr F and Mr B theyd need to restart the application  process 
again and submit fresh underwriting information.  They complained again, asking why this 
was necessary when  the December 2018  offer was valid for six months. HSBC attributed  the 
cancellation of the mortgage offer to a change of solicitor  made  by the applicants,  and paid a 
further £200 compensation for poor service.
Mr F and Mr B didnt think it was fair of HSBC expect them  to start the application  again  and 
submit fresh  underwriting  information. They eventually  applied for a mortgage elsewhere, 
and referred the complaint to this service. Our investigator thought HSBC  had responded 
fairly to the complaint. Mr F and Mr B have asked for it to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
As I said earlier,  if I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed  to 
consider it but because  I dont think I need to comment  on it in order  to reach what I think is 
the right outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide  whats  fair 
in the round. And I reiterate that I have to be mindful that I dont include anything  in this 
decision that might identify Mr F and Mr B.
Were not the regulator of financial  businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority.  We deal 
with individual  disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont  
replicate the work of the courts. 
Ref: DRN02249442Mr F is unhappy  that the investigator has continued to work on the case  after he asked  that it 
be referred to an ombudsman several months ago. To be clear,  the case was referred to me 
several months ago, and having reviewed it, I considered that further  investigation was 
required before  the case  could  be determined.  Were impartial,  and we dont take either 
sides instructions on how we investigate a complaint, or when we have enough information 
on file to decide it.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where evidence  is contradictory, 
incomplete, or missing  altogether, I have  to decide what  is most  likely to have happened on 
the balance of probabilities based  on the evidence that is available. Thats broadly the same 
test used by the courts  in civil cases.
I have no issue at all with HSBC requesting  new information to support a new application 
(and refusing the application  if that information  isnt provided), but we first have to be 
satisfied it acted fairly when withdrawing the offer in March 2019 in the first place, thus 
making a second  application necessary. If an offer is valid for six months, its valid for six 
months, and the business has to have a good reason for withdrawing it within that period. 
The mortgage conditions  confirm that when  they say:
our offer of a loan is binding on us for the period it remains  valid but we can withdraw  it if 
there is some material change to your circumstances since  the offer was made,  or if we 
discover an inaccuracy  or omission in the information that was supplied in support of your 
application, or in certain other  circumstances,  for example where we know you will be unable  
to comply with the terms of the mortgage.
The additional investigation that I considered necessary before the case could be decided  
centred on establishing exactly why the offer was cancelled. The inference I was being  
invited to draw from the final response was that it was the change  of solicitors, but if thats all 
it was, then it would hardly amount to a material change, inaccuracy or omission.
When we pressed HSBC  on this point, it explained that it wasnt the nature of the change of 
information that caused the cancellation, but the manner in which  it was communicated.  
HSBCs online application system is designed in such a way that if the information keyed in 
at the start is altered  later,  then the entire application can be looped back; thats HSBC 
in-house terminology for cancelling and re-starting.
I have no regulatory  role, so its not within my power to say how HSBCs  online application  
system should be constructed. But if theres  a risk that a mortgage offer can be cancelled 
during its six-month validity period for purely procedural  reasons (as opposed to material  
underwriting reasons) then fairness requires that consumers should  be alerted to the 
possible consequences of providing updated  information via the online portal. They  also 
need guidance on how to provide the information  by other means  so that the application in 
progress wont be disrupted. 
Im satisfied HSBC has done that. Its provided us with a screenshot of the alert that would 
have come up when  Mr F and Mr B accessed their online  application in March 2019. This 
sets out that the status of the application could be affected and gives  a phone number to call 
instead. Mr F has cast doubt on the validity of the screenshot, pointing  out that its dated 
October 2020. Of course it is; thats  when  we asked HSBC to provide it as a specimen 
example of what would  have  appeared  on screen to Mr F and Mr B in March 2019.
Ref: DRN02249443It was up to Mr F and Mr B to decide what to do when presented with the alert. Continuing  
with the online amendment rather than phoning was their right, but it was also their choice.
Having considered everything  that both parties have said and provided,  Im not persuaded 
that a fair outcome  requires  HSBC  to pay Mr F and Mr B more redress than it has already. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that that I dont uphold this complaint. My 
final decision  concludes this services  consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be 
engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 January 2021.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0224944