K821x#15complaint
Ms D complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
to her alongside a credit  card in 2008. 
I know that the credit card Ms D took out was an Egg card. Barclays is responsible  for 
complaints like this. But to keep things simple,  Ill refer to Egg for the rest of this decision. 
background
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be upheld because  Ms D wouldnt be able to 
make a claim under the policy for her pre-existing medical condition.  Egg didnt agree with 
that view. So the matter  has been  passed to me to make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case. 
Ive upheld this complaint.  Ill explain  why below. 
The parties agree that the PPI was sold online.  And Egg has sent us screenshots  of the 
information it says Ms D would have  seen when she bought  the policy.  I havent  seen 
anything to suggest that those screenshots arent  accurate. So Im satisfied the information 
provided to me is the same as would have been  available to Ms D at the point of the sale. 
This wasnt an advised sale. But Egg had to provide Ms D with enough information about the 
PPI so she could  decide for herself  whether it was a good fit for her needs. That information 
had to be clear, fair and not misleading. 
Its not in dispute  that when she bought PPI, Ms D had a medical  condition.  She was 
receiving regular treatment and had an annual check-up  with her doctor. And I can see from 
the terms and conditions of the policy that she wouldnt have been able to make  a claim if 
she was off work because  of this medical  issue. 
So I need to consider now whether Egg gave Ms D enough information about  the PPI so she 
could make an informed  decision  about it. In order to find out about  the exclusions about  
medical conditions,  I can see that Ms D would have had to click through to another screen 
called important insurance information.  And then shed have had to scroll down to consider 
the significant exclusions and limitations  of the policy. I think  it would have been possible for 
Ms D to click through the application without reading  that information. And theres nothing to 
suggest on the first PPI screen that clicking for further information might have set out what  
the exclusions to the policy were.   So I dont  think the information  Egg provided  was 
sufficiently clear. 
The question for me now is whether Ms D would have  acted  differently if Egg had told her 
everything it should have done.  
In my view, Ms D wouldnt  have been  able to make  a claim  if she was off work because of 
her existing medical condition. Egg says it thought that her health condition  was well-
Ref: DRN07047052controlled because  Ms D hadnt  said shed taken any time off work because  of it. But I 
accept that Ms D had surgery some  years before she bought PPI and so I think its likely that 
she had taken time off work because of it. 
Even if Egg was right about  the medical condition,  I think whats  important is how Ms D 
viewed her medical needs at that time. Because that is what would have affected her 
decision to take this PPI policy.  
As I said,  Ms D underwent surgery before she applied  for her credit card. She also told us 
that her condition was difficult  to live with. In light of that, I think  Ms D would  have probably  
thought she might need to take time off work because of this medical  problem in future. And 
if she knew she couldnt claim on her PPI cover because of it, I dont think  shed have 
thought that policy was good value for money.  
It follows that I dont think Ms D would have  bought  PPI if shed been given all of the 
information she should have been given. Egg needs to take action to put that right.  
putting things right 
Egg should put Ms D in the financial position she would be in now if she hadnt  taken  out 
PPI.
A.Egg should find out how much  Ms D would have owed when she closed  her credit card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
Ms D should  then refund the difference  between what Ms D owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Ms D made a successful  claim under  the PPI policy,  Egg can take off what  she got for 
the claim from the amount it owes her. I can also see that Egg has repaid some of the 
commission it received from Ms Ds PPI premiums.  It can also take what  it has already 
paid Ms D off the amount  it now owes her. 
B.Egg should add simple interest  on the difference between  what  Ms D would have owed 
when she closed her account  from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The 
interest rate should  be 8% a year . 
C.If  when  Egg works out what Ms D would  have owed each month without PPI Ms D 
paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, Egg should also pay simple  interest  on the 
extra she paid. And it should  carry on paying interest until the point when  Ms D wouldve 
owed Egg something on her credit card. The interest  rate should  be 8% a year. 
D.Egg should tell Ms D what  its done  to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Egg to take off tax from this interest. Egg must give Ms D 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN07047053my final decision
Ive upheld this complaint.  I require Barclays Bank  UK PLC to comply  with the above putting 
things right section. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to 
ask Ms D to accept or reject my decision  before 25 February 2019. 
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0704705