K820x#14complaint
Mrs L complains  that Clydesdale Bank Plc (Clydesdale) shouldnt have rejected her claim 
under section 75 Consumer Credit  Act (1974)(s75) and that they failed to compensate her 
for poor service.
background
Mrs L had windows and doors fitted to her property  in Scotland in September  2012.  She 
used her Clydesdale credit card to pay the deposit. She had issues  with the fitting straight 
away but didnt  complaint  to Clydesdale until August 2018. She said that, as the provider of 
credit, they had a joint responsibility  under s75, for the suppliers breach of contract. She 
also said shed received poor service from them as the branch had advised she had seven 
years to make a complaint; thered been some  delays approving her daughter to represent 
her and she thought  the bank should  have called her to explain its decision before issuing 
its rejection of her claim.
But Clydesdale said shed brought her complaint  to them too late. They  explained that 
Scottish law required Mrs L to submit her claim to them within  five years and, as this claim 
had been submitted later than that, it was out of time. They  went  on to apologise for the 
service issues  Mrs L had experienced  but they didnt offer her any compensation. 
So Mrs L referred her complaint to this service  as she didnt agree with Clydesdale. Our 
investigator thought  Clydesdale  had been  reasonable. She said Mrs L had five years to bring  
her claim to Clydesdale and as she hadnt they didnt need to consider it. She provided 
Mrs L with a copy of the Prescription and Limitation (Scotland)  Act (1973) and explained that 
this referred to all claims whether made  through a court or not. She said the Act provided 
five years for a claim to be made  and as this claim was made  later than that, she didnt think  
Clydesdale needed  to take any further  action. She also considered  Mrs Ls service  concerns 
but as the claim  had been brought too late and the actions didnt delay the claim being made 
she didnt think it had caused Mrs L a great deal of inconvenience and therefore didnt think 
it would  be fair to ask Clydesdale to provide any compensation.
But Mrs L disagreed  and she asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs L but I dont  think Clydesdale has been wrong to reject  her s75 
claim or to refuse to provide any compensation. Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
s75 Consumer Credit  Act (1974)
Ref: DRN06390682When something goes  wrong  and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, it might  be possible to recover the money paid through a section 75 claim. This section 
of the Consumer Credit  Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances,  a finance provider can 
be responsible  for a breach of contract or a misrepresentation  made by the supplier. 
Section 75 is a little technical. It was established  as it was understood that the legal right a 
consumer has against a merchant may not be enough protection for them.  So s75 
established a liability on the provider of credit as it was believed  they would have more  
leverage over the merchant to resolve  the issue and would, in any case, be less inhibited by 
the expense of suing the merchant.
The Prescription and Limitation (Scotland) Act (1973) applies to all claims brought in 
Scotland and sets out a five year limitation after which  claims need  not be considered.  The 
work Mrs L complains about  was completed, and her loss was incurred, in October 2012, but 
she made the complaint in August 2018 and is therefore out of time.
And, even  if Im wrong  in law, s75 refers  to the consumer having a like claim against the 
finance provider  as they have against  the supplier.  So, if Mrs Ls claim against the supplier is 
out of time, as it is here,  it wouldnt be fair to make Clydesdale meet the claim as it clearly 
wouldnt be able to recoup the expense through the courts. So Mrs L should  have  a like 
claim against Clydesdale,  not a dissimilar one with different restrictions,  as that would be 
unfair. So on this basis as well, it would be unreasonable to expect Clydesdale to consider 
Mrs L claim as its been made  too late.
So I think Clydesdale has acted reasonably when rejecting  Mrs Ls s75 claim.
And Ive also considered  whether theyve  been  reasonable when not providing 
compensation for the service  mistakes theyve accepted they made. I dont think  these 
mistakes have caused too much inconvenience and in particular, Ive noted  that they havent 
delayed Mrs Ls claim.  So I dont think Clydesdale has been  unreasonable  in the 
circumstances and I wont be asking  them  to take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0639068