K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Lowell Portfolio  I Ltd wrongly  attributed debts to him  and then reported 
incorrect information about him to credit reference agencies.
background
Lowell told us it had purchased debts  from Grattan Plc and Freemans Plc in December 
2017, and that it is satisfied  those  debts were incurred by Mr K. It said somebody  telephoned 
Grattan in May 2016 to say the account  holder had died, but Grattan was not able to obtain  a 
copy death certificate.
Mr K told us that the debts were in fact incurred by his late cousin. He said that he and his 
cousin had exactly same  name,  and a very similar  date of birth  his cousin was born exactly  
one month  before he was. He also told us that he often had family  members living  with him, 
and so his cousin may well have obtained  credit while  living at his address.
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Ks complaint. She said that she didnt have enough  
information to show that the debts werent taken out by Mr K himself  and so she did not 
uphold the complaint. But she said she might  change her mind  if Mr K provided further  
evidence, such as a death certificate  for Mr Ks cousin or further  evidence  of Mr Ks own 
identity and date of birth.
Mr K explained that he doesnt have a passport or a driving licence. Our investigator asked 
him if he could provide  anything else showing his date of birth, but he did not consider that 
necessary.
Mr K also told us that he believed Lowell had changed the date of birth on the accounts. 
Mr K said that in fact the date of birth shown on the accounts was originally his cousins date 
of birth,  and Lowell changed it to his own date of birth. He also said that the dates on his 
credit file show that Lowell has made changes.
Lowell told us Our investigation shows that we have not altered [Mr Ks] date of birth on the 
accounts we hold although  we agreed that he had been misadvised about this by a 
Customer Relation Officer.
Our investigator looked at the complaint again, taking account of the new information 
provided by both Mr K and Lowell. She said:
She didnt think Lowell had at any point  updated  or changed  the date of birth on the 
accounts. She accepted that a Lowell Customer Relations Officer had told Mr K that 
the date of the birth had changed   but she was satisfied  that person was mistaken.
She noted that Lowell  does hold another account in Mr Ks name but with a different  
date of birth. But Lowell says that account  is not being reported on Mr Ks credit  file, 
and he is not being chased  for that debt.
She said Lowell would  not have  reported anything about  Mr Ks debts before it 
purchased them  in December 2017.  She couldnt comment on what  was or was not 
reported on Mr Ks credit file before December 2017, because Mr K declined her 
invitation to provide  that evidence to her.
Ref: DRN01328822Overall, she was not satisfied that Lowell made a mistake in reporting  defaults in Mr 
Ks name  to credit reference agencies.
Mr K did not accept our investigators findings, and asked  for an ombudsman  to review his 
complaint afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to further disappoint  Mr K, but there  is very little I can add to what our investigator 
has already said. 
I know Mr K considers the screenshots Lowell provided may have been fraudulently 
produced, but I have  seen nothing to suggest that it would be unfair for me to rely on them.
I am satisfied that the debts were  taken out by somebody who gave their name  as Mr Ks 
name, their date of birth as Mr Ks date of birth, and their address as Mr Ks address. I have 
not seen enough evidence to persuade  me that those  debts  were  not taken  out by Mr K, and 
so I do not think Lowell has done anything  wrong in reporting the defaults.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Lowell Portfolio I Ltd.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 November  2020.
Laura Colman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0132882