K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains about the way in which Oxford Capital Partners LLP (OCP) managed his 
Enterprise Investment Scheme (EIS) portfolio. He feels it carried out inadequate  due 
diligence on the investments, and this caused  him a loss. 
background
In February 2013  Mr W invested £49,250  in the Oxford Capital Growth EIS 12 portfolio on 
advice from his financial adviser at the time.  OCP managed the portfolio on a discretionary 
basis  in other words,  having agreed certain  parameters with Mr W, it would choose and 
invest in companies  without having  to seek Mr Ws approval. 
It did this in line with a document that set out the detail of its strategy, including  its target 
returns, how it would select  companies, how it would report to Mr W during  the year and any 
risk factors.  
In setting out the process by which it selected  companies, OCP outlined a number of steps, 
including:
OCP  targeted established  companies  that would stand to benefit from strong  market  
growth, rather than investing  in early state or start up businesses where technology, 
market demand or the management  team may be unproven.
OCP  regularly screened  over 1,000 investment opportunities each year and only 
selected a handful to be included. Each investment was subject to a due diligence 
process including,  on occasion, engaging professional firms  to carry out specific due 
diligence reviews  on prospective investments. OCP said it combined  this with a 
detailed analysis carried out by the investment  management team  and set out in an 
Investment Proposal. It said that final investment decisions were  taken  by an 
Investment Committee which includes non-executive members and draws  upon wide 
sector and business experience. 
Steps in managing risk and supporting growth  companies. 
Exiting investments,  by seeking  to realise  investments after a period  of three years 
from the date of each  investment, in order that the original  subscription capital is 
returned to investors as soon  as possible. 
OCP also outlined a number of risk factors, which included:
The portfolio  was a medium to long term investment, with an anticipated life of seven 
years and in some  cases it was possible that investors wouldnt see a return  before 
that. 
Portfolio companies  may fail, and securities  sold for substantially less than their 
acquisition cost or those securities  may have  no market  at all. There was therefore a 
risk that investors may potentially lose the total amount of their investment and 
should therefore only consider investing  if this is a risk they can afford to bear. 
As investee companies  were likely to be relatively small, they were dependent  on a 
small group of key executives  departure of those individuals may have a 
detrimental effect on the company.  
As investments were made  in companies whose securities werent  traded on any 
public market or exchange, investors were unlikely to be able to sell any part of their 
investment prior to the investment  being  realised as a whole. 
Past performance was no guide or guarantee to future performance. 
Ref: DRN01972802In October  2017 Mr W received a valuation report of his portfolio and in November he 
complained. In short, he was unhappy with OCPs  investment decisions, and considered that 
it had failed to use the skill, judgment, and expertise  expected.  He also said that the target 
return which was mentioned in its original brochure  was unlikely to be met, and asked OCP 
to explain to him how it had come  up with such a figure. 
In December 2017, OCP issued its final response  to Mr Ws complaint. In short, it explained 
the investment  decisions it had made  and why specific companies had been  selected. It 
acknowledged the performance  had been  poor, but said that this was a risk of investing  in 
these types of companies. OCP  explained that Mr W had six months to refer his complaint to 
this service. 
In January 2019, Mr W complained to OCP again.  In short,  he explained that he was writing  
to express his continuing dissatisfaction  with the way in which  OCP had invested his 
portfolio and the poor performance  he had experienced. He asked detailed  questions about 
the reasoning  behind  OCPs investment decisions.  He concluded  that OCP identified  the 
target profile, determined  the investment criteria, made a shortlist and selected  investments 
from it, and then oversaw the investments.  He said this meant  that the issues  he had 
experienced werent related to the market,  but to the decisions OCP had made. As a result, 
he asked it to compensate him for the losses he incurred. 
OCP sent Mr W its final response in February 2019. It once again acknowledged  that the 
portfolio was high risk and that the performance had been disappointing. It referred back  to 
its letter from December 2017  in which it explained  the state of the portfolio and the reasons 
for certain  investment decisions. It also explained  the loss relief available  to Mr W as a result 
of the failure of some of the investments. It apologised for the losses the portfolio had 
suffered, and referred back to its letter in December 2017 in which it explained  the due 
diligence process  it followed when selecting  investments.  It explained in detail  the approach 
adopted for each  investment decision. It didnt agree it should cover  the losses  in the 
portfolio because it considered it had been managed  in line with the mandate and the 
process it had told him about in its brochure. It said that the risks associated with these types  
of investments had been clearly disclosed at the outset. 
Mr W remained unhappy and referred  his complaint to this service. One of our investigators 
looked into Mr Ws concerns. He didnt think this service had the power to consider all of 
them. For those he could  consider, he didnt agree the complaint should be upheld. In short,  
the investigator said:
Mr W had previously raised  a complaint about  OCP in 2017. Those concerns were 
addressed in OCPs final response letter dated  13 December 2017, which gave Mr W 
6 months to refer his complaint to this service. Mr W didnt  refer those concerns to 
this service in time  and so this service  couldnt look into those concerns for him. 
The investigator therefore concluded that he only had the power to look into events 
which occurred after December 2017  as these werent  covered  in OCPs 2017 final 
response. 
In looking at the investments made  by OCP  after December 2017,  the investigator 
said that by that point  six companies  had been  exited  already  and his portfolio 
remained invested in another six companies.  The investigator looked into the due 
diligence OCP  undertook, and concluded it had acted fairly and reasonably  including 
these companies within  Mr Ws portfolio  in keeping with the information  
memorandum it had given Mr W, as well as the risk warnings  it generally  provided. 
Ref: DRN01972803The investigator also considered that, as a gesture of goodwill, OCP had written off 
its management charges  and had not been  charging him any since April 2018.  
Mr W didnt agree. He said:
His complaint related  to the issues addressed in OCPs 2019 final response letter  
and that was referred in time.  He said that in OCPs  2019  letter,  it didnt time bar the 
complaint. He said that this meant  that under the requirements of the Limitation  Act 
1980, this complaint  was made  within six years  of the establishment of the OCP  EIS 
and within three  years  of me becoming aware of that there was a problem with the 
outcome from the EIS. He said that this meant  that OCP had to deal with all matters  
in the 2019 letter regardless of their inclusion in the 2017 letter. 
He maintained that by using its standard six month referral wording in its 2019 
response he wasnt precluded from having earlier issues  adjudicated by this Service. 
It was up to OCP to preclude an item being considered by this Service   and so in 
order to treat him fairly,  OCP ought to have said in its 2019  letter  that it would object 
to this service considering  issues covered  in the previous  final response letter being 
considered by this Service. 
It wasnt for this Service to summarily decide that those matters couldnt be 
considered. He said that under  DISP  2.8.2 OCP had given consent  by not explicitly 
excluding matters  in its 2019  response, and by not challenging jurisdiction with this 
service first approach  OCP for a response  after he had referred  his complaint. 
He wasnt provided with sufficient evidence to demonstrate that adequate due 
diligence and monitoring  was undertaken on his portfolio. In particular, he expected 
to see research documents, investment  committee decisions and investment 
company board  minutes and other financial information. He said that without this 
information, and given the terrible results  his portfolio had experienced, he was 
unable to conclude  that OCP had done  its job properly and in line with the 
information he was initially  provided about the service it would provide to him. 
The investigator considered Mr Ws additional  points, but ultimately didnt change his mind.  
In short,  he said:
He asked OCP whether it consented  to us looking at matters  referred  to in the 2017 
final response and it didnt. Therefore those matters werent referred  in time and this 
service had no power to look at them. 
He acknowledged  there was information which OCP had provided to the service 
which it had asked  not be disclosed on the basis that it was commercially  sensitive. 
He said he had referred to that information,  albeit not in detail, when making his 
findings. 
However, he considered the reasons OCP  had given  for not wanting that information 
disclosed were reasonable  including the impact such  information could have on 
those companies still trading and any potential non-disclosure agreements in place.  
As agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. 
Ref: DRN01972804Ive considered the issue of jurisdiction first. Im afraid Mr W has misunderstood  the rules 
that govern this service in making  reference to the Limitation Act 1980. This services power 
to look at Mr Ws complaint is derived from the Financial Services  Markets Act 2000   and 
the specific rules governing this services jurisdiction are set out in the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys (FCA) Dispute Resolution Handbook  (DISP). The specific  rule which applies here 
is DISP 2.8 Was the complaint referred  to the Financial  Ombudsman Service  in time. 
DISP 2.8.2 says:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service: 
(1)More than six months after the date on which the respondent sent the complainant its 
final response, redress determination  or summary resolution  communication. 
Unless 
(3)In the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time limits in DISP  
2.8.2R or DISP 2.8.7R  was as a result of exceptional circumstances.
Mr W has challenged this on the basis that it was for OCP to tell him that it would be time 
barring the issues  he complained about  in 2017. He says OCP was required  to do so in the 
letter it sent him in 2019. But I dont agree. 
OCP had already told Mr W that he was required to refer his complaint to this service  within  
six months, and that it wouldnt  consent  to this service looking at this complaint  if he didnt do 
so. In its December 2017  letter, OCP said:
We have treated your comments as a complaint in accordance with the rules of the FCA, 
our regulator. This is our final response under those rules. You have the right to refer your 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman  Service, free of charge  but you must  do so within 
six months of the date of this letter. If you do not refer your complaint in time, the 
Ombudsman will not have  our permission to consider  your complaint and so will only be able 
to do so in very limited  circumstances. For example, if the Ombudsman believes that the 
delay was as a result of exceptional circumstances. 
The letter then enclosed a copy of this Services explanatory leaflet, as well as an internet  
link to the website.  
In my view, OCP had clearly told Mr W what he needed  to do and by when  and made it 
clear that it would not consent to the complaint being considered by this Service  should  he 
not refer his complaint in time. 
I dont agree that OCP  had to explicitly say this again, when referring  to its 2017 letter,  in its 
final response in 2019   save  that it did attach that final response, and make reference  to it 
repeatedly. Im satisfied  therefore, that matters  which Mr W raised with OCP  in 2017 have 
been brought to this service too late, and I do not have the power to consider them. Im 
satisfied there were no exceptional circumstances which prevented  Mr W from referring 
those concerns to this service sooner. 
Turning therefore  to those matters which post-dated OCPs final response letter  in 
December 2017  (in other words, those investments which were still in Mr Ws portfolio after 
Ref: DRN01972805December 2017). Im sorry to disappoint Mr W, but I have little to add to what  the 
investigator has already  explained to him. 
As Mr W himself acknowledges, the portfolio was high risk in nature given that its focus was 
entirely on small, unlisted companies. For these types of companies, there were significant 
tax benefits designed to encourage investment,  precisely because there was a high chance  
of capital loss. Mr W recognises that in the wider market, under 42% of new businesses  
make five years. Whilst he says OCTs experience is 29%,  I dont consider that variation to 
mean that OCPs strategy is inherently  negligent.  In any event, whether or not these figures 
are accurate, I dont  think such  a comparison is helpful in establishing whether OCP has 
done something wrong in managing Mr Ws EIS portfolio. 
I say this because  ultimately, the performance of the individual companies  which  OCP chose 
to invest in is something OCP is bound to have limited, if any, control over. I understand it 
attempts to mitigate this to a degree, for example  by having representation  on the board of 
all the companies  it decides  to invest  in  as well as helping these companies where its 
possible to do so (for example raising funds, providing expertise etc). Im persuaded this 
happened in Mr Ws case. But the key consideration for me is whether OCP was transparent 
about the approach it would follow when investing in these  companies,  and crucially, 
whether it was transparent about  the risks involved. I say this is key because  the information  
Mr W was provided  formed  the basis of OCPs proposition  and the mandate  it agreed to 
adhere to when making discretionary decisions  on his behalf. 
Having looked  through the documentation  that Mr W was given when he was advised by his 
adviser, Im satisfied OCP  was clear about  both these things. Im satisfied that the very real 
risk that Mr W may lose some, most or even all his investment was drawn to his attention.  In 
return for this very high risk, its clear that there was the potential for significant  rewards,  
including the tax incentives, as well as the possibility of investing in an early stage company 
that could later become successful. And key to all this was Mr W agreeing to give OCP full 
discretion over how it would manage his money and which companies it would invest  in, as 
long as it followed the process which  it outlined  to him at the start. 
I dont agree that because these decisions turned out to be unsuccessful it would be fair to 
ask OCP to make up these losses. It never  guaranteed a certain  level of performance,  and 
Ive seen insufficient evidence to persuade me that it promised or otherwise exaggerated the 
expected returns. 
And I can see that when  choosing  the individual companies to invest in on Mr Ws behalf, it 
followed the process it said it would. 
For example Ive seen  evidence  of the investment committee  minutes examining the 
investment proposals,  as well as the proposals themselves. Having looked at these, I can 
see that investments  were  evaluated  in line with the brochure and selected on the basis of 
an assessment of whether the company would be successful in future,  taking into account 
the nature  of the market  the company was operating in and specific information about the 
companys management team and experience. 
Im not persuaded theres anything in the individual companies themselves  which made 
them inherently unsuitable for the portfolio, based on the mandate  agreed,  or that would 
indicate OCP had used  its discretion  inappropriately  for example by not following the due 
diligence process  it outlined at the outset. 
Ref: DRN01972806Ive considered the reasons OCP has given for not sharing  some  of this information,  and Im 
persuaded it is all commercially  sensitive. In particular,  I accept  that this information isnt 
designed to be shared  in this way with individual investors  and what information can be 
shared with Mr W, OCP  has already done  so. Whilst I accept why Mr W believes he needs 
this information  to decide whether OCP has made  reasonable  decisions, Im not persuaded, 
having looked at this evidence, that it would make  any difference to Mr Ws overall concerns. 
I say this because  I think  its quite clear that Mr W has already decided  that OCPs 
management of his portfolio has been  negligent, because  the performance  has been so 
poor. For example,  in its most recent final response letter  OCP walked Mr W through this 
process step by step in an attempt to reassure him, as far as it could, that the companies 
that OCP  had invested in were selected in good  faith and because  OCP believed they would 
be successful. But this did not alleviate Mr Ws dissatisfaction.  
To be clear, I completely understand why Mr W is so dissatisfied, and I can see that OCP 
shares to a large  degree his dissatisfaction  after all, while Mr W believes that OCP has no 
stake in the eventual success of his portfolio, its clear that its ability  attract new investors will 
be impacted if it consistently achieves disappointing  results. But Im not persuaded that any 
of this indicates OCP has done something wrong, nor that it would be fair and reasonable to 
ask it to compensate  Mr W for the losses he experienced. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 March  2021.
Alessandro Pulzone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0197280