K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2004. Miss R says Bank of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered that this policy was sold in a meeting  where Halifax made  a recommendation 
to take PPI.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Rs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Halifax made it clear that Miss R didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose 
to take it out  although I can understand why she may not remember  this.
I say this because  Ive seen a copy of Miss Rs credit card application form. Theres 
an option for Credit  Card  Repayment Cover  (PPI) and theres a typed X next to this 
option. I think its more  likely than not that the X was added to the form following a 
discussion between the adviser and Miss R to reflect what  shed chosen, particularly 
as some of Miss Rs other  personal details  have also been typed on the form.
Ive also noted  that there are inconsistencies  in Miss Rs recollection of the sale.  For 
example, initially  in her PPI questionnaire she complained that PPI had been added  
without her knowledge, but in response  to our adjudicators assessment she said that 
she was led to believe that PPI was compulsory.  
Given the time thats passed since the policy was sold, its not surprising that Miss R 
may not now recall  everything clearly now. 
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Miss R so it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
her  and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think  that it 
was. For example she wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover and she seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Halifax gave Miss R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put her off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Miss R has said - including what shes said about not needing 
PPI because of her existing means of making her repayments. But based  on what  Miss R 
has told us, I still think that the recommendation to take PPI was suitable and the policy was 
right for her as the policy could have paid out for longer than the existing means  shes told 
us about.
Ref: DRN06738892So these points dont  change my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Miss R paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Miss R back some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Miss R now Ive issued my final decision. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 February  2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0673889