K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  about outstanding issues relating to a claim they made  under their
home insurance policy with St Andrews Insurance Plc. They  are also unhappy with the level 
of service they received.
background 
For ease, in this decision  when I refer to St Andrews it will include their agents or
representatives.
Mr and Mrs S suffered a leak in their home whilst  on holiday.
When they arrived home Mr and Mrs S claimed  on their buildings insurance policy,  held with
St Andrews,  to repair the damage caused by the leak. St Andrews arranged for a site
survey of the house and subsequently  employed contractors to begin the remedial works.
Due to the scale  and location  of the work Mr and Mrs S moved into temporary rented
accommodation whilst the work  was done.
On returning to the house there were areas of work  which still needed completing as well as
snagging issues with some of the completed  works. Mr and Mrs S spoke with St Andrews
about completing the snagging work but, in the end, accepted a cash settlement.
Mr and Mrs S say that since then, they have discovered further  problems with the work  as
well as areas of damage not previously addressed.
Mr and Mrs S complained to St Andrews about  several issues including, that the fridge
freezer and boiler  no longer  worked,  and the rendering of the house appeared damaged.
Mr and Mrs S had also been given misinformation about the cleaning costs  of the rented
accommodation and were unhappy with the actions of the personal claims consultant (PCC)
and the removals  team.
In response St Andrews  compensated  Mr and Mrs S £50 for misinforming them  about  the
cleaning of the rented accommodation  and £50 for the poor service of the removals team.
St Andrews  said that the fridge,  boiler  and rendering were still being considered by the PCC.
And it said it felt the actions of the PCC were reasonable and they had acted in a timely
manner.
Mr and Mrs S made a second  complaint regarding St Andrews asking them for a cause of
damage report for the fridge freezer and the validation process. Mr and Mrs S said they had
found further snagging issues  which hadnt been  covered  in the cash  settlement. They also
found areas of damage to their home  that they believed were caused by St Andrews agents.
In its response St Andrews said that it was Mr and Mrs Ss responsibility under the terms
and conditions of their policy to provide a cause  of damage report  and go through a
validation process  for the replacement fridge freezer. So, it didnt feel it had done anything
wrong by asking them to get one. St Andrews also said that the cash settlement for the
snagging issues was made in order to conclude the claim so they wouldnt consider any
further issues.
Mr and Mrs S were  unhappy with the response, and so brought  their complaint to us.
On 26 March 2020 I sent Mr and Mrs S and St Andrews  my provisional  decision. I explained 
that I thought St Andrews should  compensate  Mr and Mrs S for the inconvenience  of not 
having a boiler  or fridge freezer. I also thought that St Andrews should pay for the cause  of 
Ref: DRN06709142damage report and settle Mr and Mrs Ss claim for the re-plastering of their walls.  However,  I 
felt that St Andrews  acted fairly in handling  the other aspects of the complaint. Ive copied  
my provisional findings below. 
my provisional findings
In my provisional findings I said;
Whilst I understand that Mr and Mrs S would like me to make findings on each individual
item in their claim. My role in cases like these  isnt to act as an alternative claims handler.
What I need to do is consider whether St Andrews  have  acted  fairly  and reasonably  when
dealing with Mr and Mrs S and settling their claim.  So, Ill address those areas that I think are
most relevant to this complaint.
Having read St Andrews  file and Mr and Mrs Ss account, there  can be little doubt that
Mr and Mrs S have  suffered a great  deal of upheaval and distress  as a result  of the leak in
their home. However, whenever there is building or repair work required in a home,  there is
always going to be some element of disruption  to normal life. When considering the
complaint, I have broken it down into various headings.
The personal claims consultant (PCC)
I see that St Andrews allocated a personal  claim consultant (PCC) to Mr and Mrs S case.
Mr and Mrs S were  unhappy with the first PCC and I can see that St Andrews appointed a
second PCC when  the first relationship broke down.
Initially when Mr and Mrs S saw the tenancy agreement  for the rented  accommodation,
they noted that the accommodation  needed to be professionally  cleaned when they moved
out. The first PCC said that this cost would fall to Mr and Mrs S, coming out of their deposit.
However, the following week the second PCC agreed that St Andrews would cover this cost.
I can see how this would  frustrate and concern Mr and Mrs S, being told one thing and then
another however Im satisfied that St Andrews acted reasonably by paying for the cleaning
costs. St Andrews have  paid Mr and Mrs S £50 for the upset caused by its misinformation,
which I think is fair.
The Boiler
Mr and Mrs S found that their boiler  was no longer  working following the work being
completed. Mr S spoke  to St Andrews who asked for an engineers  report. The heating
engineer initially  thought  the problem could be fixed,  and it was agreed St Andrews would
pay as the damage  was consistent with the original leak. However, when the engineer came
to fix the boiler,  he discovered that it was beyond economical repair.  Mr S spoke to St
Andrews which agreed to pay for a new boiler.  But this took around a month  and I see it
caused discomfort and upset to Mr and Mrs S. They  had just moved back into the house,  it
was the spring  and they had no heating.
Therefore, St Andrews  should pay Mr and Mrs S £200  for the discomfort  and upset this
caused.
The Fridge  Freezer
The fridge freezer was also no longer  working. St Andrews asked Mr and Mrs S for a cause
Ref: DRN06709143of damage report but they couldnt get this done for over a week. The cause of damage
report suggested that the fridge had been  unplugged and moved before the refrigeration
gases had been allowed to settle.
St Andrews,  after seeing  the report,  agreed  that this was consistent with the actions of its
contractors. So, I think St Andrews were responsible for replacing the fridge freezer  within a
timely manner. There were several  conversations between  St Andrews and Mr and Mrs S
which led to some delays.  And, in the end, Mr and Mrs S decided to buy a replacement
fridge freezer before a settlement  was agreed.
St Andrews  told Mr and Mrs S that the cash settlement figure was around £20 less than the
retail price  of the replacement model fridge freezer as they could get a discount. I think  its
fair for St Andrews to pay the amount that it would  have  cost them, as it didnt have the
option to supply the replacement fridge  freezer before Mr and Mrs S went out and bought
their own.  St Andrews have also included in its settlement offer what it would have cost for
the removal of the old fridge freezer and installation of the new one. So, I think St Andrews
settlement offer was reasonable and it should now pay Mr and Mrs S the cash  settlement of
£1260.80.
Ive thought about the extent of the inconvenience  that St Andrews caused by damaging  the
fridge freezer. It meant  Mr and Mrs S were unable  to refrigerate any food for themselves or
their pets.  There was also the added inconvenience in having  to get a cause of damage
report; find a replacement fridge and go through a validation process with St Andrews.
Therefore St Andrews  should pay £200 for the inconvenience this caused.
St Andrews  asked Mr and Mrs S for a cause  of damage report for the fridge  freezer. But I
dont think it was fair to make Mr and Mrs S pay for the report. As ultimately, its been agreed
that St Andrews agents caused  the damage. So, St Andrews should reimburse
Mr and Mrs S for the cost of the report plus 8% simple interest from the date Mr and Mrs S
paid for it.
Insulation
Mr and Mrs S found that the insulation between the ceiling  and loft had been removed during
the remedial work and not replaced.  St Andrews initially  agreed  to pay the cost of the 
replacement insulation however, later agreed  to pay for the cost of installation as well.
Mr and Mrs S found a supplier and were able to get a government  grant  to reduce the cost.
Mr and Mrs S felt that, as St Andrews wouldnt be able to get this discount itself, they should
pay the higher  sum. I dont think thats  fair to St Andrews as they have reimbursed
Mr and Mrs S for the actual cost to them which I think is reasonable.
Rendering
Mr and Mrs S have  said that the external  rendering  of their home has suffered an increased
amount of weathering where it wasnt  being  heated or insulated  for several months.
St Andrews  said that they werent satisfied  from the evidence provided to them that the
house suffered  additional  weathering  and felt that the weathering was normal.  They stated
that the leak was on the opposite side of the building and hadnt seen any evidence that the
leak travelled to that side. They also stated  they had seen historic photos of the building with
the rendering  already  in poor condition.  On balance, I havent  seen enough  evidence  to say
its likely  that the condition of the rendering deteriorated because  of the building work.
Ref: DRN06709144Snagging issues
Mr and Mrs S were  unhappy that St Andrews  said the cash  settlement for the snagging
issues was a final settlement and havent considered any further issues.
Several snagging  issues were discussed between  Mr and Mrs S and St Andrews during  a
face to face meeting and by email. As a result of the snagging list Mr and Mrs S accepted  a
cash settlement from St Andrews. They did, however raise new problems after accepting
the offer. St Andrews  responded  by saying that the additional snagging items were unlikely
to attract  any additional cost as they were things which  could be completed within the
estimated timescale  of the original snagging  works.
I think it was fair of St Andrews not to continually revise the settlement for most of the work,
as I agree that adding small additional  items to the list may not incur any additional cost.  But
more substantial work is likely to cost more  and should be covered by St Andrews  it was
found to be a result of poor workmanship by its agents. Mr and Mrs S claimed that the
plaster on two of the walls  had a poor finish. They said that they only found  this problem
after moving items of furniture and this work wasnt included in the original snagging list.
So, I think its fair that St Andrews pay for the re-plastering work required.
The removals team  and cleaners
Mr and Mrs S have  also raised several issues regarding damage caused  by the removals
team and cleaners employed to clean Mr and Mrs Ss house  after the building work.
St Andrews  referred  Mr and Mrs S back to their agents to complain however, they were
working on behalf of St Andrews. So, I think St Andrews are responsible for their actions.
St Andrews  have already paid Mr and Mrs S £50 for the poor service of the removals team,
but Mr and Mrs S felt that didnt address any damage caused by either team.
Mr and Mrs S have  said that there is a scratch on their wardrobe as well as damage to the
runners on a chest of drawers.  The removals team said that Mr and Mrs S had signed  its
paperwork to say that all was ok. And St Andrews  said Mr and Mrs S hadnt provided
enough evidence  that this was new damage, as they were also unable show  the condition  of
the items  before its involvement. This is also the case for alleged  damage caused by the
professional cleaners to the slate floor, kitchen hood and light fitting when they cleaned
Mr and Mrs Ss house.
Mr and Mrs S havent been able to evidence that this was new damage,  but I dont think that
this was a reasonable request by St Andrews. I say this because  Mr and Mrs S had an
expectation that their property would be looked  after and wouldnt have taken photographs of 
all their property before  St Andrews involvement.  These are relatively  small items  compared 
to the rest of the claim and theres no evidence that Mr and Mrs S are being  untruthful. So, I 
think its likely that these  items were damaged by St Andrews agents.
Its difficult to estimate the loss to Mr and Mrs S as many of these items are still functional
but may have suffered some aesthetic  damage. I think  a reasonable outcome to this aspect
of the complaint is for St Andrews to pay Mr and Mrs S £500 for the damage caused by its
agents.
Administration and delays
Ref: DRN06709145Mr and Mrs S have  also raised several concerns over the general  administration,  customer
service and communication  of St Andrews leading to delays. Having reviewed the claim
notes I cant see any prolonged periods of inaction. And St Andrews appear to have been
professional and polite throughout their communications with Mr and Mrs S. There have
been some  delays during the claim, but I dont think these  were avoidable. I can see that
Mr and Mrs S understandably wanted a lot of information before  making  decisions and it
took St Andrews some  time to get the answers. This was quite a complex  claim that needed
communication between  several different agents. And decisions had to be made at different
stages when the scope of the work changed.  Overall, I cant  say that there was any
additional inconvenience  or financial loss to Mr and Mrs S that hasnt already been reflected 
in this decision.
the responses to my provisional  findings
St Andrews  responded by saying it had nothing further to add.
Mr and Mrs S were  contacted, but they didnt provide any further comments  or submissions 
for me to consider.  
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also re-considered  my provisional 
findings.
Neither side have  made any further comments or submissions for me to consider. So, I see 
no reason to depart from the findings Ive already reached in this case. Therefore, my 
decision remains the same.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given in my provisional  decision, my final decision is that I uphold this 
complaint. In addition  to the £100 already  paid,  I direct  St Andrews Insurance Plc to pay 
Mr and Mrs S:
1. £400 for the distress  and inconvenience of not having a fridge freezer or boiler.
2. £1260.80 to replace the fridge  freezer.
3. The cost of the cause  of damage report for the fridge freezer  plus 8% simple  interest
from the date Mr and Mrs S paid for it.
4. Settle Mr and Mrs Ss claim  for the re-plastering  work.
5. £500 for damage caused  by its agents.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 July 2020.
Tim Wilkes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0670914