K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains about Lloyds  Bank Plcs delays in sending him new chequebooks and about 
the customer service that hes received.
background
Mr W says that he wrote  to Lloyds in December  2017 requesting a new chequebook. He 
didnt receive one so went  to his local branch in March 2018  and requested  a new 
chequebook. He then complained to Lloyds  about that and other  service  issues   including 
that he feels pressurised into using  online  banking.  
It said that there had been delays in responding to his request so it offered  him £40 
compensation. It said that two chequebooks were  ordered for him when he visited the 
branch and because he hadnt received them  it ordered two more  chequebooks to be sent to 
him. It said that it had passed on his feedback about  chequebooks  not being  automatically 
sent and it offered to send him a small gift for the other service  issues that hed raised. Mr W 
wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. She thought  that 
Lloyds offer to pay Mr W £40 compensation was fair in the circumstances. And she said that 
it isnt the role of this service to tell a bank which services to offer but customers that didnt 
want to use online banking had the option  of phone banking or visiting  their local branch.
Mr W has asked  for his complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman. He says,  in 
summary, that: hes still not receiving chequebooks  automatically; Lloyds  failed to send him 
the chequebook that he requested in December 2019 so isnt allowing him access to his 
money to pay his creditors; and he makes  some general observations  about  his opinion of 
banks and the sanctions that he thinks should be put in place.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds accepts that Mr Ws letter in December 2017 requesting  a chequebook wasnt 
forwarded to its service centre.  But when Mr W visited a branch in March 2018 two 
chequebooks were  ordered for him. Mr W says that he didnt receive them  but I consider it to 
be more likely than not that they were sent to him  even if he didnt  receive them. Two 
further chequebooks were sent to him after he complained to Lloyds and I understand that 
those chequebooks  were received. 
Lloyds accepted that there had been delays in responding to his request so it offered him 
£40 compensation.  It says that chequebooks are automatically generated by monitoring 
usage of the current chequebook and that chequebooks were sent to Mr W in May 2019  and 
twice in August  2019. But Mr W says that hes still not receiving chequebooks automatically  
and that it hasnt sent him a chequebook in response to the letter  that he sent it in 
December 2019.
I sympathise with Mr W for the difficulties that hes experienced.  But I can see that hes 
being sent chequebooks by Lloyds and I dont consider  that it isnt allowing him access  to his 
money. If he isnt receiving chequebooks  automatically when he thinks he should,  perhaps 
Ref: DRN02960612he could order a replacement chequebook with more notice before he needs  it. He can do so 
by writing to Lloyds, phoning it or visiting a branch.
Mr W has referred to other service issues and Lloyds offered to send  him a small gift 
because of them. He says that he feels that Lloyds is pressurising him into using online 
banking. And hes made some general observations about  his opinion  of banks and the 
sanctions that he thinks should  be put in place.
We offer an informal dispute resolution service. We try to resolve  complaints by customers 
about financial businesses by looking at what we consider  to be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. We have  no regulatory  or disciplinary  role over those businesses.  So Im 
unable to require  any of them to change the way that it conducts its business. And our role 
isnt to punish a business if its done something wrong.
But Lloyds continues  to offer chequebooks, online banking, phone banking  and banking  in a 
branch. So Im not persuaded that its unfairly  or unreasonably pressuring Mr W to use 
online banking. And Im unable to require it to change the way that it conducts its business.
Lloyds has offered Mr W £40 compensation  and a small gift. And I consider that it has 
responded fairly and reasonably to his complaint. So I find that it wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable for me to require it to pay any compensation to Mr W  or to take any other  
action in response to his complaint. If Mr W hasnt received the £40 compensation from 
Lloyds but not wants  to accept it, I suggest  that he contacts it to see if the offer remains 
available to him.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0296061