K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc added his daughters names  to his account 
without his authority  which resulted in £13,000 being  withdrawn from the account. Mr M is 
represented by his son.
background
Mr M says Clydesdale added his daughters names  to his passbook account  without telling 
him and without his authority. He says the account was in his name only and his daughters  
were able to withdraw  £13,000 from his account.  Mr M says he ought to have been told what  
had taken place  and, in any event, only one daughter held a Power of Attorney (POA) for his 
late wife. He says the passbook  was not presented in branch and also says the invoice, for 
care home fees, Clydesdale were given for £13,000  doesnt appear genuine. In summary Mr 
M would like the money refunded.
Clydesdale says the account was opened in 1985  in joint names and has statements from 
2016 confirming  that. It says a passbook isnt always needed for transactions  and says Mr 
Ms daughter  held POA  for Mr Ms late wife and was entitled  to ask it to pay the care home 
fees (for Mr Ms wife).  Clydesdale says it paid the care home directly. It accepts it should 
have made  Mr M aware about the registration of the POA on the account and accepts it 
used an incorrect number  to try and speak to him.
Mr M brought his complaint to us and our investigator upheld the complaint in part. The 
investigator thought  Clydesdale  could  have done  more to tell Mr M that a POA had been 
registered on his account but accepted  it had told Mr M about it in branch. He also thought 
the POA was in one daughters name but allowed the other  to be registered as POA if 
needed but adding both to the account had no impact. The investigator thought the account  
was joint and that a passbook wasnt always needed for transactions. And thought the care 
home invoice appeared genuine.  The investigator thought Mr Ms Solicitor made  clear  that 
he would  have had no problem maintaining his wifes care home fees. He recommended 
Clydesdale pay £200 compensation for the communication  issues which its agreed to pay.
Mr M doesnt accept that view and says he has lost money as his wife passed away  some 
months after the payment and he hasnt been  refunded for the care home fees paid in 
advance.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come  to the overall  view that Clydesdale has dealt fairly with this 
complaint. I appreciate Mr M will be disappointed  by my decision.
I have looked  at Clydesdales records and Im satisfied this was a joint account in Mr Ms 
name and in that of his late wife. I can see that statements were sent to Mr M which clearly  
showed the account was in joint names. Im also satisfied that Mr Ms daughter  held a POA  
for his wife and that its likely Mr M was aware of that. So, I dont think Clydesdale  made  a 
mistake by adding Mr Ms daughter to the joint account or by allowing the payment of 
£13,000 for care home fees to be made.  I find that as the account was joint either  party was 
entitled to withdraw  as much as that person wished.
Ref: DRN03423322I accept that only one of Mr Ms daughters held a POA, but the POA  made an allowance for 
the other daughter to be added if needed. I accept in those circumstances that Clydesdale 
ought to have just added one daughter  to the account, but I dont think  that had any impact  
on what took place  and that the money  would have been withdrawn in any event.
I can see that Clydesdale accepts it didnt use the correct  telephone number to contact Mr M 
to tell him about  the changes to the account.  But I think  Clydesdale  did tell Mr M in branch 
what had taken place  and so I dont think that had any significant effect on Mr M. And I dont  
think he could have  stopped his daughter being  added to the account as she held a POA. 
I appreciate Mr M questions the authenticity  of the care home invoice. But I have no reason 
to doubt its authenticity and I also think that Mr M has had some time to investigate that point 
or speak  to the care home. I think it likely  that Mr M would have been told by now if the care 
home fees hadnt been paid and I can see from his solicitors letter that he said he would 
have no problem maintaining his wifes care home fees in any event. Im satisfied that 
Clydesdale has fairly paid the money  directly to the care home and I dont think  there can be 
any suggestion that Mr Ms daughter has acted unfairly by using  her mothers  money to pay 
the invoice.
The investigator has recommended Clydesdale pay £200 compensation for the failure to 
communicate with Mr M and its agreed to pay that amount. In those circumstances I will not 
interfere in that, but I make clear that I dont think Clydesdale made a mistake about  the 
main issue  here namely the payment of the fees out of a joint account.
I can see that Mr M says he is not happy with that view as his wife passed  away  some  
months after the invoice was paid for the next six months and as a result, he has lost money. 
I cant fairly hold Clydesdale responsible for that and I have made clear it didnt make  a 
mistake by paying the invoice. If Mr M believes he entitled to a refund of that money,  then he 
will need  to speak to the care home  and ask it for a refund.
Overall, I dont  uphold the main  parts of this complaint. Im satisfied Clydesdale  has offered a 
fair and reasonable compensation offer of £200. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the main parts of this complaint and that Clydesdale 
Bank Plc has made  a fair and reasonable compensation offer of £200.  Mr Ms acceptance of 
that offer would be in full and final settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 April 2021.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0342332