K822xcomplaint
Mr E has complained about how Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide or the Society)  
has dealt with the problems hes experienced with his online banking. 
background 
Mr E has experienced many problems, particularly around making  online payments. He 
complained to Nationwide which, as the Society  has itself admitted, didnt at first handle the 
complaint, and later iterations of it, well and has paid some  compensation  (£175) for that. 
The problems were  intermittent. Often  Mr E used online banking  with Nationwide without any 
difficulties. 
Some of the problems have been  around Mr Es confidential account  identification data not 
being recognised by Nationwide, despite Mr E being sure he had input the data correctly.  
Mr E is convinced  the source  of his problems lies with Nationwide  and its systems. 
Nationwide, having  investigated the issues to its own but not Mr Es satisfaction, concluded 
the problems didnt lie with the Society  but probably  with Mr Es systems, which  Mr E 
strongly disputes. 
In terms of remedy, Mr E would like Nationwide to solve the ongoing problems and pay him 
substantial compensation for his time and the aggravation hes been  through. 
Our investigator examined  the available evidence  including  videos Mr E had made of the 
problems he was experiencing. She thought some of the messages appearing on Mr Es 
screen, when he was failing to complete  payment instructions, might suggest  problems  with 
Nationwides systems. But overall she didnt make  a conclusive finding that Nationwides  
systems were causing the problems. 
The investigator asked  Nationwide to look into further difficulties Mr E experienced while  his 
complaint has been with us. The Society did so but said it couldnt find the source  of the 
problems within its systems.
The investigator concluded Nationwide had done all it reasonably could to identify the cause 
of the problems but without success,  and it couldnt  do any more, in the circumstances, to 
solve the issues. 
She recommended Nationwide  pay Mr E a further £150 for distress and inconvenience to 
cover deficiencies in the level of service  it provided  to Mr E when investigating his concerns.
Mr E was very unhappy  with the investigators  conclusions. He insisted Nationwide should 
be made to identify and solve the problems, and he said that £150 was wholly  inadequate  
compensation for what hed been put through by Nationwide. Mr E sent us an annotated 
copy of the investigators  conclusions,  having  said that the investigator hadnt stated the 
facts fully enough. 
Ref: DRN05074002my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I can well understand Mr Es feelings  and 
his concern in particular  that the cause of the problems hasnt been identified.  
Ill explain  why I think the investigator has taken the correct approach to the complaint and 
reached reasonable conclusions.
In terms of the amount of detail our decisions contain, its not always the case  that this has 
to be exhaustive. Often a summary will suffice,  especially  as the parties themselves know 
the detail of the complaint  well. 
Im satisfied Mr E experienced all the problems hes described. But in order for me to hold 
Nationwide responsible for those problems, the evidence would have to persuade me that 
the cause of the problems  lay and lies with the Society. 
I havent examined Nationwides systems, nor am I an IT technician. Im independent so I 
dont act as Mr Es representative or advocate. Like any adjudicator in a similar position, I 
have to make my decision based  on the available evidence, which  includes the results of 
Nationwides attempts  to identify the issue. I dont  think this evidence points clearly enough 
to the source  of the problems being within Nationwides systems. 
If I cant be sufficiently sure Nationwides systems  are to blame,  it follows  that I cant  fairly 
ask Nationwide  to compensate Mr E for the systems problems hes experienced. 
As a practical matter, there  would  be little point in my requiring Nationwide to carry out 
further investigations or to solve the problems  if Im satisfied, as I am, that the Society has 
already carried out extensive investigations  without being able to find the source of the 
problem within its systems. 
Mr E has already received some compensation from Nationwide, including for unsatisfactory  
complaint-handling and for failing to explain to Mr E at a crucial time how to reset his online 
banking account  so that he could  re-attempt an important money transfer. Like the 
investigator, I think it would be fair for Nationwide to pay Mr E a further £150 in this respect. I 
repeat this is compensation for the level of service provided, not for the systems  issues.  
Mr E has complained Nationwide refused to put him through to its IT department when he 
once asked, nor did it agree to look at his videos.  The first matter was a business decision 
for Nationwide  to make; we dont require  financial businesses to comply with such requests 
as long as the business  seeks to address the customers concerns. Regarding the videos, a 
similar point  applies, plus I think Mr E adequately described the issues  in any case. 
my final decision
I require Nationwide  Building Society  to pay Mr E a further £150. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 January 2020.
Roger Yeomans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0507400