K820x#14complaint
Miss D is unhappy with the service she received from Nationwide Building Society. 
background
On 25 September  2018 Miss D called Nationwides recoveries  team  after receiving a final 
notice for her credit card account.  Shes unhappy with the way its advisor spoke to her. She 
feels they were aggressive, and shes upset they suggested she should consider downsizing 
her home. 
When Miss D complained to Nationwide  it apologised for any concern caused  by the 
conversation with its advisor,  but didnt agree the advisor had acted incorrectly.
Miss D wasnt  happy with this response  so she brought her complaint to our service. She 
feels bullied  by Nationwide. She says that after agreeing a repayment plan of £2 a month in 
February 2018, its now asking her to make higher repayments that she cant afford. Shes 
worried about the possibility of a County Court Judgement and the impact this would have 
on her. And she doesnt feel Nationwide has been  very supportive  of her situation.  
Shes also unhappy she didnt initially receive  a copy  of Nationwides  final response to her 
complaint - or a recording of the telephone  call with its advisor like she requested.  To put 
things right, she wants an apology from Nationwide and the advisor she spoke with.
Our investigator thought Nationwide had treated Miss D fairly. And they felt the advisor had 
been trying  to help her find solutions to avoid  a charging order  being  issued over her 
property. So they didnt think this complaint should  be upheld.
Miss D disagrees, so the case  has been  passed  to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I know  Miss D will be disappointed,  but 
Ive reached the same  conclusions as our investigator did here.  Ill explain why.
Ive listened to the call Miss D had with Nationwide on 25 September  2018. Its clear she 
found it distressing.  But I dont  think  the advisor  spoke  to her inappropriately, or meant to 
cause any offence.  They asked her some  questions to get an update  on her circumstances, 
and explained  the banks  position. I appreciate Miss D was upset by some of the 
suggestions they made. But I think  the advisor  was trying to help her find solutions to avoid 
Nationwide taking further action in relation to her debt. So Im not going to ask the advisor, or 
Nationwide, to issue a further apology in addition to the one they made in their final response 
letter.
Ive also listened  to a call Miss D had with Nationwide  on 17 September  2018,  and again  I 
dont think she was treated unfairly. 
Ref: DRN01985772Miss D doesnt feel Nationwide has been very supportive of her situation. Nationwide  has 
shown us that it first issued a default  notice  for her account in January 2017.  It also 
suspended interest  and charges on the account  around this time as Miss D had made it 
aware she was struggling financially. Miss D said that it initially  told her not to make  any 
repayments, and in February 2018  it agreed  to a minimal repayment plan of £2 a month. I 
think these were reasonable  steps  for Nationwide to have taken to try and help her, and 
showed a positive and sympathetic approach  which is what  Id expect to see.
Miss D was understandably  upset when the advisor told her shed now need to make 
repayments of £43.91  a month  going  forward to avoid Nationwide seeking a charging  order  
over her property. This is a big increase on £2 a month, and shes explained she cant afford 
this. I sympathise with her situation.  But Ive looked  at the regulations  and guidance lenders 
have to follow, and I dont think Nationwide have acted unfairly.
I can see in the letter  Nationwide sent Miss D on 22 February 2018  confirming the £2 a 
month repayment plan it said it would review  it after 6 months.  So I dont think it had 
guaranteed it would continue to accept £2 a month for a longer period. And I wouldnt expect 
it to continue accepting  minimal repayments  on a long-term basis.
I appreciate Miss Ds shown willing to pay more by making repayments of £5 a month.  But 
theres no prospect  of this amount clearing her debt,  which exceeds £5,000, in a reasonable 
amount of time. And there comes a point where  a financial  business has to take action  to 
collect what its owed. Nationwides position  is that it refers  accounts to its legal team where 
theres no prospect  of a debt being repaid  within the next ten years. I can see Nationwide  
waited more than 18 months since the first default  notice  before referring  Miss Ds account 
to its legal team. And I think this was a reasonable amount of time to wait to see if her 
financial situation improved and shed be able to repay  the debt in a suitable time frame.  
I understand Miss D feels bullied by Nationwide. But I can clearly  hear that its advisors told 
her not to make these  repayments if she couldnt  afford them. So I dont think  they were 
trying to pressure her into paying  more. They were just explaining Nationwides  position in 
relation to the debt and the next steps it would take. I can also see that in the letter its 
solicitors sent her theyve  asked for updated income and expenditure details to ensure any 
repayments are affordable for her. And theyve suggested she seeks debt advice from a third 
party  which I understand she has already done. So again,  Im satisfied Nationwide  have 
taken steps to ensure shes not agreeing to anything  thats  unaffordable.
When Miss D brought her complaint to us she said she hadnt  received any correspondence  
from Nationwide with details a of a new repayment  plan to clear her debt in 10 years  as she 
was told she would  on the telephone. Nationwides solicitors have since sent a letter 
confirming the repayments that would be required under this plan.  And theyre in line with 
those suggested  by Nationwides advisor on the telephone. So Im glad to see this has now 
been clarified. I can also see theyve told her Nationwide  would accept  a repayment plan of 
£10 a month  although theyve advised  this wouldnt  prevent further  court action being 
taken.
Nationwide have shown  us that they sent a final response letter  to Miss D on 28 December 
2018 about this complaint. Miss D didnt  receive  this and is unhappy  she had to chase for a 
response. I cant be certain why she didnt receive  its first letter, but I dont think  it would be 
fair to hold Nationwide responsible for this, as Im satisfied it posted it to the correct  address. 
I understand Nationwide have also now sent Miss D a copy  of the telephone calls shed 
requested. 
Ref: DRN01985773my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint for the reasons Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Miss D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 August 2019.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0198577