K820x#14complaint
Mr S says Canada Square Operations Limited (Canada Square) mis-sold him a regular 
premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy to cover his credit card repayments.
background
Mr S applied for a credit card over the internet in 2000. At the same time he took out a PPI 
policy to cover his credit  card repayments.  The policy cost £0.59 per £100 of the balance on 
Mr Ss credit  card. A successful  claim  on the policy wouldve paid 10% of the outstanding 
balance for up to 12 months  per claim if Mr S was unable  to work due to accident  or 
sickness or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr Ss complaint should  be upheld because  he thought Mr S 
made it clear  in his application he wanted  PPI and thought it wouldve provided  a useful 
benefit.
Mr S disagrees. He says he didnt  need  the policy and thought  taking PPI would help with 
credit being  approved. 
So the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ss complaint.
Having done so Im in agreement with our adjudicator  and Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ss 
complaint. 
The PPI was applied  for online when Mr S applied for a credit card.  Canada  Square have 
given us a copy  of the screen shots  of the application form Mr S wouldve seen and 
completed when  he applied for his credit card. 
I can see that theres a separate  section  on the application form that deals with PPI. Within 
this section it briefly explains what the cost of PPI is along with what  it protects against and 
gives the customer the option to either  select:
Yes, I would like to protect my repayments; or 
No, I do not wish to protect my repayment 
Canada Square  say Mr S wouldnt have been able to continue  with the application without 
selecting one of these options.  I think because Mr S had PPI its likely he selected  to take 
PPI. If Mr S didnt want to take out PPI he couldve  selected not to take the cover. So I think 
its likely  Mr S understood he had a choice in taking out the PPI and chose  to take it 
because he wanted  the cover. 
Because the PPI was taken out over the internet I dont  think  Canada Square  advised Mr S 
to take PPI. What  this means is that Canada Square  didnt recommend PPI to Mr S, they just 
Ref: DRN05299622gave him information  about PPI. This information  needed to be given in a way that was 
clear, fair and not misleading so he could  make an informed choice about buying PPI.
I can see the cost of the policy  is shown on the application form. But I cant  say whether all 
the proper information needed  was given. That being said even if Canada  Square did give all 
the information Mr S needed to make an informed  choice  on taking out the policy, I think he 
wouldve still taken the policy  because at the time of sale:
He was eligible for the PPI.
It doesnt look like he wouldve been caught  by any of the main  exclusions in the terms 
and conditions  of the policy which couldve made it difficult  to make a successful claim.
At the time of the sale Mr S says he was entitled  to sick pay and had savings he could 
use to make  his repayments  if he was unable to work or lost his job. But the policy 
wouldve paid out on top of this and for potentially longer covering his payments for up 
to 12 months if he was too sick to work or lost his job. So I cant  see how knowing this 
information wouldve  put him off buying  it.
Theres nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable to Mr S and he could cancel the 
policy if he no longer  wanted it.
So I dont  think it wouldve made a difference in how the information was given to Mr S on 
the PPI. I think he wouldve still taken out the PPI policy  as it was of value to him.
Which means Canada Square doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint  against Canada Square 
Operations Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 August 2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0529962