K822xcomplaint
Mr M complains that St. Jamess Place Wealth Management  Plc (SJP) didnt inform him that 
the ongoing servicing and advice for his self-invested personal pension (SIPP)  was 
transferred to a different  business. Mr M says this business received fees which he hadnt  
given permission to be paid and that a significant amount of his pension fund has been  lost. 
He wants to know how a different  company  was given his details and wants  a refund of any 
charges that were  paid to the company.  
background 
Mr M took out a SIPP in 2016 through his Independent Financial Adviser  (IFA). In 2017 the 
adviser became  part of SJP and under the terms of his agreement  was no longer able to 
advice Mr M on his SIPP. The adviser did look into the viability of a transfer  of the plan to an 
SJP SIPP  but it was decided this wasnt in Mr Ms best interest.
So the servicing of the SIPP was transferred to another IFA who agreed  to take it over as 
long as it received  a signed agreement from Mr Ms adviser within  six months. The 
agreement wasnt received so the IFA transferred the servicing rights of the plan back to the 
SIPP provider directly  in early 2018. However,  the IFA had received adviser fees from the 
plan during the time it held it.
When Mr M became aware  of what had happened he complained to SJP.  He said hed been  
allocated a number  of different advisers within SJP,  but hadnt  given permission for them  to 
have his personal details. He wanted to know why, in over a year, hed not been advised 
about the situation and asked what the normal procedure was for such  changes. He asked if 
any payments had been taken from his SIPP by the advisers and wanted a refund of any 
fees they might have  received. 
SJP explained  that Mr M didnt hold any investments with it. But said that from 
August 2017 to January  2018, when his adviser had joined SJP after being an IFA, his SIPP 
had come under another IFAs  responsibility. It apologised for any confusion this 
arrangement had caused Mr M and offered a total of £900, which  included  a refund of the 
charges the IFA had received and a goodwill payment.
But Mr M wasnt happy with this outcome. He reiterated that hed never signed any 
paperwork with SJP and didnt understand how it was able to access  his SIPP  and take 
payments from it. 
So, one of our adjudicators looked into the matter. He obtained details of Mr Ms SIPP and 
was able to confirm that no funds had been  taken  from the SIPP  by SJP. Some adviser  fees 
had been paid to the IFA, but SJP offered  to repay  them to Mr M along with a goodwill 
gesture of £250.  The adjudicator thought the total offer of £900 represented a fair and 
reasonable resolution. 
He also explained  that he wasnt going  to look into the actions of the IFA or SIPP provider  as 
Mr Ms complaint was about SJP.
Mr M didnt  agree and asked for his complaint  to be referred to an ombudsman.  He 
confirmed what he considered to be the points that needed investigating,  which were:
who had authorised the SJP adviser to take payments from his SIPP?
Ref: DRN06256462Who had authorised  the IFA to take payments from his SIPP, especially as he hadnt 
been aware of that business  until January 2018.
How did both companies obtain his personal  information? And why didnt they 
provide any service in relation to the fees they took?
So as no resolution  has been found,  the complaints been passed to me for a review.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, I agree with the 
adjudicators conclusions that SJPs  offer is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I know  
Mr M will be disappointed with this outcome so Ill explain my reasons.
Ive looked very carefully at the sequence  of events  which occurred between Mr M and 
various advisers with respect to his SIPP.  Mr M took out the SIPP in 2016  and was looked 
after by his adviser who was then an IFA. But when  that adviser joined SJP,  after it 
recommended that he shouldnt  transfer his SIPP to SJP, it was no longer authorised  to 
advise Mr M about his SIPP. 
So the servicing rights for the plan were transferred to another IFA. As the IFAs 
requirements of a letter of engagement  werent provided, it transferred the servicing of 
Mr Ms SIPP back to the provider. The outcome of these events, over a short  period  of time, 
was that Mr M didnt hold any SJP investments  and wasnt  given any further advice by it. But 
ongoing adviser charges for the SIPP, which had originally been  claimed  by the IFA  
continued to be paid to the new IFA. Having looked  carefully at the information provided  by 
the SIPP provider  Im satisfied that SJP didnt take any unauthorised payments from Mr Ms 
SIPP. In my opinion  any payments  were received by the IFA.
But I can understand Mr Ms concern and frustration here as SJP hasnt been able to provide 
any evidence to show that the change  of adviser  and the advisers  scope of advice  was 
communicated to him. Mr M had questioned how the various  businesses  acquired his 
personal information and were  able to authorise payments from his SIPP  and I can see why 
Mr M might think that.  I cant see that it was made  clear to him that the adviser wouldnt be 
able to advise  him on his SIPP when  it moved  to SJP, or that another  IFA would be involved 
in the process.  So its not unreasonable for Mr M to be concerned about the situation. 
But this complaint is about  SJP and its role in the matter. If Mr M is concerned  about  the role 
of the new IFA and the charges it received or even about the SIPP provider and its role, he 
should raise complaints with those businesses separately. From the evidence  Ive seen Im 
satisfied that SJP  through its adviser,  didnt access his SIPP in any way. I cant see that it 
received any payments  from the SIPP and theres  nothing to show it authorised  any other 
transactions. 
So, in my view, for SJP to offer to refund the payments that were made to the IFA is a fair 
and reasonable offer in this case. 
In addition SJP has also offered  a further  £250  for any distress  and inconvenience this 
matter has caused.  Ive already said that SJP could have been clearer with Mr M over the 
changes to his adviser  and their roles. I think it hasnt been communicated properly and I 
can see how this impacted Mr M who was confused to the point that he wasnt  sure who was 
supposed to be advising him on his pension.  
Ref: DRN06256463But SJP has acknowledged this and I think the additional £250 it offered is fair and 
reasonable. I note the total offer was rounded  up to £900 and SJP hasnt deducted the tax 
that Mr M would have to pay if it had been added to his plan and become part of his other 
retirement benefits, so I think the overall  offer is a fair resolution  to Mr Ms complaint.
I know Mr M wants further answers into how his information was passed between  various  
businesses without his authorisation   and how it was able to authorise payments from his 
SIPP. My role isnt usually to determine  if any data protection  laws have  been  breached   
thats for the Information Commissions Office to decide. But I can look at if theres been any 
impact on Mr M as a result of that and whether I think SJP has acted fairly in the 
circumstances. 
SJP has acknowledged  the responsibility it had around communicating with Mr M about the 
change of advisers and has made Mr M an offer which I think  more than compensates him 
for its part in the matter.  
 
my final decision
St. Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc has offered £900  as compensation to resolve 
this complaint. I think thats  fair and reasonable  in the circumstances of Mr Ms complaint.
So my decision is that St. Jamess Place  Wealth Management Plc should pay £900.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 December  2019. 
Keith lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0625646