K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains about The Prudential Assurance  Company Limited  (Prudential).  Hes 
unhappy with the level of compensation Prudential  has offered for incorrect  information  it 
provided regarding  the final bonus applicable to his Personal Pension Policy  (PPP).
background
Prudential sent Mr W a letter in November 2018. In summary it said:
Mr W had passed the date hed originally chosen to take his pension income
the original Selected Retirement Date (SRD) for Mr Ws pension had been extended 
to 1 October 2023 but Mr W could still take retirement benefits before this date and a 
quote would  be provided when requested 
a final bonus  of £12,266.09 was added as a result of the extension of Mr Ws SRD
Further to its letter Mr W contacted Prudential  to query his final bonus. Mr W was twice 
advised by Prudential that the final bonus  would  be added to the existing value of his PPP.  
Based on what Mr W was told he understood that as his pension  fund had a value of 
£89,111.52 and the bonus was £12,266.09, his total pension was worth  around £101,000. 
Prudential confirmed Mr Ws understanding was correct. 
Prudential later sent Mr W another letter regarding his final bonus. This time Prudential said 
the final bonus had already been added  to Mr Ws pension.
As Prudentials letter  was at odds with what hed previously been  advised Mr W contacted 
Prudential to ask questions about his final bonus and the value  of his pension.  Following 
several conversations Prudential later clarified that Mr Ws final bonus  had already  been 
added to his pension. Concerned by the conflicting  information hed been provided with Mr 
W complained.
Prudential initially offered Mr W £125  compensation for what  hed experienced. But Mr W 
didnt consider this was enough. He suggested  £1,000 or later £500 compensation would be 
more appropriate.
Prudential considered Mr Ws complaint again  and provided its final response on the matter. 
In summary  it said:
it accepted  it had provided  Mr W with a poor level of service  as it had given incorrect 
information 
it understood Mr W had been  told the value of £12,266.09 was in addition  to his 
current fund value  and realised Mr W had been  querying the matter  following the 
poorly worded  letter it had sent him which suggested the £12,226.09 would be an 
additional value  added to his plan
the £12,226.09 wasnt a value in addition to Mr Ws current  fund value
following Mr Ws selected retirement  date,  as Mr W hadnt taken benefits, the final 
bonus became  a guaranteed figure  
it was sorry to have let Mr W down and understood it had caused him frustration as a 
result of its miscommunication
Ref: DRN08577212to compensate Mr W for inconvenience  caused it offered him £200 and asked him to 
let it know if he wanted to receive  this payment
Unhappy with Prudentials  response, Mr W referred  his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators  considered the matter and in summary said she understood how 
frustrating it wouldve been for Mr W to be misinformed repeatedly by Prudential.  But she 
thought the compensation  offered for this was fair.
Mr W disagreed  with our investigator and in summary said:
he hadnt been paid the £200 compensation Aviva had offered
he only wanted £1,000 compensation and wasnt asking Prudential  to honour the 
incorrect information it had given him about his final bonus
when hed asked  for the value of his pension Prudential had sent him transfer forms 
hed never asked for and this was yet another error 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not intending to 
direct Prudential to do anything further. Ill explain why. But before I do, I should  emphasise 
that while Ive taken note of the correspondence, arguments and comments made by both 
parties, I have limited my response to what I consider to be the issues  central to this 
complaint. 
I should firstly say I have  real sympathy  for Mr W. I can appreciate it will have been deeply 
frustrating and very disappointing  to learn  his final bonus  wouldnt be added to the value  of 
his pension in the way he was led to believe it would be. 
Its clear to me that in an effort to understand the matter of his final bonus better and gain 
reassurances around the value of his pension, Mr W made  a point of contacting Prudential 
directly several times. Unfortunately further  confusion was caused  following Mr Ws 
exchanges with Prudential.
There isnt any dispute about the fact that Prudential provided Mr W with incorrect  
information regarding  his final bonus. And Mr W is understandably concerned and very 
unhappy about this. 
The issue  I have to decide is whether the action Prudential has taken satisfactorily resolves 
the matter and sufficiently compensates Mr W for the trouble and upset  caused  by what 
happened. 
Ref: DRN08577213In Mr Ws submissions to this service hes said he doesnt expect Prudential  to honour the 
incorrect information it gave him regarding his final bonus. I agree  with this position.  While 
Mr W was arguably  led to believe the value of his pension  was higher than it was, this 
doesnt mean Prudential is bound by the incorrect information it gave. In a situation  like this, 
we aim to put a consumer back in the position they would have been  in, had the correct 
information been given at the outset. 
So for Mr W, the correct information  is that the value  of his pension  already includes the final 
bonus applicable at his originally selected SRD, and not that this bonus has yet to added  to 
the value of Mr Ws pension.
Ive also considered the original documentation  applicable to Mr Ws pension and having 
done so Im satisfied  that despite  the incorrect information Prudential previously gave to Mr 
W, his final bonus has in fact been  correctly  applied to his pension.  
In addition to providing Mr W with incorrect information over the telephone, Prudential also 
accepts that some of its written correspondence to Mr W was poorly worded. I agree. I dont 
think all of Prudentials letters to Mr W were as clear  as they ought to have been.
Mr Ws referred to the fact Prudential sent him a transfer pack he didnt request. Ive looked 
into this further can see why Mr W wouldve been  confused when he received this. From 
what I can see however, Mr W was sent the transfer  pack  as Prudential  was attempting  to 
send Mr W an up to date value for his plan with his final bonus included.  This was following 
Prudentials telephone conversations with Mr W regarding his pension. Unfortunately  it looks  
like the transfer  pack  was sent to Mr W without  any cover  letter  or context so understandably  
Mr W was confused as to why it had been  sent. This no doubt added  to Mr Ws frustrations 
that Prudential  wasnt taking sufficient care with the enquiries he was making about his plan.
Because of the absence of clear  and consistent explanations coupled with the provision of 
conflicting information by Prudential I think it was reasonable for Mr W to have the 
expectations he did at the time. I understand Mr W accepted what  he was told by Prudential  
in good faith. And can appreciate his frustration as the situation could have easily  been 
avoided if Prudential had been clearer. Prudential unfairly raised  Mr Ws expectations  at an 
important time when Mr W wouldve  in all likelihood  been  considering his financial  position.
Turning now to the impact  of the level of service  Prudential  provided Mr W with. Its clear  to 
me trouble and upset has been caused to Mr W. For what has happened Prudential has 
apologised and offered Mr W £200  compensation. I think this level of award is fair and 
reasonable and in line with what Id expect to see in the circumstances- especially 
considering the loss of expectation Mr W suffered and the avoidable distress and 
inconvenience Prudentials  conflicting information  caused. 
I have real sympathy for Mr W and can appreciate  how upsetting  this will all have been. Its 
clear to me that having  correct information  about his pension  was of great importance to Mr 
W and understandably so as I believe  it would  have an impact on decisions he made about 
his retirement. Prudentials errors will have naturally undermined Mr Ws confidence  in the 
service it provides and his faith in the information it gives him. But Prudential doesnt  dispute 
the fact that it has got things wrong.  It has apologised and offered compensation for what  
has happened. 
I understand Mr W would  like a compensation payment of £1,000 from Prudential for what 
has happened. But based on what Ive seen Im not persuaded  that what  Mr W has 
Ref: DRN08577214experienced is to the extent that an award of this nature would be appropriate in the 
circumstances.
While Im not directing  Prudential to make the award  I understand Mr W would  like, in that I 
dont think Prudential should be bound to pay him further compensation, I should say that I 
do think its entirely reasonable  for Mr W to expect Prudential to provide clear,  consistent 
and correct information. And its unfortunate that in this case that didnt happen. I am 
genuinely sorry to hear of the impact that this has had on Mr W. I have  sympathy for Mr Ws 
situation and the confusion and frustration he experienced.
I dont underestimate  or doubt Mr Ws sincerity  or strength of feeling  in bringing his complaint 
to this service and I understand that my decision may come as a disappointment to him, but 
for the reasons Ive explained I wont be asking Prudential to do anything  further. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I leave it Mr W to decide  whether he 
would like to accept Prudentials offer of £200 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 May 2019.
Chillel Williams  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0857721