K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that he couldnt access his account  through online banking at National 
Westminster Bank Plc.
background
Mr A said that he wasnt able to access online banking, or to see his account through the 
NatWest app. He said that he had direct  debits leaving his account on the day this 
happened, and he needed  to know how much money he had to transfer into his account. 
Mr A said that he wanted an apology, an explanation  and £50.
NatWest said that Mr A was complaining about  some online banking issues which happened 
on 21 September 2018. NatWest said that it had alerted the press to the problems with 
online banking on that day, and the problem was resolved  by 10 oclock  in the morning. It 
said it had emailed Mr A about  this the same day, to say that he could now access  online 
banking. It said that this problem hadnt caused  Mr A to incur any charges  on his account.  
NatWest wouldnt pay Mr A any compensation. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint. He said that he thought  that the online system 
had been down for a relatively  short period of time. No charges had been applied  to Mr As 
account in the following month as a result  of this. And Mr A could still have got information 
about his account from a branch or over the phone, if he wished. Our adjudicator  didnt think 
that NatWest had to do any more.
Mr A didnt agree with that. He said that he wanted  an ombudsman to consider this 
complaint, so it was passed to me for a final decision.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reached the same overall conclusion  
as our adjudicator  on this complaint, and for broadly the same reasons.
NatWest has accepted that its online  and mobile banking systems went  down on 21 
September. It also said at the time that this meant a lot of people called its call centres, so 
there was a longer than usual wait to speak to someone on the phone.  I appreciate that this 
would be frustrating and worrying  for Mr A, as he needed to pay some  money  into his 
account that day, to make  sure that some direct  debits would clear. But fortunately, the 
online system  started working  again in the morning. Mr As direct debits cleared, and he 
didnt get charged  any fees as a result  of this system failure. 
I note that Mr A complained about  the online system being  down on the same day. And I can 
see that NatWest emailed him back that day, to tell him the system was working again. 
Mr A has told us he wanted an apology, an explanation, and £50 in compensation. I think  
that NatWest has already  done two of those things. It did explain to Mr A that there had been  
a system-wide problem,  and it offered Mr A an apology for the inconvenience.  Because the 
system was restored relatively quickly, and because Mr As direct debits did go through  and 
he wasnt actually charged anything as a result, I dont think that NatWest has to pay Mr A 
Ref: DRN09363502compensation too. I think that NatWests prompt apology, and notification  that the system 
was working again,  is enough to put things right in this case.
I know that Mr A will be disappointed, but I dont think  that his complaint should be upheld. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0936350