K821x#15complaint
Mr Gs complaint against Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (Halifax), is that it 
irresponsibly provided him with a loan that was unaffordable.
background
In March 2013 Mr G applied online for a personal loan with Halifax.  He did so having 
received direct marketing  on the Halifax app, while managing one of his accounts.
Mr G held two accounts  with Halifax  a joint one with his then-wife, and another  that had 
been open for a year with small amounts  in and out. Neither was his main  current account.
Mr G says that at the time he was offered the loan he was in serious financial difficulties,  and 
suffering some mental  health  issues due to the stress of this. As such, even though  he 
should have known he couldnt afford the repayments, he applied for and was granted a 
personal loan for £10,000.
On the third month  of repayment,  Mr G didnt  have enough money in his account.  Since  then 
there have  been  no further payments to the loan,  and the account was sold on to a debt 
collection agency  The Lowell Group.
Mr Gs complaint is that the loan was made far too easy  for him to get, and sufficient checks  
into his financial situation and affordability  position  werent made. He also believed that the 
manner in which he was offered the loan was solicitation.
He complained to Halifax,  seeking a write-off of the loan balance, and correction to his credit 
file. 
Halifax didnt uphold  the complaint. Although  it conceded that it largely  based  its checks on 
information from credit references agencies, and that neither of Mr Gs two Halifax accounts 
were his main current account.
Mr G then brought his complaint to our service. Our Investigator looked into matters, and 
sought further information from both parties. He then concluded that the Halifax  loan was, as 
a matter of fact, unaffordable for Mr G, and that sufficient checks hadnt been carried  out by 
Halifax during his application. As such,  he upheld the complaint and recommended that a 
fair settlement would be for Halifax to refund  all interest and charges applied to the principal 
sum, as well as both Halifax and Lowell removing  all adverse information  from Mr Gs credit  
file.
He didnt recommend  the principal sum be written-off.
Mr G accepted this resolution, but Halifax didnt. It explained that the affordability information  
it had considered was more than we seemed to think, and that this was taken from the two 
Halifax accounts, once  of which was a joint account and from which  bills like water and 
media/tv package payments were taken from. 
Halifax felt that this was enough, along  with information from the credit references agencies,  
to persuade it that the loan was affordable.  
Halifax asked for an ombudsmans decision.
Ref: DRN02581662my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im in agreement with our Investigator that this complaint should  be upheld  
on the basis that the Halifax loan wasnt affordable  for Mr G, and sufficient checks  hadnt 
been carried out.
I appreciate this decision will be disappointing  for Halifax.  It made some good  arguments 
post-view, and I was encouraged to see that it did take more information  into account when 
making its decision than it originally appeared. 
However, overall I still dont think it did enough. We know,  as a matter  of fact, that Mr G 
couldnt afford the repayments. Thats been borne out since he stopped  paying  in mid-2013. 
Im also convinced that had Halifax been more fully aware of his financial situation   namely 
his other  borrowings and repayments   its unlikely to have granted  him the loan.
Mr G didnt hold his personal current account with Halifax, and I think this is crucial  in this 
decision. While I agree that some general living expenses can be seen to be coming  out of 
the joint account, it doesnt include a mortgage/rental payment, nor utility bills or 
pensions/insurance payments (Mr G had his own business). Neither can see his other 
personal borrowings, and his monthly  repayments.  I think this is a gaping hole in any 
affordability calculation.
Halifax explains that it did take into account  a sum for housing costs.  But it admits  itself that 
this was a conservative  estimate. And I can only agree. Id be very surprised if Halifaxs  
estimate here is anywhere  near close to the true cost. In any event, the point is that I dont 
think a significant  monthly  expenditure, such as a housing cost,  should be speculated.  I think 
this should have been asked for as part of an income and expenditure review.
What happened  here is that Mr G was in dire financial straits, and he was offered what he 
must have  felt at the time was a life-line. Im persuaded the application,  and provision of the 
cash, was made all too easy for him. And I think that what followed, with only two successful  
repayments and then no payments, was inevitable.
Having said all of this, I do accept  that there needs  to be an element of personal 
responsibility here. Mr G knew what he was doing,  and he had the benefit of the money. 
Thats why Im not asking Halifax to write-off  the principal sum. Instead  Id ask it to make an 
affordable repayment  arrangement for this with Mr G. Im also not going to ask for 
compensation to be paid to Mr G. I think this is fair.
Im persuaded that Mr G was vulnerable when he took out the loan, and that he did so in 
good faith, hoping it would  all work out. I dont believe that the consequences hes suffered  
such as the impact on his credit file, and the fees and charges that have  accumulated,  are 
proportionate to the mistake he made  in applying. 
As such,  I think its fair to both parties  that a settlement be reached in accordance  with our 
Investigators recommendation. With the only change being that I think Halifax should buy 
the debt back  from Halifax, as this will put Mr G more closely  back into the position he would 
Ref: DRN02581663have been in has the loan never  been  agreed. This will also allow  Halifax  to work with Mr G 
on a sensible way for him to repay the remaining debt.
I uphold the complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To resolve matters, Im asking Bank of 
Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, to:-
1.buy back Mr Gs loan account that was sold to The Lowell Group in 2015;
2.refund  any interest and charges  applied to the loan since March  2013 (such monies 
to be paid back to the loan to reduce the balance of the debt); and
3.remove any adverse data supplied to CRAs about the loan.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2020.
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0258166