K820x#14complaint
Ms B says Allianz Insurance Plc mis-sold  her a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  Ms B took out with a personal reserve  account in 1996.  
Its been agreed that Allianz should take responsibility for the complaint. So, for clarity, Ill 
refer to Allianz in my decision.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms B disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion,  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Bs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, Allianz had to make it clear  to Ms B that she had a choice about it. But 
Ms B says she was told during a previous  application that taking the PPI would make it more 
likely she would be approved, and so she selected  PPI during this application  too.
Allianz hasnt been  able to send us a copy of Ms Bs application  form for the personal  
reserve account. But it has sent us an example of what it says the application form wouldve 
looked like. And this included a section on PPI with a box to be ticked if the customer wanted 
to take it out and a space for the name and date of birth of the person to be covered to be 
filled in.
There isnt anything on the form which suggests  the PPI has to be taken, or that it will have 
any effect on the outcome of the application.  And I dont think  theres  enough evidence to 
say that Ms B was told taking PPI would make this application more likely to succeed.
So, based  on the evidence I have, I think Allianz  did make it clear  to Ms B that she had a 
choice about the PPI here.
I havent seen  clear evidence that Allianz  gave  Ms B any personalised advice about the PPI. 
And so I dont think it recommended the PPI to her. This means it didnt have to check  if the 
PPI was right for Ms B. But it did still have  to make sure she got the information she needed 
to decide if it was right for her.
Its possible the information Allianz gave  Ms B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But, based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, Ms B doesnt appear  to 
have been affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. The policy would 
likely have paid out for longer than Ms B wouldve been entitled to full sick pay. And it 
wouldve meant she didnt  need  to rely on any savings she had to make her repayments  if 
she wasnt earning. So it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. It also 
Ref: DRN05841702looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the PPI would have put 
Ms B off taking it out.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Ms Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 September  2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0584170