K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains about the charges hes been asked to pay by Lex Autolease  Ltd (Lex) to 
refurbish a car at the end of his finance  agreement.
background
Mr M took receipt of a new car in December 2014. He financed  the deal through a hire 
agreement with Lex. But at the end of the finance  agreement, when Mr M handed the car 
back, he was disappointed to be charged by Lex for refurbishment they said was necessary 
to repair  a dented quarter  panel; a dented rear bumper and a missing fuel cap. He says 
when the vehicle was inspected before collection there were no areas of damage noted.
So he complained to Lex. They explained that the damage had been identified after 
collection but they accepted that a missing fuel cap should have been picked up during  the 
collection inspection, so they waived that charge.  But they thought  theyd made fair charges 
for refurbishment of the dents and they wouldnt waive them.
So Mr M referred his complaint to this service  and our adjudicator provided his opinion. He 
explained that the British  Vehicle  Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA) provided  the 
industry guidelines on what was acceptable  wear and tear when returning  a new car at the 
end of a hire period. He said that the guide  suggested dents of less than 10mm were  
acceptable wear  and tear. But when he reviewed the collection report  inspection 
photographs he couldnt  see any evidence of dents to either of the panels. So he thought 
Lex should waive these  charges.
But Lex disagreed.  They said they were prepared  to waive the charge for the bumper as it 
wasnt clearly  made out in the photograph but they insisted the quarter panel dent was. So 
they asked for a final decision  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view and for similar reasons. Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Lex have explained  that the damage was identified  after the collection inspection was 
completed and when the car was at the collection agents property.
Theyve provided a couple of photographs to justify the charges theyve made  for 
refurbishment. Ive reviewed these photographs and Im not persuaded theres evidence of 
any damage to either panel.
Ref: DRN07964702Lex say that there are occasions when weather, light or other  conditions  affect  their ability  to 
inspect the car on collection. I understand their view but I dont think  theres evidence that 
that was the case  here. 
The photographs taken  at collection show that there had been rain but its clear  that the 
ground was almost dry. I see no reason why a thorough inspection couldnt take place at that 
time and Im supported in this finding  as I can see the inspector was able to pick up some  
minor, non chargeable issues.
The report  completed  on collection says that there is no external damage and I think  it would 
be fair for Lex to honour these findings.
Overall, I dont  think theres enough evidence here to suggest there was damage to this car 
that required refurbishment and I think Lex should waive the charges.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Lex Autolease Ltd to waive  
the refurbishment charges theyve asked Mr M to pay.
 Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 August 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0796470