K820x#14complaint
Mr D is unhappy with charges for damage  Mercedes-Benz Financial Services  UK Limited 
trading as Mercedes-Benz Finance (Mercedes) has applied when he voluntarily terminated  
his agreement. 
background
Mr D got a new car financed with a hire purchase agreement  through  Mercedes in 
August 2013.  When he returned it in March 2017,  an initial inspection was done  at the 
dealers which  noted  damage to the front of the car, bonnet and all four alloy wheels.
In April 2017, it was further inspected before being  taken  away from the dealers. This report 
noted damage to the front bumper, left and right hand door pads,  left hand front tyre and all 
four alloy wheels.
Mercedes sent Mr D a bill for various  damages to the car. Mr D was unhappy with this and 
complained. He said the car must have been damaged  while at the dealers. 
In May 2017  Mercedes  sent Mr D a final response letter (FRL). This explained the dealer 
only moved the car to the car park  so Mercedes thought the damage was caused  when in 
possession of Mr D. And it said the damage  to the alloys, tyre, bumper and door pads were 
all chargeable. But, it offered  Mr D a reduction of 15% off the bill as a gesture of goodwill. 
The amount  Mercedes billed was £760.43.
Mr D remained  unhappy and continued to contact Mercedes. He said on the initial appraisal 
form the damage to the bumper is noted as chips, but the second report said it was a crack. 
In July 2017 Mercedes issued a second  FRL. This said the cost to repair  the bumper was 
the same  whether it was a cracked  or chipped   so this didnt change  its opinion. But, it said 
as the damage  to the door pads wasnt noted on the initial appraisal it would remove the 
charges for these.  The amount billed  was £700.93.
Mr D continued to dispute the charges for the bumper and tyre. In August 2018 Mercedes 
issued a third FRL. This said it would also remove the charge for the tyre as this wasnt  
noted on the initial appraisal.  And it said it would reduce  the charges for the damaged alloys  
from £85 a wheel to £75 a wheel.  But it said the charge for the bumper would still stand. The 
amount billed was £476.00.
Mr D remained  unhappy and brought the complaint to us. He says he doesnt dispute the 
charges for the alloys. But he doesnt believe he should be liable for the charge for the 
bumper. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint.  He said the charges applied  were 
reasonable. Mr D was unhappy with this. A second investigator then did a further view. She 
also didnt uphold the complaint. She explained regardless of how the damage to the 
bumper was noted on the appraisals, she was satisfied it was there and so it was reasonable 
for Mercedes to charge for it. 
Mr D remained  unhappy so the complaint has been  passed to me to decide.
Ref: DRN06447382my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  this 
complaint should  be upheld.  Ill explain why.
Mr D accepts that the charges for the alloys should stand. For clarities sake, from looking at 
the pictures provided I also agree  this should be the case. I think its quite clear  the alloys 
are all damaged. At this point, all of the other  charges have  been  removed by Mercedes - 
apart from the damage to the bumper. So, Ill consider whether its reasonable for Mercedes  
to charge Mr D for this.
Mercedes has provided photos of the bumper. And its said it asked an Inspection Specialist 
to give their opinion.  They  say It looks like there has been an attempt of a repair  on the front 
bumper. You can clearly see that there  is a rough  edge around the top section of the grill in 
comparison to the smooth, flush bottom section. It looks as if the grill was not removed  when 
carrying out this repair therefore the outside  edge  no longer sits flush and the crack  is still 
visible. 
Mr D also supplied some  photos. But the photo  where you can see clearly see the bumper  is 
from a much larger distance away than that given by Mercedes. Mr D says any damage to 
the bumper would be evident  in this photo.  But I dont agree. Given  the distance away, I 
dont think the damage  would  be obvious in the photo given by Mr D. And, the other  photos  
dont show the area of the bumper concerned.
Ive considered all the photos provided  and thought  about them, along with Mercedes 
comments. Having  done so, Im satisfied its most likely a repair  was attempted  on the 
bumper. And I can see what looks like cracking  and scratches remaining around the area. 
When Mr D took the hire purchase agreement he signed for the terms and conditions.  These  
explained Mr D had to maintain the car in a condition consistent with Mercedes vehicle 
return standards. In relation to bumpers  these say the following isnt acceptable:
Discoloured, loose, cracked,  distorted, gouged  or split bumpers and mouldings that require 
replacement, plastic welding or painting
Repairs not conforming to original finish and specification
Ive also thought about what  the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing  Association (BVRLA) 
fair wear and tear guidelines say about  the condition of a car being  returned. This says in 
relation to bumpers:
Obvious evidence  of poor repair, such as flaking paint, preparation marks, paint 
contamination, rippled  finish  or poorly  matched  paint, is not acceptable
As I explained above, in the photos  from Mercedes you can see still see damage around 
what I think was a likely attempted repair on the bumper. So, thinking about this, Im satisfied 
there was a poor repair that doesnt  conform to the original fit and finish. Im satisfied this is 
obvious. So, it follows that Im satisfied the damage  falls outside of the BVRLAs guidelines 
for fair wear and tear. And, Im satisfied it also doesnt meet Mercedes vehicle return  
standards. 
Ref: DRN06447383Thinking about  everything Ive seen, I think its reasonable for Mercedes to charge Mr D for 
the damage to the bumper.
Mr D said he shouldnt be charged for the bumper as it was noted  differently on the initial  
appraisal report. The initial report says chips and appears to have a line drawn  to the front 
left of the car. The later report noted  the damage as Bumper front Cracked.  
I can understand Mr Ds point that this is recorded  differently.  And I appreciate that the 
damage is to the right side of the bumper,  not the left as apparently indicated on the initial  
report. I dont know  why the damage  was initially recorded in this way. But, thinking  about 
this, Im satisfied this damage  to the bumper exists and falls outside  of reasonable wear and 
tear. So, regardless  of how it was specifically recorded, Im still satisfied its reasonable to 
charge for this.
Ive also considered that Mr D said he believes the damage might have happened at the 
dealers. The initial report was completed  on the day Mr D gave the car back. The second 
report was completed 19 days later. Ive considered that Mercedes said the car was only 
moved to be parked and stored at the dealers. The mileage recorded on both reports is the 
same  which appears to back  this up. And Ive considered that, although recorded 
differently to the later report, damage  to the front of the car was still noted on the initial 
appraisal. 
Taking everything into account,  I havent seen enough to make me think its most likely the 
damage was caused in the 19 days between Mr D giving the car back  and the second 
inspection. I think its more likely it occurred at some point during the time Mr D had the car 
and so was present when he dropped the car off at the dealer.
In summary,  taking into account all of the information and evidence on the case, I think  its 
reasonable for Mercedes to charge Mr D for the damage to the alloys and bumper. I can see 
its already offered him a reduced overall  bill for various reasons  Im satisfied it doesnt 
need to do anything further.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2019.
John Bower
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0644738