K820x#14complaint
Mrs H is unhappy that Mapfre  Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros  y 
Reaseguros, S.A. (Mapfre) isnt covering all the costs shes  claimed for under her travel 
insurance policy.
background
In February 2018,  Mrs H took out single trip travel insurance with her husband (Mr H), for 
their upcoming holiday in October  2018. In October she went  on the holiday but 
unfortunately had a fall the day before they were due to fly home and fractured her left 
femur. She was admitted to hospital and stayed for six days, so her and her husband flew 
home five days later than planned.
Mrs Hs husband was in contact with Mapfre while they were  abroad,  so it was dealing with 
some aspects of her care and arranged her transport home.  But Mr and Mrs H were still 
responsible for other elements of her care, including  making sure Mrs H had her daily 
medication. He also required accommodation as the trip was extended  beyond  their original 
departure date and due to a miscommunication by Mapfre Mr H ended up arranging  this 
himself.
Mrs H had concerns about the quality of care she was receiving from the hospital. She 
considered the conditions  were unsanitary  and set out that she didnt  have access  to basic 
necessities, such as the ability to wash herself. Mrs H needed  surgery to fix her hip, which 
was initially planned  abroad. Mrs H had concerns  about this due to the conditions  of the 
hospital, so wanted to travel home  as planned  and then have the surgery.  But Mapfre said 
travel wouldnt  be possible due to her injury. And it advised it would be better to have the 
surgery abroad as it should  be done sooner rather  than later.  Unfortunately the hospital then 
cancelled Mrs Hs surgery, so it was delayed  further.  At this point Mapfre  arranged  for her to 
fly home by air ambulance. Mrs H was told an earlier  time for her transport home than 
actually occurred, so Mr H spent  their last night  sleeping  at the hospital rather than a hotel 
room to ensure  they were ready to depart.
Mrs H claimed  for the costs shed incurred herself when she returned home.  While  Mapfre 
had covered the majority  of the medical  care directly, she had costs for Mr Hs hotel, taxis, 
medications, telephone usage,  internet usage, washing equipment, lost accommodation in 
the UK and concert tickets. It didnt  agree  to cover all of these, as it said her travel insurance  
excluded these costs  and that cover  ended when Mrs H was due to return  home.  However it 
did cover  both medications and the hotel abroad.
Mrs H complained to Mapfre about  the service she received from it as well as it not covering 
everything she claimed for. Mapfre looked  into her concerns and awarded her £400 in 
compensation as it said it couldve dealt with Mr Hs accommodation better  and shouldve  
done more to set and manage her expectations  around what help it could provide. However 
it didnt agree to cover  any further expenses. It also took longer than allowed by the rules to 
provide this response to Mrs H, so she came to our service. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said that Mapfre  had agreed to reimburse 
Mrs H for what was covered under her policy. So wasnt asking it to cover anything  more, as 
what she was claiming for was either  not covered or was specifically excluded by the policy 
terms. He said that if she could provide evidence one of the return taxi trips she was 
Ref: DRN07490182claiming for did meet the policy  terms, this could be considered. But he wasnt  intending at 
that time for Mapfre to pay anything more.
Mrs H responded to the assessment disagreeing with his findings and providing a detailed  
response. She provided evidence from her doctor  showing she needed to take her 
medication daily, so our investigator  provided this to Mapfre and recommended it cover one 
return trip in a taxi for Mr H, as he needed  this to get Mrs Hs medication  from the hospital  
and bring it to her. Mapfre responded and accepted this. However as he didnt recommend 
anything further,  the case  was passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I would like to assure Mrs H that while I 
have only summarised  her concerns, I have read all the information shes provided us about  
this claim.  
Its important to set out for Mrs H that our services role is to look at the terms of the policy  
she agreed to  so what cover Mapfre had said it would provide  her when she took out this 
policy. And then to assess whether or not it has fairly met these obligations, as set out under 
her travel insurance contract. Unfortunately travel  insurance doesnt cover  everything that 
can and does happen when something goes wrong when youre  on holiday. So while  some  
of her costs may have  been  reasonable and potentially even unavoidable considering the 
situation she was in, that doesnt mean Mapfre is required  to reimburse her. 
Ive considered Mrs Hs points about the conditions of the hospital she was in. A common  
feature of most travel  insurance policies on the market, like Mrs Hs, is that they wont cover  
care in private hospitals where public hospitals  are adequate and available. I appreciate 
Mrs H says the hospital and her care were not of an adequate level and general hygiene  
was non-existent by NHS standards. However  the standards seen in public hospitals abroad  
vary depending on where you travel and often may not be the same  as what  wed expect to 
see in the UK. But this isnt something  an insurer has control over and, if a policyholder is 
receiving a reasonable level of medical care abroad, then a transfer to a private hospital is 
unlikely to be agreed. So while I appreciate the facilities fell far short  of Mrs Hs expectations, 
that doesnt mean Mapfre needed to move  her to a private hospital.  
Mrs H has also made  comments about the difficulties she and Mr H had with the language 
barrier and that the treating medical  staff didnt  speak  English. I understand this would have 
made a challenging time even more difficult. However, this isnt something I would expect a 
public hospital  abroad to be able to do. Mrs H has said she was told by Mapfre that the 
medical staff would speak  English. But as this was after shed had her accident,  while  I 
appreciate receiving incorrect information  would  be very frustrating, I cant  see how this has 
ultimately prejudiced  her position. If you holiday in a country where the first language isnt 
English and you dont speak the local language, then this situation is something that you 
unfortunately do risk. And under the terms of the policy,  Mapfre wasnt  required to arrange 
for Mrs H to be treated  in a medical facility where  English  was spoken.
I have reviewed the claims notes Mapfre has provided as well as the information Mrs H has 
provided on the service  she received. I appreciate Mapfre  couldve done more to keep  Mrs H 
updated, as there were  times when it didnt communicate the steps it was taking to her/Mr  H 
on her behalf. However I can also see that that Mrs H is unhappy with the cost and number  
of telephone calls that happened  as part of this claim.
Ref: DRN07490183Looking at Mapfres actions, I do consider  it was working very hard to deal with this claim 
and get Mrs H treated.  Unfortunately the hospital she was admitted to was very difficult to 
contact and then wasnt willing  to speak to Mapfre, despite it and Mrs H providing the 
required information. And this caused  both delays and some  confusion in the handling of the 
claim.
Until Mapfre could get a full medical report from the hospital, it wasnt  able to establish what 
care Mrs H needed or what the next best step was. I can see that Mapfre began looking into 
private hospitals  despite what Ive set out above  as a way of getting Mrs H the surgery  
shed explained  was needed due to the issues with communicating with the hospital.  But 
again it couldnt arrange this because it couldnt provide medical paperwork to another 
hospital of what  the surgery was. And when it became  clear  the surgery was being  delayed 
again, Mapfre went straight back to the air ambulance  provider it had already been  looking 
into and asked for transport for Mrs H. Unfortunately this wasnt  available  then for two days. 
While the lack of hospital  cooperation obviously wasnt Mrs Hs fault and she was caused 
distress by the situation, I also cant fairly  hold Mapfre  responsible when I can see it was 
progressing the claim and repeatedly tried to get the information it needed from the hospital. 
And it even  looked  at more expensive alternatives to ensure she was getting care.
Mapfre has awarded Mrs H £400 compensation for the communication it provided,  in terms 
of it not checking  in about Mr Hs accommodation  after it was clear  they would need  to be 
abroad beyond  the original booking. And for not setting and managing expectations  into 
what the policy and it could do in this situation. Reviewing the case, I think  this amount  is far. 
As Ive set out above, I acknowledge that this was a very distressing and difficult  time for 
Mrs H and her family. And Mapfre couldve  done  more as it has set out. But I also think the 
situation itself and the issues outside of Mapfres control were what contributed largely to 
making this such a difficult time. So I consider  the amount offered is fair in the 
circumstances. 
I understand Mr H stayed in the hospital on the floor, rather than in a hotel the night before 
he and Mrs H came home. I appreciate this wouldve been very uncomfortable  for him and 
they felt the need to do this because Mapfre  had provided different times  for the air 
ambulance and so they were concerned about being ready to depart. However I cant see 
that this was something they actually did need to do, so I dont  consider  Mapfre  needs to 
compensate them for this.
Mrs H is looking  to recover the costs  of her husbands taxi fares and at least  some if not all 
of her telephone costs.  So Ive reviewed what cover the policy  provides for these. Under 
Section 6  Medical Emergency Expenses, the policy  states:
You are not covered
11) for taxi fares not considered medically  necessary, and where receipts have not 
been provided;
12) for telephone  expenses;
In relation to the taxi fares, I would like to assure  Mrs H I have read her explanation for Mr H 
using a taxi for his journeys. And I can understand from what shes  explained why he chose 
to do this. However, as our investigator has explained, the policy  doesnt  cover all the 
situations her husband  used the taxis for. It only covers medically necessary taxi costs  and 
I understand Mapfre has agreed to pay the taxi fares for the return trip Mr H took to get 
Ref: DRN07490184Mrs Hs medication.  Mapfre  has put the above  exclusion  in the policy  to set out that in 
situations like Mrs Hs it wont cover general taxi fares  or telephone expenses.  I appreciate 
the cost of these  for Mrs H and understand why she wants to be reimbursed for them, but 
her policy does not cover these costs. So I wont be asking  Mapfre  to pay them.
Mrs H has also asked to be reimbursed for internet costs (incurred when they needed to 
submit claims  paperwork)  and for the items Mr H bought  for her to wash whilst in the 
hospital. But the policy doesnt  provide cover for these situations either. I appreciate  this will 
be disappointing for Mrs H, but as I set out at the start of this decision, insurance doesnt  
cover all costs  that are incurred when  an incident  happens abroad.  And the costs  for these 
are also not covered under her policy. Mapfre has however paid her a daily cost for being  in 
hospital and whilst I appreciate this amount doesnt  cover all the costs shes  incurred, as has 
previously been  explained, this money is available for these  types of things.
In relation to the time it took Mapfre to respond  to Mrs Hs complaint, I appreciate  this is 
disappointing. However at times businesses wont be able to respond  to complaints in the 
set time allowed  although this should  be in rare circumstances. But due to this the 
regulator has set out that a customer can then come  to our service, despite the business  not 
yet responding.  So while Mapfre didnt respond in time, Mrs H was then able to continue her 
complaint with our service. And our role at this service  isnt to punish  a business. If it was 
considered Mapfre  had wider issues with responding to complaints this may be something 
the regulator would look into, but that isnt something that has been  shown by, or that I would 
consider in this individual complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 June 2020.
Amy Osborne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0749018