K820x#14complaint
Mr M has complained about Aviva  Insurance Limited. He isnt happy about  the way it dealt 
with a claim under his home emergency policy.
background
Mr M made a claim under his policy when his downstairs toilet was blocked. Aviva arranged  
for an engineer to attend a few days later. But when they attended they realised that the 
blockage required a drainage expert and further arrangements were  made  to re-attend the 
property.
An appointment was made for later that day. Aviva suggested that its contractor looked  to 
attend that evening and commenced the drain clearage but had to come  back the following 
day to complete the job. But Mr M says this wasnt the case. The appointment was simply 
rearranged late in the evening for the following day which caused further inconvenience.
Although the toilet was eventually unblocked  Mr M complained  to Aviva and this service  as 
he didnt think that Aviva dealt his claim was dealt with in a timely manner.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr M but didnt uphold  his complaint. He 
acknowledged that Mr M had been  inconvenienced  by Avivas failure to deal with the 
blockage as quickly as it couldve  done. But he thought that Aviva  had acted  reasonably in 
offering to pay him £80 for the inconvenience  caused.
As Mr M didnt agree the matter has been  passed  to me for review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I think that Avivas offer 
to compensate Mr M for its poor handling of claim is fair. I know  this will come  as a 
disappointment to Mr M but I hope my explanation  will help him understand why.
Any claim under a home emergency policy will lead to a certain amount of inconvenience for 
a consumer. In this instance  Mr M was left without the use of his downstairs toilet, although 
fortunately he had the use of another toilet,  for a day longer than was probably necessary. 
He and his wife also had to arrange time off so that someone was in when the various 
workmen attended their property. And Mr M had to make a number  of calls to chase Aviva  
for a response. 
I dont doubt that all of this was very frustrating  and inconvenient for Mr M and his wife. And I 
have no reason to doubt his very clear account  about  what  happened. It seems to me that 
Aviva shouldve sent a drainage expert in the first instance and this caused unnecessary  
delay. It is also clear  that Aviva shouldve  acknowledged  this point at an earlier  stage.
But Aviva has, eventually, accepted all of this and offered  to pay Mr M £80 compensation in 
acknowledgement of any inconvenience  caused. I know Mr M would like more, especially as 
his wife had to take a day off work. 
However, as outlined earlier, there is always  some inconvenience associated with home  
emergency claims  and  I cant hold Aviva responsible  for all of the inconvenience caused. I 
Ref: DRN02562842know Mrs M had to take some time off work to allow access  on the first occasion.  But that 
was always going  to have had to happen  and had the correct engineer attended at that time 
there probably wouldnt be any need  for a compensation payment. And I think £80 is a fair 
amount for the additional inconvenience caused  by having to arrange  an appointment early 
the following  morning  after Aviva had failed to send a drainage expert  in the first instance.
I do note that Mr M has raised a separate point that the engineer that cleared the blockage  
suggested that Aviva may need  to undertake a camera survey. Although  the engineer was 
satisfied that he had removed the blockage at that time he couldnt be sure that this would 
remain unblocked long term. Ill leave this with Aviva  to advance with the consumer now.  
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I dont  uphold  this complaint. I simply leave it to 
Mr M to decide whether,  upon reflection, he wants to accept the offer of £80 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 November  2019.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0256284