K822xComplaint
Mrs Ts complaint is about the charges Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited  
(MBFS) applied at the end of her hire purchase  agreement (HPA). She says the charges  are 
excessive and due to a change in circumstances she cannot afford to pay them.
Background 
Mrs T entered into a HPA with MBFS in June 2015. At the end of her agreement  an 
inspection was carried out and charges for damage  totalling £1,910.15 were applied.  She 
was also charged  just over £1,000 for excess mileage. Mrs T said that she was aware of the 
damage to the side wing and accepted that this would be charged  for. She also knew she 
would have to pay the excess mileage charges.
Mrs T thought a number  of the other areas  of damage listed fell within normal wear  and tear 
and said the damage to the alloys could be addressed by refurbishment  rather than 
replacements being needed. Mrs T thought the amounts she was being charged  were 
excessive.
In its final response letter  dated August 2018, MBFS said that the vehicle return standards 
were provided at the start of the agreement and were  available online. It said the damage  
charged for fell outside of the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing  Associations (BVRLA) fair 
wear and tear guidelines and so the charges had been applied fairly. As a gesture of 
goodwill it offered  to reduce Mrs Ts total charges  of £3,156.58 by 20% resulting in an 
amount of £2,774.55.
Mrs T didnt  accept MBFS offer and raised  her complaint with this service.
Our investigator thought that two of the charges  should be removed: the charge for a scratch 
to a door LHR (£105) and the charge for the scuffed load area trim panel (£77.57).  MBFS 
agreed to not charge for the scratch but disagreed with removing  the charge for the load 
area trim panel. Our investigator said that both these charges should be removed reducing 
the total damage charges  to £1,727.58.  MBFS confirmed its offer to reduce charges by 20% 
remained and our investigator said that the charges should be recalculated and then the 
20% reduction applied.   
Mrs T didnt  agree with out investigators view. She didnt accept that the damage to the 
interior roof had happened  while in her ownership. 
Ill now set out my decision and the reasons for it.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigators recommendation.
Mrs T entered into a HPA and at the end of the agreement  she returned the car. The HPA 
set out the requirement on Mrs T to maintain the vehicle in good  condition and MBFS has 
explained that its vehicle return standards were  available to Mrs T. Therefore I accept that 
Mrs T was reasonably that she would be charged  for any damage that fell outside  of fair 
wear and tear.
Ref: DRN06038092At the end of the agreement the car was inspected and seven areas  of damage were 
identified. A charge was also made  for excess mileage but Mrs T hasnt disputed this.
In regard to the areas of damage, Mrs T accepted the charge for the damage to the wing. As 
part of this investigation, MBFS has agreed that the charge for the door shut inner  LHR  
could be removed. Therefore I havent  considered these charges further.
Damage was recorded to two wheels. I have  looked  at the photographs provided along with 
the other information  and I can see the damage. Given the extent of the damage and 
considering the guidelines  regarding what would be acceptable, I agree that it was 
reasonable that the charges for the two wheels  were applied.
Mrs T has said that she doesnt think the damage  to the roof lining was caused  while  the car 
was in her possession. I appreciate the point  she has made  but without further evidence to 
show the damage was present when she acquired  the car, I do not find I can say that MBFS 
is wrong to hold Mrs T responsible for any damage. The damage can been  seen in the 
photograph that has been provided and given the BVRLA states that The interior  upholstery 
and trim must be clean and odourless with no burns,  scratches,  tears, dents or staining I do 
not find I can say this charge has been  applied unfairly.  
Our investigator didnt  think that it was fair to charge Mrs T for the damage recorded to the 
load area trim. I have looked  at the photographs provided and can see there are some scuff  
marks. The BVRLA guidance states Scratches  on treads, sills and seals  that reflect normal  
use are acceptable.  Based on the evidence I have  seen I find that the marks are not 
excessive and I do not find it reasonable to say the damage falls outside of normal wear and 
tear. Therefore  I agree  with our investigator  that this charge should be removed.
The final charge is for dents to the door shut inner  RHR.  The photographs provided  show  
the damage and I accept  that this falls outside  of the acceptable  damage  criteria and so I do 
not find it unreasonable that this charge ahs been  applied.
Overall, I find that the charge for the scratches to the inner door LHR (£105) should be 
removed and I note that MBFS has agreed to this. I also find the charge for damage to the 
loan area trim (£77.57) should be removed.  This reduces  the total damage charges from 
£1,910.15 to £1,727.58.  MBFS  has said its offer to reduce the charges applied  to Mrs Ts 
account by 20% still stands and so this should now be applied  to the reduced damage 
charges.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. The damage charges for the load area trim 
and scratched inner door LHR should be removed  from Mrs Ts account and the remaining 
amount adjusted to reflect  MBFS offer of a 20% reduction. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2020.
Jane Archer
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0603809