K820x#14complaint
Mrs N complains that MBNA Limited wont reimburse her for her losses after she used her 
credit card to transfer money to an investment business that turned out to be a scam.   
background
Mrs N opened a trading  account with a business which Ill refer to as T. T was a binary 
options trading  platform which took money from clients  and placed  trades on different 
financial markets. Binary options are a form of gambling on movements in financial markets.  
Mrs N used her MBNA credit card to make two payments of £5,000 each to T. When  she 
became dissatisfied  with T, however, it refused to return  the money shed sent. She asked 
MBNA to reimburse her because, she said,  T was operating a scam  and she was entitled  to 
seek payment from MBNA  under section  75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. 
MBNA declined Mrs Ns claim. It said shed authorised  the payments to T. It wouldnt 
consider a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  because the payments 
hadnt been used for purchases; rather, theyd  been deposits and were, therefore,  simply a 
transfer of funds to which section  75 didnt  apply.
Mrs N pointed out that T had been  the subject of a warning from the regulator,  the Financial 
Conduct Authority.  She suggested that MBNA might have prevented  her from dealing with 
that business. 
When Mrs N referred  he complaint to this service, one of our investigators considered it. He 
didnt think that MBNA  should reimburse  Mrs Ns losses. Mrs N didnt agree and asked that 
an ombudsman review  the case.    
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs N has suggested shes been  the victim of a scam. She hasnt suggested, however, that 
she didnt intend  to send money  to T. To that extent, therefore, she authorised the payments. 
I dont think she disputes that. The general  position is that an account provider  such as 
MBNA  should make  a payment when instructed to by its customer. Its not usually obliged 
to carry out checks on the payee though,  and I dont believe MBNA was in this case. It was 
primarily for Mrs N to satisfy herself that T was a legitimate business, not for MBNA to verify 
that for her. 
I turn therefore to the issue of section  75. In certain  circumstances  a credit card holder who 
has a claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation  against  a supplier will have a similar 
claim against the credit card provider. One condition  attached  to that, however, is that the 
transaction giving  rise to the claim must  be  a transaction financed by the agreement   
 meaning the credit  card agreement in this case. 
MBNA says that the credit card payments  in this case werent purchases,  but deposits  that 
is, transfers to a trading account. It didnt  appear that any part of those payments had been 
allocated to, for example, the services  provided  by T. 
Ref: DRN04648262I broadly agree with MBNA about this. Mrs Ns agreement with T was, in very broad  terms, 
that it would  invest  money  for her. That was the transaction referred to in section 75. I dont 
believe it can properly be said, however, that that transaction  was financed by the credit  
agreement between Mrs N and MBNA. It was to be financed, if at all, from her trading 
account with T. I accept  of course  that the trading account was, in turn, funded from Mrs Ns 
credit card account, but I dont believe that means the credit card directly  funded  the 
services that T said it would provide. It follows that section 75 doesnt apply here. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must have regard to any relevant law; in this case, 
that includes section  75. I dont believe in the circumstances that MBNA has treated Mrs N 
unfairly.  
Ive approached this complaint on the basis that Mrs N was, as she says,  the victim of a 
scam perpetrated by T, and she has my sympathy.  Im not persuaded however that this was 
the responsibility of MBNA.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out, my final decision is that I dont require MBNA Limited to take 
any further steps to resolve Mrs Ns complaint.  Under  the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or reject my decision before 31 January 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0464826