K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Nationwide  Building Society  gave him wrong  information  about 
telephone banking transfers  and how long it takes  for cheques to clear.  Hes also unhappy 
that Nationwide didnt call him back and with how it dealt  with his complaint. 
background
Mr D opened a bank  account with Nationwide  in August 2018. He told us that when he 
visited a local branch in early December 2018,  he was giving incorrect  information. Mr D 
says Nationwide  told him it wasnt going  ahead  with its plan to stop customers  making  
payments and transfers by telephone banking. But a couple of weeks  later he got a letter  
saying this facility  would  be stopping from 16 January 2019 onwards. 
Mr D also says that when  he called Nationwide about a cheque,  he was told that the society  
was upgrading  its systems so that soon, cheques would credit his account earlier.  But Mr D 
says he later found out that this information  was wrong. 
When Mr D complained to Nationwide, he was unhappy with the way it dealt with these 
issues. He said that the society  didnt call him back as it had agreed, and wrote to him 
instead. 
Nationwide rejected Mr Ds complaint. In brief, it said: the local branch had given him correct 
information; the society had dealt with his complaint within the correct  timescale;  and, as 
Mr D had told Nationwide he had specific communication needs, he could  contact its 
Specialist Support  Team  who can offer him extra assistance. 
Mr D was very unhappy with this response. He brought his complaint to our service. He told 
us about his communication needs.  I wont go into details about these to protect  Mr Ds 
privacy. His complaint was looked at by one of our adjudicators. She didnt think  Nationwide 
had done anything wrong. 
Mr D didnt agree with the adjudicators  view.  So, his complaint has been passed  to me for a 
final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it. Ill explain why. 
Ill first deal with what Mr D was told about  Nationwide stopping transfers and payments by 
telephone banking. He says he was told by his local branch that the plan to stop this facility 
wasnt going ahead. On the other hand,  Nationwide maintains that all the local branch staff 
knew this service was stopping. 
This conversation took place in Mr Ds local branch, so theres no written record of it. It 
follows that I cant say for definite what was actually said. Whatever, the case, it seems that 
Mr D was under the mistaken impression that he would  be able to carry on making transfers  
using telephone banking. I can see he was upset  when he got a letter  stating this wasnt the 
case. 
Ref: DRN08568032Ive thought about the impact this would have had on Mr D. I can see that on one of his calls 
to Nationwide  Mr D said he knew when he opened his account that the society was planning 
to stop transfers  by telephone. I can also see from Nationwides records that the original plan 
was to stop this service  by early October  2018. 
The society  then decided  to delay removing this service until mid-January 2019. I think its 
possible that this delay caused  the confusion over this. But in any event,  I can see that, on 
the same  call, Mr D also told Nationwide that while it would be a bit inconvenient for him, he 
wasnt that bothered  - he was more upset that hed been given incorrect  information. 
I can appreciate that nobody likes to be told something that they later find out was incorrect.  
But I cant see that Mr D lost out financially because of this confusion. Also,  he told us he 
was given the wrong information in early  December, but then received a letter  giving the 
correct information  a couple  of weeks later in mid-December. 
Im satisfied from this that any confusion  was cleared up quickly. Im also pleased to see that 
Nationwide told Mr D it was sorry if he was unhappy  with the information hed been given in 
his local branch. In these  circumstances, I dont think Nationwide  needs to do anything more  
about this issue.  
Next, Ive thought  about Mr Ds issue  about the time it takes for a cheque  to be credited  to 
his account. Nationwide hasnt been able to trace the call he made where this was 
discussed. The society told Mr D that if he could provide any further information about this, it 
would look into the matter further. I think  this was a fair and reasonable approach. Theres  
nothing in the available evidence to show  that he provided any more  details. 
Again, I cant  see the Mr D has lost out financially because  Nationwides updated cheque 
clearing system hadnt been rolled  out to his local branch.  I can also see Nationwide  told 
Mr D that if this facility was something  he wanted  to use, it was available in another branch a 
couple of miles further from where he was living. So Im satisfied Nationwide didnt do 
anything wrong  here. 
Mr D is also unhappy with how Nationwide dealt  with his complaint. I would point out here 
that generally, complaint handling isnt a regulated activity  thats  covered by our service. But 
in an effort  to clear  this matter up, I will make  some observations.
In most cases, and in the situation here, when someone makes  a complaint, the business 
has eight weeks to provide a final response  to that complaint. Mr D complained to 
Nationwide by phone on 24 December 2018.  This meant it needed to reply  to him by 18 
February 2019. Nationwide sent Mr D its final response  on 5 February 2019, nearly two 
weeks before the deadline. 
Moreover, I can see that Nationwide also sent Mr D several  letters before this, keeping  him 
informed of the progress of his complaint. It also apologised if Mr D didnt receive  a phone 
call when he was expecting one, but said the society never  told him he would definitely 
receive a call. All in all, it seems  to me that Nationwide handled Mr Ds complaint in line with 
the relevant regulations. 
Finally, I can see Mr D has made us aware  of his communication needs.  Its not clear  to me 
how much  detail hes provided to Nationwide about  this. But Nationwide told him in its final 
response in February  2019, that it has a Specialist  Support  Team who can offer him extra  
assistance in handling his bank  account. It gave him this teams  free phone  number.
Ref: DRN08568033Im satisfied this was a fair and reasonable response. Its also not clear if Mr D has taken up 
Nationwides offer in the months since its response  to his complaint. But thats a matter for 
him and entirely  his choice. 
In summary,  in the circumstances  outlined above, I dont think Nationwide needs to do 
anything more in respect  of Mr Ds complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2020.
John Miles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0856803