K822xcomplaint
Miss B complains  that a car she has been  financing through  an agreement with Advantage 
Finance Ltd (Advantage) is not of satisfactory quality.
background 
Miss B took receipt of a used car in August 2018. She financed the deal through  a hire 
purchase agreement  with Advantage. At the point the car was supplied to Miss B it had 
already covered 111,000 miles and was over nine years old.
Miss B had problems with the car and Advantage agreed to replace the catalytic converter in 
October 2018.
But Miss B says that since then shes had further problems with the car that she suggests 
were developing when  she bought  it. She says the clutch  is grinding; theres an oil leak and 
theres a burning  smell. 
She broke down in March 2019  and an independent  inspection was arranged.  The inspector 
thought the clutch was working fine and he couldnt identify any reoccurrence of the issue  
that Miss B complained  of in October 2018 (the Engine Management Light  wasnt displayed). 
He did notice an oil leak from around the transmission area that he said was historic. He 
explained that if it was significant at the time of the MOT in September  2018 it would have 
been raised as an advisory. As it hadnt been  he thought  this was something that, although 
likely to have been present at the point  of supply, had worsened over time.
Advantage rejected Miss Bs complaint. They thought the oil leak was most probably due to 
wear and tear on a vehicle of this significant  age and mileage.
Miss B disagreed with Advantage and she therefore  referred her complaint to this service  
where our adjudicator  provided an opinion. The adjudicator thought there  was evidence that 
the oil leak had been developing at the point the car was supplied to Miss B so she 
suggested Advantage carry  out a repair.
But Miss B disagreed  with the adjudicator. She said the car had been nothing  but trouble 
and she therefore  asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Miss B so please  let me 
explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ref: DRN09202912Miss B acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is 
a regulated consumer  credit agreement and as a result  our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then Advantage, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Miss B. The car 
here was around  nine years old and had travelled 111,000 miles so I think  a reasonable 
person would expect  quite  a bit of wear  and tear. Advantage have  explained that the sales 
price was listed at 91% of the guide  price so it would appear that this car was also obtained  
towards the lower  end of the price  bracket. I think that suggests it may have been  subject  to 
a higher degree of wear than normal. 
Legislation allows a business one opportunity to repair  a fault that is present at the point of 
supply. But it does  not give a business one chance  to repair  each separate  fault that may 
occur. Whether a vehicle is of satisfactory  quality when supplied  refers to the vehicle as a 
whole not each separate component. Indeed the more separate faults  - the more likely  it is 
the vehicle isnt of satisfactory quality.
So wed often ask a business to allow a consumer to reject  a car if the first repair  failed and 
there was evidence of a fault still present, that was clearly a problem when the car was 
supplied. But here I think that would be a disproportionate demand to make of Advantage. 
Ive not seen evidence of clutch  failure or a repetition of the catalytic converter problem 
Miss B complained of. The oil leak wasnt identified in October and the inspector has 
explained that the reason  it wasnt highlighted on the MOT, completed at the point of supply, 
was that it has now developed and is more significant. Hes unsure where the leak is coming 
from and although  he mentions its noticeable at the transmission he has also suggested  it 
may be because a filler cap was left off. Im mindful  that this is a car thats completed 
significant mileage  and was quite old at the point it was supplied  to Miss B. I think it would be 
disproportionate to allow a rejection at this point but Advantage should complete a repair  to 
illuminate the leak.
Ref: DRN09202913my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint in part and tell 
Advantage Finance Ltd to repair the oil leak on Miss Bs car.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 May 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0920291