K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) wont  settle his travel insurance claim in 
full.
background
Mr F bought  a single  trip travel insurance policy through a comparison website. During the 
application process Mr F was asked  whether  anyone who wanted to be insured under  the 
policy, had suffered from a medical  condition within the last five years. Mr F answered no 
to this question.  And he chose a platinum level policy from the quotes he was provided.
During his holiday, Mr F became unwell and was taken to hospital.  He contacted IPA that 
same day, and they asked him for his medical history. Mr F was discharged from hospital the 
following day. But had to pay the hospital himself because IPA hadnt confirmed he was 
covered at that time.
Just over two weeks later IPA told Mr F his claim would be covered in line with his policy  
term and conditions. Mr F sent IPA the invoice and receipt from his stay in hospital. But the 
processing of his claim took several  months. And it wasnt until around six months later that 
Mr F was told IPA would  only cover 56% of his claim. IPA said Mr F hadnt  declared a 
number of medical conditions he had suffered from in the five years  before taking out his 
policy. And had he done  so, it would have charged  him a higher premium. IPA explained  
Mr F had only paid 56% of the premium it would have charged had it been given the correct 
information during  the application. So it was only prepared to pay that proportion  of Mr Fs 
claim. IPA also sent Mr F a cheque for £125  in recognition  of the stress caused by its delay 
in handling his claim.
Mr F disagreed with IPAs  settlement of his claim,  so brought his complaint to our service. 
After looking into what had happened, our investigator didnt uphold  Mr Fs complaint. He felt 
Mr F had been asked a clear question during the application process. And as Mr F didnt 
answer this correctly, he wasnt charged  the appropriate premium  for his policy.  The 
investigator felt the proportionate settlement was a reasonable  way to settle Mr Fs claim in 
the circumstances. And he also felt the £125  paid was a fair offer for the delays Mr F 
experienced.
Mr F disagreed with out investigator,  so his complaint  was passed to me to look into.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Fs 
complaint. I know this will come as a disappointment to him, so Ill explain my reasoning  
below.
was the proportionate  settlement fair?
IPA says it only has to pay 56% of Mr Fs claim.  Thats because Mr F didnt tell it about 
medical conditions  he had suffered from in the five years before taking out his policy. Ive 
seen the questions Mr F was asked  when applying for his policy.  And these show  he was 
asked:
Ref: DRN07603722Within the last 5 years has anyone you wish to insure on this policy  suffered any medical  
condition, (medical or psychological disease, sickness,  condition, illness or injury) that has 
required prescribed medication  or treatment including surgery, tests  or investigations?
Mr F answered no to this question. So his policy was priced accordingly. But when IPA 
looked into Mr Fs claim, they saw he suffered from medical and psychological conditions in 
the five years before taking out his policy. IPAs underwriters have told us had they have 
known this, Mr F would  have gone  through medical screening. And this would have resulted 
in Mr F being offered  select policies, and his premium would have cost 44% more than he 
paid.
In cases like this I have  to consider the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This Act explains that consumers  need  to take 
reasonable care not to make  misrepresentations when  taking out insurance policies. 
I consider the wording  of the question  detailed above, was clear.  So I cant  fairly saw Mr F 
took reasonable care when he answered  it. Thats because  he had suffered from medical 
conditions in the five years  before  taking  out his policy. In fact, Mr Fs medical records  show  
he had seen his GP on more than one occasion about a particular medical condition the year 
before taking out his policy. So Im minded to say Mr F should have known he needed to 
declare this. 
CIDRA has two types of misrepresentation  careless and deliberate or reckless. From the 
information Ive seen, Im not persuaded Mr F intentionally withheld information  about his 
medical conditions.  So I consider his misrepresentation was careless.  And in those 
circumstances CIDRA  says an insurer can reduce proportionately the amount to be paid on 
a claim. 
As mentioned above, IPA has sent us information  to show that Mr F would have paid 44% 
more for his policy had his medical  conditions been declared. This means  IPAs  offer to pay 
56% of Mr Fs claim is in line with what  an insurer can do under CIDRA.  So Im satisfied 
IPAs settlement offer is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
If IPA still hasnt paid this proportion of Mr Fs claim,  it should arrange for this to be done. 
Thats because Ive seen  information to show Mr F has provided  it with the information it 
needed to settle his claim. 
customer service
IPA received Mr Fs medical notes the same day it asked for them. And this was the same 
day Mr F was discharged from hospital. I appreciate  it would have been stressful and 
frustrating for Mr F to pay his medical  expenses himself. But IPA needed time to gather the 
information it needed to ensure Mr Fs claim was covered  under his policy.  And while it was 
fortunate Mr Fs condition  didnt warrant a longer stay in hospital  it did give IPA limited time 
to confirm cover. So, Im not persuaded IPA was unreasonable  when  it wasnt in a position to 
confirm cover before Mr F left hospital. 
IPA confirmed Mr Fs claim  would be covered in line with the policy terms and conditions, 
around three  weeks after Mr F was hospitalised.  Mr F sent IPA proof of his medical  
expenses soon after he was asked for them. But despite this, IPA took around six months to 
tell Mr F how much  of his claim would be paid.  And during  this time Mr F was given 
confusing information  about what was happening   or heard nothing from IPA for long 
periods of time.
Ref: DRN07603723IPA has acknowledged  it could have handled Mr Fs claim better. And it sent him £125 by 
way of an apology.  People buy travel  insurance for peace of mind in case something goes 
wrong on holiday. And Mr Fs claim wasnt handled as he would have expected  when he 
bought his policy. It would have been  very frustrating  and inconvenient for Mr F to chase 
updates from IPA. And had IPA not made  an offer, I would have awarded a similar amount to 
recognise what Mr F experienced as a result  of IPAs mistakes.
So, I agree  IPA didnt  provide the level of service I would have expected.  But I consider its 
£125 offer is fair and I wont  be asking it to do anything further to put things right.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 October  2019.
Sarrah Turay
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0760372