K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain  that Lloyds Bank PLC didnt  treat them fairly whilst they were 
experiencing difficulty in making  their mortgage payments. Theyre specifically unhappy  that 
theyd asked for a payment holiday and only found out it hadnt been agreed  when  they were  
contacted about arrears.
background
Mr and Mrs E had an interest only mortgage with Lloyds which was repaid in August 2012. In 
late 2017 Lloyds  wrote to Mr and Mrs E to say that it was refunding all of the arrears  
management fees which had been applied to their account since 2009 as well as any 
associated interest and overpayments incurred as a result, because those fees hadnt been 
applied correctly.
Mr and Mrs E say this made  them think of a time between 2010 and 2012  during which  they 
felt Lloyds had not treated them fairly whilst  they experienced challenging personal 
circumstances which meant they struggled to meet mortgage payments. So Mr and Mrs E 
raised a complaint with Lloyds in March  2018.
They said that theyd  thought that a payment holiday had been  agreed by Lloyds but later 
found out that their account  was in arrears and no arrangement  was in place. Additionally, 
they said that Lloyds treatment made them feel obliged to sell their home for less than it was 
worth as they were  concerned that it would otherwise take steps to take possession of their 
home. Mr and Mrs E said that it all had a significant impact on them  and had caused a lot of 
trouble and upset.  
Lloyds didnt uphold  the complaint because it thought it had tried to work with Mr and Mrs E 
between 2010  and 2012 to try to find a solution  to address the arrears which had built on 
their account. It said it had tried to get in touch  with Mr and Mrs E directly,  as well as through 
a field agent to discuss this, but without success. It was satisfied that it acted fairly sending 
warning letters about the levels of arrears  on the account. 
Our investigator agreed that Lloyds had made  reasonable attempts to help Mr and Mrs E. 
She accepted that Mr and Mrs E had experienced  unfortunate personal circumstances, but 
didnt find any evidence  that theyd made Lloyds aware. Overall,  she found that Lloyds had 
acted reasonably.
Mr and Mrs E didnt  agree. They also said our investigator hadnt  addressed  their main 
issue; that is, that they were under the impression that a repayment holiday had been 
agreed and were only subsequently made  aware  that it hadnt,  when  they were told their 
account was in arrears.  
Our investigator considered Mr and Mrs Es further points but still didnt think Lloyds had 
done anything  wrong. She also said that she had not seen any evidence  to suggest that 
Lloyds had agreed to a repayment holiday.  
Mr and Mrs E didnt  accept our investigators  findings. In summary, they said that they didnt 
think that Lloyds  had treated them fairly  in the circumstances, and it had caused them  
significant distress as well as caused them to be financially disadvantaged.
The case  has been passed to me to make a decision.
Ref: DRN03851572my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
From what  theyve said, I think its clear that Mr and Mrs E faced  very challenging and 
unfortunate circumstances which meant that they struggled to pay their mortgage between  
2010 and 2012. Lenders have a responsibility to treat customers  facing  difficulty  positively 
and sympathetically. That would typically involve Lloyds taking steps to engage with Mr and 
Mrs E to agree a way forward. So its for me to decide whether or not Lloyds has done  that.
Lloyds has given us its records showing contact between  it and Mr and Mrs E during the 
relevant period. They show that Mr and Mrs E wrote  to Lloyds about the arrears on their 
account. Whilst I think its clear from that correspondence that Mr and Mrs E had difficulties 
making their mortgage payments, I havent  seen any records  which  suggest that Lloyds were 
aware of the specific personal circumstances which Mr and Mrs E had experienced leading  
to the difficulties. In any case, Id still expect Lloyds to try to engage with Mr and Mrs E about 
their account, given that it was clear theyd struggled to meet payments.  
Records also show that Lloyds wrote  to Mr and Mrs E about  its concerns over the 
management of their account,  eventually suggesting that further  action could be taken if 
something was not done to address the arrears.  I can see that because Lloyds had little 
success when it tried to contact Mr and Mrs E by telephone, it sent field agents to discuss  
things, but Mr and Mrs E refused to talk to them about their mortgage. Given that, at more 
than one point,  the level of arrears  on the mortgage were significant,  I dont think it was 
unfair for Lloyds to try to contact Mr and Mrs E to express concerns.
Overall, and like our investigator, Im satisfied that Lloyds has demonstrated that it tried to 
engage with Mr and Mrs E about  the arrears on their account, albeit with little success.  I 
know that Mr and Mrs E dispute this; they say that they were in frequent  contact with their 
local branch. I accept this may well have been  the case, but ultimately  Lloyds records 
suggest that Mr and Mrs E generally  were hesitant to deal with the department responsible 
for managing their mortgage  account  at the time  other than writing to it - despite  it trying to 
engage with them. Given this, I dont think I could reasonably  say that Lloyds  didnt treat 
Mr and Mrs E fairly, positively and sympathetically  whilst they experienced difficulty.
Further, records also suggest that in addition to asking  Mr and Mrs E to contact it about the 
management of their mortgage,  Lloyds did take steps which  I think were in Mr and Mrs Es 
best interests. For example, Ive seen that Lloyds prevented charges from being applied  
when Mr and Mrs E had contacted it about making  a payment. Lloyds also agreed a 
repayment plan and capitalised arrears which had grown on the account which meant that 
the mortgage was up to date. So I think its fair to say that Lloyds tried to help Mr and Mrs E.
Mr and Mrs E have  specifically said that their main issue is that they had been under the 
impression a payment  holiday  had been  agreed in 2011. Theyve said they then found  that 
adverse information  had been recorded with credit reference agencies and that Lloyds 
began to add arrears charges and send letters about those arrears. Ive considered all of the 
evidence that Mr and Mrs E and Lloyds  have given us on this point, and Im not satisfied  
Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs E the impression a payment holiday had been agreed. Ill explain 
why.
Ref: DRN03851573I wouldnt expect Lloyds  to have automatically  agreed to a payment holiday,  because in 
some cases  it might  make consumers circumstances  worse,  and there  could be an 
alternative and more appropriate  solution.  I would expect Lloyds to consider how it could 
help, but that would involve discussing things with Mr and Mrs E. The evidence  Ive seen 
shows that Lloyds  tried  unsuccessfully    to engage with Mr and Mrs E, so I cant  fairly  
conclude that Lloyds shouldve granted a payment holiday. 
Ive seen records from Lloyds which suggest  that a payment holiday was considered, but 
ultimately declined  in January 2010. Ive also seen copies  of letters  addressed to 
Mr and Mrs E, dated April and  May  2010, which explain that a payment holiday had not 
been agreed. Given this, Im persuaded that Mr and Mrs E ought  to have been reasonably 
aware that a payment holiday had not been agreed at that stage. 
I also havent been presented with any evidence which  suggests  that Lloyds had agreed to a 
payment holiday  subsequently  in 2011 or 2012.  In any case, I think  it unlikely that Lloyds 
would have agreed to a payment holiday, as it is a common  requirement  amongst lenders 
that payments  need to be generally up to date before a payment holiday is agreed.  But 
Mr and Mrs Es mortgage account had been in arrears at various points from 2010 to 2012.  
Additionally, agreeing a payment holiday would have  meant that Mr and Mrs Es subsequent 
mortgage payments  could  increase,  as those payments would need to be made  at some 
point. Given that they appeared to be struggling to meet their mortgage payments,  it may not 
have been in their best interest,  and I find it unlikely that Lloyds would have agreed to it.
Lastly, Ive seen that Mr and Mrs E wrote to Lloyds about a proposed arrangement  early  in 
2011, but Ive not seen any evidence which persuades me that Lloyds had agreed to this. 
Further, Mr and Mrs Es letter of January 2011 thanks the bank for agreeing  to an 
arrangement, and suggests  that they will start to make overpayments  from March  2011. 
Records show that no further payment  was made,  and then in April 2011, a letter from 
Mr and Mrs E said they would make a £1,000  payment, as well as February,  March  and 
Aprils payment, by the end of that month. Whilst that £1,000  payment was made, no further 
payment was made until June 2011. 
No further payments were then made at the contractually agreed  amount, until a payment 
arrangement  of which there is evidence  was agreed in late 2011, and ran until the 
account was repaid.  Given all of this, even if I were to accept a payment arrangement had 
been agreed, but not documented, in early 2011, it doesnt appear   based on 
Mr and Mrs Es letters  - that it was kept to. I therefore dont think  Lloyds  did anything wrong 
by subsequently attempting to contact  Mr and Mrs E about the situation, or reporting that 
their mortgage account was in arrears.
Overall, whilst I have  a great deal of sympathy  for the circumstances Mr and Mrs E 
experienced, Im satisfied  that Lloyds treated them fairly. 
Ref: DRN03851574my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 December 2019.
Stephen Trapp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0385157