K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Ageas  Insurance Limited unfairly declined their home insurance 
claim for damage to their hot water  cylinder.
background
Mr and Mrs C were having a new boiler  installed in their kitchen. The engineer  also checked 
all the central heating items throughout their house,  and he discovered a leak in their airing 
cupboard where  their hot water  cylinder  and expansion vessel are located. The expansion 
vessel sits above the hot water cylinder,  and the leak was coming from the connection on 
the pipework between the two. The engineer  repaired the leak, but it had caused rust and 
corrosion to the top of the cylinder.
Mr and Mrs C made  a claim on their home insurance policy  for the damage  to their hot water 
cylinder, and as requested they provided  a report and quote   which  was for about £2,000. 
Ageas says it contacted the company who provided  the report  and the company  explained  
that the damage had been caused by steam escaping, rather than water leaking. Ageas  
subsequently declined the claim, and Mr and Mrs C complained.
Ageas explained its reasons for declining Mr and Mrs Cs claim in a letter responding to their 
complaint. Ageas noted that their policy covers damage caused by one-off events listed in 
the policy book   and one of those listed events is water leakage,  which  includes water  
leaking from any fixed  domestic  water or heating installation. However,  Ageas  didnt  
consider steam to be water, and it also said the damage to the hot water cylinder had 
occurred over time, rather than from a single event.
Mr and Mrs C contacted  our service, and one of our investigators considered their complaint. 
But she didnt think it should  be upheld. She wasnt sure whether water  or steam  had caused 
the damage  but she was persuaded it had occurred gradually over time, and Mr and Mrs C 
ought to have been aware there was a problem and done something about it. So overall, she 
thought Ageas had fairly declined the claim. Mr and Mrs C disagreed with our investigator, 
so their complaint  has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where evidence  is inconclusive or 
incomplete, I have reached  my decision on the balance of probabilities  this means
I have determined what I consider is more likely  to have happened, based on all the 
evidence that is available  and the wider surrounding  circumstances.
Although a number  of arguments have been  made,  my decision only addresses those 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made by both sides.
Ref: DRN04288162Ageas says the company  that reported  on the hot water  cylinder  told it the damage had been 
caused by steam.  But we havent  been  shown anything that supports this conversation, or 
been given an explanation of his opinion. Mr and Mrs C have also made  some  persuasive 
arguments, in my view,  as to why the issue is likely  to have at least involved  some water,  
and why steam should be considered water  which Ageas hasnt  responded to. So on 
balance, Im persuaded its not unreasonable to consider the damage under the water 
leakage coverage.
However, Ageas also relies on the following general exclusion detailed  in the policy  book, 
why applies to all coverages:
-We do not cover  any loss or damage  that happens gradually over a period of time, such 
as rust, corrosion, fading and shrinkage.
Mr and Mrs C argue that the damage was caused  by a one-off event. But whilst I accept the 
connection is likely to have breached  suddenly  in a one-off event, the rust and corrosion to 
the hot water cylinder below happened  gradually over time as water or steam continued to 
leak on to it. Its the continuation  of the leak which has caused the rust and corrosion to 
gradually occur, this damage didnt occur  in a single event  if the leak had been fixed  
sooner there would have been much  less damage, if any at all.
As such,  Im satisfied the rust and corrosion occurred gradually overtime  and the general 
exclusion applies to the claim. This means  Im satisfied that Ageas applied the exclusion 
correctly. 
However, what I also need to consider here is whether Ageas strict application of the policy 
terms was fair. This service generally  takes the view that it isnt fair for an insurer to rely on 
gradual damage exclusions unless the insured was aware,  or ought reasonably  to have 
been aware, of the issue. Therefore, Ive considered Mr and Mrs Cs awareness.
Mr and Mrs C say they werent aware  of the leak and had never noticed damage to the hot 
water cylinder. They initially told our investigator they used their airing cupboard  frequently, 
but they have  since  said otherwise. They also believe  the damage  was obscured by the 
layer of paint on the cylinder, and they say the engineer who found  the leak must have 
broken paint off to reveal the damage  otherwise they wouldnt have missed it.
On the one hand the cylinder  is in a concealed part of Mr and Mrs Cs home, and I do accept 
they didnt enter their airing cupboard regularly. But on the other  hand,  the damage  is fairly 
extensive in terms  of the amount of corrosion. So I consider it likely there was a reasonable 
amount of moisture involved, and unlikely the paint  would  have  concealed the damage or 
signs of it. Having thought about  matters carefully,  on balance,  Im persuaded either the 
moisture or the damage ought to have  been  evident  to Mr and Mrs C before their boiler  
engineer highlighted the significance of the issue to them. As such, Im persuaded that 
Ageas applied the gradual damage  exclusion  fairly.
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs C. But for the reasons explained  above,  I dont uphold 
this complaint. 
Ref: DRN04288163Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 October  2019
Vince Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0428816