K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that Capital One (Europe) plc irresponsibly lent to him by increasing  the 
credit limit on his credit  card with them when he was already  over his limit. He doesnt  think 
they shouldve  done this. He also complains about charges applied to his account. 
He would like late payment and default markers  removed from his credit file and a refund of 
charges that were  applied to his account.  
background
Mr T applied  for a credit card with Capital One in 2000. His credit limit was set at £200. Over 
the years, the limit increased. The last two increases were  in December 2013 (when it went 
from £1,800 to £2,550) and September 2015 (when it increased to £3,050). 
It appears that Mr T did use this credit  and sometimes went  over the limit. But he always  
seemed to make payments to bring his account  back on track. 
But, in May 2016,  Mr T began to miss payments. 
Following representations on his behalf from a debt charity, a long term arrangement was 
put in place in July 2016. 
Mr T missed payments  under this new arrangement. So, Capital One applied late payment 
markers and a default to his credit file. 
Mr T says that he had issues with gambling at the time. Many  charges were applied  to his 
account regarding  this as gambling  payments were treated as cash transactions.  
Mr T complained to Capital One. 
Capital One wrote to Mr T saying  that:
They had checked Mr Ts income before lending to him. Following these affordability 
checks, they hadnt given  him the maximum credit that they couldve in 2000. 
They did increase the credit  limits but they pointed out that:
The offers of extensions to your credit limits were based on data we received 
monthly from the credit reference  agencies, our affordability checks  being 
satisfied and how you conducted your account. Your balance wasn't over  the 
agreed credit limit when these offers were  made.
They noted that his account did sometimes go over the limit but Mr T managed  to make 
payments to bring his account back on track. 
The credit  increases were an option. Mr T couldve opted out.
It was up to Mr T how he used his account. Any fees charged  by Capital One were in line 
with the terms and conditions of the account.  
They had entered into a long term arrangement  with him which  he had defaulted on. 
Ref: DRN05608622Capital One didnt think that they had lent irresponsibly. They pointed out that no interest or 
fees had been applied  to the account  since July 2018. 
Mr T wasnt happy with this decision so he came  to us. 
Our adjudicator found that she was limited to looking at the last two credit  increases because 
they were the only ones  within the last six years. She thought that Capital One had dealt with 
the complaint  fairly. 
Mr T didnt  agree so the complaint has now come to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I also think that I can only look at the last two credit increases as the others  are outside of 
the six year time limit.
Im afraid Mr T wont be happy with my decision.  I think that Capital One has acted fairly and 
reasonably. I will explain why. 
I can see that Capital  One did carry out checks on affordability before they lent to Mr T and 
also when they increased the credit limit. I think  that Capital One were justified in saying that 
the account was affordable. 
Mr Ts statements show that he made  regular payments to the account and, on the times  
that he was late, he made up the payments soon after.  This shows  to me that he was 
managing his account, even though  it might have been difficult for him.
At the time of the credit increases, Mr Ts account  showed no defaults. It was up to date or 
settled. So, again,  I dont think Capital One wouldve  have been acting irresponsibly in 
lending to him. 
When Capital One did increase the credit limit, they wrote to Mr T and gave him the chance 
to opt out. Mr T couldve told them not to increase the credit  limit but he didnt. I appreciate  
that he might  not have  done this because  of his gambling problem, but I cant  see how 
Capital One couldve  known about this and acted on it without having  been told about  it. 
I note that Mr T says that Capital One shouldve  known about the gambling problem because  
he made many transactions involving gambling  which wouldve shown up on the account. I 
appreciate that this was a difficult time for Mr T but I dont think  that it was for Capital One to 
tell Mr T how to spend his money. I think that they were limited  to checking that the account 
was affordable before lending to Mr T. I think that they did this. 
Fees were  applied to Mr Ts account  because gambling transactions are treated as cash  
withdrawals. Im afraid that, because this was in the terms  and conditions  of Mr Ts account,  
Capital One were able to charge them. I am unable to ask Capital One to refund them.
Because Capital  One have truthfully  reflected  what  has happened regarding  the late 
payments and default, I am unable to ask them to change Mr Ts credit  file. 
Ref: DRN05608623I am sorry  that this is not the outcome  that Mr T wanted. It is clear  that he has been  through 
a difficult time. But, I cant see that Capital  One lent irresponsibly or acted unfairly  or 
unreasonably. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I wont ask Capital  One (Europe) plc to do anymore. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2019.
Rita Parmar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0560862