K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B say that Bank of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) mis-sold them an Ultimate 
Reward Current Account  (URCA) packaged  bank account in 2012.
background
Mr and Mrs Bs account history is as follows:
Opened a fee-free Reward  current account  in joint names in June 2010,
Upgraded the account to an URCA packaged bank account in February  2012,
Converted the account to a sole URCA in Mr Bs name  only in April 2012.
Two separate adjudicators  looked  into the complaint and didnt think  that the URCA had 
been mis-sold. Mr and Mrs B disagreed  so the complaint has been passed  to me for a final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Halifax mis-sold the URCA  to Mr and Mrs B. Ill explain why.
Ive firstly  thought about whether Mr and Mrs B were given a fair choice in taking  this 
account. At this point,  it may also help for me to explain that I have to make my decision 
based on what I think is more likely  than not to have  happened having  weighed up what  both 
parties have been  able to provide me with.  
Mr and Mrs B have  raised a large number of reasons as to why they do not think that they 
had a fair choice  in taking out the account.  But they have not really  gone into much  detail 
about each of these reasons and the reasons that they have given  have changed as their 
complaint has progressed. So its difficult for me to place much weight on them. That said I 
have carefully considered  all of the reasons provided and have addressed  them below.
Mr and Mrs B have  said that at the time of the sale they had limited English so didnt know 
what was being  offered  to them. Ive thought about  this carefully.  Mr and Mrs B had already 
successfully opened  a fee-free current account  in 2010 which they held for two years. So I 
think they were aware that having  a fee-free account was an option. It also appears  they 
were managing their day to day banking activities and that they hadnt requested for any 
correspondence to be sent to them in another language. So overall I think  that its likely that 
Mr and Mrs B wouldve understood  enough to know broadly what  they were  agreeing  to. 
Mr and Mrs B have  said they felt pressured to take the account. But they havent  gone into 
much detail about how or why they felt pressured. And given that they wouldve known that 
free accounts were  available  I think that Mr and Mrs B would have been aware that they did 
not need to upgrade their account if they did not wish to do so.
Mr and Mrs B have  also said they were told the only way to keep the overdraft on their 
account would be to take out the URCA.  At the time of the upgrade,  Mr and Mrs B had an 
arranged overdraft of £100. One benefit of the URCA was that Mr and Mrs B would avoid 
paying a £1 fee for each day they were overdrawn up to £300.  On balance, I think its more 
Ref: DRN06053952likely there was a conversation about  this benefit and that Mr and Mrs B chose to take out 
the URCA as they felt it would be useful for them. And its clear there wouldve been some  
discussion about the overdraft seeing as at the same time as taking  the URCA, Mr and    
Mrs B increased their overdraft limit to £1,050. 
Mr and Mrs B have  also said they were told that taking out the URCA would improve their 
credit score but I cant see any declined application for credit  prior to this upgrade  so I cant  
see why Mr and Mrs B would have thought their credit rating need improving. So I am not 
persuaded that this is the reason that they took out this account
Finally, Mr and Mrs B have said they were  told they had to get the URCA in order to get a 
mortgage in the future.  From what I can see of Halifaxs internal notes,  it doesnt  appear Mr 
and Mrs B have ever taken out a mortgage with Halifax. So Im not persuaded that, had 
Halifax told them this, they wouldve  felt they had to take out the URCA. Regardless,  I can 
see that having the URCA would mean  Mr and Mrs B had access  to preferential mortgage  
rates. So I think its more likely this is what was discussed at the time. Overall I am satisfied 
that Mr and Mrs B were given a fair choice  to take out the URCA and they chose to do so.
Halifax has let us know that it didnt give Mr and Mrs B a personal recommendation for the 
URCA based on their individual circumstances at the time. Because  of this, it didnt have to 
check if the account was suitable for them. But it did have to give Mr and Mrs B enough 
information so they could  make sure it was right for them.  
Mr and Mrs B were  sold the URCA during a meeting in branch and I can see they 
completed a form to change the account.  In this, they ticked  to confirm they wanted to 
change their existing  account to an URCA  and then signed the form.  As Halifax  was 
trying to sell Mr and Mrs B an account with a monthly fee, I think its more likely the 
Halifax representative told them about  the benefits  to make the account more  attractive  
to them.  
As explained above, I think  Mr and Mrs B saw the overdraft benefit as potentially useful to 
them, considering their activity in the months  prior to taking out the URCA. And, in any 
event, I cant see any reason why they couldnt have used at least  some of the insurance 
benefits  such  as the mobile phone insurance,  breakdown cover  and travel  insurance. I can 
see Mr and Mrs B were  paying for mobile  phones  at the time, had a car and travelled to 
Europe a few times a year. Although theyve said they had their own car insurance, I cant  
see why they couldnt  have chosen to use the cover that the account  came with.
Overall, I think they couldve found the preferential overdraft terms useful - and they were  
eligible for and couldve used some of the other benefits too. So while  I accept Halifax  may 
not have told Mr and Mrs B absolutely everything they needed to know about  the URCA,  I 
think they received  enough information  to know what they were agreeing  to. And I dont think 
better information wouldve put them off from upgrading  in the first place.  
Mr and Mrs B have  said that they tried to downgrade their account on a number of occasions 
but they were  told that they could  not do so. I have  carefully considered  this but I cant  see 
anything in Halifaxs contact notes or anything  else to suggest a formal  downgrade request 
was made.
Mr and Mrs B may now, with the benefit  of hindsight, think they shouldnt  have upgraded. 
And given  what they mightve read or heard about packaged bank  accounts,  I can to some 
extent understand  why they believe their URCA might have been mis-sold. But I think  its 
Ref: DRN06053953more likely than not Mr and Mrs B chose to take the URCA after having a reasonable idea of 
what it entailed. So overall I dont think Halifax mis-sold the URCA to Mr and Mrs B.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 June  2019.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0605395