K820x#14complaint
Mrs M has complained that HSBC  UK Bank PLC (HSBC) bounced one of her cheques  in 
October 2018. This caused her distress and meant a subsequent beneficiary did not receive  
money on the day they should have.
background
Mrs M has a current account with HSBC. In October 2018 she was expecting £51,000 to be 
deposited into this account. She asked HSBC what time of day the funds would have to be in 
her account,  before she could write  a cheque to a beneficiary withdrawing the funds. She 
was initially told the funds must be in the account at 3.30pm before they could be withdrawn 
on the same  day. Just after 1.30pm  she says she was telephoned by HSBC and instead of 
3.30pm was told funds  needed to be in her account  by 1.30pm. Funds actually  arrived at 
2.15pm. She had already  written a cheque from her account and given it to a beneficiary. 
This cheque  subsequently  bounced.
Mrs M says this was the first time in 51 years of banking that she had a cheque that was not 
honoured and she was distressed as a result. It also meant  the beneficiary of the cheque  did 
not receive cleared funds on that day. Mrs M also says HSBCs terms and conditions were  
only updated a few weeks after this happened to say money had to be in the account at 
130pm.
HSBC have acknowledged that they have made an error in this case  and recognise  that 
Mrs M received poor service. They credited Mrs Ms account with £100  compensation and 
also £30 in respect of a payment fee she incurred. On further reviewing  the complaint they 
have also offered Mrs M a further £150  in acknowledgement of the errors they have made. 
As non-financial compensation HSBC have given Mrs M a letter to pass onto the beneficiary 
which says it was HSBCs fault the cheque bounced. HSBC confirmed that no adverse 
information has been added to her credit file.
Mrs M additionally wanted the first HSBC staff member disciplined  for giving incorrect 
information, for her bank  statement  to be corrected and HSBC  online information to be 
updated so she referred  her complaint  to us.
An investigator here has looked  at Mrs Ms complaint. In relation to the staff member being  
disciplined, he said that its not in the Ombudsmans  powers to force businesses to discipline 
staff members, but HSBC  has said their employee  would receive relevant feedback and 
training. 
Our investigator didnt  think HSBC  had done  anything wrong  by not correcting  the entries on 
her account.  This was because it wasnt possible to remove them. 
The investigator did look at HSBCs  online information and confirmed  they do now have the 
correct information  on their website and provided  Mrs M with a link to where this could be 
viewed. Lastly,  the investigator thought the total compensation  of £330 offered by HSBC for 
its mistakes was a fair resolution. 
Ref: DRN04915722Mrs M still feels upset  that HSBC gave her incorrect information and feels the level of 
compensation offered isnt enough as shes very careful with her money  and has never  been  
overdrawn or had a cheque bounced  before.  She feels that £500 would be fair 
compensation for her trouble and upset. 
As Mrs M doesnt agree  with the investigator  this matter has been referred to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What is not in dispute in this case is that HSBC have made an error in their communications  
with Mrs M which has caused her trouble and upset in trying to remedy  the situation. I feel 
HSBC have been fair in issuing Mrs M a letter explaining their mistake  and ensured that her 
credit file has not been affected in any way due to this bounced cheque.
In June 2018, HSBC did change their terms and conditions to 130pm in relation to when 
funds had to be cleared  in an account to be drawn  on the same day. HSBC do however 
acknowledge that this change was not properly communicated to all customers  and its own 
staff. But this doesnt actually affect the outcome of Mrs Ms complaint as HSBC  fully accept 
the information given by their staff member was incorrect which caused this situation.
Ive looked at Mrs Ms bank statement. This shows £51,000 was debited  and reversed  on the 
same day (the bounced cheque).  Then  it shows £51,000 being paid in and being debited  
three days later (the cleared cheque). HSBC says it isnt possible to remove  the statement 
entries. And if thats true, its not reasonable for me to direct it to do something  which  isnt 
possible. But Ive gone on to think about whether whats showing on her statements is fair 
and/or causing  her detriment. As these are factual representations of what actually 
happened on Mrs Ms account on the day, I also feel it is fair that HSBC  leave these 
transactions on the account.
As HSBC have acknowledged errors and attempted to put them right,  I dont think  it needed 
to do anything more  other  than pay her compensation. I now need to consider whether how 
much HSBC offered  is fair.
HSBC originally offered  Mrs M compensation  of £80. On further review they have increased 
this to a total of £330, including refunding £30 in respect of a payment fee she incurred. This 
was offered to Mrs M before our involvement.
I do accept Mrs M has been caused trouble and upset, after receiving incorrect  information 
from HSBC initially which has caused her embarrassment when her cheque bounced.
Thinking specifically about  what has happened  to Mrs M and the embarrassment caused,  
I think the £330 compensation already offered by HSBC is fair. This is because the cheque 
was due to be paid into another account  held by Mrs M  so it didnt impact any relationship 
she might  have with another individual. Ive also considered  that there wasnt any significant 
delay in Mrs M being able to make the payment again after HSBCs error.  Mrs M did lose 
just under £10 in interest from the cheque being paid in late to her other account, but I feel 
the £330 compensation adequately covers that loss.
Ref: DRN04915723my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mrs Ms complaint as I feel the compensation 
already offered by HSBC is fair in these circumstances
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2019.
Carl Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0491572