K820x#14complaint
Ms K complains  that Aviva Insurance Limited caused her inconvenience when applying for a 
quote for contents  insurance
background
Ms K had contents  insurance  in the past with Aviva. She planned to move house  and 
approached Aviva for a quote. Aviva couldnt find the postcode Ms K provided and asked her 
to obtain the Northing/Easting grid reference numbers for the property.
Ms K managed to get the grid reference numbers and gave them  to Aviva.  Aviva said it 
would need to upload them to its system before it could provide a quote.  It said this would  
take until the following Thursday.
Ms K said she couldnt wait that long as she was moving house  before that date, and she 
didnt want to move in with no insurance.  She said she was unhappy  with Aviva because  if 
theyd told her this from the outset,  she wouldnt  have continued trying to get a quote. 
Ms K then took out a contents policy with another provider and complained to Aviva. Aviva 
apologised for the inconvenience caused.  Ms K brought the complaint to our service,  as she 
wanted compensation for the stress  and inconvenience  in addition to an apology.
Our investigator looked into the complaint. She agreed that Aviva couldve told Ms K how 
long it was likely to take to provide a quote  if it had known. But she felt an apology  was 
sufficient for the inconvenience caused,  so she didnt uphold  the complaint.
Ms K disagreed with our investigator. She felt she hadnt got an apology for the stress 
caused. She still felt Aviva  had been unhelpful,  mis-informative, and caused her further  
inconvenience by asking for information which wasnt necessary. So she asked for an 
ombudsman to look at the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I wont  be upholding this 
complaint, and for broadly  the same reasons as our investigator.  Ill explain why.
There are two main things Ive considered when determining this complaint:
-Was it fair for Aviva  to request the grid references from Ms K in line with their 
underwriting guidelines?
-Had Aviva told Ms K initially how long it would  take to generate a quote,  would  she have 
acted differently?  And if so, what was the detriment and impact to Ms K?
Ms K says she was able to obtain a quote  from another provider straight  away,  so Aviva  
didnt treat her fairly and in line with other  insurers. Aviva says it followed the correct process 
for new build  or not recognised properties   its provided a copy of this process,  which Ive 
checked.
This explains that in situations where  the customers postcode  isnt recognised  by Avivas 
systems the advisor  should try and enter  the address manually, or, if that doesnt work,  
obtain the Northing/Easting grid references for the property.  The guidance also states that 
Ref: DRN06586982once the postcode has been assessed  it will be loaded in the monthly update  on the last 
Thursday each month.
So based  on what Ive seen it was fair for Aviva  to request the grid references from Ms K. 
But Im satisfied it couldve  been  clearer on how long this would take to generate a quote.
I do acknowledge there has been some  inconvenience  to Ms K here. And I do take on board 
her comments about moving house being  a stressful  time. But I think  that if shed known at 
the earlier point,  she still wouldve  needed  to take out insurance  with another  provider. 
And having reviewed  everything I cant see that the impact of getting the reference numbers 
has been sufficient  to award  compensation. 
So I think Avivas apology  is acceptable  for the inconvenience caused, and I wont  be asking 
it to pay Ms K additional  compensation.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept  or reject my decision before 
28 February 2019.
Dan Prevett
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0658698