K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs H have complained that Nationwide Building Society, trading as 
Dunfermline Building Society (Dunfermline), mis-sold them  a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy  with their mortgage.
background
I issued my provisional decision on 29 October  2018. A copy of my provisional decision is 
attached and forms part of my final decision. 
My provisional decision sets out the background to this complaint. It explains why I think  it 
should be upheld  and the way compensation should  be worked out.
Dunfermline didn't  agree with my provisional  decision. 
Mr and Mrs H accepted  my provisional decision. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In its response to my provisional decision,  Dunfermline  pointed  out that Mr and Mrs H only 
agreed to take the PPI after the mortgage had been offered. So this made clear that the 
policy wasnt a pre-requisite  of being  offered a mortgage, and that it was optional. 
But I remain  of the opinion that Mr and Mrs Hs testimony  in the very specific 
circumstances of this complaint  is plausible and still remain  persuaded by what  
Mr and Mrs H have told us. And I do agree with what Mr and Mrs H have said in that it is 
difficult for them to prove that they were  told they had to take the policy. But their recollection  
of the events that took place, and the timing of them is detailed  and hasnt  changed 
throughout them bringing their complaint.
Dunfermline has referred to the mortgage  offer as being issued on 23 October  1995  and that 
the document did not include any reference  to PPI being included.  It further  said that 
Mr and Mrs H didn't  apply  for their PPI until after the offer was received, and I see the 
application form is dated 29 October  1995.
But I dont think this takes account  of what Mr and Mrs H say they were  told at the outset 
when they looked to apply  for the mortgage  in June 1995. They  say this was when  they were 
given the PPI leaflet quoting  the cost as being £6.25 per month per £100  of mortgage [so 
their PPI would cost would be] (approx £3 - £3.50 per month)  based on their monthly 
mortgage repayment. And it was only until a meeting took place in October at Dunfermlines 
offices shortly after the mortgage had been offered, that Mr and Mrs H say they were told the 
PPI quote of £3.00 to £3.50 per month  was incorrect  as the minimum benefit that could be 
applied for was £100.00.
Mr and Mrs Hs monthly  mortgage repayment  was less that half of this amount so they say 
they were advised  to split the benefit of the policy. And I think if Mr and Mrs H were aware 
they couldnt fully benefit from the full amount  they were paying for, then they wouldnt have 
taken the policy  otherwise I would question why they would - if it was obvious they couldnt 
Ref: DRN04090932fully benefit from it. For me, this reinforces what Mr and Mrs H have told me that they were 
told earlier in the year that they had to have the policy.
Dunfermline has told me it did offer mortgages  where it was conditional  that certain 
insurances were included with the mortgage  offer, and these did include PPI. Its given  me a 
sample of what the mortgage offer would have looked like and I see it is different from the 
mortgage offers that were sent to Mr and Mrs H. But Im not satisfied this outweighs  what  
Mr and Mrs H have said about being told they had to have  the policy.
I acknowledge what Dunfermline said in response  to my comment that it was unlikely that 
both Mr and Mrs H would be away from work at the same  time. But Mr and Mrs H have told 
me that the cost of the mortgage  and buildings  insurance only accounted for 4% of their 
monthly income so I maintain they could have financial managed without the PPI. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold 
Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.  Nationwide Building Society should calculate the compensation 
due to Mr and Mrs H as outline in my provisional  decision. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 February  2019.
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN04090933copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs H have complained that Nationwide  Building Society, trading as Dunfermline  Building 
Society (Dunfermline) mis-sold them  a payment  protection insurance  (PPI) policy  with their 
mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs H took out a PPI policy along with their mortgage in 1995.  They  paid for the policy on a 
monthly basis. The policy  benefit was split equally  between Mr and Mrs H and in the event  of a 
successful claim  would  provide a monthly benefit if either of them wasnt able to work because of 
accident, sickness or unemployment.  The policy would have paid out for up to 12 months.  
Mr and Mrs H complained to Dunfermline that they had been mis-sold the policy. Dunfermline rejected 
the complaint but later made a payment  of £15.20 for the high level of commission it had received - 
over 50% of the policy premium - which it had not told Mr and Mrs H about. I understand the cheque  
remains uncashed pending the resolution  of the complaint. 
One of our adjudicators  reviewed the complaint but did not think  it should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs H 
disagreed. As the complaint  remains unresolved it has been  passed to me for decision. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Our adjudicator didn't  uphold the complaint  on the basis that Dunfermline didn't advise Mr and Mrs H 
to take the policy and that it was for them to decide if they wanted to take it. The adjudicator  thought 
Mr and Mrs H had a choice about  taking the policy and they could  have found the policy useful. 
Both Mr and Mrs H were  working at the time of the sale but would  only receive  statutory benefits if 
they werent able to work. Theyve also told us they didn't have any savings they could have relied  on. 
So on the face of it, it looks like they would have benefitted from the policy if they had needed to make  
a claim.
But Mr and Mrs H have provided, what I think is plausible and compelling testimony about the time the 
policy was sold to them  - that they didn't  want it and they couldnt have fully benefitted from the policy.  
Mr and Mrs H have said that they were told they had to have the PPI and werent happy about  this at 
the time of the sale because  there  was only a small increase in the financial outgoings after they took 
the mortgage. They  felt the extra insurance wasnt necessary. 
Ill quote from Mr and Mrs Hs submission to us  
Dunfermline Buildings Society was one that would give us a mortgage, but we were told, 
verbally, at a meeting that it would only be considered if we took out PPI. We were  not happy 
about  this condition, but were advised by Dunfermline BS to apply for a loan to get a 
quotation.  We applied on 22.06.1995* and received an offer on 05.07.1995*. Along with the 
offer we received a PPI leaflet* on which was written a quotation of £3.00-£3.50 per Month.
By October 1995, a firm offer to sell was given by the Local Authority  and accepted by us. 
Dunfermline  BS now had an alternative mortgage  scheme  available for which  we were given  
a quote* on 23.10.1995.
Ref: DRN04090934We accepted this quote and on 26.10.1996  we exchanged  documents at our solicitors 
office*.
A meeting was arranged at Dunfermline  BS office (on 29.10.1995?) to tie up the loose ends 
including the PPI documents.  At this meeting we were informed that the PPI quotation given 
in July was wrong as it was based  on a pro rata calculation of the premium per £100 benefits, 
but that the minimum premium was for £100 benefit. We were then informed that the best 
way to deal with this was to split the benefit 50/50 and a form was produced to this effect  for 
us to sign*. The premium was now to be £7.12*.
*Mr and Mrs H included the relevant documents in their submission.
A letter sent to Mr and Mrs H on 21 November  1995 quotes the monthly  mortgage repayment as 
being £40.95 and the PPI as a cost of £7.12  a total of £48.07. The Protected Payments  Scheme  
the PPI - application  dated  29 October 1995 shows Mr and Mrs H applied for a monthly benefit  of 
£100. Next to that the document sates Please  note that the monthly benefit cannot exceed the total 
of the monthly payments,  including life assurance premiums and the protected payments insurance 
by more than 20%. I note the terms and conditions sent with the insurance policy dated 18 November 
1995 also includes buildings insurance which for Mr and Mrs H was £10.46 according  to the 21 
November 1995 letter. So their monthly  outgoings  to cover the mortgage and associated costs were 
£58.83. 
So the maximum  either Mr and Mrs H could claim was £70.59 (£58.83  x 120%)  per month.  They  
couldnt benefit from the £100  monthly benefit  they were paying for. I cant  see from the documents  
that Ive been given that £100  was the minimum benefit that could be applied for but from what 
Mr and Mrs H have told me, their comment that they were told to have the policy seems plausible.  
The PPI leaflet which Mr and Mrs H referred to has a handwritten comment  at the top of £6.25 per 
month per £100 of mortgage (approx. £3 - £3.50 per month). This tallies  with Mr and Mrs Hs 
comment that they were told this was incorrect as it was a pro-rata calculation  which it would have 
been of the monthly cost of £58.83  and later they were told that the minimum benefit  they could 
apply for was £100. 
Mr and Mrs H had to sign a document  separate from the mortgage application,  and I understand  this 
was done at a later date. It could be argued that because of this, Mr and Mrs H were  aware  it wasnt 
an essential part of being  accepted  for the mortgage application. But because of the chain  of events  
that Mr and Mrs H have  explained to me, I find what they have said to be persuasive.
The home  Mr and Mrs H were buying was a local housing  property under the right to buy scheme. It 
had a high percentage of inbuilt value  as they had been renting it for some time and the mortgage 
itself wasnt  particularly large. They have explained to me the mortgage only led to small increase in 
their monthly  outgoings and the overall mortgage and buildings insurance costs were  only 4% of their 
joint income. So, even though they didn't receive any employee benefits if they werent able to work, 
the mortgage repayments were so low I think they could have managed financially,  particularly as it 
would be unlikely for both Mr and Mrs H not to be working  at the same time. 
So, in conclusion, I think Mr and Mrs H were told they had to take the policy  and only agreed to 
having it as it was a prerequisite part of the mortgage  application.  I dont think they wanted it and they 
could have managed without it. 
Mr and Mrs H have also complained  about Dunfermlines  failure to acknowledge their correspondence 
and giving them the relevant  documents. I appreciate this must  have been frustrating  for them in 
bringing their complaint. But Im satisfied that Dunfermline has apologised for this and that 
Mr and Mrs H now have  all of the documents they requested. 
Ref: DRN04090935putting things  right
Dunfermline should put Mr and Mrs H in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out PPI. The 
policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled  already,  and Dunfermline  should:
Pay Mr and Mrs H back the amount they paid each month  for the PPI
Add simple  interest to each payment from when  they paid it until they get it back. The rate of 
interest is 8% a year.
If Mr and Mrs H made a successful claim  under the PPI policy, Dunfermline can take off what they 
got for the claim from the amount  it owes them.   
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Dunfermline to take off tax from this interest.  Dunfermline must  
give Mr and Mrs H a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if they ask for one. Mr and Mrs H 
can claim back the tax if they dont pay tax.
As I intend on awarding full redress to Mr and Mrs H for the policy, they wont be entitled to any 
redress they would otherwise have received because of the excess  commission Dunfermline earned 
on the premiums Mr and Mrs H were charged. They  have  already been sent a cheque  for this but it 
hasnt been cashed. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I provisionally uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
I now invite  both parties to consider my provisional  decision and to let me have any new information 
or comments theyd like me to think about by 29 November 2018.  After that Ill issue my final decision.
Ref: DRN0409093