K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  Ageas Insurance  Limited  has turned down his insurance  claim for damage 
to his home, which he believes was caused by a storm.
background
In late 2017 Mr M discovered his roof was leaking.  He says he was last in the loft around two 
and a half months earlier and there was no evidence of the leak or there  being  a problem 
with the roof. Mr M believes the damage likely  happened during a named storm in October 
2017.
Ageas appointed a surveyor to assess the damage to Mr Ms roof. He inspected the inside of 
the loft space. He said perished felt was noted to the front slope at the verge;  ingress would 
occur in the area due to capillary action during heavy rain and prevailing winds, no other 
damage was noted. In addition the surveyor assessed the outside of the front elevation of 
the roof from ladders.  No displaced, slipped or damaged tiles were  noted. The surveyor  
explained his findings to Mr M and the claim was declined.
The photographs that accompanied the surveyors report  show  the underfelt was torn where 
the water  was entering the roof. This was adjacent to the gable wall, and what look like 
brackets to do with the solar panel  installation,  are directly to the left of the torn underfelt  in 
the photograph. As these  photographs were taken  inside  the roof, this would mean the 
damaged underfelt was, when looking from the outside of the house,  at the left-hand side of 
the front elevation.
Mr M has subsequently  had repairs completed to the roof. The roofer  said that tiles above, 
below and to the side of his solar panel were  stripped, new felt and batons installed and he 
retiled. Ageas spoke  to Mr Ms roofer following these works and he confirmed  the damaged 
tiles were to the left of the solar  panels and above/below it. This would make the damage at 
the left-hand side of the front elevation. 
Given the information provided by Mr Ms roofer,  Ageas  asked the surveyor for further  
comment. It pointed  out a tile in one of the surveyors external  photographs which  might  
have been slightly  out of place. The surveyor said the slipped tile wasnt  in the area of the 
perished underfelt, which indicated it was not the cause of the water  ingress.  He reiterated 
there was no obvious storm damage to the roof and no cracked tiles noted on his inspection.  
The photograph showed a damaged tile positioned  to the left of the solar panels, as viewed 
from the front of the building,  but probably higher up than the tear in the underfelt.
Mr M wasnt happy with Ageas view of the claim and complained.  Ageas responded to the 
complaint by explaining  that at the time Mr M found water ingressing  into his roof, the 
weather would not be considered sufficiently  extreme to be a storm. Despite this it had 
arranged for the damage to be assessed  and it had been determined that the tear in the felt 
which had allowed water into the roof space had been caused by gradual  deterioration.  It 
considered the bad weather had simply highlighted a pre-existing  maintenance issue.  
Ageas also said that the area where the slipped/cracked  tiles were was not the point of entry  
for the water. The surveyor considered the water  had entered the property at the verge of 
the front slope  of the roof. It also said the tiles were likely  to have moved  due to a defect and 
not as a result of something that was insured under the policy. It remained satisfied the claim 
had rightly been declined. 
Ref: DRN00052172Mr M didnt  accept Ageas  position  and referred his complaint to this service.  One of our 
investigators considered  the complaint, but didnt recommend  it be upheld. She wasnt 
persuaded there was a storm at the time the damage was said to have happened (21 
October 2017). Nor did she think the damage  was consistent with that which would be 
expected from a storm. Mr M asked for the complaint to be considered by an ombudsman.
Ageas has subsequently  provided the recording  of its conversation with Mr Ms roofer.  I have 
listened to the conversation. The roofer said he had stripped the roof back  above, below and 
to the side of the solar panels.  He then replaced the underfelt, batons and re-tiled  those 
areas of the roof, replacing four or five tiles in the process. He described the damage to the 
tiles as cracking. He couldnt say for sure what had caused it, but put it down to wind going 
over them and rattling them, resulting in cracking. The roofer didnt know  when the damage  
to the tiles had happened,  but said water had been  ingressing for some time as it had rotted  
the felt.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a claim  is made for storm  damage, the first thing  we will consider is if the weather 
conditions were extreme enough to be considered a storm. Whilst bad weather including 
high winds  is not uncommon in this country, winds of storm force  are more unusual. In 
addition, even where storm conditions do exist, the wind speeds will vary around it  so at 
the edge of the weather  event, the winds may not be high enough  to be considered a storm.
The reason  it is important whether the winds are considered high enough  to be a storm is 
because it determines  whether the wind, on its own, is capable of causing damage to a 
structurally sound building. Lower wind speeds  can cause damage, but that will usually be 
because there is a weakness or vulnerability in the building which  the high winds  highlight.  
Ageas thinks the latter  is the situation in this case.
Mr M has said he thinks the damage  was caused by a named storm in October 2017. I have 
reviewed weather reports from the time.  The maximum gust recorded for Mr Ms postcode  
was 41 mph. This maximum speed would be considered a storm. 
However, despite the weather records not indicating there was a storm. I have also 
considered the nature  of the damage  to the roof. There are two versions  of how the water 
entered Mr Ms home.  The business expert  says the water has effectively been sucked 
upwards from the gutters and, due to the damaged felt, was able to enter the property. 
Mr Ms roofer says there were cracked tiles which allowed water ingress over time.  That 
water then rotted the felt and that subsequently allowed subsequent water ingress. 
It seems  reasonable to me that the most likely cause  of water ingress was the broken tiles 
on the roof. Whilst these  are above  the damaged area of the underfelt,  the purpose of that 
felt is to provide  a conduit to the gutter for any moisture  that does get through the tile layer.  
So any water that did penetrate  the roof would run down  the felt and, because of the 
damage, enter the property at that point.  
Given Mr Ms roofers comments about the damage to the felt, I am satisfied that the 
damage to the tiles didnt happen  during the named  storm  in October  2017.  It would  seem  
Ref: DRN00052173that it happened quite some  time before that, as it would have taken time for the felt to have 
rotted. Whilst the winds that rattled and damaged the tiles might  have  come  from a storm, 
they also may not have. Without knowing when  the damage actually happened, whether it 
was caused by a storm cant be established. As such, I cant  say that the damage  to the tiles 
is consistent with storm damage and the rotting of the underfelt  certainly  isnt. 
I can only determine a case on the evidence that is available and I am satisfied that, on 
balance, Ageas didnt act inappropriately  when it declined the claim. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Ms M to accept  or reject my decision before 
17 June 2019.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0005217