K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case that Financial  Insurance  Company Limited  (FICL), as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple,  Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mr B says FICL mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy Mr B took out on a store  card account  in August 1999. It 
was added to his account  when he applied  for the card in store.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint and Ill explain why.
I think FICL  made Mr B aware  that he had a choice about buying the PPI, and that he chose to 
take it. I say this because FICL has given us a copy of the store  card application  form from the 
time of sale.  This shows there was a separate section  for PPI and that it is presented as 
optional. Mr B signed  separately in a box indicating he wanted  PPI. He also signed a second  
time on the application  form to say he consented to the information contained in it. So I think  
this reflected what he wanted.  Had Mr B not wanted the PPI he could have  completed  the 
application without  signing  separately agreeing to have it.
So, on balance,  I think Mr B was aware  the policy was optional  and he agreed to take it out, 
knowing it was something he could say no to.
This application was made by Mr B completing  an application in a store.  So because of this, 
I dont think a recommendation  was made  by FICL.  So FICL didnt have to check  if the policy 
was suitable for him. But it still needed  to make  sure it gave  Mr B enough information to 
make an informed choice  whether  the policy was right for him, taking into account his 
personal circumstances.
Its possible the information FICL  gave Mr B about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it should have 
been. So I need to consider if Mr B would have acted differently and not bought the policy, if 
better information had been provided.  And on balance I dont think  better  information  
wouldve led him to act differently.
Ref: DRN04673762Mr B has told us he had 3 to 6 months  sick pay and 6 to 12 months savings to rely on to 
repay the monthly repayment on the card. But this policy  would have paid out in addition  to 
any provisions Mr B would receive. I think the PPI could have been useful to him in that his 
store card payments would be met. It also would have provided additional cover if Mr B lost 
his job. I also couldnt see any significant or limiting terms that would have affected Mr Bs 
decision to take the policy out either.
Im not sure FICL gave clear information  on the costs of the PPI policy, but I dont think  this 
would have affected Mr Bs decision to take out the policy for the reasons I have already 
given. 
Ive taken into account all Mr Bs comments,  but for the reasons mentioned  above,  these 
points dont change  my conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above,  I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 September  2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0467376