K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Lloyds Bank  General Insurance Limited has declined  their home 
insurance claim for a ring lost in their house.  
background
Mr and Mrs D took out home  insurance  with Lloyds in January 2018.  They  asked for three of 
Mrs Ds rings to be listed as specified items on the policy. Lloyds said only items valued at 
over £3,000 could  be listed as specified  items. One of the rings was valued  at around £5,000 
but the other  two were worth around  £1,000 so they werent listed on the policy  but Lloyds 
said these two rings were covered anyway. 
In January 2019, Mrs D was unable to find one of the unspecified rings. She said she last 
recalled seeing  it in the house so they both carried out a thorough search.  Unfortunately  the 
ring wasnt  found so they made a claim to Lloyds. Lloyds declined  the claim. It said the loss 
wasnt of a type covered by the policy terms. It said the policy  didnt cover  the loss of 
(unspecified) items  in the home mainly because  they tended to show up at a later point. 
Mr and Mrs D complained  to Lloyds. They said Mr D had been misled during the sales  call 
because hed asked  if the rings were  covered and was told they were.  They  said they 
werent told that standard contents  cover didnt extend to items  lost in the home and that the 
policy terms were  unclear about this too. They said that it shouldve  been made  clear  that 
accidental loss of unspecified items in the home  wasnt  covered.  Mr D also said Lloyds 
assured him the two rings  were covered when he phoned to arrange the renewal in January 
2019. 
Lloyds looked  into Mr and Mrs Ds complaint but didnt  think itd done  anything wrong. It said 
the policy didnt  cover the type of loss they were claiming for and it said theyd been sent a 
new business pack when  they first took the policy out which confirmed the full details of their 
cover and gave them  14 days  to cancel it if it didnt meet  their personal requirements. 
Unhappy with the outcome of Lloyds investigation,  Mr and Mrs D complained  to this service. 
Our investigator looked into their complaint but didnt think  Lloyds had unreasonably 
declined the claim  or misled them as to the extent of cover.  
The complaint was passed  to me for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Although  I appreciate it will come as a 
disappointment to Mr and Mrs D, Im unable to uphold  their complaint. Ill explain why. 
Not all loss and damage caused  to home  contents  will be covered by a home  insurance  
policy. Only loss or damage  caused by those  events listed  in the policy   fire, theft,  escape  
of water,  flood etc. - is covered. And it isnt feasible  for polices  to list every cause of loss or 
damage that isnt covered. That wouldnt be practical. So insurance policies list what  is 
covered. They also list circumstances where cover  is excluded  despite  loss or damage  being 
caused by one of the insured events. These  exclusions  can be specific to each insured 
event or general  (applying to the whole policy) uninsurable losses.  These include loss or 
damage caused by war, wear and tear, frost, lack of maintenance  etc. 
Ref: DRN04663552Mrs D lost her ring in the house. The policy doesnt  say a loss caused  in this way is covered. 
Loss in the home is covered for specified items (such as the more  valuable of Mrs Ds three 
rings) but not if the lost item is unspecified.  Unfortunately for Mrs D, she lost an unspecified 
item. So I cant reasonably require  Lloyds to pay their claim. 
Mr D says he was told in the sales call that it didnt matter that the less valuable rings  
couldnt be specified because they were covered by the policy  anyway. I know that Lloyds 
hasnt been able to retrieve a copy of this phone call but I dont doubt what Mr D says. But 
nor do I think what Lloyds  told him was misleading. Thats because the rings were indeed  
covered by the standard policy  terms  providing they were  lost or damaged by one of the 
events listed in the policy. 
I can see that the sale of the policy was a non-advised one. That means  that Lloyds gave no 
advice or recommendation as to the policys suitability for Mr and Mrs Ds needs.  The 
responsibility for ensuring it was rested with Mr and Mrs D. Lloyds was required  to provide 
them with enough  clear information  to make an informed decision about  it which  I think it did. 
The policy terms arent unclear or misleading.  
Whilst some  of the events  listed include cover  for accidental loss I think  its clear from the 
policy terms that such cover only applies to the peril specified; for example accidental loss of 
water, domestic heating  oil, gas or money.  
Whilst I sympathise with Mrs D for the loss of her ring, I cant reasonably  conclude  that her 
loss is covered by the policy terms and has been unfairly declined  by Lloyds. Nor do I think  
the likely  wording used  during  the calls or the policy document  was unclear. So I cant fairly 
uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 March 2020.
Claire Woollerson 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0466355