K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold  them  a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
In 2001 Mr and Mrs S took out a joint secured personal loan during a meeting in one of its 
branches. They also took out monthly  PPI to protect the loan repayments. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion. They mainly  say that the PPI was added without their knowledge or consent  and 
they didn't know  theyd  taken out this insurance.  Mr and Mrs S also told us that they didn't 
need PPI as Mr S was fully employed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. 
The PPI policy just covered Mr S. But as the loan was in Mr and Mrs Ss joint names Ive 
looked at both their circumstances  when the loan was taken out.
I think Halifax made Mr and Mrs S aware that the PPI was optional and they chose to have it 
for Mr S. 
I say this because  the application Mr and Mrs S had to fill in to get their loan asked if they 
wanted PPI or not  Mr and Mrs S wouldve  had to say if they wanted PPI for Mr S added  on 
to their loan. 
And the way information about  the PPI was set out in the loan agreement Mr and Mrs S 
signed presented  the policy clearly as a matter of choice. It says on the form: Do you want 
Personal Loan Repayments Insurance?  I think its likely that the yes box was pre-printed  
with an X reflecting what Mr S had put on the application form he wouldve filled in to apply 
for this loan.  If Mr and Mrs S hadnt wanted  PPI they couldve marked  the no box on their 
loan agreement. 
PPI was clearly shown on Mr and Mrs Ss loan agreement  including  the amount of the 
monthly premium. Mr and Mrs S have  both signed  this agreement to indicate they agree with 
what it says on the form. Based on everything Ive seen, I cant fairly say that Halifax failed to 
make Mr and Mrs S aware that it was up to them to say whether or not they wanted  PPI for 
Mr S  or that they didnt  agree to sign up for optional PPI with their loan. This all happened 
a long time ago, so its easy to understand why Mr and Mrs S mightve forgotten  some  of 
these details now.
Ref: DRN06411512Halifax advised Mr and Mrs S to take out the policy and it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable  
based on what Ive seen of Mr and Mrs Ss situation  at the time. PPI couldve covered the 
monthly loan repayments for up to 12 months per claim  if Mr S was unemployed  and paid 
out for up to 60 months per claim if hed been  unable to work as a result of accident or 
sickness. Repeat claims were possible.  Ive taken into account that Mr S couldve depended 
on getting at least  6 months  sick pay. But the policy  gave Mr and Mrs S significantly  better  
cover than if theyd just been  relying  on Mr Ss work benefits.
Ive also taken into account that Mr and Mrs S told us they had up to 3 months worth of 
savings or other means. But I dont know if they wouldve always had savings or any other 
means to depend  on if theyd needed to make  a claim. And, as they chose to borrow  the 
money they required, it looks like Mr and Mrs S mightve preferred not to spend any savings. 
PPI gave them protection for longer than this amount of savings wouldve lasted if theyd 
needed to rely on these  when Mr S wasnt working.  And having  PPI meant Mr and Mrs S 
could keep savings  intact to provide financial security for the future or to spend  the money 
on other things they may have been saving up for. So, I think the policy  couldve been useful 
to them.  Looking at Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances at the time, I think the PPI was suitable.  
The loan agreement  sets out what the policy would cost them each  month as well as 
showing the monthly loan repayment  and the total monthly payment theyd have to make.  So 
I think Mr and Mrs S wouldve been aware how much theyd be paying for the insurance.  
Its possible some of the information  Halifax  gave  Mr and Mrs S about  the PPI wasnt  as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But Mr S wasnt affected  by any of the main  things the policy 
didnt cover and the policy  seems  to have been affordable. Overall I think  it unlikely that 
Mr and Mrs S wouldve made a different decision if better information  had been  provided as 
the policy offered  them  worthwhile benefits in their particular  situation.
This means  it doesnt look as if Mr and Mrs S lost out as a result  of anything Halifax mightve 
done wrong. So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 February  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0641151