K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a commercial mortgage  loan Mr G took out with HSBC UK Bank Plc 
in January 2013. It was for £75,000, and as far as Mr G was concerned,  it was repayable  
over five years. Thats what  it said on the loan papers HSBC issued to him. Mr G paid all the 
payments up to January 2018  and expected  the loan to be finished,  but HSBC  then told him 
it had made  a mistake  and set the loan up to run for seven years. It expected him to carry on 
paying until January 2020, but paid him £3,000 compensation for his time and trouble. Mr G 
referred his complaint to us, saying HSBC  should  write off the balance.
background
By way of a provisional decision dated 16 September 2019, I set out, with reasons,  the basis  
on which I considered  this complaint should  fairly be resolved. The following is an extract  
from my provisional decision:
I dont need to decide if HSBC has made a mistake; its accepted by all parties that 
HSBC wrongly set the loan to run over seven years when it should have been  five. 
Mr G has paid everything the bank asked him to pay but the trouble is, he wasnt 
asked to pay enough. Setting the loan up over seven years meant the monthly  
repayments were too low; this is called underfunding.
We have an established  approach to underfunding. The starting point is to seek to 
put the consumer in the position theyd  be in if the lender  hadnt  made  the mistake;  in 
Mr Gs case, that would mean hed have paid the right amount  each  month and after 
five year would  owe nothing.  
There are some caveats to that; we need to consider when the consumer realised (or 
could have realised)  the loan wasnt on track to be repaid on time, and whether they 
could have done something  about  it. We also need  to consider whether, if the correct 
payments had been demanded from the outset, the consumer could have afforded  
them.
Applying those principles here, unless HSBC can demonstrate otherwise to my 
satisfaction, Im not persuaded Mr G could have  realised his loan was being 
underfunded before the anticipated end date in 2018. By that time,  even  if he could 
have done, it was too late for him to have taken any corrective  action in any event.
As far as being able to afford the higher  payments (assuming no error had occurred) 
is concerned, all I have to go on is the fact that Mr G paid what he was asked to pay 
throughout the five years  that he thought  the loan was meant to run for. Hes even 
continued, albeit  reluctantly and with some difficulty, to pay since the five years 
ended. Again, unless HSBC can persuade me otherwise,  Ive no reason to think Mr 
G wouldnt have maintained the correct  loan payments for a five-year  term if hed 
been asked to at the outset.
We dont normally award compensation for distress  and inconvenience  in cases of 
this type. We have to keep in mind the saving the consumer has made from not 
having made the higher  payment, even though they werent aware of it at the time. 
HSBCs already paid Mr G £3,000  compensation, so Ive factored that into my 
provisional award. 
Ref: DRN03154982I went on to set out my provisional award of redress, but amended  that after receiving Mr Gs 
response to the provisional decision. My revised  redress was that HSBC should:
write off the outstanding balance of Mr G's loan; and
reconstruct Mr G's business current account  from 1 February 2018 up to the eventual 
date of settlement  on the basis that
ono monthly loan payments were made from it; and
othe credit  of £3,000 compensation from August 2018 was not made.
Both parties  were notified of the change to my intended redress, by way of an email dated 
24 September 2019. HSBC was also reminded in that email that it had until 7 October 2019 
to provide its response. 
Mr G accepted my provisional  decision (and revised redress) but HSBC asked for an 
extension of time. It has now replied, accepting my provisional decision
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive no reason to revise 
my provisional conclusions any further.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement, I direct HSBC  UK 
Bank Plc to:
write off the outstanding balance of Mr Gs loan;  and
reconstruct Mr Gs business current account  from 1 February 2018 up to the eventual  
date of settlement  on the basis that
ono monthly loan payments were made from it; and
othe credit  of £3,000 compensation from August 2018 was not made.
I make  no other order or award. My final decision concludes this services consideration of 
this complaint, which means  Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 November  2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0315498