K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a further  
advance on a mortgage in 2009. Mr and Mrs D say Santander UK Plc (trading at the time as 
Alliance & Leicester) mis-sold them the PPI.
Mr and Mrs D paid for the PPI with a regular monthly premium, which did not attract  interest. 
It covered them in case either of them was off work sick or lost their job.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
When Mr and Mrs D applied for their further  advance, I can see they went through  a 
financial review with Santanders adviser.  From  the notes of the discussion, I can see the 
adviser went through Mr and Mrs Ds circumstances  and offered them  the choice to take 
optional PPI, or turn it down. Its recorded  that Mr and Mrs D turned it down at first, as 
they werent sure whether they already had a policy. Then a follow-up  note says 
Mr and Mrs D came back and confirmed they did have PPI, but it wasnt as 
comprehensive, so they cancelled that policy and replaced  it with this one. They both 
signed the review.
Mr and Mrs D were then given  a key facts document, which  reiterated  that the PPI was 
optional and they didnt have to buy any insurance  from Santander if they didnt want to. 
The key facts document and financial review both set out the cost of the PPI separately to 
the cost of the secured  lending itself, rather than as something that was necessarily 
included. And it looks  like in order to get the policy, Mr and Mrs D wouldve had to 
specifically apply for it, separately to applying for the further advance  though there isnt 
still a copy of the PPI application. Overall, I think that Santander  made it clear 
Mr and Mrs D didnt have to take out PPI, and that they chose to take it  though  I can 
understand why they might not remember doing so after so long.
Santander recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs D, so it had to check  that the policy  was 
right for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances  at the time, I think  
that it was. For example, while they had some  benefits through  work,  the PPI wouldve 
paid out on top of those benefits  and covered them more comprehensively  especially  
when their benefits reduced  to just half pay, for instance. And Mr and Mrs Ds existing 
policy didnt cover their full mortgage  payments,  had a longer waiting period, and had a 
benefit split that was not in-line with Mr and Mrs Ds incomes. Whereas this policy did 
cover the mortgage payments, had a shorter wait, and had a much more proportional 
benefit split. So it seems to have made  sense to replace the old policy with this one. Its 
also worth  bearing  in mind that if Mr and Mrs D fell behind on their secured borrowing 
repayments, they risked  losing their home.  So I think this policy  couldve been  useful  for 
them in protecting their home and giving  some peace of mind.
Ref: DRN00491852Mrs D had a medical condition at the time of the sale, which  might  not have been  
covered. But from what  her representatives have told us, it doesnt seem  to have affected 
her day-to-day life or ability  to work, and never  caused her to take time off. They pointed 
out that in some rare cases this condition could  be very severe, but thats not the case  for 
Mrs D so it doesnt seem relevant. Shed already  had the condition  for multiple decades 
by the time of this sale, so she wouldve had a very good idea about how it affected her. 
Importantly, the PPI was there to cover  extended  time off work, but it doesnt look like 
Mrs Ds condition was likely to ever cause  that. Further, she could still claim for time off 
caused by other conditions, or if she lost her job. And Mr and Mrs D dont appear  to have 
been affected by any of the policys other main exclusions or limitations. So it still looks  
like the policy was right for them.
The cost of the policy was set out clearly in the financial review and key facts document.  
So I think Mr and Mrs D wouldve understood how much theyd need to pay for the PPI if 
they chose it.
Lastly, its possible that Santander  didnt  adequately point out all the main things the 
policy didnt cover. But as I explained  above, it doesnt look like Mr or Mrs D were  
significantly affected by any of those things.
This means  Santander  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs D.
But Santander has offered to pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs D 
because: 
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs D about that. Because Santander  didnt tell 
them, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Santander has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
what the business needs  to do
Santander has to pay back  to Mr and Mrs D any commission and profit share  it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Santander  should also pay back  to Mr and Mrs D any 
extra interest they paid because of that.
Santander should pay back to Mr and Mrs D the extra they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Santander should 
also pay Mr and Mrs D 8%* simple interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs D can claim back  the tax if they dont pay 
tax.
Ref: DRN00491853my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander  UK Plc doesnt have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs D.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs D any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already paid 
Mrs D her proportion,  and if that is the case then I dont make any further award  to her. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 May 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0049185