K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Santander UK Plc rejected his claim  under section 75.
background
In April 2018 Mr W entered into an agreement with a third party for works to be carried  out 
on his home.  He paid £500 using his credit  card and £19,500 using his current account  by 
way of staged payment/deposit.
The supplier  didnt carry out the work. In June  2018  Mr W asked Santander  to recover the 
payments.
Santander responded to Mr W and said he didnt  have a valid claim under Section 75 
because the price of the goods or services was more than £30,000. It said it would try to 
recover the £500 via chargeback and said it had raised a claim with the fraud department  in 
relation to the £19,500 paid from Mr Ws account.
The chargeback claim was successful and £500  was returned to Mr W. The fraud 
department attempted to recall the £19,500  but the suppliers bank responded  that no funds 
remained.
Mr W remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said the total cost of the building project  
under the agreement was £141,750  which exceeded the limit of £30,000 applicable to 
Section 75 claims.  He said that because of this, Santander had no obligation to meet  the 
claim.
Mr W didnt agree. He said the £20,000  hed paid related  only to stage one of the project and 
was therefore  for goods and services less than £30,000. He felt that Santanders response 
had been contradictory because it had refunded  the £500 he had paid by credit card. Mr W 
was also unhappy  at how long it had taken  Santander to deal with the claim.  He said hed 
initially contacted  Santander when the supplier was active (it having since gone into 
liquidation) but by the time Santander  responded the money had been withdrawn.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances Section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the 
supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit  if theres  been a breach of contract or a 
misrepresentation by the supplier. In order to uphold Mr Ws complaint I would need to be 
satisfied that the provisions of Section 75 apply and that Santanders  response  wasnt fair 
and reasonable.  
There are limitations to when a provider of credit is liable along with the supplier. For Section 
75 to apply, the goods or services must have cost over £100 and not more than £30,000. 
Ref: DRN02089392In order to claim under Section 75, a consumer doesnt need to have paid more than £100  
(or the full amount) on a credit  card.  The provider  of credit is liable even if the consumer only 
made part of the payment on a card. Ive clarified this because  Mr W paid £500 of the 
£20,000 on his credit card.
Ive looked at the available documents in relation to the agreement  to demolish and rebuild 
the house. The contact price is £141,750. I can see that Mr W paid £20,000 which  he has 
said was for stage one of the works.
I understand the point which Mr W makes  when he says that the payment of £20,000 was for 
goods and services less than £30,000,  rather than a partial payment of the total cost. 
However, I disagree with him. Its clear from the documents that the contract price is 
£141,750. Its not unusual  for payments in building contracts to be made in stages, but each  
stage is a part of the whole contract.  I think its an artificial distinction to say that a stage 
payment isnt a part payment of the total cost.
Based on what Ive seen,  Im satisfied that the cost of goods and services  was more than 
£30,000. This means that Section 75 doesnt apply because  the criteria arent met. Im 
unable to say that Santander has made  an error in declining the claim.
I can see that Santander made an attempt to recover  the funds from the suppliers bank 
account, which is what Id expect it to do in cases like this. 
I appreciate that Mr W is disappointed that the money had already been withdrawn but I 
dont think this was due to unreasonable delay on Santanders part. Its not unusual  for 
monies to be withdrawn immediately in circumstances  like this for the very reason that the 
recipient doesnt  want the monies  to be successfully recalled by the innocent party.
Mr W has said that Santander has responded in a contradictory way because it refunded the 
£500 payment.  I can see that £500  was refunded  under  the chargeback rules. Chargeback is 
a transaction reversal to dispute a card transaction. Although it is similar  to Section 75, it is a 
different remedy with different criteria. I think Santander acted fairly in attempting to recover 
Mr Ws payment  using  all available methods and I dont  think  theres anything contradictory  
about this. Its simply that Mr Ws payment of £500 met the criteria for chargeback but the 
payment didnt meet the criteria for Section 75.
I have sympathy for Mr W as hes lost money through no fault of his own.  But Im satisfied 
that Santander has responded fairly to the complaint and because  Im satisfied that Section 
75 doesnt apply,  I wont be asking it to do anything.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 July 2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0208939