K821x#15complaint
In 2003, Mr and Mrs K took out a mortgage with Santander UK Plc (Santander).  In 2007 and 
2008, they took two further advances  on the mortgage. In 2008, Santander also sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.  Mr and Mrs K think  that Santander mis-sold this 
policy to them and they want it to refund them all the premiums  they have  paid for it, plus 
interest. 
background
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Mr and Mrs Ks complaint. The adjudicator 
didnt think that Santander had given  Mr and Mrs K a clear  choice to apply for the second 
further advance  without PPI and recommended that Santander should  uphold their 
complaint. Santander  didnt  accept  the adjudicators recommendation and asked for an 
ombudsman to review  the case.  So it has come to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
what to do in Mr and Mrs Ks case. Ive looked  into everything that Mr and Mrs K and 
Santander have  sent us or told us about the complaint and Ive decided  to uphold it. I explain 
why below.
There seems  to be quite a lot of agreement between Mr and Mrs K and Santander  about  the 
circumstances which led up to this complaint.  They both agree that Santander  offered PPI to 
Mr and Mrs K with the original mortgage  and with the first further advance  in 2007, and that 
Mr and Mrs K declined  the offer on both occasions.  They also both agree that Mr and Mrs K 
applied for the second further  advance during  a meeting with one of Santanders advisers  
and that Santander sold the PPI policy to them at the same time. 
However, Mr and Mrs K have told us that with the second further advance Santander told 
them to sign pre-prepared paper work and made them believe it was all related to their 
application for the further advance itself and nothing to do with PPI. Santander has denied 
it acted in this way. It has told us PPI was optional and that Mr and Mrs K would have been 
aware of this as previously they had always declined this type of insurance. 
Santander has sent us copies of the forms that Mr and Mrs K filled in for the original 
mortgage, and for the first further  advance. These  show pretty clearly that it let them know 
that PPI was optional and they chose not to buy it. However, it hasnt been able to find their 
application form for the second further  advance.  It has pointed out that it doesnt have to 
keep forms for this long and I accept its point about this. However,  this leaves me without 
any written record  from the time,  so Ive looked  at the broader  circumstances to decide 
whats most likely  have  happened.  
Ref: DRN03821342In outline:
Mr and Mrs Ks financial  situation  does not seem  to have changed significantly from 
2003 and 2007  to 2008.
The application form for the first further advance  in 2007 shows that Mr and Mrs K 
declined other  types of insurance  as well as PPI.
Mr and Mrs K have  been clear and consistent about what  happened with their 
second further advance and how they came to have PPI.
So it seems  to me that Mr and Mrs K had established a pattern of declining optional  
insurance from Santander and I think its likely that if Santander had offered them a clear 
choice about PPI in 2008, they would probably have declined it again.  I have  seen nothing  to 
show me that they changed their minds  about not wanting PPI.
I dont think Santanders  argument that Mr and Mrs K ought  to have known PPI was optional 
is sufficiently strong  to show that it actually gave them a choice. Indeed,  similar reasoning 
could equally easily suggest  that Santander ought  to have known that Mr and Mrs K 
probably wouldnt have  wanted PPI.
I accept that Santanders normal practice  may have  been to give a choice about PPI to 
customers in similar circumstances  to Mr and Mrs K, but Im not satisfied  that it did so for 
them. 
Santander has also told us that it sent Mr and Mrs K a welcome  pack  about PPI, and has 
sent us copies of some  of the correspondence it says it sent them at the time. I accept it did 
this, but it seems to have  sent the pack several  weeks after the policy started  and I dont 
think this shows it treated them fairly after denying them a choice. 
So I think that Mr and Mrs K lost out because Santander didnt given them a fair and clear  
choice about PPI when they took the second further  advance on their mortgage in 2008.  It 
should now put things right by paying  them fair compensation. 
putting things right
Santander should put Mr and Mrs K in the position  theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Santander 
should: 
Pay Mr and Mrs K the amount they paid each  month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr and Mrs K made a successful claim under  the PPI policy,  Santander can take 
off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander  
must give Mr and Mrs K a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
Ref: DRN03821343my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, I am upholding Mr and Mrs Ks complaint  that 
Santander UK Plc mis-sold PPI to them with a further advance on their mortgage  in 2008. 
Santander should now put thinks right by paying Mr and Mrs K the fair compensation I have 
set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 May 2019.
Steve Townsley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0382134