K820x#14complaint
Mr H has complained about Ageas Retail Limiteds  handling of his car insurance policy. 
background
Mr Hs policy  automatically renewed  on 30 June 2018. On 14 July, Mr H cancelled his policy, 
but the direct debit  process was already in motion which  meant that the first instalment  was 
paid to Ageas on 15 July.
Ageas said that on cancellation, a balance of £32.73 was due. £25 of that was the 
cancellation fee as detailed in the terms and conditions. And £7.73  was for Mr Hs time on 
cover during  30 June  and 14 July. Mr H called Ageas on 18 July to query the charge during  
which he was told he was correctly charged  £32.73 which was made up of the cancellation 
fee and time on cover.  Mr H wasnt happy  with that.
Two days later, on 20 July, Ageas emailed Mr H. They said having  considered  the matter 
they decided to waive the £7.73. They said We have looked into your query and determined  
to write off the balance. Therefore we can confirm that there is no outstanding balance  left to 
pay. Ageas told our service that their reference to balance was the £7.73 premium 
balance and not the £25 cancellation fee. And because Mr Hs direct debit had been 
received successfully, they had the funds  to satisfy the £25 cancellation  fee, they told him in 
that email that there is no outstanding balance left to pay. 
Mr H later made an indemnity claim  through his bank for the total amount of the direct debit 
payment that left his account. He got that money  refunded to him. So Ageas asked him to 
pay the £25 cancellation fee and the £7.73  premium for his time on cover. 
Mr H complained as he said he cancelled the policy within  the cooling off period so he 
shouldnt have to pay anything. He also said that during the call on 18 July and the email on 
20 July, Ageas had clearly told him that the whole amount  would be written off. Ageas didnt 
uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Mr H didnt think that was fair so he brought his complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into the complaint.  She felt that Ageas demand for the payment of 
£32.73 was reasonable. As Mr H didnt  agree  with our investigator, the complaint has been  
passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be disappointing for 
Mr H, but I not upholding his complaint. Ill explain why.
In his complaint,  Mr H has made a number of very detailed points and Ive considered all 
those carefully. But in this decision I will focus  on what I consider  to be the key issues.  My 
role is to decide if Ageas have dealt with Mr H in a fair and reasonable way, and in line with 
the policy.
From the information I have seen, the policy correctly renewed on 30 June. So Mr H had 
insurance cover until he cancelled it on 14 July. Its therefore reasonable for Ageas to charge 
him for the time he was covered. That amount was £7.73. When  Mr H cancelled the policy  
Ref: DRN04390732he was told he had to pay a £25 cancellation  fee. The policy terms and information  sent to 
Mr H said that there was a cancellation fee of £25 in the event he cancelled the policy  in the 
first 14 days. I therefore think Ageas were  entitled  to charge him that fee.
Given how the direct debit system works,  even  though Mr H cancelled  the policy  on 14 July, 
the first instalment left his account and was paid to Ageas. Ageas, as a gesture of good  will, 
waived the premium balance of £7.73. That left the £25 cancellation  fee due. But Mr H 
wasnt happy with that and said he was told the whole amount would be waived. I have 
listened to the phone conversation between Mr H and Ageas on 18 July. During  that call he 
was told he had to pay both £7.73  and £25. He said he didnt think that was right. Two days 
later on 20 July, in an email Ageas told him they were waiving the premium  of £7.73. They 
also said there was no outstanding  balance.  They said that because the direct debit 
instalment they had received was enough to deduct  the £25 cancellation fee, so he didnt 
have to make a payment. I think Ageas could have been clearer in that email  to explain what  
they meant.  But I dont  think  their actions were unfair or unreasonable.  Mr H reclaimed the 
whole direct debit  instalment through his bank. But I dont think it was reasonable for him to 
think he could walk away from the policy without  having to pay anything. The cancellation 
fee was clearly explained in the policy and he had the benefit of cover for his car for two 
weeks.
At the time Ageas told Mr H there  is no outstanding balance left to pay in their email of 20 
July, the direct debit  payment hadnt  yet been  taken  back by Mr Hs bank. So, for the 
reasons Ive explained above, what Ageas said was accurate. They had the money for the 
£25 cancellation  fee. But when Mr H reclaimed the money and refused to pay the 
cancellation fee, I think it was fair of Ageas to pursue  that fee and to ask for the £7.73  they 
had waived as a gesture of good will. So I think its reasonable  for Ageas  to pursue Mr H for 
the £32.73.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019.  
Mehmet Osman  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0439073