K820x#14complaint
Miss D complains that Covea Insurance plc declined her claim for her damaged laptop under 
her home insurance policy and about its service. Shes also said Covea hadnt finalised her 
earlier claim about an escape of water  in her property.
My references to Covea  include  its agents.
background
Miss D called Covea in January 2017  and made  a claim following an escape of water  at her 
home. Covea settled and closed  the claim.
Miss D contacted Covea  again in June 2017 and said shed  recently discovered two laptops 
werent working and she believed  they were damaged by the escape of water.  She told 
Covea she hadnt  discovered the problem earlier as the laptops hadnt  been used. One 
laptop started to work. Covea sent the remaining laptop to its experts  to inspect  the cause of 
damage. The expert reported there was no water damage or internal corrosion in the laptop.  
Covea declined the laptop claim end of October 2017. 
Miss D later got a report from the laptops manufacturer  which she sent to Covea in 
March 2018. The manufacturers report said the laptop had water  damage. Following a 
further inspection  by Coveas experts it continued to decline  the claim. 
Miss D complained to us. She wants Covea to pay for her laptop to be repaired and her 
policy premium to be refunded as compensation for her stress and inconvenience.  Miss D 
also wants Covea to finalise her escape of water insurance claim by sending workmen  to 
replace the plaster on her ceiling  and fix the tiling on the bathroom floor.
Our investigator thought Covea had fairly declined Miss Ds laptop  claim  and had given 
reasonable service.  She didnt comment on the escape of water  claim.
Miss D disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. She said she had no reason to lie 
about the damage to her laptop.
Before I made a decision we asked Covea whether Miss D had complained to it about not 
finalising her escape of water claim. Covea told us she hadnt and it wanted to contact  her 
about her concerns on that matter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My decision  is just about Miss Ds complaint that Covea declined her laptop claim. Coveas 
told us Miss D hadnt complained to it about her escape of water claim before  she raised the 
matter with us. It wants to be able to look into her concerns before we consider that 
complaint and Covea needs to have that opportunity. If Miss D and Covea cant reach  
agreement on the matter she can make a separate complaint to us.
I dont uphold Miss Ds complaint about  her laptop. I have to decide  whether Covea fairly 
and reasonably declined the claim,  and I think it did, Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN00954382I wont repeat all the reports findings  as these have been detailed in Covea's  letter  to Miss D 
and our investigator's opinion  letter. 
In summary,  Coveas experts first report in October  2017 said the engineer couldnt find any 
evidence of water damage. There was no evidence of liquid ingress  in the unit and the liquid 
indicators hadnt  been triggered. It was fair and reasonable  for Covea to rely on its expert's 
report to decline the claim as there was no evidence that the laptop  had been damaged  by 
an event that was insured under the policy.
The laptop's manufacturers report  that Miss D sent Covea in March  2018 said the laptop 
was water damaged.  Miss D believes Covea should  have accepted the manufacturers 
report. But the engineer  Covea used was also accredited by the laptops manufacturer. It 
was reasonable  for Covea to say it wanted  to inspect the laptop  again to assess  the situation 
as there  was conflicting opinion.
Coveas expert's second report of May 2018  said the laptop damage seen on the second  
inspection was consistent with liquid damage. But the report was clear that the same 
damage wasnt there on the first inspection. The report said it wouldnt  be possible for the 
manufacturers engineer  to give a date when the damage occurred as liquid damage is 
difficult to date given  the construction of the laptop. 
Coveas expert's second report also said the ingress of liquid was slight  and  would not be 
consistent with a leak from a ceiling unless  the laptop was subjected to a single "controlled" 
ingress. It also said that if the damage  occurred due to the escape  of water the damage the 
engineer saw in the May 2018 inspection would have been visible in the October  2017  
inspection. 
Covea continued  to decline the laptop claim as it wasnt satisfied that the damage  was due 
to the original escape of water as Miss D described.
Miss D has told us shes insulted by Covea's suggestion that she deliberately damaged the 
laptop. Although  I think Covea can fairly decline the claim  Im not saying she deliberately  
damaged the laptop. Im saying that given the evidence Covea had it could reasonably  
believe the water damage seen  at its expert's second inspection wasnt there  at the first 
inspection. 
It was five months between the claim being first declined and the manufacturer's  report  and 
water damage to the laptop cant be dated. Overall it was reasonable for Covea to believe 
that the water damage occurred after its experts first inspection of the laptop.  That didn't fit 
with Miss D's description of how she thought the laptop had been damaged  and she hadnt 
established that the damage happened due to an insured event under her policy.
Miss D says she wants Coveas engineer who looked  at her laptop to be sent on training to 
spot water  damage. I dont have the power  to tell Covea to send its experts  for training.  But 
the engineer is accredited by the laptop manufacturer  and Covea acted reasonably in relying 
on its engineers  evidence.
Im satisfied that Covea  acted fairly  and reasonably in continuing to decline Miss D's laptop  
claim. 
Ref: DRN00954383Miss Ds raised a number  of service issues and says she wasted 10 hours dealing with the 
claim and complaint. But having looked at what both parties  say about the delay I think 
Covea gave reasonable service. Theres no basis for me to award compensation to Miss D. 
Theres no basis for me to say Covea should refund the year's  policy premiums. Miss D 
continued to be covered  by the home insurance policy, subject to the policy terms.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 February  2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0095438