K821x#15complaint
Mr M has complained that Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) refused a 
claim he made for his damaged watch on his home  buildings and contents insurance policy.  
All references to Advantage include its agents.
background
Mr M took out a buildings and contents policy with Advantage through a price comparison 
website in October 2018.
In December 2018 he bought a new watch which was damaged around March 2019 when 
he was away from home.  He had it repaired for £1,140 and made a claim on his policy. 
Advantage turned the claim  down. It said because the watch  wasnt a specified personal 
possession it wasnt covered outside the home. 
Mr M complained to Advantage who didnt uphold  his complaint but paid him £30 
compensation for not calling him back when it said it would.  
Mr M then complained to us. He said that what he understood from his policy  documents 
was that all valuables  up to £1,500 were covered. He thought his policy documents were 
unclear and wanted Advantage to pay for the cost of the repairs  to his watch.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. He said Advantage should pay the 
cost of the claim subject  to the policy excess and £100 for the trouble and upset Mr M was 
caused. His reasons  included  the following:
He didnt think Mr M couldve  told Advantage  that the watch  was a specified  item when 
he took the policy out because he didnt buy it until later. 
He also said it wasnt clear from the policy that new valuables had to be declared. 
He didnt think the policy documents were clear.  He said a watch  was a valuable item 
which is different to a personal  possession  according to the policy  schedule.  The 
schedule provides separate limits for personal possessions and valuables whereas 
the policy says that valuables are included within  the definition  of personal 
possessions. 
In the schedule there is a limit of £10,000  for single  items under valuables. This would 
explain why Mr M didnt  think he had to declare his watch  because it was worth less than 
that.
Advantage didnt  agree  and asked  for an ombudsmans decision. It said though  the policy  is 
made up of different sections in this case only the personal possessions  cover applies. It 
said the contents  section doesnt  apply  because the watch  was damaged outside the 
home. It also said as Mr M has £0 limit under the unspecified personal possessions 
section, his watch isnt covered  for damage  outside the home.  
The complaint was then passed to me for a decision.  Before  I issued my decision I told 
Advantage that I thought  the term it was relying on to say Mr M had £0 limit under the 
unspecified personal  possessions section was significant and that it wasnt highlighted in 
the policy documents. So I didnt think it could rely on it. Advantage responded to say it didnt 
have any further  comments  to make. 
Ref: DRN09864562my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive decided to uphold  it. 
the policy
Mr M has a home insurance  policy  which includes cover for contents, buildings and personal  
possessions. 
According to the policy  contents include personal effects and valuables. Watches are 
included within the definition of valuables. 
The policy also provides  for additional  contents cover including  additional accidental  
damage which covers accidental loss or damage  to contents whilst in the home.
The personal possessions cover  is separate, as pointed out by Advantage, and covers  loss 
or damage  to valuables, money and personal effects whilst anywhere in the world.  It also 
refers to a limit of £10,000 for any one unspecified  article and says that Advantage will pay 
the unspecified  possessions  sum insured or £10,000- whichever  is lower.
the policy schedule
The policy schedule includes four headings: buildings cover,  contents  cover, valuable 
limits and personal possessions. Under  valuable limits  it says that the maximum amount 
Advantage will pay for any single item is £10,000. 
Under personal possessions it says the unspecified personal possessions sum insured is 
£0. It also says the single item limit for unspecified personal possessions  is £10,000. And it 
states that if the sum insured is less than the single item limit, the most Advantage will pay is 
the sum insured- which in this case is £0.
the claim
According to the policy  Mr Ms watch was a valuable item. This means it was covered 
under the contents section and also under the personal possessions section. As the 
contents section doesnt cover damage  outside the home  I dont think it applies here- so I 
agree with Advantage in relation to this point. So the personal possessions section applies 
as it provides cover for damage outside  the home.  
Advantage says that if Mr M wanted cover for his watch outside the home he should  have 
informed it that it was a specified item. Advantage pointed to page 28 of the policy which  
says that if the value  of personal  possessions  changes this should be declared.  But the 
policy doesnt define personal  possessions  and the schedule treats  valuables and 
personal possessions as separate items.  I think this makes this particular part of the policy 
unclear. And where we think  that terms are unclear we interpret them  in the consumers 
favour. For this reason  I dont think Mr M had to declare the watch as a specified item.
Advantage said as Mr M didnt say the watch was a specified item and as the limit under  
that section according  to the policy schedule is £0 it doesnt have to cover him. 
Ive taken the above into account but I dont think what  Advantage has told us is stated 
clearly enough  in the policy or in the schedule. As I said above the schedule  lists valuables 
as separate to personal possessions even though under the policy  valuables are 
considered to be personal possessions. And the schedule  doesnt explain that the 
Ref: DRN09864563valuables limits  as listed in the schedule only apply  to claims made under the contents  
cover and that for claims under the personal possessions cover, there  is no separate 
valuables limit. Also the schedule says the sum covered for unspecified personal 
possessions is £0 but immediately underneath  it says that the limits  under unspecified 
personal possessions for a single item is £10,000.
As I dont think it was clear that a different valuables  limit applies depending  on whether a 
claim is made under the contents or personal possessions cover,  I dont think Advantage 
can rely on the £0 limit for unspecified personal  possessions in this case. I think it should 
apply the £10,000 limit which is the single item limit under  valuables- according  to the 
policy schedule.
But even if I thought the policy was clear, I also dont think  Advantage can rely on the term 
which says it will only pay up to the sum insured for personal possessions (which in this 
case was £0) if its lower than the £10,000 limit. I think it is a significant term-as it limits the 
level of cover offered  under that section. And because I think  its significant I think  it 
shouldve been  sufficiently highlighted within the policy  documents. I cant see that it has 
been. It appears on page 57 of the 120 page policy document and its not in bold or in 
different font in order to be brought to Mr Ms attention.  And it also appears in small writing  in 
the schedule which as I said above has a separate limit for valuables in any event.
Finally, I dont think Advantage  has dealt with Mr Ms complaint very well. It agreed  that it 
didnt call him back when  it said it would. And I also think  it unreasonably rejected his claim.  I 
think this caused  Mr M distress and inconvenience and I think Advantage should  pay him 
£100 compensation for this.
my final decision
For these reasons Ive decided to uphold Mr Ms complaint against Advantage Insurance  
Company Limited.  It should:
Pay the claim (£1,140) subject to the policy excess. It should also pay interest on the 
amount it pays Mr M at the simple rate of 8% per year from the date he paid for the 
repairs to the date it pays him*.
Pay Mr M £100 for the distress and inconvenience it caused him within 28 days  of the 
date on which we tell it Mr M accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must 
also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at 8% a year simple*.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 November 2019.
Anastasia Serdari
ombudsman
* If Advantage  Insurance Company Limited  considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to 
withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr M how much its taken  off. It should  also give 
Mr M a tax deduction certificate  if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN0986456