K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Dial4ALoan Limited  mis-sold them  a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  The complaint is brought on their behalf  by a claims management 
company.
background
The background to this complaint is set out in my provisional decision dated 5 April 2019, a 
copy of which is attached. I concluded the complaint should be upheld  because the cost of 
the policy hadnt been made clear enough.  I didnt think Mr and Mrs R wouldve bought the 
policy if theyd had a clear understanding of the cost.
Dial4ALoan said it was having difficulty finding out how much  Mr and Mrs R paid for the PPI 
and what interest was charged. It didnt provide any further information or evidence in 
response to my provisional  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any fresh information or evidence, I find no reason  to depart 
from my earlier conclusions.
In my provisional decision,  I explained  that I had assumed the loan and the PPI had run to 
term and I asked both parties to provide  evidence  if this wasnt  the case. Neither  party was 
able to provide  any evidence,  so I find that its more  likely than not that the loan and the PPI 
ran to term and Mr and Mrs R should be compensated on this basis.
putting things right
Mr and Mrs R borrowed extra  to pay for the PPI, so their loan was bigger than it shouldve 
been and they paid more  than they shouldve  each month. So Mr and Mrs R need  to get 
back the extra theyve  paid. 
So Dial4ALoan should:
Work  out and pay Mr and Mrs R the difference between what they paid each month on 
the loan and what they wouldve paid each month without PPI.
Add simple  interest  to the extra amount Mr and Mrs R paid each month from when they 
paid it until they get it back. The rate of interest  is 8% a year .
If Mr and Mrs R made a successful  claim under the PPI policy, Dial4ALoan can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes  them.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Dial4ALoan to take off tax from this interest. Dial4ALoan 
must give Mr and Mrs R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
Ref: DRN02449392my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Dial4ALoan Limited should pay 
compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 June  2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN02449393copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Dial4ALoan Limited  mis-sold  them a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy.  The complaint  is brought on their behalf by a claims management  company.
background
This complaint is about  a single premium PPI policy taken  out in 2005.  The policy was taken out when  
Mr and Mrs R applied for a loan to consolidate their existing debt and to pay for a wedding.  The loan 
was secured on their home. Dial4ALoan  told us that the policy covered  Mr R for accident and 
sickness and Mrs R for unemployment.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should  be upheld,  concluding that the cost of the 
policy  in particular the interest on the premium and the total cost - hadnt been  made clear enough.
Dial4ALoan disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  saying, in summary, that it wouldve sent Mr and 
Mrs R a copy of its secured loan details and payments document  which set out the cost of the 
premium, the interest on it over the term of the loan, the total payable  for the PPI, and the monthly 
PPI payments. It says that, as part of its usual process, Mr and Mrs R wouldve  signed a copy of this 
document to confirm that the financial  details  above have been explained  to my satisfaction . 
Dial4ALoan showed us what it says Mr and Mrs R wouldve signed, although it doesnt have a signed  
copy in its records.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Rs complaint.
I think  Mr and Mrs Rs complaint should be upheld   Ill explain why.
Dial4ALoan had to give Mr and Mrs R information about the PPI that was clear, fair and not 
misleading. Im not persuaded  that it gave Mr and Mrs R clear enough  information about the cost of 
policy.
The loan agreement Mr and Mrs R signed set out the premium for the PPI, but not the interest it 
would attract over the term of the loan, the total payable for the PPI or the amount theyd pay for it 
each month.  Dial4ALoan says Mr and Mrs R wouldve received a document  setting  out the premium 
cost, the interest on the premium, the total cost, and the monthly cost of the PPI plus interest. But the 
PPI was sold during  a phone call and Ive not been given  a recording  of the call or any notes of what 
was said, or even a script  that wouldve been used for it. So, after careful  consideration, I havent 
seen enough evidence to show that this was clearly explained to them  during that call. And I dont 
know when, if at all, Mr and Mrs R saw the document that Dial4ALoan is referring to, as the copy  is 
unsigned and undated.
Bearing in mind  the cost of the policy, plus interest, was nearly half the amount of the principal loan, I 
dont think Mr and Mrs R wouldve taken the policy  if theyd  been given clearer  information about the 
cost. So I think Mr and Mrs R have lost out because of what  Dial4ALoan did wrong.  And that means  I 
dont need to deal with the other  issues theyve raised about the sale.
putting things  right
Mr and Mrs R borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so their loan was bigger than it shouldve been and 
they paid more  than they shouldve each month. So Mr and Mrs R need to get back the extra  theyve 
paid. 
Ref: DRN02449394So, Im minded to order Dial4ALoan  to:
Work out and pay Mr and Mrs R the difference between  what they paid each month on the loan 
and what they wouldve  paid each month without PPI.
Add simple  interest to the extra  amount Mr and Mrs R paid each month from when they paid it 
until they get it back. The rate of interest is 8% a year .
If Mr and Mrs R made a successful claim  under the PPI policy, Dial4ALoan can take off what they 
got for the claim from the amount  it owes them.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Dial4ALoan to take off tax from this interest. Dial4ALoan  must  
give Mr and Mrs R a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if they ask for one.
This assumes  that the loan and the PPI policy both ran to term. If the loan and policy are still running  
or if the loan was paid off early and the PPI was cancelled, the parties should  provide evidence to 
show this before I make  my final decision.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I am minded to uphold  this complaint and order 
Dial4ALoan Limited to pay compensation as detailed above.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0244939