K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains that Red Sands Insurance Company  (Europe) Limited turned down his 
request to pre-authorise treatment costs for his dog under his pet insurance policy with it. He 
also complains about Red Sands handling of the request. 
Mr R will notice that this decision is addressed just to him. I appreciate his wife Mrs R has 
also signed our complaint  form. But because the policy  is in Mr Rs sole name this means 
my decision  is also in his sole name.  This doesnt affect the outcome of the complaint.
My references to Red Sands include its agent,  which is the company Mr R has dealt with. 
background
I set out the background  to this complaint in my provisional decision, which forms part of this 
final decision. I said I was likely to uphold the complaint  and I include an extract from my 
provisional decision here:
In March 2018 Mr R took out a policy for his three-year  old dog L and also one for his new 
puppy. When he took out the policy Mr R told Red Sands that L had been treated for ear 
infections. Red Sands told him that any claims related to the ear werent covered and put an 
exclusion on Ls policy about  this.
In August  2018  Mr R contacted Red Sands. He explained L needed surgery  because  she 
was struggling to breath. In brief summary, Red Sands wouldnt  cover the surgery  costs 
because it said Mr Rs vet had noted breathing problems  in September  2017,  before he took 
out the policy and had told him she might need  surgery in the future. 
Mr R strongly  disagreed, as did his vet. His vet both called and emailed  Red Sands to ask it 
to reconsider the pre-authorisation request. Red Sands said that Ls condition was pre-
existing and wouldnt pay the claim.  Mr R came  to us. 
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She said Mr Rs vet had explained she had spoken 
only in general  terms about  Ls breed, and Mr R hadnt known about  a problem until July 
2018. So we said Red Sands should  accept the claim and add 8% interest to the claim 
payment. Red Sands  didnt agree and sent some  further information  from a vet it had 
consulted, as well as referring to Ls vets clinical notes. But this didnt change our 
investigators mind about the fair outcome.  Mr R told us that hed had to pay a higher level of 
interest on his credit  card for the treatment costs and said he should  receive  compensation 
for the upset Red Sands  had caused  him. The complaint  has come to me for review.  
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Im likely to uphold this complaint. I think the fair outcome is for Red Sands to accept and 
pay the claim with interest and to pay him some additional compensation. Ill explain my 
reasons. 
The important issue for me is Mr Rs knowledge of his dogs health  before he took out the 
policy. When he took out the policy Red Sands asked him whether hed ever taken L to the 
Ref: DRN02389972vet for anything other than routine vaccinations. Ive listened to the sales call and Mr R told 
Red Sands  about  Ls ear infections. Red Sands put an exclusion on the policy  for claims 
relating to Ls ears as a result. 
Theres no suggestion that Mr R took L to the vet for anything to do with a breathing issue  
before he took out the policy.  So I think he answered Red Sands question with reasonable 
care.
But Red Sands says that Mr Rs dog had a pre-existing condition of Brachycephalic 
Obstructive Airway  Syndrome or BOAS  because  his vet noted  and discussed breathing  
issues and narrow nares (nostrils)  with Mr R before he took out the policy.  Under the policy a 
condition is pre-existing if the dog has shown signs or symptoms  of an illness or injury  before  
the policy starts. Red Sands has also raised the point that Mr Rs vet noted the condition  as 
ongoing in July 2018. 
Ive considered the veterinary evidence very carefully, and I find that Mr R didnt know  that L 
had any breathing issues until July 2018  when he took her to the vet. In saying this Ive 
taken into account  the following:
In September  2017 Mr Rs vet noted  that Mr R had taken L to the vet for a routine 
vaccination appointment. The vet said that Mr R had no concerns. The vet noted the 
examination of L and an issue  with her ears. The vet also said: chest clear no murmur reg 
[regular] rhythm expiratory stertor due to elongated sp [soft palate] and narrow  nares. (I 
should say that expiratory  stertor  is typically a respiratory sound  or in other words a 
breathing sound,  which  might  be a number of things  including gasping,  snuffling or snoring). 
The vet added that they would treat the ears and re-examine in two weeks,  hopefully  start 
vaccination and discuss  spay /boas sx [surgery]. 
Despite a number  of visits for ear related issues, Ls spay  procedure and post-operative 
follow ups in the period  before March  2018 there is no entry in the vets notes about 
BOAS/breathing until July 2018.  
Mr R took his dog to his vet on 27 July as he was concerned L was struggling with breathing 
especially during  the recent hot weather. This had been an ongoing issue and at a stage 
where they needed to address it. The vet described Ls narrow nares  and poor conformation, 
with an inflamed red soft palate. The vet discussed whether L should have BOAS  surgery.  
Red Sands  asked Mr R about  the condition being ongoing. Mr R explained hed noticed it 
within the last week to ten days. He has stressed  throughout that hed never leave L for a 
year struggling with breathing. Mr Rs comments are supported by his telephone  
conversation with Red Sands when he first reported the claim. When  asked when hed 
noticed the breathing issues he said about a week and a half ago. Red Sands asked about 
any similar issues and he explained about  her ear problems.
Ive listened to all Mr Rs calls with Red Sands and hes been  clear and consistent about 
when he first noticed the breathing issues. 
Importantly Mr Rs vet also rang Red Sands in August 2018 as she was concerned  that Red 
Sands had misinterpreted her notes. She said L was a brachycephalic breed; in other words 
was short  nosed.  The vet said that in her notes from July 2017  shed  said that shed noticed 
this was a breed with a long soft palate  etc, so there  was no clinical sign relating to the 
Ref: DRN02389973breathing at that point. She clearly  said L had not got any signs  of a respiratory  problem at 
that point. 
The vet also confirmed in writing that, in September 2017, she had examined L during a flare 
up of her ear problem. At this time I noted L is a brachycephalic breed and so preemptively 
discussed brachycephalic airway  disease and possible surgical correction  as this is 
something we offer  At the time of the clinical exam L had not shown any symptoms of 
respiratory disease as noted in the clinical  notes  owner has no concerns. The first instance  
of difficulty breathing was noted by my colleague on the 27.7.18.
I think the vet who saw and treated L has given  a very clear and persuasive explanation that 
she noted the dogs breed and pre-emptively discussed  the condition  with Mr R. 
Red Sands  says that the vet had noted some breathing sounds but its clear to me that any 
incidental clinical finding wasnt mentioned to Mr R as a concern for L. Rather  the discussion 
was about the short  nosed breed  of dog and that surgery  could correct any future sign of 
BOAS. 
Mr Rs vet has subsequently  written a further letter confirming  again that (before  July 2018) 
L was not demonstrating clinical signs of respiratory distress  and so no veterinary 
intervention was suggested. She went on to say that during Ls spaying procedure  (January 
2018) the larynx is routinely  examined  during intubation and any abnormalities  recorded. 
She says their vet practice always assesses for BOAS during routine procedures and they 
recommend any follow  up treatment if it is indicated. She says No notes or concerns for Ls 
airways were flagged.  No discharge sheets recommending  surgery  were given at this time 
which would be protocol. It was only after L presented  with clinical signs,  we re-evaluated 
and my colleague suggested  surgery as an option.
So Mr Rs vet has been very clear that L wasnt showing  any clinical signs  of BOAS until July 
2018, and that this was the first time surgery was recommended. This being so I cant see 
how Mr R could have known about Ls condition any earlier. He has consistently said, and 
I entirely accept, that he would have taken L to the vet as soon as he had concerns about  
her breathing  as he did in July 2018.  
Ive read the comments made by the vet who Red Sands has consulted  about Ls BOAS.  
The vet reviewed Ls clinical  notes and said the symptoms could ease as the dog grows and 
get worse again  as the toll of negative pressure damages the airways  further. The vet said it 
could be argued  that the symptoms were consistent with BOAS and the conformational  
changes noted  early on are highly predictive  in this breed of dog for development of BOAS, 
and therefore  an increased risk compared to a puppy  without  these changes. She refers to 
a paper showing a strong correlation between stenotic nares (narrowed  nostrils)  in puppies 
and the onset of BOAS  in later life  and that the conformation  changes can predict  dogs at 
high risk. She says that all the notes at the start are consistent with a dog that would develop  
BOAS later.  
Mr R didnt own L from a puppy. He bought her from a breeder after shed  been  used for 
breeding. He told Red Sands about  this when he took out the policy.  I cant  see hed have 
known about any earlier clinical notes in her vet history. Ive already explained that Ls vet 
made an incidental  clinical note but has explained that she discussed  only issues  with the 
breed with Mr R  and she clearly  says that there werent any clinical signs  of BOAS  in 
September 2017.
Ref: DRN02389974I understand that Red Sands wants to assess the risk to it of insuring a dog. But its not fair 
for Red Sands to turn down Mr Rs claim based  on information he wasnt  aware of at the 
time he took out the policy. I think the weight of evidence is in his favour. 
So I think Red Sands  must pay Mr Rs claim, subject to the policys benefit limit. Red Sands 
can deduct any applicable excess but only from the total claim and not from the benefit limit. 
Red Sands  might need Mr R to complete  a claim form and to provide the relevant invoice 
from his vet and so hell need to provide that if requested. This is because his vet asked for 
pre-authorisation initially and I dont think a claim was actually submitted. 
As I find that Mr R did take reasonable care in answering Red Sands questions I agree with 
our investigator that it must remove the exclusion  for all claims with respect to the respiratory 
system from the policy. If Mr R has cancelled the policy then this will not be relevant.
I also think Red Sands handling  of this complaint has caused Mr R some material distress  
and inconvenience.  Hes had to pay privately for Ls surgery, at a time he says that he and 
Mrs R were stretched financially having  just moved  into their own home.  He explains that he 
had to put the vets bill on his credit card and then pay interest on it as well as pay the 
minimum payment each month.  He was already upset about  L needing potentially risky 
surgery. 
I think Red Sands handling of the request and rejection of the pre-authorisation request 
(including delay  in passing on his vets comments to be reassessed)  caused him additional 
distress and frustration at an already difficult time.  Hed given Red Sands some very clear  
supporting evidence from his vet. I think Red Sands should pay some compensation for its 
overall handling of the matter and I assess £150  to be fair and reasonable. 
If Mr R is able to provide copies of his credit card statements showing hes paid a higher rate 
of interest than 8% on the vets surgery fees then Red Sands should pay the actual amount 
of interest hes had to pay on the vets fees.  Otherwise Red Sands should pay simple 
interest of 8% as set out below.
responses
Mr R responded to accept  my provisional decision. He has sent us letter from his credit card 
company saying that he paid his vets by credit card on 7 September 2018 and confirming 
the interest rate on that card. Weve  sent a copy of that letter  to Red Sands. Mr R has 
explained that hes since repaid the credit  card balance with money he received as an 
inheritance. Hes accepted that he will receive 8% simple interest on the amount he paid to 
the vet, though he felt Red Sands shouldnt benefit from his inheritance.   
Red Sands  responded to reject my provisional  decision. It said, in brief summary that the 
dogs condition was pre-existing  because of the entry in the vets notes about the dogs 
nares and breathing sounds and that it believed Mr S was aware  of this before the policy  
started. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN02389975Red Sands  has quoted  the vets notes  from September 2017, in which  the vet noted  the dog 
Ls noisy breathing (expiratory stertor)  due to her elongated soft palate  and narrow nares. It 
notes the vets subsequent comments that she discussed only typical characteristics of the 
breed with Mr R, but says this isnt what the vets notes say. Red Sands thinks Mr R was 
aware. Also, September 2017 is, in its view,  the onset of the condition   not least  as the 
31 July 2018 appointment says that the condition is due to narrow  nares and soft palette as 
well, and is an ongoing condition. So this implies  it had been ongoing since  the previous 
appointment. 
While Mr R didnt  own the dog from a puppy,  he was her owner  at the time of the September 
2017 appointment when  the above issues were noted. So it doesnt accept the comment by 
the vet in September 2017 was general to the breed. 
Ive carefully considered  all these  points but I still uphold this complaint for the reasons given 
in my provisional decision and here. 
I did quote the September 2017 and July 2018  vets notes in my provisional decision.  But 
I also explained why I wasnt persuaded that the vet had discussed any concerns about L 
with Mr R at the time. And Mr Rs knowledge  of his dogs condition is important. I remain  of 
the view that he took reasonable care when answering Red Sands question about  whether 
hed taken L to the vet for anything other  than routine vaccinations and when he told it about 
her ear problems. 
I think the weight  of evidence supports Mr Rs position that he didnt know  about any 
breathing issues  until July 2018.  Ive already set out the evidence in my provisional decision,  
but in summary:
There is no other entry about  Ls breathing until July 2018  despite visits for Ls ears, 
spay procedure and post-operative follow ups. 
The vet has said shes concerned Red Sands misinterpreted her notes, that shed 
noted in September 2017 only that L was a brachycephalic  (short nosed) breed and 
there was no clinical  sign relating  to breathing at this point. Mr R had no concerns, 
and the first incident of difficulty breathing was July 2018. Ive said that this is 
consistent with Mr Rs evidence about when he first had concerns. 
Also, the vet says her practice routinely assess for BOAS  during the spay  procedure 
(January 2018  for L) and no notes about Ls airways were flagged. 
In July 2018 L had an inflamed soft palate  as well as narrow nares. 
I remain of the view this matter has caused  Mr R distress and inconvenience for which  Red 
Sands should  pay £150  compensation. Hes explained he repaid the credit  card using an 
inheritance, and Im sorry to hear of his loss. I appreciate he doesnt want  Red Sands to 
benefit from that but I dont think it is. The purpose of my awards is to deal with actual loss, 
and if hed paid higher  credit card interest then thats  the rate Red Sands should have paid. 
The lower  8% interest reflects the fact that hes not had the use of his inheritance money 
when he should  have done. I think its fair to award  8% interest from 8 September 2017  
when he paid the vets bill until the date Red Sands  settles the claim. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I uphold this complaint. I require Red Sands Insurance 
Company (Europe) Limited  to: 
Ref: DRN02389976Accept and pay Mr Rs claim for the BOAS surgery costs, subject to the policy benefit 
limit and any applicable excess. The excess should be deducted  from the overall 
claim amount and not from the benefit  limit. Red Sands must add interest* to the 
claim payment at the simple rate of 8% per year from 7 September 2018 to the date 
of settlement; and
Pay Mr R compensation of £150 for distress and inconvenience; and
Remove the policy exclusion for all claims relating  to the respiratory  system, 
backdated to the policys  inception date.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 December  2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
*If Red Sands considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to take off income tax 
from the 8% simple interest, it should  tell Mr R how much its taken off. It should  also give 
Mr R a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN0238997