K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains about the amount that hes been charged by Black Horse Limited, trading as 
Jaguar Financial Services, for use of a car that was supplied  to him under a hire purchase 
agreement but which was returned  because  it wasnt of satisfactory  quality.
background
A used  car was supplied to Mr G under a hire purchase agreement with Jaguar Financial 
Services that was electronically signed in January 2017. There  were  a number of issues with 
the car and Jaguar Financial Services said in May 2018 that it would collect  the car, close  
the agreement, refund  Mr Gs deposit  of £3,500  and pay him £300 for the trouble and upset 
that hed been caused. 
It also said that it was entitled  to apply a fair usage  charge of 45p for each mile of use that 
Mr G had had from the car. It said that hed used it to drive 15,017 miles so the fair usage 
charge was £4,977.45  but as that was greater than the payments that hed made under the 
agreement of £4,326.75 he wouldnt be expected to make any additional payment - but it 
would be retaining  the payments that hed made.
Mr G complained to this service about  the fair usage  charge. He says that its excessive and 
not fair or reasonable. He also says that theres no mention  of that charge  in the agreement 
and that in other circumstances  Black Horse charges one monthly payment for each 1,000 
miles of use. 
The adjudicator didnt recommend that this complaint should  be upheld.  She said that 
Jaguar Financial Services wasnt charging Mr G a fair usage  charge  so she couldnt ask it 
to change it. She thought that the offer it made  in its final response letter  was in line with 
what this service would recommend, so she said that she wasnt going  to ask it to do 
anything differently.
Mr G has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says that:
to suggest that Jaguar Financial Services isnt applying  the usage  charge is 
confusing  its retaining his payments as a result of the usage charge and its final 
response says that his payments are being  retained as a result  of the mileage 
charge;
all reference to the charge is in relation to Black Horses complaints policy  but 
Jaguar Financial Services says that its not charging him the fair usage charge but 
keeping his repayments instead   which isnt in its complaints policy;
his wife was told in May 2018  that the charge should be one monthly  payment for 
every 1,000 miles driven and that Jaguar Financial Services should  be able to locate 
the call in which it said that; and
he doesnt believe that its fair for Black  Horse to charge customers different mileage  
charges. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  We offer an informal dispute  resolution 
service. We try to resolve complaints by customers about financial businesses  by looking at 
what we consider to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. We have no regulatory  or 
Ref: DRN03932102disciplinary role over those businesses so Im unable to require any of them  to change  the 
way that it conducts  its business. 
There were clearly significant issues with the car that was supplied  to Mr G under the hire 
purchase agreement.  And Jaguar Financial Services said that it would collect  the car and 
close the agreement, refund Mr Gs deposit of £3,500 and pay him £300  for the trouble and 
upset that hed been caused.
The cars mileage was recorded  on the agreement as being  3,956 miles when the car was 
supplied to Mr G. And Jaguar Financial Services says that hed used  it to drive a further 
15,017 miles between January 2017  and May 2018.  It said that it was entitled  to apply a fair 
usage charge  of 45p for each mile which would give a usage charge of £4,977.45. Mr G had 
made monthly payments under the agreement  during that period totalling £4,326.75 and it 
said that he wouldnt be expected to make  any additional payments but it would be retaining 
all of the payments  that hed made. 
Theres no reference to the fair usage charge in the hire purchase  agreement.  But I consider 
it to be clear that Jaguar Financial Services was saying that it was entitled to apply a fair 
usage charge  of 45p for each mile but that it would instead be retaining the monthly  
payments that hed made under the agreement (which was less than the fair usage charge 
wouldve been).  So on that basis Mr G wasnt being charged 45p for each mile that hed 
used the car.
I consider it to be fair and reasonable in circumstances such  as these for the customer  to 
pay for the use that theyve had from the car. And Mr G has said that he agrees with that. 
Jaguar Financial Services has said that it would collect the car, end the agreement, refund 
his deposit and pay him £300 for his trouble and upset. I consider that to be fair and 
reasonable in these  circumstances. Mr G has used the car to drive  about 15,000 miles over 
a period of about 16 months.  And I consider that it would be fair and reasonable in these  
circumstances for it to keep the monthly payments that hes made under the agreement as 
payment for that usage.
Mr G says that his wife was told that hed only be charged one monthly payment for every 
1,000 miles driven. But hes not been able to provide any further evidence to show that he 
was told that. And Jaguar Financial Services  hasnt  been able to provide a recording of the 
call to show what was said. 
But I consider that Jaguar Financial Services offer - as set out in its final response letter  - 
was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. And Im not persuaded that it has acted 
unfairly or unreasonably. So I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require it to 
change the offer that it made to Mr G  or to take any other action in response to his 
complaint.
Mr G has continued to use the car and to make the monthly payments under the agreement.  
He says that the cars mileage earlier this month  was 25,947 miles. Jaguar Financial 
Services says that if it accepts the return of the car at that mileage it would keep the monthly 
payments of £8,941.95 that Mr G has made and it says that it would collect  the car, refund  
the deposit of £3,500 and pay him £300 for his trouble  and upset. If Mr G now wants  to 
accept that offer I suggest that he contacts Jaguar Financial Services.
Ref: DRN03932103my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 November  2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0393210