K821x#15complaint
Miss T is unhappy with the way Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) has administered her current 
account after it was closed.
background
Miss Ts current  account with BoS was closed in January 2018. At that time she had a debit 
balance, and as such BoS applied a default to her credit file. Miss T raised a complaint about 
this with our service. As part of the resolution  of this previous complaint, BoS agreed to 
remove the balance.  
However the default was not removed,  so Miss T raised a separate  complaint about  this 
issue.
BoS looked into matters, and initially did not think it needed to remove  the default  notice. 
However, after further investigation in June 2018  it agreed the default  shouldnt have been 
applied to Miss Ts account.  BoS issued a final response letter in June 2018, explaining that 
it had applied to remove the default and offered Miss T £250 as a recognition  for any 
distress and inconvenience caused. Miss T was unhappy with this amount and so referred  
the complaint  to our service. She highlighted that the distress caused  by the default notice 
not being removed affected her health.  Miss T explained she suffers from a mental  health  
condition. She also thought  BoS should  refund her telephone costs associated  with rectifying 
this issue. 
Our investigator considered the complaint  and didnt think  BoS needed to increase its £250 
offer. However, they felt BoS should  refund Miss Ts telephone costs  as these were incurred 
whilst Miss T was trying to have  the default  removed.  The investigator recommended  BoS 
refund a total of £92.40.
Neither party agreed with the investigator. Miss T maintained that further payment should be 
award to recognise  the distress caused   she explained the distress had caused  her to stop 
taking her medication. BoS argued  that Miss T had not substantiated  her costs and it had 
previously offered to cover Miss Ts costs as a goodwill  gesture. It felt it had therefore 
offered enough  to Miss T. The matter  has been  passed to me to issue  a final decision on.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
All parties  agree that BoS caused  Miss T distress  and inconvenience by not applying to 
remove the default sooner. Miss Ts heath  conditions are such that Ive no doubt  this delay 
wouldve been upsetting to her. However,  I have to consider if the current offer of £250 is 
sufficient to recognise this distress. And having  considered all the information I am.
I say this because  whilst  I dont doubt  Miss T was affected by this event, she only became 
aware of the default not being removed in April 2018. Once  she complained to BoS the error  
was rectified with a reasonable timeframe. 
I agree  that Miss T shouldnt have  needed  to chase but this why compensation has been 
offered. With that in mind, and considering the time frames involved,  Im satisfied that £250 
Ref: DRN04595892is a sufficient amount  to recognise the error  and any distress  caused.  I understand Miss T 
says she stopped taking her medication, and I sympathise with her, but I cant  say that BoS 
actions was a direct cause for this, or that it should  compensate her further as a result. 
In terms of her phone costs; BoS say Miss T hasnt shown her loss. Miss T says she doesnt  
have copies of her phone bill, and shed incur  further costs to receive  these. Our investigator  
awarded the costs  based on the standard tariff rate form Miss Ts provider over the total 
amount of time Miss T had to call.
Having looked  at all of the information, in this instance, Im satisfied BoS should  also refund 
the costs. I appreciate Miss T hasnt  provided  her phone bill, but BoS has admitted that it 
has provided costs before  without this evidence. I think  considering Miss Ts circumstances,  
and the fact she was calling  to remove the default,  Im satisfied this is a cost which she 
normally wouldnt have incurred. Ive also reviewed  Miss Ts network  tariff,  and the 
recommended amount  of £92.40 seems reasonable based on the information  BoS has 
provided via its call notes  over the length of calls.  I also note it is in line with the amounts 
BoS have previously awarded.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Bank of Scotland plc to pay Miss T:
-£250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused (unless this amount 
has already been paid) and
-£92.40 for Miss Ts costs.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2019.
Tom Whittington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0459589