K820x#14complaint
Mr I has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC has refused to remove notes from its 
systems about a loan he had with Barclays that he didnt repay in full.
background
Mr I took out a loan with Barclays in 2005. He got into financial  difficulty in 2006  and the loan 
wasnt repaid in full. In 2018 he applied to Barclays for a new loan. His application was 
declined and Barclays told him this was because  there was an outstanding balance  on the 
loan he took out in 2005.
Mr I complained to Barclays. He said he entered into an individual  voluntary  agreement  
(IVA) and, as hed made the payments  he agreed to make  under the IVA there shouldnt be 
an outstanding  balance recorded  on Barclays systems.
Barclays didnt uphold  Mr Is complaint. It said there was an outstanding balance on the loan 
but it was no longer  reported to credit  reference agencies and wasnt  being actively  pursued.  
It said it wasnt possible to for the account  to be closed on its systems.
Mr I wasnt happy with Barclays  response  and referred his complaint  to this service.
our initial conclusions
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. They thought Barclays  
was entitled to keep information on their systems of accounts that still have  an outstanding 
balance.
Mr I didnt accept our investigators recommendation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr I has disputed some of the information Barclays  has provided about  payments he made 
to his loan. However,  he hasnt said he repaid the loan in full. So, even if Barclays  has 
provided incorrect information, there would still be an outstanding balance.
I havent seen  any evidence to show Mr I entered into an IVA. Hes provided a document  
which shows a debt management company acting on behalf of Barclays accepted  an offer of 
payment he made in 2006. But this isnt the same as an IVA and Im satisfied that Mr I didnt 
enter into an IVA that included the loan from Barclays.
The amount  Mr I agreed to pay to the debt management company was less than 1% of the 
outstanding balance on the loan.  In the circumstances Im satisfied  its reasonable for 
Barclays to retain a note on its systems to the effect  that the loan still has an outstanding 
balance and to take this into account  when assessing any future loan applications made  by 
Mr I.
Ref: DRN05551892my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is I dont uphold  this complaint. I make no 
award against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 January 2020. 
Charles Bacon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0555189