K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that CashEuroNet UK LLC (trading as Quick Quid) gave him loans  he 
couldnt afford to repay. He asks for compensation and for any balance  to be written off.
background
Mr B took out 29 loans  with Quick Quid between December 2012  and March  2017. Mr B 
says he had to keep borrowing to repay his debts and meet normal outgoings and the loans 
affected his credit rating and family relationships.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld. She said it wasnt wrong 
for Quick Quid to offer loans 1 to 4 to Mr B. But by loan 5 Mr Bs pattern of borrowing 
suggested he was reliant on short term loans and further borrowing wasnt sustainable.
Quick Quid didnt agree, saying  the number of loans didnt in itself show  Mr B was 
dependant on them. It said the amounts Mr B borrowed varied  and there were gaps between  
loans which  show he didnt need  to borrow to cover  the cost of the previous loan. It said its 
checks didnt suggest Mr B wouldnt be able to afford the repayments and he didnt show 
signs of financial difficulty. Quick Quid said Mr Bs bank statements should be reviewed  to 
demonstrate that the loan repayments  were  unsustainable.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Mr B took out 29 loans  with Quick Quid, some of which  were  topped  up. Before offering 
these loans to Mr B, Quick Quid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt  lend 
irresponsibly. In practice this means that it should have carried  out proportionate  checks to 
make sure Mr B could  repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks  could take 
into account a number of different things, such as how much was being  lent, the repayment 
amounts and Mr Bs income and expenditure. 
Loans 1 to 4 (December 2012  to July 2013):
When he applied for loans 1 to 4, Mr B told Quick Quid his monthly income was £1,450. The 
loans were for £100 to £200.  In the early  stages of a lending  relationship,  less thorough  
checks might be reasonable  and proportionate.  Given the amounts of the loans and Mr Bs 
stated income, I think Quick Quids checks were proportionate. I dont think it had any reason 
to think the loan repayments werent  affordable.
Loans 5 to 29 (July 2013 to March  2017):
I think that Quick Quid should  have considered whether further lending was sustainable 
when Mr B asked for loan 5. 
When he asked for loan 5, in July 2013,  Mr B had been borrowing for seven  months without 
a significant break. He repaid loan 4 on 25 July and took out loan 5 on the same  day. The 
amount he borrowed  increased to £300.  There was a similar pattern when  Mr B took out 
Ref: DRN07220282loan 6: he took out loan 6 the day after repaying  loan 5 and the amount he borrowed 
increased to £800.  
By loan 29 Mr B had been borrowing from Quick Quid  for more than four years. I dont think  
any of the gaps between Mr Bs loans were enough  for Quick Quid to reasonably believe any 
problems hed had with his finances  had been resolved. 
The amounts Mr B borrowed varied. But I dont think this means the loans were sustainable 
 especially  taking account of the number of loans and the time over which  Mr B borrowed.  I 
cant see that there was a consistent  reduction  in the amount of the loans that would  suggest  
Mr B was making inroads into his indebtedness.
I think Quick Quid ought to have realised Mr B was having to borrow  further to cover  the gap 
in his finances left by repaying his previous loan. As a result,  his indebtedness was 
unsustainable. 
I think that Mr B lost out because Quick Quid continued to provide borrowing from loan 5 
onwards. These loans  had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Bs indebtedness by allowing 
him to take expensive  credit intended for short-term use over an extended  period  of time. I 
also think his use of these  loans was likely to have had negative implications on his ability  to 
access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
So Im upholding  Mr Bs complaint about  loan 5 and the later loans. Quick Quid should:
refund  all interest and charges Mr B paid on loan 5 and the later loans;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove all entries about  loan 5 and the later loans from Mr Bs credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Quick Quid to take off tax from this interest. It must give 
Mr B a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My decision  is that Im upholding part of this complaint. I order CashEuroNet  UK LLC to take 
the steps and pay the compensation set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 July 2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0722028