K821x#15complaint
Miss A complains  the car supplied to her under a hire purchase agreement with Volkswagen  
Financial Services (UK) Limited wasnt of satisfactory  quality.
background
Miss A bought  a brand new car in June 2017.She says the day after she picked it up she 
noticed a problem with the radio  and that there was no aerial.  She also raised her concern 
that there  was high pitched noise from the brakes.  
In August  she went back again to complain that the brakes were still making that noise. She 
was told to monitor this but it continued  so the following month it went into the garage to 
have the brakes  inspected. The invoice reported  no faults but Miss A says the noise was still 
there so in September she called again.  A second inspection was booked for December but 
again the garage didnt  find any specific fault.  It suggested modern brakes were noisier due 
to a change in their design in the past year.
Another appointment was booked in February 2018  for the same  problem.  Following a visual  
check the garage reported  some squeaking but said this was normal  and no repairs were  
needed. But in July 2018 there was another inspection which found stone damage to the 
disc and pads.  It offered  to rub them down 
A few months later Miss A went to another garage because  of the noise. This noted THERE 
WAS A LOT OF DIRT  AND BRAKE DUST MIXED WITH GREESE  AROUND CALIPER 
CARRIERS. THERE WAS NO LUBE ON THE BACK OF THE PADS THEY ALSO LOOKED 
LIKE THEY  HAVE NEVER BEEN REMOVED  FROM THE CALIPERS.
Miss A says the cars been faulty  from the start and despite repeated inspections, the 
dealership hasnt been able to sort it out. She says shes  found it all very stressful especially 
as its been going on so long.
VWFS said thered been nothing to show the problem  was caused by a manufacturing 
defect. As such, it couldnt agree the car hadnt  been of satisfactory quality. It said the 
garage had offered to replace the pads and discs as a goodwill gesture but Miss A had 
cancelled the appointment. 
Our investigator said this car had been  brand new and for that reason Miss A was entitled  to 
expect itd be fault free for some time. But in this case  Miss A had complained of a noise 
from the brakes since she first took possession of it in July 2017. And the noise was still 
there despite the car going back into the garage several times.
Shed taken into account brake pads and discs can wear out through  general use but she 
didnt think this was the issue here. She said Miss A had complained of the same problem 
from the start. The garage had found stone  damage in July 2018 but this was twelve months 
after Miss A first reported the issue so she felt the problem must have been there before 
that. Taking  all this into account  she thought  there was a problem with the brakes. And it was 
probable this had happened before Miss A acquired  the car.
Ref: DRN01668722She said the garage had had a number  of chances to put matters right but the problems had 
continued. In addition the report from the independent garage had found  a number of 
problems suggesting  the repairs that had been done hadnt been  carried out properly. In the 
circumstances she didnt  feel the car had been of satisfactory quality. She recommended  
VWFS:
end the agreement with nothing further  to pay;
collect the car at no further cost to Miss A;
refund  the deposit of £1949 and pay 8% simple interest from the date of payment 
until the date of settlement;
refund  10% of the payments made with interest  on that from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement
pay £500 for any trouble and upset that's  been  caused.
my provisional findings
After considering all the evidence  I issued  a provisional decision on to Miss A and VWFS  on 
7 February 2019.  I said, in summary:
I said in summary:
VWFS supplied the car to Miss A on hire purchase.  As this was a regulated  financial  
agreement, VWFS  has a responsibility to ensure the car supplied  was of satisfactory 
quality. That is what a reasonable person would consider to be satisfactory  taking 
into account all the circumstances,  which in the case of a car include its age, its 
price and its mileage.  If I find it wasnt of satisfactory  quality  then I can ask VWFS  to 
take steps to put matters  right, but there are limits  to that responsibility which is that 
the faults must have been present or developing at the point of sale.
Miss A and VWFS disagreed as to what the problem was and whether it was there 
from the point of sale, so Id gone  on to consider what was more likely than not to 
have happened. 
Miss A had been concerned about the noise from the brakes since  she took delivery 
of this car. And although a garage had found stone damage to the brakes some twelve 
months after purchase, this wouldnt have explained the issues before then. Shed 
been very consistent in her reports of what the issue was so on balance  I thought it 
more likely the same problem had been  there  throughout.  Id also taken into account 
that the brakes  were replaced  in December last year following which Miss A 
reported the noise had gone.
For these reasons I thought it more probable than not that the problem was there 
when Miss A acquired the car and, on that basis, that the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality at the point of sale.
To that extent I agreed with the Adjudicator but came  to a different view as to the 
remedy. I took into account Miss As comments where she said very strongly that 
shed like to keep  the car or an equivalent.  When the car remained faulty that 
wouldnt have been a reasonable option but now it appeared to be working, I felt it 
was reasonable  to allow  her to do so and to compensate her instead for her 
inconvenience shed  had since June 2017.
Ref: DRN01668723In response Miss A provided more  information  to suggest that she was still not happy  
with the car and that it had, and was continuing to have a significant  effect  on her 
health. Its also clear that the relationship between her and the dealership  had broken 
down completely not least because of the time it had taken to identify and resolve the 
problem. Taking all this into account I came  to the view that it would be fairer and 
more reasonable  to allow  Miss A to reject the car and cancel the agreement.
I proposed that VWFS should  
end the agreement with nothing further  to pay;
collect the car at no further cost to Miss A;
refund  the deposit of £1,949 and pay 8% simple  interest from the date 
of payment until the date of settlement;
refund  10% of the payments made  with interest  on that from the 
date of payment to the date of settlement;
pay £600 for any trouble and upset thats  been  caused.
VWFS didnt  agree with the recommendation and asked for an independent inspection of the 
car.
Miss A responded to say:
The car fault had been reported within 7 days of acquiring the car but the dealership 
hadnt taken it seriously. The car had been  back  to the dealership five times  without  
the problem being  resolved. It was only resolved when shed gone elsewhere.
she felt the earlier  responses by the dealership were inadequate  and the repairs it 
had carried out hadnt worked.
shed done  less than 2,000  personal miles in the car during the time shed had it. A 
significant amount  of mileage was in connection with this fault so she didnt think  she 
should be penalised for this.
she felt it wasnt  fair that she was paying  for the depreciation  of the car since shed 
had it. VWFS could have resolved the problem  early  on but hadnt done so. Keeping  
the car and making the payments  had had an enormous financial impact on her. She 
felt she was entitled to a full refund of all the payments shed made although  she was 
willing to pay for the mileage.
the problems  shed had with this car and the way it had been  dealt with had had a 
significant impact on her health  and was continuing to do so. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN01668724Ive seen after my provisional decision in March,  VWFS asked for an independent report.  But 
by then, the brakes had already been replaced and the noise had ceased so I dont consider 
this would have  added  been of any benefit. The key information in this case  is what the 
problem was and when it began, and in particular whether it was present at the point of 
supply. Having reviewed  the history  of the fault and the timeline of when the problems 
began, Ive seen nothing  to change my view that this car had a fault at the point of sale and 
that, on that basis, it was of unsatisfactory quality. 
Its clearly had a significant impact  on Miss A over the past 20 months and in view of this and 
the breakdown  of the relationship between her and the dealership, I consider its fair and 
reasonable to allow  her to now cancel this agreement and for her to return the car. It should 
also refund  her deposit together  with interest  on it at 8% simple from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement.
Ive seen Miss A feels its only fair she gets all her payments refunded. She says shes  had 
little personal use from the car and its been a source of stress to her. This has affected  her 
health and her employment with the result  its now impacting on her financially.
Its clear this has been a difficult  time for Miss A. She believed  the car to be faulty  and that 
her concerns  werent being  listened  to. I can see that this has had an effect on her use and 
enjoyment of the car and unfortunately its taken  some  time for the issue  to be identified and 
repaired.
Ive taken this into account but I also have to look at the information  about the use of the car 
during this time. Its clear that despite the problem with the brakes,  Miss As had reasonable 
use of the car. Shes done the expected number of miles as set out in the hire purchase 
agreement. And while I note what Miss A says about her personal mileage,  its clear the car 
was able to be driven  so I cant  reasonably  say it couldnt be used.
 For that reason  I dont  think it would be fair to ask VW to refund these payments in full. 
Instead I consider  it should refund 10% of them  to reflect the inconvenience and upset shes 
had as a result of the problems. For the same reasons VWFS should also pay Miss A £600 
compensation.
Ref: DRN01668725my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Volkswagen Financial Services UK 
Limited to:
end the agreement with nothing further  to pay by Miss A; The agreement  should be 
marked as settled  on Miss As credit  file;
arrange to collect the car at no further  cost to Miss A
refund  the deposit of £1,949 and pay 8% simple  interest from the date of payment 
until the date of settlement;
refund  10% of the payments made by Miss A under the agreement together with 
interest on these from the date of payment to the date of settlement
pay Miss A £600 for the trouble  and upset shed been caused by whats  happened.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 June  2019.
Cerys Jones  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0166872