K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains that Ferratum UK Ltd gave him loans that he couldnt afford to repay. He 
asks that it refunds interest and charges  and removes information  about the loans from his 
credit file.
background
Mr A took out four loans  with Ferratum between August 2017 and October 2017. He says 
the loans made his financial situation worse.
The adjudicator recommended that the complaint  should be upheld.  He said it wasnt  wrong 
for Ferratum to offer loans  1 and 2. But proportionate checks  before loans 3 and 4 would 
have shown that Mr As expenditure  exceeded his income and he also had outstanding short 
term loans to repay. The adjudicator said that Ferratum should refund interest and charges 
on loans 3 and 4, with interest at 8%, and remove adverse information  about loans 3 and 4 
from Mr As credit  file.
Ferratum didnt agree. It offered to refund  interest  and charges on loan 4, with 8% interest. It 
didnt agree to remove negative  information  about the loans  from Mr As credit  file, saying it 
would be irresponsible  to do so. It said it was required to provide accurate  information to the 
credit reference agencies. It said the loans would remain on Mr As credit file shown  as paid 
in full  so theres no adverse information.
Mr A didnt accept Ferratums offer so the complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive considered all the available  evidence  
and arguments  to decide whats  fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending  including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  on our website. 
Mr A took out the following loans with Ferratum:
Loan No. Date of loan Amount of loan Repayment due Date repaid
Loan 1 31.08.2017 £150 £163 31.08.2017
Loan 2 05.09.2017 £300 £357 29.09.2017
Loan 3 01.10.2017 £300 £372 31.10.2017
Loan 4 31.10.2017 £300 unclear 03.09.2018
Ferratum needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr A 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
Mr As income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
Ref: DRN01345862loans 1 and 2 (August and September  2017)
When he took out loans 1 and 2 Mr A told Ferratum  that his monthly income  was £1,450.  
Ferratum says it did credit checks.  While I think Ferratum might  have done more thorough 
checks before agreeing  loan 2, I dont think, given the amount of the loans and Mr As stated 
income, proportionate  checks  would have  given it any reason to think  the loans werent 
affordable or that further checks were  needed.
loans 3 and 4 (October 2017) 
Loan 3 was Mr As third loan in about  six weeks and hed only just repaid loan 2 when he 
asked for it The loan was for double the amount  of loan 1. 
Ferratum said its credit checks  didnt suggest Mr A would  have  any problems. But Mr A 
provided his credit report and bank  statements  and these show  that he had other  short term 
loans outstanding when he took out loan 3. So I asked  Ferratum for the results of the credit  
checks it carried out. 
Ferratums credit check showed he had nine active accounts. Hed opened 11 accounts  in 
the last six months.  He had indebtedness  of about £5,000, of which  more  than half was 
loans. I think Ferratum  should have been aware he might be borrowing from  and still owe 
debts to  other short term lenders.
Borrowing from other short term lenders doesnt,  in itself, mean Ferratum couldnt  lend.  But I 
think the information Ferratum received from its credit check and Mr As emerging  pattern of 
borrowing could suggest a problem  such as reliance  on short term loans or financial 
difficulties. I think Ferratum should have been aware of the risk that this borrowing wasnt 
sustainable. As I havent seen evidence that Ferratum  carried out proportionate checks to 
ensure Mr A could repay loan 3 in a sustainable  manner, I dont think  it should have offered 
the loan to him.
For completeness, Id note here that had Ferratum carried out proportionate checks it would 
have known that Mr As monthly expenditure exceeded his income. And, in addition, he had 
short term loans outstanding. 
Ferratum has offered to refund interest and charges related to loan 4, which  I think  is the 
right thing to do.
I appreciate that Ferratum  has to provide accurate and up to date information  to the credit 
reference agencies.  But I think  it should have known this borrowing wasnt affordable  and 
sustainable: it shouldnt  have offered these loans to Mr A. So I think its fair that any negative 
information related  to loans 3 and 4 is removed from Mr As credit files.
So Im upholding  Mr As complaint about  loans 3 and 4. Ferratum should:
refund  all interest and charges Mr A paid on loans 3 and 4;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information  about  loans 3 and 4 from Mr As credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Ferratum to take off tax from this interest.  It must give 
Mr A a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN01345863my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order Ferratum UK Ltd to take the steps and pay 
the compensation set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 October  2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0134586