K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains that she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  with a 
hire-purchase agreement in 2001.  Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) didnt sell the PPI 
directly, but has taken responsibility  for this sale.  
To keep  things simple,  Ill refer to Aviva as the seller in my decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs S case.  
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
I think Aviva  made it clear  that Mrs S didnt have  to take out the PPI and she chose to take it 
out  although I can understand why she cant  remember this now as the sale was a long 
time ago.
I can see that Mrs S says she was told the PPI had to be included.  But Ive seen a copy of 
Mrs S Hire Purchase Agreement which includes a separate section clearly headed 
PROTECTED PAYMENTS PLAN. This section  sets out the separate monthly cost of the 
PPI and Mrs S has signed, giving  her consent  to take out the policy. This was in addition  to 
signing the overall hire purchase agreement. I think the two different sections, as well as the 
need for two signatures, most likely wouldve helped Mrs S understand that the cover  was 
separate from the credit agreement. It also seems there were different levels of cover 
available, and that the PLATINUM cover  has been selected. I think  its likely the availability 
of different  cover options wouldve suggested to Mrs S that there  was some choice. So, if 
she was under the impression that cover  was compulsory, this mightve have caused her to 
question that impression.
Mrs S says the PPI was recommended. Aviva says it wouldnt have been. But I dont need to 
make a finding here as even if Aviva had recommended  the policy it seems to have been 
right for her based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time.
While Mrs S has told us she had some sick pay, the PPI would have paid out on top 
anything she received from her employer  and for potentially longer than she would have 
received her full rate of pay. Mrs S also says she had some savings, but I have to consider 
that she was taking out finance to purchase a car  so it seems  to me that she wanted  to 
keep these savings  intact. And having  the PPI would have further protected  these. In any 
event, these savings  couldve  been used for other essential livings expenses at what  
couldve been a difficult time financially. So overall,  I still think  PPI would  have been  useful  
for her if something went wrong. 
Its possible the information Aviva gave Mrs S about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But I think she chose to take it out (knowing what her employee benefits  and savings 
were) - so it looks  like she still wanted this type of cover. And as above, it seems like it would  
have been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I 
dont think better information  about  the PPI would have  put her off taking out the cover. 
Ref: DRN04478042my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.
Hannah Eykel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0447804