K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H have complained about the way Barclays Bank  Plc sold them  a payment 
protection insurance policy.
background
Mr and Mrs H bought  the PPI to protect their mortgage. Mr and Mrs H think the policy  was 
mis-sold.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint. The adjudicator  didnt think Barclays  needed to 
refund what Mr and Mrs H paid for the policy. But Barclays has paid them  some of the 
commission it got when  it sold them the PPI  it worked this out to be £1.24.
Mr and Mrs H think they should  get back everything they paid for the PPI. Theyre  also 
unhappy with Barclayss offer.
Our adjudicator looked at the offer and thought Barclays  had worked  out what it needed  to 
pay correctly. As Mr and Mrs H didnt agree, the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Hs case.
Ive first looked at whether the policy was mis-sold. Ive decided the policy wasnt  mis-sold. 
Ill explain  why.
I think Mr and Mrs H knew they had a choice about  the PPI and chose to buy it. Based on 
what Ive seen the policy started  in January 1992   and Ive seen records from both Barclays 
and the insurer  showing this. According to Barclays records, Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage  
started in 1986.  Mr and Mrs H think their mortgage  started in 1976  and think the PPI 
started then. But based  on what Ive seen  I think its more  likely that Mr and Mrs H bought  
this policy  separately  from their mortgage.  So though Mr and Mrs H say they were told they 
had to buy the policy to get their mortgage,  I think they had already had the mortgage when 
they applied for the PPI.
Barclays say it recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs H  so it had to check that the PPI was 
right for them. Mr H was covered by the PPI, and based on what Ive seen of his 
circumstances at the time I think that it was. For example, he wasnt affected by any of the 
exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover, and he seems to have had a need for the cover. I 
recognise that Mr H got some sick pay if he was off work sick  but I think this policy  would 
pay in addition to what he got through work, and as the PPI protected  his mortgage I think 
cover would have  been  useful to him.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr and Mrs H about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted  this type of cover. 
And it seems like it would  have been useful for them if something went wrong.  It also looks 
Ref: DRN03115272like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put them  
off taking out the cover. 
This means  I dont  think Barclays needs to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and 
Mrs H.
So Ive looked  at Barclayss offer.
Barclays has offered to pay back some of the cost of the PPI. There were  times when 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share  more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium  so it should have told Mr and Mrs H about that. Because  it didnt tell Mr and 
Mrs H, that was unfair.
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share  that was 
more than 50% of the cost of the policy  and I think thats fair. Its worked  out it needs to 
pay Mr and Mrs H £1.24.
Ive looked at how Barclays worked out this offer. In Mr and Mrs Hs case, Barclays say that 
for most of the time they had the policy the commission and profit  share was less than half of 
what they paid for each  premium. Weve looked at how Barclays has been working this out, 
and based on what weve seen, Ive got no reason  to doubt thats right  so I think  Mr and 
Mrs Hs commission  was less than half the cost of the policy  for most of the time they had it. 
During these periods,  Barclays didnt need  to tell them about the commission   and it doesnt  
need to pay Mr and Mrs H back any of the commission they paid for the PPI.
But there was a short period when the commission Mr and Mrs H paid was slightly  more 
than half the cost of the policy. Barclayss offer includes 6p per month from July 2005 to 
June 2006. And Barclays has added interest (the rate is 8% per year) to compensate Mr and 
Mrs H for the time theyve been out of pocket. I recognise that this offer is very low  but its 
been worked out the way Id expect Barclays to work it out.
In all the circumstances, the amount Barclays has offered is fair.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H.
But Barclays  Bank plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs H any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 February  2019.
Edward Hardman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0311527