K820x#14complaint
Mr Ws complaint  has been brought by his solicitor.  Hes complained  about  why all of the 
proceeds from his defined benefit  pension  transfer  were invested by Gallium  Fund  Solutions  
Limited into a 100%  static investment in a mutual  fund. This fund was managed  by a third 
party which Ill call Provider B, and Mr W considers this to be a relatively  high-charging 
fund of funds with exit penalties. He says he was led to believe that Gallium  would  carry 
out discretionary fund management (DFM)  to a low risk profile, without such  restrictions.  
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 22 January 2021. A copy of that 
provisional decision is attached and forms part of this final decision. In a briefer summary, 
the key conclusions were  as follows:
If Gallium was acting as discretionary investment manager (DIM)  on Mr Ws portfolio, it 
appeared from the investment  management  agreement that Mr Ws financial adviser 
(Firm A) would  have been the client for the purposes of DFM,  rather  than Mr W. In 
my view this agreement would carry the most weight.
I was cautious of reading too much  into Galliums client  agreement  with Mr W (which  
named him as client),  because:
-It wasnt apparent that Mr W had invested in reliance on the client  agreement, but 
it did appear he was the victim of a lack of explanation by his adviser  who was 
submitting the application  on his behalf.
-Mr W was still going to be Galliums client in some respects (such as for custody 
of his funds). Gallium was also accountable  to Mr W under  the general law.
-It was in any event common for such agreements not to detail the additional layers 
between the business and the end client (such as a SIPP wrapper, whereby a 
SIPP trustee might actually  own the funds being invested).
Even if I was wrong in my conclusion that Gallium  would have been the client  for DFM  
purposes, on the particular facts here I wasnt in any event satisfied that Gallium had 
made the decision for Mr C to invest in Provider  Bs conservative  fund. 
This fund was the only constituent of a model  portfolio bearing Firm As branding and 
selected by Firm A for Mr W. And it was for Firm A to carry out appropriate  due 
diligence to satisfy itself that this investment split was a suitable recommendation.
If Gallium had gone on to carry out DFM on this portfolio  it would have become 
responsible for any subsequent  investment changes. But there  was no indication  
Gallium was ever going to do this, as Firm A knew this was a static  investment.
Under the regulators rules, Gallium was entitled  to rely on information about Mr W and 
recommendations made to Mr W by another regulated firm (Firm  A). It didnt  require 
sight of what those recommendations  were in order to do this.
I also considered a separate point by Mr Ws representative that Firm As instructions to 
Gallium to invest in Provider  Bs fund were  effectively  invalid,  because  it wasnt acting with 
Mr Ws authority.  I noted that:
Mr W signed Galliums  paper application  form (albeit that Firm A didnt  then provide 
this to Gallium)  to acknowledge that Gallium would rely on information from his adviser  
in order to provide services to him.
Ref: DRN00617262Firm A warranted  to Gallium when making the application  that it did so with Mr As 
authority. As Firm A was itself regulated, it wasnt for Gallium to suspect  that it didnt in 
fact have  that authority.
Firm As selection  of its own model  portfolio as part of Mr Ws application amounted  to 
both the execution-only  instruction and the separate agreement  for Gallium to 
process such instructions  in accordance with Galliums client agreement.
At the time of my provisional decision it appeared Gallium was willing to make an offer to 
refund Mr W any dealing  (or trade)  fee he would have incurred on initially  investing into the 
Provider B fund within his model portfolio. At the time I thought  this offer was fair, for reasons 
which I explained in my provisional decision. However its subsequently transpired that 
unlike some other consumers who invested  earlier and were affected  by issues with 
Galliums computer system, Mr W didnt actually pay a dealing  fee. 
So there is no offer from Gallium in this case and no basis for me to require  it to refund a fee 
Mr W hasnt actually paid. Ive explained this to Mr Ws representative and allowed them  a 
further opportunity  to comment.
In summary,  Mr Ws representative said on 10 February 2021:
-Ive accepted that there was a direct contractual relationship between  Mr W and 
Gallium, as the client agreement  defines  Mr W as the client.
-This cannot be an agent as client DFM model as outlined  in the Personal Finance 
Society (PFS)s  DFM Good Practice Guide. The investment management agreement 
was concluded months  before  Mr W began his relationship with Firm A and doesnt  
name him. Gallium wouldnt  separately  have been  aware that Firm A was legally 
authorised by Mr W to bind him to such actions.
-Instead, this was a reliance on others-type DFM model in which  Gallium carried out 
DFM based on information about Mr W supplied by Firm A, and therefore  responsibility 
for the initial portfolios  suitability  was shared between it and Firm A.
-Firm As instructions didnt match its recommendation in the suitability letter to Mr W 
(which was for a DFM  service).
-Given  that Mr Ws portfolio was entirely  passive, Gallium misrepresented that it would 
manage it on his behalf,  rebalance it monthly  and regularly review  the underlying 
investments  terminology  that clearly influenced  Firm As recommendation.
-Mr W didnt provide the necessary authority for the only alternative  route  to happen:  an 
execution-only investment into Provider  Bs fund.
On the matter of the type of any DFM  relationship as per the PFS Guide, to summarise  (and 
for Galliums benefit) I clarified  this with the representative on 19 February  2021.  I said that I 
didnt think a direct contractual relationship between Mr W and Gallium would necessarily 
prevent there being an agent as client DFM  situation, because the PFS Guide would need 
to anticipate that the DIM may well be the same firm that had custody of the end clients 
funds and had a direct relationship with them in that sense.
I also said that the PFS Guide only gave examples of typical  operating models,  and it was 
for the adviser  and DIM to agree  between  themselves on the precise model. The May 2017 
Addendum to the PFS Guide suggested  a sub-category of the model  portfolio route in 
which the DIM would rely not only on the advisory  firms client  information, but also on the 
advisory firm to select the portfolio construction from a range of pre-defined strategies. In 
my view that was what happened in this case  of course with the added factor I mentioned  
Ref: DRN00617263in my provisional decision:  that the portfolio  would remain  static and wouldnt change 
(something that was reasonably known to Firm A). 
I suggested that to succeed with this complaint, the representative would in fact need to 
demonstrate why Firm A didnt have the responsibility for the selection  of the model  portfolio 
that Ive suggested.  And bearing in mind Firm As responsibility to carry out due diligence  
into the portfolio  it was recommending,  it ought  to have considered  whether the static  
investment in a single fund  albeit one that was actively managed by Provider B (it appears 
initially with Galliums appointed representative Vegas assistance)  was consistent with 
how it was describing  the service to Mr W. 
On the matter of Firm A acting with Mr Ws authority, again to summarise (and for Galliums 
benefit) I also clarified to the representative that Gallium could take some comfort  in the 
regulatory protection that already existed for Mr W against Firm A: both in terms of Firm A 
having recommended  the model  portfolio to Mr W, and in the unlikely event that it acted  
without his consent. I noted that Mr W was aware that Firm A was applying for the Gallium 
account on his behalf, in accordance with his consent on the paper application form, and had 
already agreed  to transfer his DB pension to a SIPP incorporating Galliums  platform. It 
wasnt fair or reasonable to conclude that Gallium  should have refused to accept Firm As 
instructions in these  circumstances.
The representative told us on 10 March 2021 that Mr W remained unwilling to accept the 
provisional decision. In summary, the further  points they raised were as follows:
-They havent seen any evidence that Gallium and Firm A agreed on a variation of the 
reliance on others  DFM model,  whereby Gallium relied on Firm A for the suitability of 
the initial portfolio selection.  
-This was insufficient  to outweigh the client agreement which set out DFM  services  to 
be provided to Mr W as client. Such  services come  with suitability obligations which  
dont distinguish between initial  and subsequent  investments.
-Gallium  couldnt rely on Firm A for its suitability obligations because the evidence 
shows it didnt  consider  the nature  of the recommendations Firm A made at the time. It 
only obtained a copy of Firm As suitability letter during the complaint.
-Any responsibility Firm A had in the suitability of the model portfolio wouldnt exonerate 
Gallium from the same  and joint responsibility. Gallium had used the same Provider B 
fund in its own (Vega-branded) model  portfolios and it was plainly unsuitable in those.
-In the alternative  scenario of this not being a DFM service, they continued to think 
Mr Ws signature on a paper  application form didnt constitute the necessary authority 
for Firm A to give execution-only instructions on his behalf.
-A firm such  as Gallium  should not be investing  client money on the instructions of a 
financial adviser unless it has a clear basis for believing the adviser  is appropriately 
authorised. This surely  requires  a clear  documented statement by the client giving the 
necessary authority. If the firm proceeds  without that, and it transpires that the adviser  
was not in fact authorised,  then the firm should rightly expect to be held responsible (in 
addition to the adviser).
In respect of the final two points above I emailed Mr Ws representative on 18 March 2021  to 
provide, amongst other  things, a copy of Mr Ws separate  SIPP  application form  which I 
would be relying  on as this included several  other indications  that he had agreed for Firm A 
to act on his behalf.  I said I would be issuing  a final decision on this complaint  after 22 March 
2021. I havent heard further  from the representative.
Ref: DRN00617264Gallium made no comments on the provisional  decision  other  than to agree that the 
investment management  agreement  could  be shared with Mr Ws representative.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Much of the arguments following  my 
provisional decision have  focused on the degree of authority  Firm A had to act for Mr W at 
the time of placing the investment, so Ill address this first.
Firm As authority to act on Mr Ws behalf
I agree  with Mr Ws representative that it would be more typical  for a platform to accept a 
written application  form (often  with a wet signature), on which  there is a specifically-worded 
statement authorising  the platform to take instructions from the adviser. This case is further 
complicated by the fact that the form Mr W did sign wasnt provided to Gallium  and his 
declaration on that form wasnt  as precisely  worded as Ive come  across elsewhere.
Ive therefore  considered  if that makes a material difference to the outcome of Mr Ws 
complaint. I have to reach a decision that is fair and reasonable when considering all the 
evidence in the round, rather than the evidence Mr Ws representative focuses on. This 
evidence is:
A paper Gallium application form, which I think Mr W would have signed with the 
reasonable expectation that this was going to be sent to Gallium.  He acknowledged  that:
-hed read the Gallium terms and conditions/client agreement 
-if he appointed an adviser and has ticked the box authorising communication with 
that adviser (which was ticked),  then FCA rules allowed Gallium to rely on 
information from the adviser.  The ticked box authorised Gallium and Firm A to 
exchange information to enable Gallium...to  provide me with investment services.
-submitting  an application constituted his acceptance of those terms
The Gallium  terms and conditions/client  agreement which  reads:
-you may appoint an FCA authorised firm to provide us with information on your 
behalf
-The SIPP  operator will notify us as to whether an IFA has been appointed or whether 
the beneficiary of the SIPP is giving us instructions directly
-When  an adviser is appointed with authority to act on your behalf we will in general 
only communicate with the adviser...  
The SIPP paper application  form, submitted to the SIPP  provider and signed by Mr W in 
two places  next to the following statements:
-I understand that [SIPP provider] will correspond with any Adviser (including 
employees of the Adviser) identified in the Adviser section  of this Application rather 
than me directly, unless I give written  instructions to the contrary.
-I confirm  that I have  received and agreed to the recommendations provided to me by 
my appointed Financial Adviser  
A data protection statement at the end of the application states that [SIPP  provider] 
predominantly uses the informationto administer and run your pension scheme. This 
may involve  seeking,  receiving and processing  instructions  from you and/or your 
Professional Adviser, responding to any request made by you and/or  your Professional 
Adviser and/or communicating changes to the scheme/services in question...
Ref: DRN00617265When read as whole, Im satisfied that Mr W had a reasonable  opportunity to understand 
that his applications for both the SIPP and the Gallium platform  would result in these 
providers accepting instructions from Firm A on his behalf. As far as Gallium is concerned, in 
addition to the tick box on his paper application, there  appears  to be a binary choice in the 
terms and conditions between The SIPP operator will notify  us as to whether  an IFA has 
been appointed or whether the beneficiary  of the SIPP is giving us instructions directly . Its 
evident in this case that Mr W did inform the SIPP provider  that he was appointing an IFA.
Im mindful that Mr Ws representative  may dispute  whether Firm A exchanging  information 
with Gallium as described on the paper application  includes investment  instructions. In the 
wider context here, I consider Mr W would have understood this to be the case, but I also 
accept the wording of this statement could  have been clearer. But even if Im wrong on that 
Im also not satisfied this issue has caused  Mr Ws loss on any fair and reasonable basis. 
I say this as its evident that Mr W was prepared to sign a SIPP application form that clearly  
authorised both himself  and Firm A being  able to give instructions to the SIPP  provider. So 
had he been asked in the same,  more precise  terms on the Gallium paper application form, 
Im satisfied he would  have agreed to these. Its evident that Mr W had (rightly or wrongly)  
placed a degree  of trust in his adviser at Firm A. I dont think  it would be fair and reasonable 
given the weight of the above evidence to create  an additional responsibility on Gallium  to 
second guess  whether  the adviser  (another regulated firm) was acting with an appropriate 
duty of care.  
Had Gallium also insisted  on seeing the paper record  of Mr Ws application to the Gallium 
platform bearing his signature, I have no doubt that it would have been passed on by Firm A. 
For a combination of all these reasons, Im not persuaded that Galliums approach to 
recording Firm As authority to act on Mr Ws behalf  has caused his loss.
DFM or execution  only investment instruction?
Mr Ws representative says that the nature of the transaction  here can only be one or the 
other of these two things.  And effectively that as Gallium couldnt have been  sure that Firm A 
had Mr Ws authority to give an execution-only instruction  or that it could bind Mr W to an 
agent as client DFM  arrangement  it must  have entered  into a full DFM  arrangement with 
Mr W as the client.
Theres an inherent contradiction here in that we know Mr W didnt himself complete the 
online application form Gallium received  at the time. So in order for Gallium  to give effect to 
the instruction  that Mr W would go into the type of DFM arrangement being argued for, his 
representative must accept that Firm A at least had authority to act for Mr W in providing that 
instruction. So I dont think Mr Ws representative could argue that Firm A didnt have the 
authority to act for Mr W in issuing an execution-only instruction instead. Its also consistent 
with the wider evidence Ive listed  above that Firm A had that authority. And I explained in 
my provisional decision why the online  application form constituted the necessary  execution-
only instruction in accordance with the client agreement. So I dont think  the representatives  
argument gets us further forward.
Im not going  to get further  drawn  into the basis on which Firm A could have had the capacity 
to not just bind Mr W to an investment instruction it gave  on his behalf,  but also (in the 
alternative) to an agent as client DFM agreement it might have entered into on his behalf.  I 
understand the point that these are not the same, given the profound difference  an agent as 
Ref: DRN00617266client relationship  would  make to a DFM arrangement  particularly in terms of Galliums  
direct accountability  to Mr W for any ongoing investment selections.
 
I will say that at the very least, the picture  here remains confused:  if Gallium  had been  
carrying out DFM there  is a tension between the investment  management agreement  and 
Mr Ws client agreement  that wouldnt be straightforward to resolve. But I must return  to the 
point that even if that tension is resolved in favour of Gallium being  accountable to Mr W for 
ongoing investment  selections, there  were  no subsequent changes made to the investments 
in Firm As model portfolio. So this is a somewhat theoretical discussion.
Therefore as I explained in the provisional  decision, the outcome of this dispute  rests on who 
actually decided that Mr W should  invest in Firm As model portfolio and the Provider B 
conservative fund this contained,  and is accountable  for the suitability of that decision at the 
outset.
Mr Ws representative says that the regulators Conduct of Business rules dont differentiate  
between initial and ongoing investment selections at COBS  9.2. But in my view,  COBS 9.2 
cant apply here as Gallium wasnt actually  managing Mr Ws investment, according to the 
regulators definition, in circumstances  which  involve the exercise of discretion. (It took a 
management fee but Im satisfied this was in the sense of having custody of Mr Ws assets  
only.) As I explained in my provisional  decision, Gallium had no discretion in whether or not it 
invested Mr Ws portfolio in the Provider  B conservative fund  as this was a model  portfolio 
Firm A had already specified as involving  a static investment in that fund, and then selected 
for Mr W on his application.
Firm A could alternatively have chosen a Vega model portfolio, which was one of the model 
portfolios named in the investment management agreement  on which Gallium was (or 
intended) to provide DFM.  Mr W might  have had a stronger claim if that had happened,  and 
his representatives  comments  about the suitability of the Provider  B fund for that portfolio 
might have warranted consideration (subject to the agent as client  issue  being navigated, 
as that would no longer be a theoretical  question). But as I indicated in my provisional 
decision, it could  still have been  potentially  arguable  that Firm A should have carried out 
adequate due diligence into that portfolio  and consequently not recommended it to Mr W, for 
the same  reasons his representative  has given.
However I dont need to resolve that issue here,  because Ive already concluded that Firm A 
didnt invest Mr W in the Vega ultra-conservative model portfolio but its own model portfolio 
of the same  name.  His representative appears to be arguing that if it was inappropriate for 
Gallium to include the Provider B fund in the Vega portfolio, Gallium remains  responsible for 
Firm As decision  to take the same approach in its own portfolio. That does not follow.  As 
Firm A instructed Vega to set up the Firm A ultra-conservative model portfolio and what  to 
include in it, in the email  exchange which both parties have seen, then the suitability of that 
selection was in my view entirely  Firm As responsibility.
Galliums reliance on Firm As advice
Mr Ws representative suggests  that as Gallium  was relying on Firm As recommendations it 
should therefore have identified that the portfolio selected (Firm As) differed from the one 
recommended in the suitability letter (Vegas). But COBS 2.4.4R in the FCA handbook only 
says that [Gallium] may rely uponany  recommendations in respect of the service or 
transaction that have been  provided  to [Mr W] by [Firm A]. It doesnt say Gallium must 
inspect those recommendations.
Ref: DRN00617267I also consider Gallium didnt need to have seen  or analysed Firm As recommendations 
because it wasnt relying on them in place of a requirement to make  its own 
recommendations. On the facts of this particular case, given Firm As selection  of its own 
model portfolio,  Gallium  was neither carrying out the regulated  activities or advising on or 
managing investments  so COBS 9.2 didnt apply to Gallium here. The fact that Gallium  
understood an FCA-regulated adviser  had advised Mr W to invest in the Firm A ultra-
conservative portfolio  was sufficient, irrespective of what (unbeknown to Gallium) Firm A had 
actually said to Mr W.
For the same reasons,  I cant say Gallium is responsible for not carrying out the services 
Firm As suitability letter said it was going to provide. The descriptions given were  clearly for 
the DFM service Gallium intended to provide  on Vega model portfolios  but are of no 
relevance to the static  portfolio Firm A set up for Mr W. Im satisfied Firm A would reasonably  
have known that in order to change  that portfolio it would have to give further  instructions 
(with Mr Ws authority).  So it was responsible  for describing that arrangement in its suitability 
letter in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way. Evidently, it didnt do so.
Galliums offer of compensation
Ive communicated  to Mr Ws representative already  that the offer Gallium  intended  to make 
to Mr W does not actually  amount to any compensation, as he wasnt  charged  a trade or 
dealing fee on his investment into the Firm A model  portfolio (or when he left the portfolio). 
Ive checked the investment statements and the stated unit prices for the Provider  B fund 
seem to be consistent with Mr W investing  in the fund, paying  the platform and reduced 
management fees detailed in my provisional  decision, and then leaving the fund again after 
paying the exit penalty. They  confirm there  was no additional trade or dealing fee.
As a result, Im satisfied  that Gallium doesnt need  to do anything  to rectify matters  in this 
particular case.
my final decision
I do not uphold  Mr Ws complaint and make  no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2021.
Gideon Moore
ombudsman
Ref: DRN00617268Provisional decision of 22 January 2021
background 
Mr Ws appointed independent financial adviser (Firm A) originally transferred him from his 
employers defined benefit scheme  into a SIPP on 13 November 2017. The SIPP made use 
of Galliums investment  platform, which can include portfolios where  Gallium  acts as 
discretionary investment  manager  (DIM). Gallium  had envisaged that its appointed 
representative Vega Algorithms would provide advice and other support (including algorithm 
technology) to assist  with discretionary fund management (DFM)  where  requested by clients.
Firm A is now in default to the Financial  Services  Compensation Scheme (FSCS). Its my 
understanding that Mr W has complained to the FSCS on the basis  that it was unsuitable for 
him to make  the transfer in the first place   but if successful hes unlikely to recover all his 
losses from FSCS.  Mr W has also complained about Vegas alleged contribution to those 
losses because it placed him in an unsuitable investment which he had to incur  an exit fee to 
leave. As Vegas principal, Gallium has responded to the complaint.
In April 2017 Firm A had signed an investment management agreement with both Gallium 
and Vega. This expressly  allowed it to place  customers  in portfolios which were managed by 
Gallium as DIM. In summary this agreement set out that:
There  was a 0.36%  annual management  charge (including VAT) for DFM  in addition to 
the 0.30%  annual platform charge.  
There  were  seven model  portfolios  starting at capital preservation  at the lowest risk 
level and then ultra conservative, ranging up to adventurous at the highest risk level 
 distinguished  by the maximum  equity exposure  allowed.
A number of the funds  the model  portfolios invested in charged exit fees of up to 5%, 
so they werent  suitable for investments of less than a five-year duration.
There  was also a dealing fee of 0.20% for the DFM service.
In an email exchange with Firm A on 3 May 2017,  Vega  explained that another of Firm As 
clients was invested  in the [Firm A]- Defensive portfolio, which is 100% allocated to our 
Conservative Model Portfolio, which in turn invests around 80% in the Conservative UCITS and 20% 
in the Adventurous UCITS.
If you would like his account  to only buy the Conservative  UCITS, we can create a new [Firm  A] 
portfolio which invests in the Ultra-Conservative Model Portfolio  (sorry for the confusing naming 
conventions there), and assign him to that  
UCITS means a mutual fund recognised  in the European Union. The two funds which  Vega 
seems to have been referring to were a conservative and adventurous fund managed  by 
Provider B. At that time Vega was the appointed  investment  adviser to that fund. 
Firm A instructed Vega: to create a new [Firm A] portfolio  using the Ultra Conservative Model  
Portfolio please, this would be for [redacted] and any other clients we are sending over to you unless 
otherwise specified.
Would you be able to send  me a fact sheet  over for this please?
Copies exist of a Vega model portfolio service  factsheet, which may well have been given by 
Firm A to its clients. It refers to the same seven managed portfolios, and an optimisation 
algorithm to construct each portfolio. It mentions that exit charges may apply if the 
investment is held less than five years and repeats the 0.36% annual management charge 
for DFM. Theres also a rate card for the model  portfolio service branded in the same way as 
the factsheet, which matches the charges set out in the investment management agreement.
Ref: DRN00617269The factsheet didnt  say that the model portfolios  invested directly into Provider B funds. This 
is likely  because it pre-dates Galliums  decision to do this  Gallium says Vega had yet to 
introduce its algorithm  technology while they evaluated the customer  base. But its clear from 
the email exchange  above that Firm A knew that the underlying investment was a mutual 
fund, and it was able to ask for any more information it required.
This service has also obtained  the relevant Provider B fund factsheets. For the conservative 
fund, the annual management charge was originally  2.05% and more recently 1.86%, but 
potentially with a management fee of 0.35% in addition. The exit fee was on a sliding scale  
of up to 5% over the first five years. 
A Gallium General Investment Account (GIA) paper application form was available  in 2017, 
but it doesnt appear Gallium required this to be submitted in order to make  an application. 
Applications could be completed by Firm A entirely online. The first page of the paper 
application form mentioned, Gallium  Fund  Solutions Limited  manage  the Vega Algorithms 
Investment Portfolios on the advice of Vega Algorithms Limited. 
Firm A used a generic copy of this paper  form to gather Mr Ws details, including  additional 
information not requested on the form  his investment choice (100%  ultra conservative) 
was added by hand. Mr W signed the paper form on 7 November 2017 below this statement:
I confirm that I have  not received and will not receive  advice from Gallium Fund Solutions as to 
the suitability of a DFM service for me. I understand that if I instruct  Gallium Fund Solutions to 
buy or sell any investment  for me, Gallium Fund Solutions will act on this instruction  without 
considering the suitability of the transaction for me
Mr W also separately signed  the paper form below a list of charges, which  didnt mention a 
dealing fee  and only showed an annual platform charge of 0.30%. But it also said, Please 
read the Rate Card  for any other charges  e.g. discretionary management  or execution-only 
services. For the reasons  Ill note later, this appears to be the only contemporaneous 
evidence of Mr Ws application  but its also a form Gallium didnt see at the time.
Firm A used the details  on the paper form to complete an online application the next day, 
which Mr W didnt  see. An extracted summary has been produced from this online 
application, showing the charges specific to the service being provided (0.06% per year to 
Gallium as fund manager, plus 0.30% per year platform  charge. Unlike  the paper form it 
also says Fee  DealingNone. Two versions  of this appear on Galliums file with identical 
charges, but (again for reasons Ill note later) dont appear to be contemporaneous.
The version provided to the ombudsman service captured the following answers:
I would like to invest my assets by         Appointing a Discretionary Fund Manager  (DFM) to 
                                                                   choose my investments
Building my own portfolio of assets and DFM Model   
  portfolios
I would like to                                           Let my DFM choose my portfolio according  to my 
         risk evaluation
                                                            Choose a specific  model portfolio
Choose a specific model portfolio            [Firm A]  Ultra-Conservative  [from drop-down box]
The version Gallium provided to Mr W in its final response to his complaint had the 
same date and application reference, but used different section numbering. It 
completely omits the I would like to invest my assets by options.
Ref: DRN006172610Firm A had sent Mr W a suitability  letter detailing  its recommendation on 
21 September 2017. This hadnt  set out what any portfolio management costs were  it only 
disclosed Firm As initial fee of £1,500. It said the following:
You will be invested  within  a General Investment Account provided by Gallium  Fund Solutions 
the Investment Manager of your portfolio. This portfolio will be optimised to your targets  and 
situation and pro-actively managed your investments to ensure they are performing as they 
should and to maintain the suitability  to your needs.
You stated  that you wanted  to take benefits as soon as possible this will be at 55, in the 
meantime you have a 5-year window to invest your fund. We initially agreed a cautious approach 
to investment because of the current global  financial position and pending our investment review 
meeting.
The Ultra-Conservative  Portfolio provided  by Vega Algorithms allows you to invest  a maximum of 
20% of your portfolio into equity based funds with the remainder being  invested into Fixed  
Income Funds
Gallium set up the account in accordance with Firm As online application and the proceeds 
of Mr Ws transfer  went into the [Firm A] - Ultra Conservative model portfolio on 
20 November 2017. This resulted in an 100% investment into the Provider B conservative 
fund. 
Mr W says he transferred  his pension out on 3 April 2018, suffering the exit charge, following 
advice from a new financial adviser.  He has complained to Gallium  and subsequently the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service  along the following lines:
He had very little experience of financial matters and relied entirely  on the advice  
and/or expertise of Firm A, and subsequently Gallium.  Gallium breached  the terms of 
its contract with him and misled him about its role. 
He subsequently  found that all of his monies were invested  into an unproven  fund with 
a small manager  which  was subsequently  almost the worst performing in the entire 
sector.
He wasnt told about the very high charges, which he couldnt  identify himself due to 
his lack of experience, and suspected other  parties  benefited from these charges:
oan ongoing charges  fee (OCF) of 2.51% (normally 0.5-1% on a conservative fund)
oa 5% exit fee, reducing by 1% per year over five years. 
Gallium  failed to comply  with COBS 9.2.1 onwards  in the regulators handbook, which  
is in brief to ensure that decisions  taken when  managing investments are suitable for a 
client. He should instead  have been  invested in a diversified portfolio  of investments 
suitable for his needs and objectives.
Gallium responded  that:
-It accepted Firm As application on an execution-only basis to invest Mr W in the 
[Firm A] - Ultra  Conservative  model  portfolio, rather than the Vega portfolio of a very 
similar name. 
-Firm A was selecting the investments to be included in this portfolio under whatever 
authority Mr W had given it to do so, rather than Gallium.
-Mr W had signed the GIA application form which stated Gallium  wouldnt be assessing 
the suitability of any investments it was instructed to buy. This form also disclosed that 
I have read a Client Agreement and Terms  & Conditions document.
Mr W then referred  his complaint to our service. Gallium clarified  that it neither saw any 
paper GIA application forms nor suitability letters at the time Firm As clients applications 
Ref: DRN006172611were submitted online. It obtained these when  it contacted Firm A for information in order  to 
respond to complaints. This regrettably caused  some confusion at the outset of our 
investigation, so a number of assessments have  been issued by our investigators.
Gallium supplied screenshots showing  that the online application makes the charges on 
exiting within  five years  clear  and the adviser chose an option of 5+ years.  The application 
summary also confirmed receipt  and understanding of the key features document for the 
Gallium/Vega Platform, which in turn warns of possible exit charges within  the first five 
years. As the adviser was completing this form on Mr Ws authority, it says Firm A was 
therefore obliged  to make  sure Mr W understood the key features (including the charges).
What our investigator considered
Gallium would arguably have been  involved in selecting the Provider B fund if it had been 
carrying out DFM on Mr Ws account. In relation to this the investigator became aware of the 
ongoing charges for Galliums platform (not the Provider B fund) that had been  highlighted 
by a different  complainant. Gallium had indicated that it hadnt carried out DFM because it 
didnt charge the 0.36%pa  management fee in the rate card for the DFM  service,  but a 
reduced fee of 0.06%pa. However  for a few complainants, that wasnt  quite correct.  Gallium 
had initially  charged  0.36%pa up to October 2017  before Mr W invested  and then 
reduced it to 0.06%pa thereafter.
On weighing  up all this evidence, the investigator thought there was evidence that Gallium 
had set out to provide a DFM service to Firm As clients including  Mr W. He acknowledged  
that the May 2017 email  exchange was ambiguous as to whether or not Gallium would act 
as DIM of the [Firm A] Ultra Conservative  portfolio  as opposed to Firm A choosing to set 
up its own portfolio which  happened to contain  the same investments. However  he said that 
both Firm A and Gallium  had given the impression to Mr W that he would receive DFM.
Gallium appeared  to have asked Firm A to tick an Appointing a Discretionary Fund Manager 
(DFM) to choose my investments box, and to enter details of Mr Ws attitude to risk on the 
online application form  neither of which were needed if it wasnt acting as DIM. There  was 
no evidence that Gallium corrected that impression by explaining otherwise. When clients 
initially began investing, Gallium then started charging total fees at the rate of 0.66%pa,  
which were commensurate with its DFM service. It did reduce those fees before Mr W 
invested  so this didnt  affect Mr W  but there was no clear explanation as to why.
On the basis that Gallium  had therefore been carrying out DFM, the investigator said he was 
going to consider whether  Provider  Bs fund, with its exit fees, was an appropriate selection 
for the portfolio  but provided  both parties with an opportunity  to comment first.
Mr Ws solicitor was largely  in agreement with the investigators view, but over the course of 
our investigation  it wanted  the following further points to be noted:
Galliums client  agreement  with Mr W set out that he was the client for whom Gallium  
would manage  funds with discretion.
This agreement didnt preclude  the possibility of it accepting execution-only 
instructions, which Gallium considered the instruction  to invest  in the [Firm  A] Ultra 
Conservative portfolio  was. But under  section  21 a separate  agreement with Mr W 
would first have been necessary in order for it to do so.
The investment  management  agreement or the email exchanges between Gallium,  
Vega and Firm A couldnt constitute that separate agreement, and they were also 
before Mr W became Firm As client.
Ref: DRN006172612In the GIA paper application form Mr W confirmed that he had only appointed Firm A 
to advise him; not to manage his investments or provide  execution-only instructions  
to Gallium on his behalf. 
The notion that Gallium reduced its annual management charge to 0.06%pa  from 
1 October 2017, to reflect  what it says was a basic asset  custody service, cant be 
reconciled with the rate card which  stated  that custody services  were free of charge.
In a meeting  with the FCA and the Pensions Advisory Service Mr W was told he had 
been caught up in "a legal scam", he should  transfer his money out of the Provider B 
fund and claim the 5% exit penalty  back afterwards.
It made a number of points about  the extent to which Gallium was entitled to rely on 
the information gathered by Firm A when making discretionary decisions on Mr Ws 
portfolio  and whether Provider Bs fund was suitable for the portfolio. I wont be 
going into detail  on those points here as the first issue I have to establish  is whether, 
in fact, Gallium was carrying out DFM.
Gallium didnt agree with the investigator. The key points it raised  were  as follows:
-Its platform service  has never  been promoted  directly to retail customers but was 
marketed to financial advisers. The marketing and contractual  documents  reflected its 
future intention  to offer an algorithmic DFM service.
-However an adviser could always construct its own portfolio, using Galliums  
investment platform  but not its DFM service. This was an Adviser  Model  Portfolio for 
which, within the one fund used, Provider B managed the investment.
-The exit fee Mr W suffered would  have been clearly understood by his (new) adviser 
as the financial consequence  of disinvesting.
-Gallium  wasnt  required  to see such documents as Firm As fact find or suitability  letter, 
as it was entitled to rely on Firm A acting on Mr Ws behalf.
-Despite what the Client Agreement says about  DFM, the online application contained a 
specific execution-only instruction that Mr Ws SIPP be invested in the [Firm A] Ultra 
Conservative portfolio. To perform DFM would have been in breach of that instruction.
-Gallium  couldnt have  corrected any misconceptions in respect  of the services  
provided, as it wasnt aware  of any misconceptions at the time of investment.
-A management fee for the DFM service was triggered in error  by Firm As selection of 
the Choose a specific portfolio  investment option online for a few clients, before Mr W 
invested. Initially, the calculation  did not identify that the [Firm A] Ultra Conservative  
portfolio was a specific and passive portfolio. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the matter was passed to me for a decision. During the 
process of preparing for this decision,  Gallium  provided the following further  clarifications 
about how its charges  had been set:
-An initial  dealing fee of 0.20% went to Vega Algorithms Limited for on-boarding the 
clients to its platform so that Firm A could set up the initial investment.
-The quarterly platform fee of 0.30%pa went to the software provider to enable the 
operation of the platform providing  the functionality to make and view investments.
-Some  investors (not Mr W) initially paid a quarterly management fee of 0.36%pa to 
Gallium. This was reduced to 0.06%pa before Mr W invested,  when it was apparent 
that no DFM  service was being provided. This residual amount should be 
characterized as a custody and reporting fee for execution-only fund selections.
Gallium said it had referred us to its charging  structures for DFM and execution-only 
business as rate cards,  but this didnt mean it had actually published an execution-only rate 
card at the time of Mr Ws investment.  It set the execution-only  charges retrospectively  when 
it became aware  that the rate card it had issued related to an irrelevant DFM  service.  
Ref: DRN006172613When it reset the management fee, it charged  a lower amount (0.06%pa)  than it would have 
decided to set, had it done  this originally. This was to compensate for having supplied  only 
the DFM rate card at the outset, but also took into account that it wasnt refunding one 
quarters overcharged  amount to a few individuals who invested before Mr W. After  
incorporating this reduction,  paying VAT and investor reporting and custody service fees to 
third parties, it only retained about 0.03% of what it charged overall. So setting a rate of 
0.06% from outset wouldnt have been viable.
Gallium said all its other fees (eg the dealing fee) were identical whether an execution-only 
or DFM  service  was being provided. In particular individual transaction costs  would  have 
been charged directly  to the portfolio, so the initial dealing fee wasnt associated  with a 
specific investment  but on-boarding  Mr W onto the platform.  This was a fee which  Gallium  
has already paid out to Vega and therefore hasnt  benefited from itself.
Notwithstanding its view on the fees,  and in order to settle the complaint, Gallium was 
prepared to refund the following charges:
-any amount by which the management fee charged exceeded 0.06%pa,  up to and 
including the October  2017 quarterly statement (this is zero, for Mr W);
-a refund of the 0.20% dealing fee;
-plus interest on both at the rate of 8%pa simple from when they were charged to the 
date of settlement.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
The crux of Mr Ws complaint is twofold: 
-That Gallium was responsible for exercising discretion to ensure his pension was put 
into a suitable  investment  (whether or not it realised it should have done this); and 
-That the Provider B fund was an unsuitable  investment for inclusion in the portfolio 
with high ongoing and exit charges in breach of COBS  9.2.  
Unless I find for Mr W on both these  counts, the complaint  hes brought to us will fail. And I 
would just need to consider whether the offer Gallium has now made  in respect of the fees,  
separate to Mr Ws complaint, is fair and reasonable. So Ill start with what was agreed 
between Gallium, Firm A and indeed Mr W in respect of the DFM service it was to (allegedly) 
provide.
Agent as client
Under this sub-heading, Im going  to start out by assuming that Gallium was going  to be 
carrying out DFM on Mr Ws portfolio. If so, its key to note that the investment management 
agreement (for DFM)  between  Gallium, Vega and Firm A sets out at section 2.1.2  that: The 
Investment Manager will treat the Adviser as a Professional Client" (as such term is defined 
in MiFiD) in respect of the investment services it provides  under  this agreement. 
The agreement in various places describes the DFM services  as being provided  to the 
adviser  for instance the adviser (not the end investor)  appoints Gallium as Investment 
Manager. And it further defines Investor  as A client of the Adviser who invests in one or 
more of the Model Portfolios managed by the Investment Manager.
This is known as an agent as client situation,  and is permitted by COBS 2.4.3R(1) in the 
regulators handbook.  The consequence of this is that Gallium would owe any regulatory 
Ref: DRN006172614obligation it had assumed  to manage  funds  with appropriate discretion (if it assumed that 
obligation in this particular case) to Firm A; not Mr W.  
Mr Ws solicitor says that Galliums client agreement with Mr W details  that it will be 
providing a discretionary  management service to him. I accept that this agreement  defines 
Mr W as the client  and says with my emphasis  and unless there  is a separate agreement 
to provide execution-only instructions (as per section 21):
We offer to manage funds  for our clients. These may be held in a SIPP, an ISA or a general 
investment account. 
Our investment team  will manage a portfolio of diversified funds on your behalf. These portfolios are 
rebalanced monthly  to optimise risk-weighted returns
We regularly review the underlying  investments of your  model portfolios.
We have  an obligation  to exercise due skill, care and diligence in managing  your investments and to 
act in conformity with the rules of the Financial  Conduct Authority (FCA).

We are not responsible for any losses that may be incurred from an investment or a portfolio of
investments being unsuitable for you when that investment  or portfolio was suitableon the
basis of the information that had actually  been provided  to us.
Gallium will provide investment management services to you in accordance  with the terms of
this agreement  upon  advice  from Vega.
Many of these statements  might still hold true even if Firm A was actually the client  receiving 
the DFM service. Arguably, funds would  still be managed for or on behalf of Mr W, even if 
Firm A was sitting between him and Gallium. An added complexity was that Mr W was 
actually investing  within a SIPP, so wouldnt necessarily be the direct owner of the funds 
being managed if they were held by the SIPP trustees on his behalf. Yet even in that 
situation I think its quite  common for client agreements to ignore that complexity and be 
written in simpler  terms as if the funds were  under  Mr Ws direct  ownership. So Im cautious  
of reading too much  into the precise  wording of the client agreement.
Yet at the same time, some of the later statements in the client  agreement above do start to 
become more confusing   particularly in terms of the service being delivered to Mr W, and 
the investments  needing to be suitable for him; as opposed to a mandate  Firm A would have 
given if Firm A was the client. However Im mindful  that it wouldnt have been particularly 
straightforward to convey a situation where:
-Gallium would actually  carry out DFM treating Firm A as client; whilst 
-Mr W would still be Galliums client (or customer) in the more general  sense,  in 
respect of other activities  such as custody of his funds. 
Im also mindful that COBS 2.4.2G clarifies that a direct DFM  agreement  between Firm A 
and Gallium/Vega  wouldnt  affect any obligation  Gallium may owe Mr W under the general  
law. It only affects Galliums regulatory obligations (which the investment management 
agreement says are to Firm A  for example to manage funds with appropriate  discretion 
under COBS). So its not the case that Gallium had no responsibilities to Mr W whatsoever   
and a client agreement  would also need to reflect  this.
Where some  of the evidence appears  to conflict,  I must reach  a decision on the balance of 
probabilities. Ive taken  into account  that the portfolios on which  it was intended  Gallium  
would carry out DFM  were the Vega-branded portfolios (such as the Vega Ultra  
Conservative portfolio).  These  are specifically named in the investment management 
agreement, which was signed and dated by Gallium,  Vega and Firm A. So if Firm A had 
placed clients in those named portfolios, it seems to me that Gallium had every intention  of 
treating Firm A as its client for the purposes  of DFM, and not Mr W. And in my view the 
investment management  agreement  carries the most weight here. 
Ref: DRN006172615There is a further complication that Mr W went into a differently-named portfolio. And the 
client agreement we have  is generic  and undated, so its not entirely clear what  the relevant 
version would  or should correctly have said at the time. But to the extent that the client 
agreement may give the impression  Gallium  would be managing  funds directly for Mr W, I 
have to bear in mind  that it was Firm A and not Mr W who saw the client agreement  at the 
outset. It submitted the application on Mr Ws behalf  and Mr W didnt,  as I understand it, see 
or make his own decision based  on these terms. 
Therefore if Firm A entered into the investment management agreement  with the intention 
that Gallium was to carry out DFM on portfolios  such as Mr Ws, it should have been in no 
doubt as to what it had agreed. And I dont see that a client  agreement more closely 
reflecting those arrangements would have altered the lack of explanation Firm A apparently  
gave to Mr W, as his adviser, about what had been agreed. I think  thats important  as Firm A 
was submitting the application on his behalf, so the obligation to explain the nature of the 
DFM arrangements  became Firm As. 
So in summary,  any detail Gallium didnt go into in the client  agreement  about the particular 
DFM arrangements  envisaged was information  already known to Firm A. I consider Gallium 
was entitled to expect Firm A, as the regulated adviser acting for Mr W, to ensure Mr W was 
appropriately informed;  notwithstanding that the specific arrangements made  may not have 
been fully reflected in the client  agreement.
Under COBS 2.4.3R(2), despite having  entered into a DFM  agreement  directly with Firm A, 
Gallium was able to separately agree  with Firm A in writing to still treat Mr W as its client.  But 
I cant see thats happened here.  The investment management agreement  makes no such 
statement. And the separate agreement has to be between Gallium and Firm A; not between 
Gallium and Mr W  so the client agreement Mr W had with Gallium  doesnt constitute it. 
Therefore if I were to determine that Gallium was carrying out DFM  on Mr Ws account, I 
would need to take into account who the client for that DFM  was (Firm A). Im not disputing  
that Gallium did also deal with Mr W in accepting his application  such  that he can also be 
regarded as its customer, and is able to access the Financial Ombudsman Service   but the 
issue is what he could complain to us about . 
I cant minimise  the fact that in the ordinary course of events   that is, if Firm A were still 
trading  it seems  Mr W could have had full recourse to Firm A under the regulatory system 
regarding any DFM carried out on his portfolio;  not least because of the investment 
management agreement  Firm A had entered into. I couldnt disregard the context of that 
agreement, which wouldnt give Mr W the right to complain to us about Gallium  allegedly  
carrying out DFM on his account. 
But in case Im wrong on that, also Ive gone  on in any case to consider to what  extent  
Gallium was responsible  for Mr W investing in Provider Bs conservative  fund.  Thats 
because whether or not the [Firm A] Ultra  Conservative portfolio was a DFM portfolio, the 
key issue to determine is who actually decided that Mr W should  invest in Provider Bs 
conservative fund.
Did Gallium make the decision for Mr W to invest in Provider Bs conservative fund?
The starting point  is to ask whether the online application  summary accurately captures the 
situation. Much of the confusion here seems  to have arisen because two different versions of 
this summary are available  and this seems to depend on when Gallium extracted the 
summary from its computer system. The summary provided to our service includes an extra  
(selected) tick box Appointing a Discretionary  Fund  Manager (DFM) to choose  my 
investments. But the one provided to Mr W doesnt  have this box.
Ref: DRN006172616One of our investigators  previously asked Gallium if the format  of its online application 
system had changed  and it told us in June 2019 that theres been no change  in the 
application system. It now seems there must have been, at least  in terms of how the 
originally chosen  options have been  stored  so that they can be faithfully reproduced. Clearly 
neither of the summaries provided is contemporaneous,  as they both refer to the 
retrospectively set 0.06%pa  management fee.
Ive also taken into account that Gallium  provided a set of screenshots of the online  
application process. These largely mirror the version of the application summary Mr W 
received that doesnt contain  the Appointing a Discretionary Fund Manager (DFM)  to 
choose my investments box. I am of course mindful that even  the screenshots  may not be 
contemporaneous, but they seem to be the best evidence available.  Weighing up the 
evidence, I cant safely conclude that application  summaries reproduced from Galliums  
system at a later date, when some of the input fields may well have changed or been 
introduced, provides reliable evidence that Gallium agreed to act as DIM on the specific 
portfolio chosen   the [Firm A] Ultra Conservative  portfolio.
Ive also taken into account the investigators  other argument that this portfolio might just 
have been a white labelled version of the Vega Ultra Conservative portfolio. Even if that 
were considered to be the case,  this was still a model portfolio. In other words, it wasnt  a 
bespoke portfolio being designed from scratch by Vega (or Gallium) for Mr W. In common  
with many platform providers, Vegas model portfolios were intended to group  investors  
together broadly in line with the attitude to risk description for the portfolio. 
Details of what Vegas own portfolio was intended to contain were provided in the model  
portfolio factsheets.  Firm A was free to enquire  further about the intended investments, 
whether that was truly in the sense of being Galliums client, or equally in its capacity as 
Mr Ws adviser (who  recommended what portfolio he invested in). Essentially  which  it was 
doesnt matter  here  Firm A needed to satisfy itself that the overall  recommendation it was 
making to Mr W was suitable under COBS 9.2R.
As it was recommending  the Gallium  platform  to Mr W, Firm A couldnt ensure that advice 
was suitable without carrying out due diligence into what the initial  fund selection  of the 
portfolio would be. From February 2015  onwards the Personal  Finance Society  (PFS) has 
published a number of Good Practice Guides,  highlighting  the importance  of this due 
dliigence to ensure that advisers  complied  with their COBS obligations.
After Firm A had carried  out its due diligence into the initial  fund selection, and supposing 
this was a portfolio on which  Gallium would then provide  a DFM  service,  Gallium then would, 
reasonably, become responsible for keeping the future transactions  it made  within the 
mandate it was given  to manage  that portfolio. But as there was a static  investment in this 
case, there were no future transactions to consider.
Importantly, we know that Firm A did its due diligence, whether or not this was because it 
actually designed  the portfolio itself (as Gallium suggests).  Its email  exchange with Vega in 
May 2017 shows that it knew that 100% of Mr Ws investment would go into a conservative 
UCITS fund, and that this was a static investment  theres no indication in the email 
exchange that Gallium  had discretion  to change that investment. If Firm A didnt know  what 
specific fund was used  and what that funds  charges  were, it ought to have found that out in 
order to provide its advice.
So in my view even  if it had been agreed Gallium would act as DIM  which on the evidence 
of Mr Ws specific  application looks unlikely  at no point did it make a decision which  Mr W 
can complain has caused him a loss; essentially because  Firm A was responsible  for 
Ref: DRN006172617recommending and selecting the fund and then Provider B was carrying  out the 
management. Im satisfied this should have been  known to Firm A at the time it advised  
Mr W. So in the particular  circumstances  of Mr Ws complaint  I think  its a moot point 
whether, strictly, this was one of Vegas model  portfolios or one Firm A had created for itself. 
Gallium did overcharge the management fee to some earlier investors  (although not Mr W), 
but I accept its explanation  that this was because it hadnt introduced an execution-only fee 
tariff. Put simply, there  was no other fee it could charge until it reviewed the fees. I dont 
consider that proves it actually carried out DFM,  when the balance of the other evidence  
suggests otherwise.
Reliance on others
Gallium now has a copy of Firm As suitability report, but Mr W might understandably  be 
concerned that it didnt  have one at the time of application when it might  have realised  that 
Mr W had been given  a different  impression of the service he would  receive. However thats 
why the reliance on others rule at COBS 2.4.4R  is relevant. 
As Firm A was itself a regulated firm, Gallium was entitled to rely on the information Firm A 
gathered about  Mr W and the recommendations Firm A made to him; whilst Firm A remained 
responsible for the accuracy of the information  and recommendations.  
This is also reflected  in the investment management agreement at clause  3.1, if Mr Ws 
portfolio is taken to be one Gallium would manage: The Adviser has full powers  to assess the 
suitable Model  Portfolio  for each Investor based on their identified risk tolerance and monitor their 
suitability on an ongoing  basis (if required by any agreement the Adviser holds with the Investor). In 
taking any decision  to deal for the Investor,  the Investment Management [sic] shall rely upon the 
compliance of the Advisers assessment of suitability  of the Model Portfolio with the FCAs  rules and 
shall be entitled to inspect all records pertaining to such assessment at any time upon  providing 
reasonable notice.
Nothing in the regulators rules or the investment  management agreement required Gallium 
to obtain the advisers records of suitability for each investor before placing the investment,  
even in the event Gallium  was carrying out DFM. So whilst it appears Firm A may not have 
fully explained  to Mr W where he was being  invested within  the Gallium  platform  (or what 
charges Provider  Bs fund would involve),  I cant fairly say this was Galliums  responsibility to 
establish and correct for him.
If Gallium had known Mr W wanted  to exit the investment within five years, I would  expect it 
to have queried this  in view of the exit fees. This is in fact not something Gallium appears 
to dispute either: it asked  a question about this on the online application form. And the 
adviser indicated  this wasnt a concern for Mr W. 
Was Gallium entitled to accept instructions from Firm A and not Mr W?
Mr Ws solicitor has acknowledged  he signed a form (whether  Gallium  received this in paper 
form or not) with a statement acknowledging that FCA  rules allow  [Gallium]  to rely on 
information from your Appointed Adviser. We will seek  the information we need before we 
provide investment services from your Appointed Adviser. On any fair and reasonable basis,  
I think this was what Firm A was doing when it completed the online application on his 
behalf. So I think this statement  is of wider application than the solicitor suggests. 
Gallium didnt receive Mr Ws paper  application form but did receive an online application  
containing materially the same statement from Firm A, a regulated firm acting as Mr Ws 
adviser. So I cant say that Gallium  could reasonably have suspected  that Firm A didnt  
Ref: DRN006172618actually have Mr Ws authority, according  to his solicitor. I think that could only ever have 
been a matter to resolve between Mr W and Firm A.
I acknowledge many platforms prefer to take an application from the end client  directly, in 
writing. The screenshots  Gallium provided show it explained at the time that it was optional 
for Firm A to upload Mr Ws signed copy of the application   and I understand Firm A didnt 
do so. The way Galliums  service operated may be a reflection of Firm A rather  than Mr W 
being its client for any DFM carried out. But even if Im wrong  on that, Ive already said that it 
would have been Firm As responsibility to ensure Mr W understood what he was agreeing 
for Firm A to apply for on his behalf.  
Section 21 of the client agreement between Mr W and Gallium (Non-managed investments 
made through us or held by us for you) allows execution-only investments to be made on 
his account. It says:
If you wish us to invest in specific asset classes or in specific investments, you may enter into a 
separate agreement for us to arrange investments  on your behalf. This will allow you to give us 
instructions
Execution-only instructions are defined by the absence of advice. Whilst the instruction to 
invest in the [Firm A] Ultra Conservative  portfolio wouldnt  have been execution-only from 
Mr Ws or Firm As point of view,  the important point  is that it would have been execution-
only from Galliums  point  of view. Firm A selected  its own Ultra Conservative portfolio on the 
online application form, with the purported authority it had to act on Mr Ws behalf. Unlike 
Mr Ws solicitor I agree  with Gallium that its selection of that portfolio  amounted  both as the 
execution-only instruction and the separate  agreement for Gallium  to process such  
instructions  in accordance with section  21. 
I say this as for arguments sake,  had Firm A actually chosen a Vega model portfolio at 
outset  but then wanted  to override that later on with a specific instruction  its 
understandable that a further,  separate agreement may then have been sought in 
accordance with section  21. But in Mr Ws case Im not persuaded that he was put into a 
DFM portfolio in the first instance, so as to necessitate a subsequent agreement  to alter the 
basis of how some or all of his funds  would be managed.
The selection of the [Firm  A] Ultra Conservative portfolio  what  Gallium regards as an 
adviser model portfolio  formed part of the application process itself. So in choosing to 
select from the range of adviser model portfolios (rather  than Vega model portfolios), Firm A 
was entering into an agreement on Mr Ws behalf to give execution-only instructions. And in 
selecting, within that range, the Ultra Conservative portfolio it was then giving the actual 
instruction. I think its irrelevant whether the former was separate to the latter, as the 
distinction is immaterial  when both were  part of Mr Ws initial  application. It wasnt necessary 
for any separate agreement to be entered into for the portfolio instruction to have effect.  
Essentially, all of these issues pertaining to whether the arrangements Firm A entered Mr W 
into were appropriate  would have fallen to Firm A to answer (were  it still trading);  and now 
the FSCS. I appreciate the FSCS  has limits  to what it can award, however that alone doesnt 
make it appropriate for me to attribute responsibility for Mr Ws loss to another party  where I 
cant fairly say it is responsible.
Mr Ws exit fee being  used to pay a third-party  distributor
It appears an exit fee was to be charged  because  this recovered the costs of Provider B 
having already  paid a third-party  distributor.  A distributor will typically promote the fund to 
contacts in the industry and has an arrangement with Provider  B to be paid based  on the 
Ref: DRN006172619total investments  it was able to attract to the fund. As I mentioned above, this wasnt  an 
execution-only investment from Mr W or Firm As point of view.  The fair and reasonable 
assessment of the evidence is that Firm A recommended  he make the investment, 
potentially having  been reached by promotional material about  the fund.
The distributor isnt a regulated firm or under the ombudsman services jurisdiction. However 
the fact that there would be this exit charge  was explained in Provider Bs fund prospectus. 
So again,  I would expect this to form part of the due diligence  Firm A undertook  into its 
recommendation. Whilst its clearly the same fund that Vega included in its own model 
portfolio of the same name, it could only ever have been a matter  for a complaint against  
Firm A in my view as to how it became  aware of the Provider B fund it decided to use it in its 
own portfolio.
Conclusion
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I havent  found grounds to uphold  Mr Ws complaint 
that Gallium ultimately  made the decision  for him to invest in the [Firm A]  Ultra 
Conservative portfolio,  and was therefore responsible  for its suitability in his personal  
circumstances. But the wider background has led to Gallium making Mr W an offer of 
compensation separately to the complaint he originally referred  to us. So Ive considered 
whether that offer is fair.
 
Galliums offer doesnt include compensation for Mr W paying a management fee of more  
than 0.06%pa, because he invested  later than some  investors and has always paid this 
amount. Nevertheless,  it doesnt seem there was timely disclosure that this was the amount 
he would  pay, effectively for just a custody service  from Gallium. And Mr Ws solicitor  has 
now highlighted that the custody fee was zero on the DFM rate card  which was the only 
tariff Mr W could have  seen.
Ive taken this into account in deciding  whether  Galliums offer is fair. But its clearly not 
correct to say that custody costs entirely nothing, so I think  this statement was more about  
Gallium saying that DFM had no additional itemised  costs than the management, platform 
and dealing  fees. In effect the small cost of custody was rolled up into the 0.36%pa DFM 
management fee and that was the pricing basis designed for the DFM service. 
It seems  to me that Gallium was faced  with a dilemma when it realised that clients had been  
on-boarded by its appointed representative,  Vega,  on to a system designed for a future 
DFM proposition  when those clients werent  actually  going to be receiving DFM.  It didnt 
have an existing tariff or rate card for execution-only services  it could refer to; it appears  
because this hadnt been planned beforehand. So it says it rectified the situation by setting 
an ongoing management fee that meant  it would make little if any profit from holding Mr Ws 
investment  after it paid the third parties  it used to provide software and reporting services.
Given that a custody service was still needed for the assets Mr W was holding  on Galliums  
platform, even  if it was an investment in a single  fund, I dont think it would be fair to expect 
Gallium to provide  this for free. It evidently wont be unreasonably profiting from the situation, 
so I cant fairly and reasonably require it to do anything further  in respect of this charge.
Theres also some  confusion  about the dealing  fee, caused it appears by the difficulty  in 
reproducing the specific content  of Firm As online application. We know that DFM attracted 
a dealing fee, but this application  was not for DFM   and the application summary suggests  
there was no dealing fee. Gallium considers the dealing fee was validly charged as this was 
for setting  up Mr W on the platform, rather than specific to DFM. However  its now prepared 
to refund that fee. Again, I consider this is a fair offer as there are a number of problems  with 
Ref: DRN006172620the records of Mr Ws application which have, understandably, led him to complain  even 
though I couldnt uphold  the complaint that Gallium  was actually  providing  DFM.
My understanding is that Gallium is prepared to also add interest  at the rate of 8% per year 
simple  which is the rate the Financial  Ombudsman  Service would typically use  to the 
repayment of the dealing  fee, from the date it was originally taken from his account to the 
date of settlement.  
my provisional decision
I do not intend to uphold  Mr Ws complaint alleging that Gallium Fund Solutions Limited was 
to provide a Discretionary  Fund Management (DFM)  service.  I consider the suitability of the 
Provider B fund rested with his adviser at Firm A.
I consider Gallium has made a fair and reasonable offer in respect of the dealing fee on 
Mr Ws account.
I may make a final decision on this complaint if Mr W has further points to dispute about  
Galliums DFM service.  Im not presently of the view that the outcome is likely to change  
unless Mr W or his solicitor has persuasive further  evidence or arguments to provide. If 
alternatively Mr W would like to accept Galliums  offer he should contact let us know and we 
will inform  Gallium.
Gideon Moore
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0061726