K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs O say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1996.
Both the mortgage  and PPI were in Mr and Mrs Os joint names. The PPI policy  covered  
them for accident and sickness. The monthly  benefit would have covered their mortgage 
payments and an additional  £250  per month.  It was split equally between  Mr and Mrs O. So 
if either of them had made a successful claim on the policy,  it would have paid 50% of the 
monthly benefit. And it would have done  this for up to 12 months  per successful claim. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs O disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Os case.
Where the evidence is incomplete  or inconclusive I need to decide what I thinks  most likely  
to have happened, based on the information  I have.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Os complaint. Ill explain why.
Nationwide no longer  has copies of the paperwork that Mr and Mrs O signed when they 
applied for the mortgage  and PPI. I dont  think thats surprising or unreasonable,  given  
how long ago the sale took place.  Mr and Mrs O say that they were led to believe that 
the PPI was part of the mortgage  process, and that they had no option but to take it in 
order to get the mortgage.
I dont  doubt  that Mr and Mrs O have given us their honest recollection. But Ive borne in 
mind that they took out the mortgage  and PPI more than 20 years  ago. And I think its 
unlikely that they have a clear  memory of what was said at the time.
Ive also borne in mind that Mr and Mrs Os policy only covered them  against  accident 
and sickness.  But we know PPI policies covering accident, sickness and unemployment 
were available through Nationwide  at the time,  and people more  often  than not took 
cover against all three. Overall, I think  its likely that Mr and Mrs O decided  to take cover 
for accident  and sickness only, having  thought  about what  sort of cover they required. 
And the inclusion  of extra cover  would not normally have been automatic. So it looks  as 
if Mr and Mrs O chose  to add that to the cover. 
Ref: DRN06065112I acknowledge that the fact that Mr and Mrs O appear to have selected  a particular level 
and type of cover doesnt,  in itself, mean that they werent  told they had to take PPI. But 
overall, I dont  have  strong  enough evidence to enable me to conclude fairly that 
Mr and Mrs O were  told they had to take the PPI to be given the mortgage.  On balance, 
taking everything into account, I think its more likely that they realised at the time that 
they had the option  of taking PPI to protect  their monthly mortgage  payments, and they 
selected the type and amount  of cover that they wanted.
Nationwide says it didnt advise Mr and Mrs O to take out the PPI. But Mr and Mrs O say 
it did. Based on what we know about the way Nationwide  sold PPI at the time. I think its 
unlikely that it recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs O. This means it didnt have  to 
check that it was suitable for them. But even if it did recommend the PPI, I dont think  it 
was unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs O, based  on what  Ive seen of their circumstances at the 
time.
Mr and Mrs O have  told us that theyd  both have been entitled to between  three  and six 
months pay from their employers at the time if theyd  been off sick. But if theyd made  a 
successful complaint  on the PPI, it would have paid out for up to 12 months.  Whats  
more, it would have paid out in addition to any payments Mr and Mrs O received from 
their employers. So they could have used  those to meet  other day-to-day expenses.
Mr and Mrs O have told us that they earned  enough to be able to afford their mortgage 
payments comfortably, and could  have made  their mortgage  payments using either of 
their salaries alone. But Ive explained that I think they chose to take the PPI even 
though they knew that they didnt have to. The PPI would  have paid out a significant 
benefit for a relatively modest premium. And I dont think  that the fact that they may have 
been able to afford the mortgage payments  on one salary alone made the policy  
unsuitable for them, or that better information  about the cover  that the policy offered 
would have put them off taking it. 
Ive borne in mind  that Mr and Mrs O have told us that they had critical illness and death 
in service cover. But those  provided a different sort of protection to PPI, and paid out in 
different circumstances. So I dont think they made  the PPI unsuitable for Mr and Mrs O.
After the adjudicator sent Mr and Mrs O his view, Mr and Mrs O told us that they had 
savings at the time which would  have covered their mortgage payments for a year.  But 
Ive borne  in mind that Mr and Mrs O chose to protect their savings by not taking out a 
smaller mortgage.  So Im not convinced that theyd  have  wanted  to use their savings to 
make their mortgage  payments,  when they had the option  of taking out the policy.
The cost of the policy was shown reasonably clearly in the mortgage offer. So I think  
Mr and Mrs O would have understood how much  theyd need to pay for it. 
Its possible  Nationwide  didnt point out the main things the policy  didnt cover  (for 
example provisions  about unusual  employment situations, or existing medical 
conditions). But based on what theyve told us about their circumstances at the time,  its 
unlikely Mr and Mrs O would have been affected  by any of these.
Ref: DRN06065113Ive taken into account all Mr and Mrs Os comments, including  what theyve said about  the 
fact that their solicitors  listed  the payments they had to make, and those  included  payments 
for the PPI. They say this suggests that their solicitors must have thought the PPI was 
compulsory. But Im not convinced that thats the case. If Mr and Mrs O had chosen  to take 
PPI, as I think they had, then the premiums would  have  been one of the payments they 
needed to make. 
Mr and Mrs O have also mentioned that they didnt take PPI with a later mortgage. But for 
the reasons Ive set out, Im satisfied, on balance, that Mr and Mrs O, chose to take out PPI 
with the mortgage they took in 1996.  So these points dont change my conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Os complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 July 2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0606511