K820x#14complaint
Ms H says BISL Limited  mis-sold  her a legal expenses insurance policy.  
background
In February 2018  Ms H took out buildings and contents cover  for her property through BISL. 
Her policy included  legal  expenses cover. In December she got in touch with BISL as her 
partner was having problems at work. She wanted to know  whether the policy  would cover 
him. BISL  said it would.  
Solicitors acting for Ms H got in touch with BISL  later in the month to confirm cover. At that 
point it said the policy wouldnt  provide  cover  for Ms Hs partner. That was because he 
wasnt named on the policy.  And while it did cover the spouse of the policyholder  Ms H and 
her partner werent married. BISL accepted Ms H had been  given  inaccurate  information 
when she previously called. It offered to pay a total of £130 to recognise the impact of that 
on her. 
Our investigator thought that was fair but Ms H didnt agree. She said BISL didnt make it 
clear her partner wouldnt be covered when she took the policy out. The cover was called  
Family Legal Protection. As her partner was part of her family she thought he would be 
covered. And she was unhappy shed been  given incorrect information when she 
subsequently spoke to BISL. Her solicitors  also raised concerns about how the policy had 
been interpreted  as they didnt feel it was reasonable  to apply such  a narrow meaning to the 
word spouse. 
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint last month. I said,  in summary:
Ive thought first about the basis on which this policy was sold  so whether or not BISL 
advised Ms H to take it out. Her policy schedule says this was a non-advised sale and I 
understand it was taken  out online. And Ive not seen anything to suggest it was an advised 
sale. 
That means BISL didnt have  to ensure the policy was suitable for Ms H but did have to take 
reasonable steps to ensure she was provided  with clear, fair and not misleading information 
about it. That included  telling her about  any significant exclusions  and limitations of the 
policy. 
Ms H says that BISL didnt explain who the policy would cover. BISL says the online 
introduction to the legal  expenses policy says if you had a dispute  with a neighbourwould 
you like legal  advice and help from us with legal fees you might incur.  It thinks this would 
have indicated to Ms H who the policy  provided  cover for. 
But in fact the policy covers Ms H, her spouse  and children under the age of 21 if normally  
resident at the address  shown in the policy schedule. And in any case the above wording 
was within  the context of a policy  titled Family Legal  Protection It doesnt appear any further 
information about how the policy defined  family  was provided by BISL as part of the sales 
process. And this isnt included in the policy summary. So I can understand why Ms H might 
have thought when taking  the policy out that it would cover her long term partner. 
Ref: DRN05153892However, even if BISL had given Ms H given clearer information  about what the policy 
actually said I dont  think shed have decided against taking it out. Ms H said after the policy 
was sent to her she looked at it and saw the reference to spouse in there. But she didnt 
raise any concerns about this at that point. I understand that was because she didnt realise 
that wouldnt cover a cohabiting  partner.  That means even if shed been given clearer  
information about what the policy actually  said when she took it out it wouldnt have affected 
her decision  to do so. 
And her main  purpose in taking out insurance appears to have been  to ensure she had 
cover for her home. The legal expenses insurance  was included for free. But it wasnt 
something which appears to have  been  particularly important to her. I note when she 
subsequently called  BISL the following December she was unclear as to whether she had 
legal expenses insurance or not. 
In addition when  Ms H took out the policy she didnt know about the employment dispute  her 
partner would subsequently have. And during the application process Ms H had the option  of 
including her partner  as a joint policyholder which would have enabled him to benefit from 
the cover  the policy provided. She was presented with a screen which  said Would you like 
to include anyone else as a policyholder. The explanatory text includes the wording This 
person would be able to make a claim, as well as making changes  and discussing the policy 
with the insurance  provider. 
Ms H didnt include her partner as a joint policyholder. That doesnt  suggest her main  intent  
in arranging insurance was to provide cover  for her partner.  So even if Ms H had been given 
clearer information about what the legal  expenses policy said I think  its likely shed still have 
taken out the cover  BISL offered. Her main purpose in arranging cover was to insure her 
home and she appears to have been happy with the cover  offered through BISL in respect of 
this. So I dont think shes lost out because of anything BISL got wrong  here.
However, its clear that when Ms H got in touch with BISL in December 2018 it wrongly said 
her partner would be covered  by the policy. That shouldnt have happened and I appreciate 
that will have given  her an incorrect expectation  cover could be provided for her partners 
employment dispute. However, the position  was clarified relatively quickly when  her solicitors 
got in touch with BISL. Given that I think the £130 BISL has offered does enough to put 
things right here. 
Ms Hs solicitors have also raised  concerns about  the interpretation of the term spouse 
under the policy.  But thats  more relevant to a decision to turn down a claim under the policy. 
If Ms H has made a claim to the insurer which has been turned down on that basis she may 
want to raise that issue with that insurer as a separate  complaint. I dont think its relevant to 
the complaint  Im deciding which is about the sale of the policy by BISL. 
further developments
BISL didnt respond  to the provisional decision.  Ms Hs solicitors  did. They queried why we 
hadnt considered the decision to turn down the claim and said this was a complaint Ms H 
was intending  to bring. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN05153893Ms Hs solicitors appear to be suggesting we should  have considered  the claim she made as 
part of this complaint.  But thats  not something  we could have done. The seller of the policy 
is BISL. The insurer is a different  business.  So any complaint about the claim needs to be 
considered as part of a separate  complaint.  
As I said in my provisional decision if Ms H has made a complaint to the insurer  and 
received a final response thats potentially something we could look into. If she wants to 
provide the investigator with further information  on this we can move  that forward. But it isnt 
something that impacts  on her complaint against  the seller  of the policy. And for the reasons 
Ive explained  in my provisional decision I dont think theres more BISL needs to do to put 
things right here. 
my final decision
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint  because  I think BISL  Limited has already done 
enough to put things  right. Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im 
required to ask Ms H to accept or reject my decision before 16 November 2019.
James Park
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0515389