K821x#15complaint
Mr T complains that a motorbike that was supplied to him under a conditional sale 
agreement with Close Brothers Limited,  trading  as Close Brothers  Motor  Finance, wasnt of 
satisfactory quality. Hes being helped with his complaint by his daughter-in-law.
background
A motorbike  was supplied to Mr T under a conditional sale agreement  with Close Brothers  
that he electronically signed in March 2017. The agreement says that the bike was used but 
its mileage is shown  as being  only two miles. He used the bike for more  than a year but then 
had a number  of issues with it including a bent side stand, a cracked exhaust, the chain  and 
sprocket corroding and the bike cutting out. He contacted the dealer which said that the bike 
was out of warranty so Mr T complained to Close Brothers. 
He had the bike inspected by an independent  expert who said that items on the bike had 
failed prematurely and shouldve  lasted  far longer than they had before failing. But Close 
Brothers said that there was no evidence that the issues wouldve been present when the 
bike was supplied to Mr T  so it didnt  uphold his complaint. Mr T wasnt satisfied  with its 
response so complained to this service.
The adjudicator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. He didnt  think that it 
was reasonable  to expect such serious faults  to appear after the bike had been used so little. 
Hed said that Close Brothers should  cover  the cost of repair or replacement of the bikes 
exhaust and engine breather pipes  and Mr T had provided it with a quote of £1,332.04 for 
that work.  But Close Brothers  said that those repairs werent financially viable in relation to 
the cost of the bike and it said that there was no evidence that the faults were present when 
the bike was supplied to Mr T.
So he thought that Mr T should be allowed to reject the bike.  And he recommended  that 
Close Brothers should: collect the bike;  remove the agreement from Mr Ts credit  file; refund 
all the monthly payments  he made  from when he complained in September 2018 to when 
the agreement  was settled in February  2019 (with  interest); and refund the deposit  paid by 
Mr T and the tax and insurance payments he made  from when he complained in September 
2018 (all with interest). 
Close Brothers has asked  for this complaint  to be considered by an ombudsman. It says that 
its put the figures to the dealer as it will be responsible for the costs and this isnt an 
outcome that it was willing to accept at this stage.
my provisional decision
After considering all of the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr T 
and to Close Brothers on 5 February 2020.  In my provisional decision I said as follows:
Close Brothers, as the supplier of the motorbike, was responsible for ensuring that it 
was of satisfactory quality. Whether or not it was will depend on a number of factors, 
including the age, and mileage of the bike and the price that was paid for it. 
I consider that the bike that was supplied to Mr T was new as its mileage  was shown 
on the agreement  as only two miles car. And I consider that it was reasonable for him 
to expect that it would  be free from even minor defects. Satisfactory quality also 
covers durability which means that the components within the car must be durable 
Ref: DRN01112622and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long that time is will depend 
on a number of factors. 
Mr T was able to use the bike without  any issues  for more than a year but he says 
that he then had a number of issues with it including a bent side stand, a cracked 
exhaust, the chain and sprocket corroding and the bike cutting out. He contacted  the 
dealer which  said that the bike was out of warranty so he complained to Close 
Brothers in September 2018.
The bike was inspected  by an independent  expert in September  2018 and the expert 
said: 
Upon inspecting  the exhaust system  and engine breather pipes on the above 
vehicle I am of the opinion that the failure of the exhaust is due to a 
manufacturing fault, the fracture in the silencer is not something that can be 
attributed to external causes or any lack of the owners care or maintenance, 
the general condition of the motorcycle is very good  having covered only 
2734 Miles from new in March 2017, likewise the cracking of the engine 
breather pipes  is purely a material fault,  it is of my opinion with over 30 years' 
experience in the motor trade  that these items have failed prematurely and 
should have lasted far longer than they have before failing.
There doesnt seem to be any dispute that there are issues with the bike.  But Close 
Brothers says that theres no evidence to show that the issues  were  present when 
the bike was supplied to Mr T. I consider that it was a new bike and that it was 
reasonable for Mr T to expect it to last for longer  than it has (and for it to be ridden for 
considerably more than 2,734 miles) without needing such  major repairs. So I 
consider that the bike wasnt as durable as it was reasonable for Mr T to expect it to 
be  and for that reason  it wasnt  of satisfactory  quality when it was supplied  to him.
And I consider that it would be fair and reasonable for Close Brothers  to allow  Mr T to 
reject the bike. He settled  the agreement in February 2019 and made a statutory off 
road notification about  the bike in the same month. He says that he hasnt used the 
bike since he first complained to Close Brothers  because its unsafe and unusable.
I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Close Brothers to collect  the bike from 
Mr T and to refund to him the payments that he made for it from the date that he first 
complained to Close Brothers in September 2018.
Mr T paid £800 to Close Brothers in May 2017 - in addition  to the usual monthly  
payment of £65.70 - and the agreement shows that he paid a deposit of £600 for the 
bike (which has been confirmed by Close Brothers). I find that it would be fair and 
reasonable for Close Brothers to refund  that deposit and the £800  payment to him 
(with interest). Mr T has paid for the bike to be taxed and insured and I consider that 
Close Brothers should reimburse him for those payments that he made  from when he 
complained to it in September 2018 until the statutory off road notification  was made 
for the bike in February 2019 (but Mr T will need to provide it with evidence of those 
payments). I consider that it should also remove any information  about the 
agreement from Mr Ts credit file.  
Ref: DRN01112623So in addition to the recommendations made by the adjudicator, I consider that it 
would be fair and reasonable for Close Brothers to also refund to Mr T the £800  that 
he paid to it in May 2017 (with  interest).
So subject to any further representations by Mr T or Close Brothers,  my provisional decision  
was that I was minded to uphold this complaint.  Mr T has accepted  my provisional decision 
but Close Brothers hasnt  responded to it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As Close Brothers  hasnt responded to 
my provisional decision, I see no reason to change  the conclusions that I reached in it.
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, my decision is that I uphold Mr Ts complaint and I order 
Close Brothers Limited, trading as Close Brother  Motor Finance, to:
1.Arrange for the motorbike to be collected from Mr T at no cost to him.
2.Refund to Mr T the deposit of £600  that he paid for the bike.
3.Refund to Mr T the payment of £800  that he made for the bike in May 2017.  
4.Refund to Mr T the monthly payments that hes made under the agreement  from 
when he complained to it in September  2018.
5.Reimburse Mr T for the payments  that he made  to tax and insure the bike from when 
he complained  to it in September  2018  until a statutory off road notification  was made 
for the bike in February 2019 (but Mr T will need to provide it with evidence of the 
payments).
6.Pay interest on the amounts at 2, 3 and 4 above at an annual rate of 8% simple from 
the date of each  payment to the date of settlement.
7.Remove any information about the agreement that its recorded on Mr Ts credit file.
Ref: DRN01112624HM Revenue & Customs  requires Close Brothers to deduct tax from the interest  payment 
referred to at 6 above. Close Brothers  must give Mr T a certificate  showing  how much tax its 
deducted if he asks it for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0111262