K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that Gain Credit  LLC trading as Drafty lent to him irresponsibly.
Mr B also complains about the emails hes received from Drafty.
background
This was not a loan. Drafty offered  a credit facility which  commenced  with a limit being  
determined and then the customer was able to draw down the amounts he or she requires. 
The credit was unsecured  and had no fixed duration. 
In August  2016,  Mr B was given a £500  credit  limit and in his application form Mr B declared 
an income of £15,000. This figure was placed in the MonthlyIncome box. I will deal with this 
later in this decision.  Mr B declared  outgoings of £850. Drafty says that it carried  out checks.
The credit agreement set out the total cost of the credit based on some  assumptions to 
illustrate the likely  cost to Mr B. On the assumption  that Mr B drew down the full £500  on the 
first day and then repaid  it (plus interest and charges) over 12 months in equal instalments 
then the total amount payable would have been just under  £686.  This would have equated  to 
about £57 a month (Clause 5 in the agreement).  
The arrangement did include  a Billing Cycle which meant that a statement was produced  
ten days before Mr Bs salary payment, and it gave the minimum payment required for that 
cycle. It had to be the higher of certain calculations which are in the agreement  at clause 6 
which I have not set out here. 
A Continuous Payment  Authority was used to take the minimum payments on or near Mr Bs 
monthly salary date. Other ways of payment  were  made available.
Mr Bs credit  limit appears to have been  increased around July 2017 to £750 and then again 
in December 2017 to £1,120. Mr Bs account  was suspended in March 2018 and there is an 
outstanding balance on it. 
One of our adjudicators looked  at this complaint and in December 2019  thought  that the 
original credit limit of £500 was an appropriate  amount  and likely affordable. But he went  on 
to say: I think that by 18 February 2017, Drafty shouldve been  concerned  with the way in 
which [Mr B] was using this facility. I say this because [Mr B] had 12 drawdowns in 21 days, 
and I think that the number  of drawdowns  in a short space  of time could indicate that [Mr Bs] 
financial position mayve  changed. This was also his 32nd drawdown in around six months.
Mr B did not reply to the adjudicators opinion at this point. Drafty agreed  with our adjudicator 
and said: Considering the points  that have been  raised in your assessment letter dated 
19th December 2019, we would like to confirm that we agree to refund the interest  and 
charges paid towards the account  [] from 18th February 2017.
Drafty has calculated an offer which was in-line with our adjudicators recommendations. The 
reality of the situation  is that after the refund,  plus interest (less tax) has been calculated  for 
that period, and then set-off against  the outstanding  balance, it results in Mr B still owing 
Drafty a sum of money. These calculations are a couple of months out of date now and so 
I do not list them here. 
Ref: DRN03546012Then Mr B objected to the adjudicators view and Draftys offer.  Mr B remained concerned 
about the £15,000 a month income  point. And Mr B made several  additional points three of 
which are here:
I fully understand  I used  that money  and accepted it, regardless of my mental state but they 
should hold some accountability
 Drafty add a default onto my credit  account, sometime 4 times in one month. 
either ignore  me to which I have to email Up to 4 times for a reply,  or I get harsh  and 
boarding [sic] on bullying  emails.
Our adjudicator answered these points in a second view and briefly they were:
Drafty  should have  checked your income  and if it had it would have found that it was 
more like £1,500  a month (not £15,000), and if Drafty had verified this information,  it 
would still have  assessed the £500 limit to have been affordable and so Drafty was 
not wrong to lend to Mr B in August  2016;   
Drafty  has agreed that it must  correct  Mr Bs credit file so that would be done;
our adjudicator had not been provided with any emails which fell into the description  
given by Mr B and so he was not able to comment further.  
The complaint remains unresolved and was passed  to me for a decision.  
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have considered  the law, any relevant 
regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time the credit  was offered.
the emails
Dealing with the emails first  I have seen the correspondence between  Mr B and Drafty for 
some of the time period  and leading up to his complaint  to it in May 2018,  but I do not read 
these as being harsh or bullying as Mr B says that they were.  So, I do not uphold that part of 
his complaint. If Mr B is referring to more  recent  emails, I have not seen those, and Mr B has 
had time to send them  to us, but none  further  have  been received.  
 
the Drafty  account
 
Before lending money to a consumer or approving a credit limit a lender should  take 
proportionate steps to understand whether  the consumer will be able to repay what  they are 
borrowing in a sustainable manner without it adversely  impacting  on their financial situation.  
Ref: DRN03546013A lender should gather enough  information  for it to be able to make an informed decision on 
the lending. Although the guidance  and rules themselves did not set out compulsory checks, 
they did list several things  a lender  could  consider  before  agreeing to lend. The key element 
was that any checks  needed to be proportionate and had to consider several different things, 
including how much was being lent and when  the sum being borrowed was due to be repaid. 
I need to explain  to Mr B that upon first approaching Drafty in August 2016  it would not be 
expected, and would not be proportionate, for Drafty to carry out a full and comprehensive 
financial review. Mr B was a new customer. And bearing in mind  the credit limit granted  and 
the monthly payments required to repay the facility  within a reasonable period, Drafty was 
entitled to rely on the information  given  to it which suggested that Mr B had enough 
disposable income to service a credit facility with a limit of £500. And it carried  out its own 
credit search. 
And I cannot ignore the fact that Drafty has agreed with our adjudicators view. And Mr B 
accepts that he has had the benefit  of the money  lent through  the facility. Drafty  having 
conceded then it has made itself accountable,  as Mr B wants it to. So, this decision is quite 
short. 
I appreciate that Mr B continues to be concerned about the £15,000 per month figure  he put 
on his application  form and which Drafty  used,  but as our adjudicator  has explained, 
verification to show that Mr Bs income was at the more realistic figure of £1,500 a month 
would still have led it to conclude that Mr B was able to afford the £500 limit with the 
projected repayments of about £57 a month. So, I agree with our adjudicator here and I say 
no more about  the salary  figure. 
After the initial approval of the credit limit at the start of the account  facility, Drafty did have to 
monitor Mr Bs account and it has not explained  to us how it did that. I refer to the Financial 
Conduct Authority  Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) chapter 6 which addresses the 
expected Business Practices in relation to the monitoring of an account. One indication of a 
risk of a customer being in financial  difficulties  is where it seems  that the customer is 
borrowing to repay  borrowing.
I have been able to see Mr Bs personal credit file to give me an idea as to what his situation 
was like and therefore  what likely  would have appeared on a business credit  search  if one 
was done by Drafty.  Some  of the reasons given by our adjudicator and outlined in the 
background section  to this decision are ones I agree with. 
I think that by continuing  to offer the credit facility,  Mr B was exposed to additional  interest 
charges. Mr B was not really coping  with the account. From the 18 February 2017 I think  that 
Drafty should put things right as set out below.
Ref: DRN03546014If Drafty has sold the outstanding debt it should buy this back if possible and then take the 
following steps. If not, then Drafty should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the 
results outlined below:
calculate the amount of all interest  and charges  Mr B paid from any drawdowns  on or 
after18 February  2017;
write off any unpaid interest charged  from that same date;
rework the sums  paid such that from 18 February 2017  any amounts paid to the 
account are applied to the reduction  of the principal;
arrange for any outstanding balance to be paid off by agreeing a mutually agreeable 
and affordable repayment plan; 
once the debt has been  repaid then amend  the credit file to remove  any adverse 
payment information  from February 2017  onwards. 
If there is a surplus due to Mr B, then this needs  to be paid to him with the added 8% annual  
simple interest*. But as the outstanding sum is quite large then I doubt this will apply in 
Mr Bs case.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Drafty to take off tax from this interest. It must give Mr B 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint in part and Gain  Credit LLC, trading as 
Drafty, should do as I have outlined above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 May 2020.
Rachael Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0354601