K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1998. Mr G says Bank of Scotland  plc trading as Halifax mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Gs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Halifax had to make Mr G aware the PPI was optional and gain his consent  before adding it 
to his card. I cant be certain what was said at the time Mr G applied  for his card and PPI, but 
Halifax has provided a copy of the available paperwork. Mr Gs credit card application form 
had a separate section for PPI where the option to take the policy  was selected before the 
form was printed. I think its likely the decision to take the policy  was made  during a 
conversation Mr G had with a Halifax representative at the time. Mr G has also signed the 
agreement with the selections that were made. So I think  Halifax  made it clear that Mr G 
didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  although I can understand why 
he may not remember this.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr G so it had to check that the PPI was right for him. Mr G 
has told us he would  have  been entitled to statutory sick pay when he applied  for the card so 
he wouldnt  have needed PPI. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to Mr Gs sick 
pay, and for longer. 
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Gs circumstances  at the time,  he wasnt affected by any of 
the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  and he seems to have had a need  for the cover. 
So I think it was right for him.  
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr G about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems  
like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put him off taking out 
the cover. 
Which means Halifax doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr G.
But Halifax  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr G because: 
Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr G about that. Because  Halifax didnt  tell Mr G, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Halifax  has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN08211342Ive thought about everything Mr G has said - including  what he has said about  not claiming 
on the policy as he didnt know he had it. But I dont think  this means  the policy was mis-
sold. If Mr G wants to attempt a retrospective  claim he should contact the insurer  of the 
policy directly.  These points dont change  my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr G.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr G any commission  and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 October  2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0821134