K820x#14complaint
Mr Y complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE has refused a claim made  under his accident 
and sickness policy. 
background
Mr Y stopped work.  He was diagnosed with cervical radiculopathy, and he made  a claim 
under the policy.  
Great Lakes said Mr Y had experienced the symptoms that prevented him from working 
before taking out the policy, and therefore his claim was excluded. Mr Y disagreed with 
Great Lakes decision and so he brought  the matter to this service. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  She thought it had been 
reasonable for Great Lakes to turn down the claim.  
Mr Y has asked  for an ombudsmans decision,  so the complaint has been  passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The policy says:
What is not covered:

b) Accident and/or sickness and/or Hospitalisation  which is caused  by a pre-existing 
condition.
Pre-existing condition is defined in the policy as:
Any injury, sickness, disease or medical  condition including  any related conditions and/or 
associated symptoms where:
you received advice, treatment, medication  or a consultation; or
you were made aware of, or experienced symptoms of, or should reasonably have  
known about;  or
you have seen  or arranged to see a Doctor;
in the last 12 months immediately preceding the policy  start date or the amendment  date, 
whether a diagnosis was made or not. 
The issue  for me to therefore consider is whether the symptoms that prevented Mr Y from 
working were present  before  he took out the policy. 
In November 2017, Mr Y saw a consultant neurologist (Dr C). Dr C said that over the past 18 
months, Mr Y had increasing  problems with headaches and some associated  feelings of 
lightheadedness. Dr C noted that Mr Y experiences  anxiety and recognises there is an 
interplay between his anxiety  and his headaches. Dr C didnt think  Mr Ys symptoms  were a 
Ref: DRN00136952reflection of any significant underlying  neurological  process and thought there may well be 
an interaction with his anxiety. However, he said he would  arrange an MRI scan  of the brain.  
In December 2017, Mr Y again saw Dr C. He noted  that Mr Y had reported prominent 
headaches perhaps three  or four times a week. And his feeling of lightheadedness persisted. 
Dr C said that the MRI scan of his brain  was normal. 
On 2 February 2018, Mr Y took out the policy. 
Mr Y stopped work at the end of February  2018. On his first sickness  certificate, his GP 
wrote he couldnt work because of gastritis, headaches, neck  pain. Later sickness  
certificates said it was only Mr Ys headaches which preventing him from working. 
On 8 March 2018,  Mr Y saw Dr C again.  Dr C said thered been no significant change in Mr 
Ys headaches or feelings of lightheadedness. However, Mr Y had reported experiencing 
some neck  pain and some numbness in his left hand over the previous ten days. 
Dr C said he thought there were two separate concerns   the first being  headaches and 
feelings of lightheadedness, which he said were severe enough to mean Mr Y was struggling  
to work. And the second being the combination  of neck  pain and numbness in the left hand, 
which Dr C thought was a reflection  of cervical radiculopathy. He said examination revealed 
no evidence of significant radiculopathy. He said Mr Y wanted  an MRI of his spine  to clarify 
matters, and also an MRI of his brain  given his ongoing headaches and dizziness. Dr C 
confirmed that Mr Y would  arrange  this through his insurance company. 
On 29 March 2018, Dr C again met with Mr Y. He noted the MRI of the brain was normal. 
The MRI of the spine  showed some degenerative changes. Dr C thought  this supported  that 
the symptoms in Mr Ys left hand were a reflection of cervical radiculopathy. He noted that 
Mr Ys psychiatrist had suggested a certain  type of medication for his psychiatric symptoms. 
Dr C said that this medication  would be symptomatic treatment  for his headaches and 
sensory symptoms in the left arm (I understand that the medication treats both anxiety and 
nerve pain). 
I see that Mr Ys GP has since reissued  his sickness certificates to say that he wasnt  able to 
work because of his cervical radiculopathy. But thats not supported  by the evidence  from Dr 
C, who is a specialist. Dr C is of the opinion that Mr Ys headaches are a separate  issue to 
his symptoms of cervical radiculopathy  which are neck pain and numbness in his left hand.  
And Dr C has referred to it being  the headaches  which have prevented  Mr Y from working, 
rather than his cervical radiculopathy symptoms. This corresponds to the information on the 
original sickness certificates. 
Im therefore  satisfied that the contemporaneous evidence  supports that it was Mr Ys 
headaches that prevented him from working.  As he was experiencing the headaches before 
he took out the policy, I think  it was reasonable for Great Lakes to turn down Mr Ys claim,  as 
his symptoms fell under  the pre-existing condition exclusion. 
Mr Y says he wants Great Lakes to refund his premiums and pay him £1,000 compensation 
for material and emotional distress. This is because he thinks the policy  has proved to be 
unsuitable for him, and he says Great Lakes customer service manner was appalling. 
Although Great Lakes turned down Mr Ys claim, the policy  would have responded if his 
claim had been  eligible.  I therefore see no reason to require Great  Lakes to return the 
Ref: DRN00136953premiums Mr Y has paid. I also havent  seen  any evidence that Great  Lakes has done 
something wrong which has caused Mr Y material and emotional  distress.  I therefore dont 
require it to pay him any compensation. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 July 2019.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0013695