K821x#15Complaint
Mr W has complained about the advice he received from Portafina LLP to transfer a defined  
benefit occupational pension scheme  (OPS) he held with his former employer to a Self-
Invested Personal Pension (SIPP).  The funds within the SIPP  were then used to invest  in 
several unregulated  collective investment  schemes  (UCIS).
Mr W is being represented  by a third party but for ease of reading the decision Ill refer to all
representations as being made by Mr W.
Background
Mr W was introduced to Portafina in 2014  after hed been in contact  with another business,  
from here on referred to as Firm C. At the time, Firm C was an appointed  representative  
(AR) of a regulated  business, Firm S. Firm S was authorised by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) to provide investment advice, but neither it, nor Firm C were  permitted to 
provide pension transfer advice. 
A fact-find  was completed which noted  that Mr W was almost 57 years  old, married  and was 
not currently working due to ill health.  His income was provided by state benefits. He owned 
his home  outright and had £2,000 in cash savings and £12,000 in investments. It was noted 
Mr W held retained  benefits within an OPS, which had offered a Cash  Equivalent Transfer  
Value (CETV) of £99,257. This was projected to provide a pension of £7,248 per annum 
from age 65. Due to the Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP) requirements, this pension 
could not be commuted and no tax free cash (TFC) was payable  from the scheme.
It was recorded  that Mr W required a lump sum payment from his pension to purchase a car 
and make renovations  to his home.  Portafina  carried out a risk-profiling exercise and 
determined Mr W had a moderately adventurous attitude to risk (ATR). Portafina 
recommended that he transfer his OPS benefits  into a new SIPP to achieve his objective of 
obtaining the TFC.  It also said that the investment advice  would  be provided to him by 
Firm C.
The SIPP was opened and the CETV of £98,689.08 was transferred on 4 December 2014. 
The next day £24,672.27 was taken as TFC. The rest of the funds were  invested as follows:
UCIS
Brisa Investments  £9,700
Biomass Investments  £6,900 
UK Strategic  Residential  £9,700
Lakeview UK Holdings   £6,900
Real Estate USA  £6,900 
Regulated Investments
VT iFunds Absolute Return Orange Fund  £6,903.18
Marlborough ETF Global  Growth Fund  £18,635.72 
In August  2018,  Mr W complained to Portafina that the advice to transfer his OPS benefits  
was unsuitable  for him and he did not understand the risks he was being exposed to. 
However, Portafina rejected his complaint, saying that his existing  plan was made  up of 
GMP benefits which could  not be commuted and the only way he could access  his TFC was 
to transfer out of his OPS. 
Ref: DRN00402152Portafina also said that Mr W had confirmed in a telephone conversation on 9 August  2018  
that he was happy with the transfer  itself and it is was only the funds  which he was unhappy 
with. It stated that it wasnt responsible for providing  any investment advice, as this was the 
responsibility of Firm C. Mr W then brought his complaint to this service.
An adjudicator considered  the complaint and recommended it be upheld. He was satisfied 
that the recommendation to transfer  away from the OPS was appropriate  in itself. However, 
he believed  that Mr W had limited  capacity to incur  financial loss and it would typically be 
prudent to lower  investment  risk as someone  gets closer to retirement. As such, he thought 
recommending a moderately  adventurous  investment strategy was unsuitable. The 
investigator noted that Portafina should  have familiarised themselves with the underlying  
investments, as it was not possible to provide suitable advice without knowing where the 
funds were going to be invested. The actual portfolio was unsuitable,  as it included high risk, 
illiquid and unregulated investments. While Mr W did require a lump sum from his pension, 
he said a cautious  investment  approach  would  have been more  suitable for a newly  
arranged pension plan.
Portafina didnt  agree. The arguments it set out were similar to the original response to 
Mr W, namely that the transfer to a SIPP was appropriate and Portafina  was not responsible  
for the performance  of the investments.  It noted  that a transfer  was the only means of 
accessing TFC and the SIPP was an appropriate  vehicle  for this. The charges were low and 
it offered investments  in low risk products. It believed Mr Ws ATR was accurately assessed 
as moderately  adventurous  and the fact Firm C subsequently invested him in high risk 
strategies was a different matter.
Portafina also disagreed with the redress methodology outlined by the adjudicator  and 
argued that any comparator should be based  on the performance of their own model 
portfolio against  the benchmark  and not the value of Mr Ws actual pension  portfolio.
Because the parties have  disagreed, the case has come to me to make  a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I think  the complaint 
should be upheld.  Ill explain  why.
Portafina advised Mr W to transfer his OPS to a SIPP but says it didnt provide any 
recommendation regarding the investments held within the SIPP, as Firm C was meant to 
provide this. Although the intention was for another regulated firm to advise on and arrange 
Mr Ws underlying  SIPP  investments, I dont think that meant  Portafinas  responsibilities  
ended once the SIPP was set up, the funds  transferred, and the money then made available  
for investment. I believe that as Mr Ws financial adviser, Portafina  still had a duty to ensure 
the overall transaction was suitable,  notwithstanding that another regulated firm was going to 
be involved. 
Suitable advice  couldnt,  in my view, be given without thinking  about the intended  
investment. Portafina  appeared  to recognise this in its suitability report when, despite saying 
Firm C would  provide specific investment advice, it set out its own fund  recommendations 
for the asset classes  Mr W should  invest in and to what extent, suggesting that, due to his 
moderately adventurous risk profile, Mr W invest in the following assets:
Ref: DRN00402153Cash 10%
Equities 70%
Other Fixed Interest   5%
Secured Structured  Bonds 15%
Portafina explained that secured bonds werent regulated  collective investments and could 
only be recommended  by authorised and regulated independent financial advisers (IFAs)  
such as itself. It said that while secured bonds  werent covered by the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme (FSCS), its recommendations  relating to them were. It added that 
secured bonds  werent volatile and therefore reduced the overall volatility of Mr Ws portfolio.
The regulators position
Having thought carefully about what happened  here, I dont think Portafinas  categorisation 
of Mr W as a moderately adventurous investor  was suitable. And I dont  think  it was right to 
try to limit its advice in the way it sought  to. At the time of the advice the regulator had made 
its view clear that it considered in order to suitably advise on pension  transfers, a firm 
needed to consider the suitability of the underlying investments to be held in it. 
The regulators position  was evident  in its 2013 alert where it said:
Financial advisers  () are under the mistaken impression () they do not have to consider 
the unregulated  investment as part of their advice to invest  in the SIPP and that they only 
need to consider the suitability of the SIPP in the abstract. This is incorrect. 
The [regulators] view is that the provision of suitable advice generally requires consideration 
of the other investments  held by the customer or, when advice is given on a product which is 
a vehicle for investment in other products (such as SIPPs and other  wrappers), 
consideration of the suitability of the overall proposition,  that is, the wrapper and the 
expected underlying investments in unregulated  schemes. It should  be particularly clear  to 
financial advisers that, where a customer seeks advice on a pension  transfer in 
implementing a wider  investment  strategy, the advice on the pension transfer must take 
account of the overall investment strategy the customer is contemplating () If you give 
regulated advice and the recommendation will enable investment in unregulated items, you 
cannot separate out the unregulated elements from the regulated elements.
Portafina appears to have  been under the impression that, as it told Mr W it wasnt  providing 
any advice on the underlying investments, this enabled  it to provide advice on a restricted  
basis. But this wasnt right. It couldnt separate out the two elements. Its advice on the 
suitability of the transfer had to include the suitability  of the underlying  investments. I dont 
think there was any ambiguity regarding the regulators position  on the matter.
Portafina says that this alert was specific to situations where  the other firm that made the 
investment recommendations for the underlying assets of the SIPP was an unregulated 
introducer. It believes this distinguishes the circumstances of Mr Ws transaction  from the 
scenario that the alert was aimed at, and as a result absolved it from its duty to assess  the 
overall suitability  of the proposed investments. Whilst  Ive given that possibility careful 
thought, I dont agree that the alert was limited to those very specific circumstances.
I can see that the alert makes it clear that suitable  investment advice  generally  requires 
consideration of the other investments held by the customer, as well as the suitability of the 
Ref: DRN00402154overall proposition  when  advice is given on a product that is a vehicle for investment in other  
products (such as the SIPP in Mr Ws case). It further refers to the broadly applicable rules  
and guidance  that ensure that in all instances of advice, a firm must first take time to 
familiarise itself with the wider investment and financial circumstances. In saying that, I dont
think the FCA intended that in pension switch and transfer cases,  regard to the overall 
proposition was only required where  the introducing firm was unregulated, or where the 
assets contemplated included unregulated  investments.
In my view, the regulator was indicating that these are standards that have broad application 
to pension switch  and transfer advice,  but pointing out that it had particular concern about 
cases in which unregulated firms and unregulated products put the consumer at risk. So, 
I think this alert is relevant  to firms  in the position  of Portafina in this case. This is further 
demonstrated by an alert from the regulator in 2014,  which  stated:
Where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer  will () transfer 
() to release funds to invest through a SIPP, then the suitability of the underlying  
investment must form part of the advice given  to the customer. If the underlying investment 
is not suitable (), then the overall advice is not suitable.
If a firm does not fully understand the underlying  investment  proposition intended to be held 
within a SIPP, then it should not offer advice on the pension transfer () at all as it will not 
be able to assess suitability of the transaction  as a whole.
Both alerts specifically referred  to the regulators  overarching Principles for Businesses  
(PRIN) and Conduct of Business Rules (COBS), which  Portafina  was subject to. And with 
reference to PRIN and COBS the alerts  said a firm would  fall short  of its obligations under 
these precepts if it didnt  familiarise  itself with the intended investment strategy  and that it 
wouldnt be able to recommend a new product, like a SIPP, without doing so.
Under COBS 2.1.2 Portafina also couldnt seek to exclude or restrict its duty or liability to 
Mr W under  the regulatory system. So, saying it was operating under a limited  retainer didnt  
absolve it of its duty of care to ensure the advice it was providing  was suitable  again, this 
had to include consideration  of how Mr Ws funds would be invested.
COBS 9.2 required  Portafina to take reasonable steps to make sure its recommendation was 
suitable for Mr W. To achieve this, COBS 9.2.2R  said Portafina  had to obtain enough 
information from Mr W to ensure its recommendation met his objectives,  that he could bear 
the related investment risks consistent with these  objectives and that he had the necessary 
experience and knowledge  to understand the risks involved in the transaction.
COBS 9.2.2R included  the following wording:
(...) The information regarding the investment objectives of a client  must include,  where  
relevant, information  on the length of time for which he wishes  to hold the investment, his
preferences regarding risk taking, his risk profile,  and the purposes of the investment.
So as part of the fact-finding process  Portafina had to understand Mr Ws objectives   which 
included a willingness  to take more risk and a desire to make  specific investments and move  
away from equity backed investments   and the related risks. It wasnt  free to ignore how 
Mr Ws funds  were going to be invested irrespective of Firm Cs involvement. I consider the 
underlying investments in the SIPP to be inextricably linked to the risks relating to the SIPP, 
Ref: DRN00402155so assessing the risk and suitability of a transfer  without knowing what Mr W would invest  in 
within the wrapper,  doesnt in my mind seem reasonably possible.
Like COBS, PRIN formed part of the regulatory  framework that existed  at the time of 
Portafinas advice  and had to be complied  with. Principles 1 (conducting business with 
integrity); 2 (exercising due skill, care and diligence); 6 (having regard for customers  
interests and treating  them  fairly); 7 (communicating information in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way) and 9 (ensuring the suitability of advice  for a customer  entitled to rely on the 
firms judgement) are of particular relevance to this case. In addition to what  Ive outlined  
above. Ive considered Portafinas advice with these  in mind.
As Portafina didnt consider itself responsible for any advice regarding the underlying assets 
of the SIPP  it recommended, it says it was unaware of where,  further to Firm Cs 
involvement, Mr Ws transferred funds would ultimately be invested. As Firm C was 
regulated and able to provide investment advice with a duty to ensure this was suitable,  
it says it saw no issue with this.
Portafina also says that its advisers  carried out extensive due diligence on Firm C, including 
background checks on key individuals, assessing the scope of their permissions and 
information about previous complaints. It also said it requested details of the investment 
strategy Firm C was likely to deploy  for clients such as Mr W. Portafina says it was satisfied 
Firm C was qualified to provide investment  advice  and the FCA allows for one regulated  firm 
to assess the pension transfer and the other to provide investment advice.
Portafina hasnt  provided us with evidence of the due diligence  it carried out on Firm C in 
connection with this complaint. But even if Portafina  had carried the general  due diligence 
checks it has mentioned, I dont think that satisfies the regulators expectations as set out in 
the alerts. The checks it made on Firm C weren't specific to the investments envisaged  for 
Mr W. Furthermore, it has not provided  any examples of the investment strategy they 
requested from Firm C, so have not demonstrated how the likely strategy matched or 
differed from their own model  portfolio.
I also havent seen  any evidence that further checks were made by Portafina to satisfy itself 
that the pension transfer  advice it was giving to clients  was aligned with the investment 
advice they were receiving from Firm C. The need to do so was a necessary part of the 
suitability assessment carried out by Portafina for individual  clients. But I think  it was also a 
reasonable due diligence requirement brought about by the ongoing relationship it had with 
Firm C. This wouldve highlighted  any patterns of unsuitable or unaligned  advice, which 
could be identified and addressed.
I accept that as a result  of its AR agreement with Firm S, Firm C was required to give 
suitable advice.  However, I dont agree  that this negated Portafinas duty to do the same. As 
Mr Ws appointed financial adviser, it had a significant responsibility to provide suitable  
advice and act in Mr Ws best interests. And as Ive said, this had to include an awareness  of 
where Mr Ws funds  would  be invested.  
I recognise that the FCA allows  for two advisers  to work together to provide suitable advice 
to their mutual client. However,  the alerts  makes it clear that a firm that is asked to advise on 
a pension transfer needs to be aware  of the intended investments before it advises on the 
transfer, in order  to provide suitable  advice.  So, I think  it shouldve  requested  this information 
from Firm C before providing advice. And, as confirmed  in the 2014 alert, if it didnt fully 
understand the underlying  Investment proposition intended to be held in the SIPP,  it 
Ref: DRN00402156shouldnt have offered advice  on the pension transfer at all. So, in the absence of Portafina 
knowing the investments  Firm C intended for Mr W, it couldnt  provide him with suitable  
advice to transfer his OPS.
The reality  is that having  followed Portafinas transfer advice, over half of Mr Ws SIPP was 
invested in UCIS. I think the regulators 2010  UCIS findings are relevant here. The regulator  
said that as well as UCIS  only being eligible for promotion to certain customers  (generally 
sophisticated, high net worth  investors),  as an example, even when a customer  was deemed 
eligible for the promotion of UCIS,  suitable advice involved limiting a client's  exposure  to 
these investments to 3% to 5% of their retirement  provision. In Mr Ws case over half of his 
SIPP, 54%, was invested in UCIS.  I dont think UCIS was suitable  for Mr W at all, let alone in 
the proportion  invested. Theres nothing to indicate Mr W had the requisite knowledge or 
experience to accept  or understand the risks associated with these types of investments.
In my view, had Portafina requested information  about the proposed  investments and been 
advised that Firm C intended to invest Mr W at over three times the level of UCIS funds they 
might have expected,  it couldve queried this, given how at odds it was with what it 
determined an appropriate  asset  allocation for Mr W was. It must be noted  at this point that 
Portafinas own model portfolios allocation of 15% of assets into assets  akin to UCIS was 
itself inappropriate  and, had Firm C invested him at this level,  the portfolio would still be 
unsuitable for the reasons  noted above.
I dont agree with Portafinas assessment of Mr Ws risk rating as moderately adventurous 
and will explain  why later.  However, I think that had appropriate enquiries  been made,  it 
wouldve become  apparent  something was amiss with Firms Cs proposal  and that the 
transfer was therefore unsuitable and likely to lead to Mr W being exposed  to more risk than 
Portafina considered  appropriate. 
I think its likely that, having  realised how significantly the investments Firm C intended to 
make differed from those  it had based  its suitability assessment  on, Portafina couldve taken 
preventative action or at the very least made Mr W aware of the situation so he could, if 
servicing rights had already been  transferred to Firm C, take corrective action himself.  
Overall, I think Portafina needed to satisfy itself that its recommendation was based on the 
investment proposition that Firm C intended  for Mr W. It shouldve asked Firm C for the 
specifics of this or, as a minimum, an outline of the proposition. Had it done so, and Firm C 
had given it a clear framework of the proposition, then I wouldve expected Portafina to have 
advised Mr W that it couldnt recommend he transfer away from his OPS in those 
circumstances. If Portafina had warned Mr W against investing in line with Firm Cs proposal, 
I think its more likely than not that Mr W wouldve listened to it and not exposed his pension 
to such an unnecessary level of risk.
In my view, the fact that Portafina didnt take sufficient steps to consider the investment 
proposal for Mr W when assessing the suitability of the proposed  transfer, meant that it 
couldnt reasonably conclude the course  of action it recommended  as a solution  to Mr Ws 
needs was being made  on a sound basis. And as a result of these shortcomings,  it seems to 
me that Firm C was in effect given  the freedom and opportunity to do as it wished with how 
Mr Ws SIPP was invested.
Was the advice  to transfer suitable?
Ref: DRN00402157Ill now consider whether  the transfer ought  to have  been recommended in any event. It is 
clear from Mr Ws background and circumstances that he satisfied  the FCA definition  of a 
Retail Client  i.e. he was neither a professional client or an eligible counterparty.  Therefore,
he was entitled  to rights and protections afforded to Retail Clients  and was clearly  reliant  on 
the advice given to him. From the evidence I have seen, there  is also no suggestion  
whatsoever that he was either high-net worth  or a sophisticated investor.
I have thought about how the recommendation addressed Mr Ws objectives, as stated in 
Portafinas suitability  report, in particular  his desire  for immediate access his TFC in order to 
make home improvements and purchase a car. Portafina has provided a call recording from 
31 July 2014 in which Mr W stated  that he had recently had work done on the roof of his 
house, which he had paid for by taking out a loan. He also stated that he had owned  his 
current car for 14 years by that point  and wanted to replace it. Although the value of the loan 
and potential purchase price of a newer  car were not disclosed, I am satisfied that these  
would most  likely be significant and could easily exceed ten thousand pounds  or more. 
As per the rules applicable at the time of the advice  (COBS 19.1.6): a firm should only 
consider a transfer to be suitable,  if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence,  
that the transfer or opt-out is in the client's  best interests. In order  for the transfer to have 
been in Mr Ws best interest  it would  need  to be clear that he did not have any other  means 
of meeting these  costs,  or that the alternatives  were not as appropriate as transferring. 
The suitability report recorded that Mr W had £24,000 in savings. This appears  to be an 
error, as the fact find completed by Portafina shows that he only had £2,000 in savings and 
had investments of £12,000. This investment figure was confirmed in the fact find completed  
by Firm C. As such, I am satisfied that his total liquid assets  were  £14,000  and believe it is 
reasonable to say that Mr W would not be able to meet the costs  of the repairs and a car 
purchase from them, without either  using them  up, or taking on further borrowing. I think  the 
fact that he had already taken a loan to pay for the work on his home  shows that he was 
either unable  or unwilling to use these assets to meet his costs.
This was confirmed during a call with the adjudicator  on 4 June 2019, when Mr W said that 
he wanted to pay off his debts and that the lump sum was more important to him than the 
pension income,  as he was struggling  to keep up with the bills.
Mr Ws OPS was funded largely,  or entirely, from GMP benefits which have to be paid as 
income and cannot  be commuted  into a cash lump sum. As such, the only means available  
to him of accessing  the TFC from his pension fund was by transferring to a personal 
pension. So, I think it is reasonable to conclude  that Mr W would have needed to transfer his 
plan to an alternative provider to achieve  this objective and for this reason, I am satisfied that 
the recommendation to transfer was appropriate. 
Even if the business  had recommended against  transferring, I believe it is highly  likely  Mr W 
still would  have left his OPS in order to access the funds, either with the same firm, or via 
another business.
Having established  that it was appropriate  for Mr W to transfer from his OPS  to a personal 
pension, I have thought about what would have been a suitable investment strategy, either 
by Portafina or Firm C. As part of his complaint,  Mr W has stated  that he was a low risk 
investor, whereas  the risk-profiling  tool which Portafina used  classed him as having a 
moderately adventurous ATR, which is a significantly higher risk profile. During  the call 
Ref: DRN00402158recording of 31 July 2014, Mr W confirmed  that he had a moderately adventurous ATR, so 
there is a conflict about what  level of risk was suitable for him.
 
Portafinas report defines moderately  adventurous investors as usually being  fairly 
experienced, who have used a wide range  of investment products. They  have moderate to 
high levels  of financial knowledge and are willing to take on investment risk. They  will usually 
take gambles  and accept that occasional poor outcomes are a necessary part of long-term 
investment.
Information from the point of advice shows Mr W had £12,000 in stocks and shares. 
Although the length of time these had been held for, or how they had been acquired was not 
recorded, this did give him some  experience  of equity-based investments. However, any 
preference for higher  risk investments which these holdings may imply, should be taken  in 
the context of statements made by Mr W during the same call recording of 31 July 2014. 
During this call, when  asked  about  his tolerance and capacity for loss, Mr W stated that he 
could only accept losses of up to 10% of his pension fund. He also made  it clear  that he 
didnt have any other pension plans and when asked to categorise  how important this 
scheme was to his overall retirement plans, he chose  the highest  rating  available  very 
important. None of these  responses are in line with an individual  willing  to expose his capital 
to moderately  adventurous  risks.
A customers capacity for loss is as important as their tolerance or attitude  to risk and it 
wouldnt be appropriate to invest someone  with a high ATR in high risk funds, if they could 
not afford  losses to their capital. Mr W was out of work due to ill health and there was 
nothing to indicate he was likely to return to work in the foreseeable future. As such,  he had 
no means of replacing  any losses to his fund from earned income  or another pension.
I think it should have  been clear to Portafina that Mr W could not realistically be classed as a 
moderately adventurous investor.  Giving advice is not a tick box exercise  and the fact a risk 
profile questionnaire  had marked  him out as having a higher ATR should  not have 
overridden the evidence the customer had provided to Portafina  about his own 
circumstances and attitude to risk. Mr W stated in his complaint that he had a low ATR. 
I have considered this and believe  that, as he was already reducing the level of income  his 
pension would provide by taking TFC immediately  and could only afford minimal losses  to 
his pension, a cautious, or low risk investment portfolio would have been appropriate.
Portafina have  argued that, as Mr W was going  to access his benefits flexibly,  he had an 
investment time horizon  of over twenty years  and could take on more  risk. Notwithstanding 
the fact that Mr W had already provided  information  that contradicted a moderately  
adventurous ATR, I do not believe it has been demonstrated that Mr W had any definite 
intention of taking  his benefits  via drawdown. The purpose of the transfer was to release 
TFC so I think income considerations were of secondary importance to the consumer at that 
point. They were certainly not explored  in any depth  by the firm.
For instance, Portafina didnt establish  what Mr Ws future liabilities and income  
requirements were likely to be and whether or not his pension fund was likely to be able to 
meet these requirements.  To take one example, both the critical yield and hurdle rate used 
to illustrate the level of growth needed to match his OPS scheme benefits were based on the 
entire fund being  invested  to retirement, when it was known that 25% of the fund was to be 
withdrawn immediately, thereby rendering them largely irrelevant.  Portafina  did not seek to 
rectify this by setting  out the level of growth Mr W would need to achieve after taking TFC. 
Ref: DRN00402159Portafina appear to have  ruled out Mr W ever purchasing an annuity due to the current low 
rates on offer across the market. However, Mr W was unable  to work due to ill health and so 
may have  been  able to receive  a higher  level of income through  an impaired life annuity. 
There was no exploration of this option, for example  by obtaining  quotes  comparing the 
different rates  an impaired life annuity  may have provided, compared to a standard annuity.  
Taking an income flexibly via drawdown would require annual reviews  and all the associated  
costs of advice each year, as well as the inconvenience and potential disappointment when 
a lower income had to be taken due to market  conditions. All these factors would make this 
method of taking income less attractive over time, especially if Mr Ws own health  made  an 
enhanced annuity a possibility.
So, I dont think it was right to make the assumption  that he would,  more  likely than not, take 
his benefits via drawdown over a long term at retirement and would not need  or seek  to 
access all, or the majority,  of the funds  within a much shorter time frame.
Due to these factors, I do not accept the recorded  ATR of moderately adventurous as being  
an accurate reflection of Mr Ws capacity  or even  his tolerance for risk. While the 
recommendation to transfer from his OPS was appropriate, I do not think it was appropriate 
for Portafina to recommend a portfolio  which carried such a high level of risk and certainly  
not one which recommended 15% of assets  be invested in high risk, illiquid funds.
Is Portafina wholly responsible for Mr Ws loss?
I recognise that it can be argued Firm C may have  also separately caused  some of Mr Ws 
losses. So, Ive considered whether I should  apportion only part of the responsibility for 
compensating the loss to Portafina.  In the circumstances, though,  I think apportioning 
responsibility to Portafina for the whole  of the loss represents fair compensation. I dont  
accept that anything Firm C did was an intervening act which  absolves  Portafina of its 
responsibility for Mr Ws losses.
I think its important to emphasise that Firm C and Portafina were  in a business  relationship  
in which  each firm agreed to provide services that were designed to bring  about  a single 
outcome for clients  pension-release advice and investment. Because  Firm C wasnt 
authorised to provide pension transfer advice, it referred Mr W to Portafina.  Portafina 
advised Mr W to transfer to a SIPP, it set up the SIPP and arranged for his existing pension 
benefits to be transferred.  I acknowledge that Firm C advised  Mr W to invest a significant 
share of his SIPP funds  in UCIS.  But, as Ive explained, Portafinas  understanding that it 
could reasonably limit its advice to just the transfer  and the SIPP was wrong; it needed  to 
consider the proposed investments too, even if Firm C was advising Mr W on the 
investments. It was only as a result of Portafinas  involvement that Mr W transferred the 
funds held in his OPS to the SIPP. Portafinas role was pivotal, since  the eventual 
investments were fully reliant on the funds being transferred first. If that hadnt  happened,  
Mr W couldnt have invested  as he did.
In terms of the FSCS, I am aware  that, as a fund of last resort, the FSCS wont  pay out on 
claims where it is aware that another firm was involved in the transaction,  and it considers 
that firm might also be responsible for a consumers losses.  It has already been confirmed 
with Mr W that he did approach the FSCS  to complain about Firm C in 2018, but they did not 
accept his claim and directed him to complain to Portafina. This means that apportionment of 
only part of the loss to Portafina would leave Mr W out of pocket. 
Ref: DRN004021510I think its important to point out that Im not saying Portafina is wholly  responsible for the 
losses simply because Firm S and Firm C are now in liquidation. My starting  point as to 
causation is that Portafina gave unsuitable advice and it is responsible  for the losses Mr W 
suffered in transferring his existing benefits to the SIPP and investing as he did. That isnt, to 
my mind, wrong  in law or irrational but reflects  the facts of the case and my view of the fair 
and reasonable position.  So, overall,  I think apportioning responsibility to Portafina for the 
whole of the loss represents  fair compensation in this case.
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr W should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr W would have invested  differently. Its not possible to say precisely 
what he would have  done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr W's circumstances and objectives when he invested. 
What should Portafina  do?
To compensate Mr W fairly, Portafina  must:
Compare the performance of Mr W's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value  is greater  than the actual value there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value , no 
compensation is payable.
Portafina should add interest as set out below. 
If there is a loss, Portafina should pay into Mr W's pension plan to increase its value 
by the total amount of the compensation and any interest.  The amount paid should 
allow for the effect  of charges and any available tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. 
If Portafina is unable  to pay the total amount into Mr W's pension plan, it should  pay 
that amount  direct  to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan,  it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount  should be reduced to 
notionally allow  for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr W's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected  retirement  age. For example, if Mr W is likely to be 
a basic rate taxpayer at the selected  retirement age, the reduction would equal  the 
current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr W would have been able to take a tax free 
lump sum, the reduction should  be applied  to 75% of the compensation.
Pay to Mr W £300 for the inconvenience  to his pension planning.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Portafina deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr W how much has been taken off. Portafina  should give Mr W a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN004021511investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
SIPP mixedfor half the 
investment:  
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  Index;  
for the other 
half: average  
rate from 
fixed rate 
bondsdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple  per 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within  28 days  
of the business 
being notified 
of acceptance)
Actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
It may be difficult  to find the actual  value of the investment. So, the actual value should be 
assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Portafina should  take ownership  of the 
illiquid investment  by paying a commercial  value acceptable to the pension provider. This 
amount should  be deducted from the compensation and the balance paid as I set out above.
If Portafina is unable  to purchase the investment, the actual value should be assumed to be 
nil for the purpose  of calculation. Portafina  may require that Mr W provides an undertaking to 
pay Portafina any amount  he may receive from the investment in the future. That 
undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the 
receipt from the pension  plan. Portafina will need to meet any costs  in drawing up the 
undertaking.
Fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  Portafina 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year  fixed-rate bonds  as published by the Bank 
of England. The rate for each month  is that shown as at the end of the previous month. 
Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis. 
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mr W wanted capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  for someone who 
wanted to achieve  a reasonable  return  without  risk to his capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. Its a fair 
Ref: DRN004021512measure for someone  who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return. 
I consider that Mr W's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50  
combination would reasonably put Mr W into that position.  It does  not mean that Mr W 
would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some  kind of 
index tracker investment.  Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that 
broadly reflects  the sort of return Mr W could have  obtained from investments suited to 
his objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and direct Portafina  LLP to pay compensation as set out above.
Portafina LLP should provide details  of its calculation to Mr Ws representative  in a clear, 
simple format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 June  2021.
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0040215