K822xcomplaint
Miss F complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited  (trading as Very) irresponsibly 
lent to her and increased the credit limit on her account when she was unable  to afford it.
The details of this complaint are well known  to both parties, so I wont repeat  them  again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so I agree with the 
adjudicator for the following reasons:
Very should  have taken its checks further  before agreeing  to lend to Miss F initially.  
I also think its checks should have  gone further  before it agreed on any of the 
increases.
At the time of the initial  lending, and from what Ive seen, there  was nothing in 
Miss Fs circumstances that wouldve  suggested to Very that she was unable  to 
afford the initial credit.
Ive also considered Miss Fs circumstances at the time of the first two credit 
increases in June  2016 and October 2016.  Miss Fs bank statement which she has 
provided doesnt suggest that she would struggle with keeping  up with the payments 
at the time of those increases.
Very had Miss Fs payment history for nearly six months before it increased the credit 
limit in June 2016. Miss Fs payment history shows that she was usually  paying  more 
than the minimum required payment and there  was nothing  to suggest  she was 
struggling.
I note that by the second increase in October 2016, Miss F paid less than the 
required minimum payment once and incurred an administration  fee. I think  this a 
point that becomes  relevant when  Very increased  her credit limit in January 2017 to 
£2,250.
At the time of the increase in January 2017, Miss Fs credit limit had more than 
doubled in less than 13 months.  I havent seen any evidence  to show  Very took 
further steps to verify that Miss F could afford what it was borrowing her before it 
approved the increase. Very says it reviewed the account every 28 days, but I dont 
think that was sufficient given the level increase  in such  a short space  of time.
By the time of the increase in September 2017  and subsequent increases, Miss F 
was unemployed  with a dependent child and receiving child benefit.  I think had Very 
taken proportionate steps to understand Miss F finances better it would have  known 
that it she couldnt sustainably afford to repay her borrowing.
Miss Fs account history  shows that she had problems repaying her borrowing as she 
incurred late fees for December 2017,  January and February  2018.
Overall, I dont  think it was responsible for Very to increase Miss Fs credit  limit in 
January 2017  and the subsequent increases as well.
Miss F showed signs of struggling to repay and I cant  see that Very took steps early 
to address Miss Fs ability to repay the borrowing.
I understand that Miss F believes the account  should never  have been given at the 
start and that all interest on the account should  be refunded but having  considered  all 
the information and for the reasons set out above, I dont think it was unreasonable 
for Very to lend to Miss F initially.
Ref: DRN03154772I think that it shouldnt  have increased her limit from January 2017 onwards and by 
September 2017 should have done more to address the signs  she showed with 
struggling to repay.
Very agrees that it shouldnt have increased  Miss Fs balance  in January 2017 and 
should have frozen the account in September 2017 and so it needs to put things  
right.
Putting things  right
treat all payments made towards  the account  from January 2017 as capital repayments 
towards the amended balance of £1,750; 
add interest at 8% per year simple  on any overpayments from the date they were  paid, 
if they were, to the date of settlement;
refund all the interest and charges applied to Miss Fs account  from September  2017 
onwards;
remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Fs credit  file as a result of the 
interest and charges  on this account.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Shop  Direct Finance Company Limited to take off tax from this 
interest. Shop Direct Finance Company Limited must give Miss F a certificate showing how much tax 
its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Miss Fs complaint in part and Shop Direct Finance 
Company Limited  should put things  right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 November  2020.
Oyetola Oduola
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0315477