K820x#14Complaint
Mrs V says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold  her a payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy  for a 
mortgage.
Background
Mrs V took out a PPI policy with a mortgage  in late 1999. Mrs V paid for the PPI with a 
regular monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered her in case she was off 
work sick or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs V disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Vs case.  
Ive decided that Mrs Vs PPI policy wasnt mis-sold   Ill explain why.
Mrs Vs mortgage application had a section for PPI, which gave her the option to apply for it 
or turn it down. The option to apply  for it was ticked  and Mrs V signed  the application to 
confirm her choices. She also signed and submitted a separate  application specifically for 
PPI, and set up a direct debit to pay for it, separately to paying  for the mortgage  itself. So 
I think that Lloyds  made Mrs V aware  she had a choice about buying  the PPI, and that she 
chose to take it  though I can understand if she no longer recalls doing so after so long.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mrs V, so it had to check it was right for her. And based on 
what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example,  it looks  like 
Mrs V was eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of its main  exclusions or 
limitations. Mrs V didnt have any sick pay aside  from the limited statutory provisions, and 
her redundancy pay wouldve also been  limited as shed only been working for that company 
for a short time. Mrs V did have some savings,  though those wouldve only lasted for so long 
if needed to cover her income. And the PPI meant Mrs V could effectively protect  her 
savings and use them for other things. Its worth bearing in mind that if Mrs V fell behind on 
her mortgage, she couldve lost her home. It looks like the PPI couldve really  been useful for 
her in protecting her home and providing  some  peace of mind.
Its possible that the information Lloyds  gave Mrs V about PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then,  is whether I think better information was likely to have changed  
her mind. Here, Mrs V chose to take out PPI, so it looks  like she wanted  this type of cover. 
As I explained above, Mrs V wasnt affected by any of the main things the policy  didnt cover, 
and it couldve really  been useful for her in case something went  wrong.  And the PPI was 
paid on a rolling monthly basis,  so Mrs V could cancel it at any time without a penalty. 
Overall, I dont  think that better information  was likely to have put her off taking  out the cover.
Ref: DRN06656172My final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mrs Vs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs V to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 September 2019.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0665617