K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
May 1996. 
Mrs D says The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op) mis-sold her PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ds case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Co-op has provided a copy  of Mrs Ds credit  card application form which  was signed and 
dated 28 February 1996. I can see that PPI wasnt taken out at this time. But Co-op has also 
provided a copy of a PPI application form that Mrs D competed and signed some months 
later in May 1996.  So I think Co-op made it clear that Mrs D didnt have to take out the PPI 
and that she chose to take it out  although given the time that has passed I can understand 
why she cant remember this. 
Co-op says that it most likely recommended  the PPI to Mrs D. So it had to check  that the PPI 
was right for her  and based  on what  Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think it 
was. For example she wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover 
and she seems to have had a need  for the cover.  
Mrs D has told us she isnt too sure what sick pay she received from her employer if she was 
unable to work. And Mrs D has said that she didnt have any savings or other insurance in 
place that would help her meet her repayments if she was unable to work for a lengthy  
period.
The PPI would have  covered more  than Mrs Ds minimum card repayments if she was off 
work because of an accident  or sickness or if she lost his job. And it would have paid out 
over and above any sick pay Mrs D received and for a lot longer. The maximum duration for 
any one claim for an accident  or sickness was 24 months. For unemployment,  the maximum 
duration for any one claim was 18 months.  
Given the above, I think the policy  could  have been  useful to Mrs D, especially if she was out 
of work for a considerable time.  
Its possible the information Co-op gave  Mrs D about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it should 
have been. But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for her if something went  wrong.  It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put her off taking out 
the cover. 
All things  considered, and based on the available information I have regarding the sale, the 
PPI policy  and Mrs Ds circumstances, I dont  think this PPI policy was mis-sold.
Ref: DRN06568962Which means Co-op doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs D.
But Co-op will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs D because: 
Co-op got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs D about that. Because  Co-op didnt tell Mrs D, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Co-op has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
Co-op has to pay back to Mrs D any commission and profit  share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. Co-op should  also pay back to Mrs D any extra  interest she paid 
because of that.
Co-op should re-work the credit card account  and pay back to Mrs D the difference  between 
what Mrs D owes  and what she would have owed if the commission  and profit share it got 
hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Co-op should also pay Mrs D 8%* simple 
interest if she paid off her credit card at some  point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs D can claim back the tax if she doesnt 
pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Co-operative Bank Plc does not have to pay back  
all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs D.
But The Co-operative Bank Plc does have  to pay back to Mrs D any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs D to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 August 2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0656896