K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 2000. This was done via an online application  process.  Miss O says Barclays  Bank Plc 
 trading as Egg  mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Os case.
Having done this, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
Egg should have  made Miss O aware she had a choice about buying the PPI. Miss O says 
the PPI was added to her account without  her consent. Egg has explained the sales process  
and given us screenshots  of how the PPI wouldve been shown to Miss O at the time of the 
sale. I have no reason to think Miss O wouldve seen  something different. So Ive looked 
carefully at these screenshots and I can see Miss O would have been given a choice to 
select yes or no to buy the policy. The fact the PPI was added to Miss Os account  makes 
me think its more likely she selected the yes option.
So, I think Egg made it clear that Miss O didnt  have to take out the PPI and that she chose 
to take it out.
Egg didnt  recommend the PPI to Miss O so it didnt  have to check if it was right for her. But 
it did have to make sure Miss O got the information she needed to decide if it was right for 
her.
Looking at the screenshots, its possible the information Egg gave Miss O about  the PPI wasnt  
as clear as it shouldve been. But based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time it 
doesnt look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover. And the 
PPI wouldve  paid out on top of any sick pay Miss O was entitled to, as well as helping  her cover 
payments if she lost her job. So I think it would  have been useful for her if something went  
wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think  better information about the PPI 
would have put her off taking out the cover. 
So I dont  think better information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover.  
Which means Egg doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss O.
But Egg has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss O because:  
Egg got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium)  
- so it should have  told Miss O about that. Because Egg didnt tell Miss O, that was 
unfair. 
To put that right, Egg has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
Ref: DRN09861262The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Miss O.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Miss O any commission and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 August 2019.  
Claire Marchant-Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0986126