K822xcomplaint
Mr T complains that a car that was supplied to him under a conditional sale agreement  with 
Moneybarn No. 1 Limited  wasnt  of satisfactory  quality.
background
A used  car was supplied to Mr T under a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn  that he 
signed in April 2018. He returned  the car to the dealer about a month later because  of an 
issue with its brakes   and the dealer replaced the brake pressure sensor as a gesture of 
goodwill. Mr T returned to the dealer because of an issue  with the cars brakes in June 2018 
and he complained to Moneybarn. 
It arranged for the car to be inspected by an independent expert. It then said that it was 
unable to uphold  Mr Ts complaint because it was only able to establish  faults  that had 
occurred post sale. Mr T wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld.  He wasnt convinced 
that Moneybarn  had sufficiently proven that the faults werent present or developing at the 
point of sale and he said that the onus wasnt on Mr T to prove what the reason for the fault 
was. And he said that there had been  a number of attempts to fix the gearbox  but it needed 
to be completely replaced as there  was still a major fault. So he recommended that 
Moneybarn should  reimburse any costs Mr T had incurred  in order to fix the gearbox  and 
pay him £200 for his distress and inconvenience.
Moneybarn has asked  for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. It says that it 
has evidenced that the issues  werent inherent at the point of sale which is supported  by the 
evidence from the manufacturers dealer. It says that Mr T was advised  that the car required 
the transmission  oil to be changed and a software  update if the fault re-appeared. And it 
says that the manufacturers dealer confirmed that the cause  of the fault code didnt 
materialise until June  or July 2018 so it cant be considered the responsibility of the selling 
agent.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr T 
and to Moneybarn  on 16 June 2020. In my provisional decision I said as follows:
Moneybarn, as the supplier of the car, was responsible  for ensuring that it was of 
satisfactory quality. Whether  or not it was will depend on a number of factors,  
including the age, and mileage of the car and the price that was paid for it. The car 
that was supplied to Mr T was about eight years  old, had been driven for 93,000  
miles and had a price of £5,117. Satisfactory quality  also covers durability which  
means that the components within the car must  be durable and last a reasonable 
amount of time  but exactly how long that time is will depend on a number of factors.
The car was supplied to Mr T in April 2018. He returned it to the dealer about a 
month later because of an issue with the brakes  that was repaired. He returned  the 
car to the dealer in June  2018 because of an issue with the gears. The dealer 
couldnt find a fault so Mr T complained  to Moneybarn and it arranged for the car to 
be inspected by an independent expert in July 2018. The cars mileage was recorded 
in the report as being 95,342 miles and the report concluded:
Ref: DRN06941462On the balance of probability in view of the low mileage  the vehicle has 
covered since purchase we are of the opinion that there  is most  likely a fault 
in the gearbox  that was present and or developing at the time of purchase.  
However, the codes  need to be cleared and testing completed to confirm they 
reappear in service.
And the manufacturers  dealer said in October  2018  that the car needed a new 
gearbox and quoted  a cost of £4,423.66 for that work. The price of the car was only 
£5,117 so I dont consider that a repair of that cost would be appropriate.
Mr T returned the car to the dealer  about two months after it was supplied to him 
because of issues with the cars gears.  The car was inspected by an independent  
expert the following month and it concluded that a fault in the gearbox was present or 
developing when  the car was supplied to Mr T. A manufacturers dealer says that the 
cars gearbox needs to be replaced.
For these reasons, I consider it to be more likely than not that either  there was a fault 
with the cars gearbox that was present or developing when the car was supplied to 
Mr T or that the car wasnt as durable  as it was reasonable for Mr T to expect it to be. 
And I find that it would  be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Mr T to 
reject the car. 
I consider that Moneybarn  should  end the conditional sale agreement  and collect the 
car from Mr T. Mr T has continued  to use the car and I consider that it would be fair 
and reasonable for Moneybarn to keep  the monthly payments that hes made for the 
car as payment  for that use.
The agreement shows that Mr T didnt pay a deposit  for the car. But these events will 
have caused him distress  and inconvenience. And I consider that it would be fair and 
reasonable for it to pay him £200  to compensate him for that distress and 
inconvenience. 
So subject to any further representations by Mr T or Moneybarn,  my provisional  decision 
was that I was minded to uphold this complaint.
Moneybarn has accepted my provisional  decision but Mr T says that between April and July 
2018 he incurred  more costs when the car was at the garage getting fixed  and hed like to be 
reimbursed for the amounts he paid for: insurance  to drive a friend's car; taxis to get to and 
from work and to take his son to school; and the car to be checked and fixed  by a garage.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not persuaded that 
I should change  my provisional  decision. 
MOT test and servicing costs are usual  costs of running a car and Im not persuaded that it 
would be fair or reasonable for me to require Moneybarn to reimburse Mr T for the additional 
costs that hes claimed. Hes provided  evidence to show that he made a payment of £56.70  
to an insurance company  in August 2018  but I dont consider that the evidence  that hes 
provided is enough to show that he paid for insurance to drive a friends  car when his car 
Ref: DRN06941463was at the garage getting fixed  or that it would be fair or reasonable in these 
circumstances for me to require Moneybarn to reimburse him for that payment.
Mr T hasnt  provided enough  evidence of the taxi costs  that he says that hes incurred for me 
to require Moneybarn  to make a payment  to him to reimburse him for those costs. So I 
consider that the outcome  set out in my provisional decision and which has been accepted 
by Moneybarn is fair and reasonable in these circumstances.
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, my decision is that I uphold this complaint and I order 
Moneybarn No. 1 Limited  to:
1.End the conditional  sale agreement  and arrange  for the car to be collected  from Mr T 
 both at no cost to him.
2.Pay £200 to Mr T to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience that hes 
been caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 September  2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0694146