K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Covea Insurance plc (Covea) unfairly voided their home 
insurance policy.
background
Mr and Mrs L submitted a claim under their home insurance policy with Covea as their lawn 
mower had sustained damage  following a fire. After  discovering that both Mr and Mrs L had 
previously been  made  bankrupt  prior to the policys inception  as well as discovering a 
number of undisclosed County Court Judgments  (CCJs)  Covea declined  to pay the claim 
and voided the policy. They did not return any premiums  paid either as they said they would  
not have offered cover if they had known these details, and considered that Mr and Mrs L 
had made  a deliberate misrepresentation.
Mr and Mrs L complained  and argued that it was Coveas responsibility under  the 
Consumer Credit Act (CCA)  1974  to assess credit  worthiness. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. He considered  they had made a 
deliberate misrepresentation in respect  of their financial  position,  which  had induced  Covea 
to enter  into a contract they otherwise wouldnt have. As a result,  he said it was fair for them 
to void the policy without refunding the premiums.
Mr and Mrs L disagreed. They maintained  again  that Covea ought to have assessed their 
creditworthiness, and also said that Mr L was under medication at the time, which wouldve 
had an impact on his ability to properly answer the questions posed  to him before taking out 
the insurance. Mr and Mrs L requested a final decision, so the matter  has been passed  to 
me to determine. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it. 
The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) effectively 
codifies in law the equitable approach that this service has long taken to cases  of non-
disclosure or misrepresentation. In short, it is the consumers  duty to take reasonable care 
not to make  a misrepresentation when  answering an insurers clear and specific questions 
about facts relevant to the proposed risk when they buy or renew  an insurance policy. If the 
consumer didnt take reasonable care and misrepresented something, and this adversely 
affected the insurers underwriting (a qualifying misrepresentation), then the way the insurer  
can respond depends on whether the misrepresentation was careless or deliberate/reckless. 
If the consumer did take reasonable care then theres no qualifying  misrepresentation, so the 
insurer cant take any action against  the consumer at all.
So the starting point in this case is whether Mr and Mrs L breached  their duty to take 
reasonable care not to make  a misrepresentation. Mr and Mrs L took their policy  out through 
a broker in July 2012. The broker has told us that the policy  was taken out during a meeting, 
where he asked them  to provide information  about  their circumstances for the purposes of 
the insurance. 
Ref: DRN03203742I have been provided with a statement of fact dated 30 July 2012, which shows the 
questions Mr and Mrs L were asked and the answers  they gave. One of the statements they 
were asked to confirm says:
You and your family living with you
-have never been declared bankrupt or been subject to bankruptcy  proceedings or 
entered into an Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA)
CIDRA makes it clear  that whether a consumer has breached their duty to take reasonable 
care is to be determined in light of all the relevant circumstances. Those  circumstances 
include how clear and specific  the insurers questions were. 
Mr and Mrs Ls broker has confirmed that they were  both asked about their financial 
circumstances at the time, but that he was told everything was OK and that there were no 
issued. So based on this  as well as the statement of fact confirming that neither 
Mr L nor Mrs L have  ever been declared bankrupt, Im satisfied that they were asked clear 
and specific questions in relation to their financial circumstances.
The statement  of fact provided to Mr and Mrs L also sets out clearly the potential  
implications of a wrong or inaccurate  answer  at the time of sale (bold  text my emphasis):
DISCLOSURE
Some of the information you give us about  yourself is known as material 
factsfacts which we think are likely to affect  the risk of providing you with 
insurance.
Material facts have  an effect on what you are covered for and how much you pay. 
So, if any of the information you have already given us has changed  or if there  are 
other material facts which you think we may need to know, please tell us 
immediately. If you are not sure something is important, please tell us anyway.
If you do not tell us about any material facts, your policy  may not give you the 
cover you need or may not cover you at all. It is your responsibility to provide 
complete and accurate information to us throughout  the life of your policy  and 
when you renew your insurance  or make  a claim
The declaration on the statement of fact also sets out:
DECLARATION
Please read this Statement of Fact carefully.  It is a record of statements made and 
information given  by you and constitutes the basis of your contract of insuranceIf 
any of the details appear  to be incorrect or incomplete  please contact your 
agent immediately. We reserve the right to decline the risk or to change  the 
premium and terms.
So Im also satisfied that the potential implications of a wrong answer were made clear at the 
time of sale.  
Ref: DRN03203743Covea said that in the course of investigating Mr and Mrs Ls claim in July 2018,  it came to 
light that they had both been declared  bankrupt on 30 December 2009. They  also 
discovered multiple open and historic CCJs in Mr Ls name from 2013, 2016 and 2017 that 
had not been disclosed upon the renewal of the policy  each year, which  the statement of fact 
required them to disclose.
Based on what Ive seen  I dont  think Mr and Mrs L answered the question  about their 
financial circumstances accurately when the policy was taken  out, as they were  both 
declared bankrupt in 2009.  Mr L also failed  to disclose his CCJs each year upon renewal. So 
Im satisfied they both failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation.  
Coveas underwriters have said and documented with contemporaneous evidence   and I 
accept (in the absence  of persuasive evidence  to the contrary)   that the misrepresentation 
or non-disclosure adversely affected  their underwriting, and led them to offer cover to 
Mr and Mrs L that they otherwise wouldve avoided. Such inducement to enter into the 
contract means there  has been a qualifying misrepresentation.
In order to determine the remedy available  to Covea, CIDRA  requires a distinction to be 
made between whether  the qualifying misrepresentation  was deliberate,  or at the very least  
careless. CIDRA allows an insurer to void a policy  altogether  i.e. treat it as having  never  
existed  if its determined  that the qualifying misrepresentation  was either deliberate  or 
reckless: see section  5 and schedule 1 of CIDRA.  
Covea submit that Mr and Mrs Ls misrepresentation was deliberate.  They say that when 
talking to their claims handler on 3 July 2018,  Mr L had no difficulty volunteering why he had 
so many CCJs in the past, which were said to relate to his 2009 bankruptcy.  They also say 
he gave them no adequate explanation  as to why he did not disclose his financial 
circumstances, other  than that he was unaware  that he had to. 
Section 5(2) of CIDRA states  that:
(2) A qualifying misrepresentation is deliberate or reckless  if the consumer  
(a)knew that it was untrue or misleading, or did not care whether or not it was untrue 
or misleading, and
(b)knew that the matter  to which the misrepresentation related was relevant to the 
insurer, or did not care whether  or not it was relevant to the insurer.  
Given the clarity of the statement on the statement of fact, as well as the testimony provided 
by Mr and Mrs Ls broker, I think its likely Mr and Mrs L wouldve known they had to disclose 
the fact that they had been  made  bankrupt in 2009.  And given the policy  was only taken out 
around two years after Mr and Mrs L had been declared bankrupt,  I dont think  this is 
something they wouldve carelessly  forgotten when asked. 
Mr L submits that he was on medication  at the time he took out the policy, and says this 
wouldve had an impact  on his ability to answer  questions accurately. Our investigator 
requested evidence of this, but no such evidence has been  provided. So Ive seen nothing to 
persuade me Mr L was incapable of understanding the questions he was being asked. And 
in any event, I can see that Mr L was seemingly  able to answer other  questions  about his 
circumstances, such as the material in which his house was built in and the fact it was roofed 
with tile for example. And it also doesnt  explain why Mr L failed to correct  the information  on 
the statement  of fact each year upon renewal. 
Ref: DRN03203744So in the circumstances, I consider that Mr and Mrs L either knew  that the information they 
gave was untrue or misleading, or did not care whether or not it was untrue or misleading. 
Im also satisfied it is something they wouldve known was relevant  to the insurer,  given the 
questions that were asked  by the broker as well as having to confirm on the Statement of 
Fact that they had never been declared  bankrupt. So Im satisfied  the qualifying  
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, which entitles Covea to avoid the contract  and 
refuse all claims  without  returning any of the premiums.
Finally, Mr L submits that Covea ought  to have known about his financial circumstances as 
they should have checked his creditworthiness when the policy  was taken out. Mr L hasnt 
referred to any specific provisions within the CCA  1974 to support his submission,  but in any 
event, I dont agree that Covea ought  to have assessed his creditworthiness, as they are 
entitled to expect clear  answers to their questions.  
There may be certain circumstances where  Covea could be deemed as having  constructive 
knowledge of particular circumstances relating to a policyholder  (see section 3(4) of CIDRA  
2012 for example).  But in this case,  there doesnt  appear to be any reason to suggest  that 
Covea had any prior knowledge  or indication that Mr and Mrs L had an adverse  credit history 
such that they ought to have explored  this further. So I dont think  Covea can be deemed as 
having constructive  knowledge of Mr and Mrs Ls credit file and financial background, and I 
dont think theyve acted  inappropriately by relying on the answers provided by Mr and Mrs L 
to the questions asked.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 November  2019.
Jack Ferris
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0320374