K820x#14complaint
Mr C and Ms L have complained about  Calpe Insurance Company Limited. They  arent 
happy that it turned down a claim on their car insurance policy.
background
Mr C took out an insurance policy with Calpe through a comparison  website.  Ms L and Mr C 
confirmed all the details  about their insurance  with Calpe on the telephone. When the car 
was stolen they made a claim under the policy. 
But Calpe turned down the claim.  This was because neither Mr C nor Ms L owned the car. 
And as they didnt  have an insurable  interest in the car Calpe voided  the policy (treated it as 
if it never existed) and kept the premiums.  Calpe explained that had it have known that the 
car was owned by, and registered  to, Ms Ls father it wouldnt have provided cover.  So Mr C 
and Ms L complained to this service.
Our adjudicator looked into things for them but didnt uphold the complaint. She was satisfied 
that Calpe  asked reasonable questions about the ownership of the car and it was clear that 
incorrect details were  given. And if Calpe  had have known that Ms Ls father was the owner  
and keeper of the car it wouldnt  have  insured  the car so she didnt think it had acted 
unreasonably. 
Mr C, Ms L and her father didnt agree so the matter  has been passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, and despite my 
considerable sympathy for Mr C and Ms L, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain  why.
The main  issue to consider here is whether Calpe have acted reasonably in voiding the 
policy and turning down the claim and I think it has.
An insurer  is only able to void a policy  in certain  circumstances.  The Consumer Insurance  
(Disclosure and Representations)  Act 2012 (CIDRA) says that in order  to do so, it must 
show first of all that there was a qualifying misrepresentation.  To do that, the insurer must 
show that it asked  a clear  question, and that the consumer didnt take reasonable care in 
answering it. 
In this instance Ms L and Mr C were clearly asked who owned the car and who the main 
user was and I think the questions about  this were  clear.  Ms L checked things with Mr C and 
said that he was the owner and registered keeper  of the car when he wasnt. 
It is clear from listening to the confirmation  call from when the policy was taken out that Ms L 
said that the car was owned by Mr C and that he was the registered keeper of the car. And it 
was on this basis that the policy was taken out. But this wasnt correct.  Ms Ls father  was the 
registered keeper  of the car and owner, he paid the finance and the finance  agreement was 
in his name. 
I understand that it has been suggested that Mr C pays Ms Ls father monthly for the car. But 
there isnt any evidence to support this although  Ms Ls father  said it was paid in cash.  
Ref: DRN04116142Furthermore, that doesnt explain  why the car was registered in Ms Ls fathers name. Given  
all of this, and that Ms L suggested she bought the car during the inception  call, I think  it was 
fair for Calpe to conclude that Mr C and Ms L didnt take reasonable care in responding to its 
questions about  ownership of the car.
The insurer  then has to show  that the information it asked for was important  to it. That 
means showing that it wouldnt have offered a policy at all to the consumer  or would only 
have done so on different terms  had it known  the true facts. In this case,  Calpe based  its 
decision to offer cover on the fact that Mr C was the owner and keeper of the car when he 
wasnt. However, it has shown that it wouldnt have offered  cover  as both Mr C and Ms L 
didnt have an insurable interest in the car 
So overall Im satisfied, on balance, that Ms Ls father  was the registered keeper and owner 
of the car. And as the questions that Calpe asked were very clear, I think it acted reasonably 
as it wouldnt have  insured Mr C and Ms L had it have known this.
I also think Calpe was entitled to retain the premium.  I say this as I think Calpe has shown 
that Mr C and Ms L recklessly made a qualifying misrepresentation  in the way they 
answered the questions about  ownership. And CIDRA entitles it to keep the premiums in 
these circumstances.  I know  that Calpe has suggested that they acted deliberately  but I 
havent seen sufficient information  to support this but it has sufficient detail to suggest  
recklessness. 
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C and Ms L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 September 2019.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0411614