K820x#14complaint
Mrs M says 2gether Insurance  Limited  mis-sold her keycare cover which  she took out as an 
additional extra when  she purchased her motor breakdown policy. 
background
In October  2018, Mrs M took out a motor breakdown service policy  sold to her by 2gether 
Insurance through a comparison  website.  When purchasing her policy  online, she opted to 
pay an extra  £3.50  to add key cover. In January 2019 Mrs M lost her main car key so she 
claimed under her keycare cover.  
2gether Insurance declined her claim on behalf  of the insurer  as it said the policy  doesnt 
repair or replace  the key, it only recovers the vehicle to a garage  as set out in the terms and 
conditions. It says as Mrs M had a spare key which she was able to use to access  her 
vehicle she didnt require  a recovery. 
Mrs M says 2gether Insurance  mis-sold  her the keycare cover as she thought  it would 
replace her car key. She says other companies who sell key cover with a motor breakdown 
policy would replace the key if it was lost. Mrs M says she never  received the terms and 
conditions from 2gether  Insurance,  so she wasnt aware that her policy worked differently to 
how she expected.  
Mrs M wasnt happy with 2gether Insurances  response, so she brought her complaint to us. 
One of our investigators  considered her complaint but he didnt uphold it. He said Mrs M 
stated she didnt read the information at the time of purchasing the cover but automatically 
thought keycare  cover  meant the key would be replaced if lost. He thought  more  likely than 
not the policy terms and conditions were  sent to her. Mrs M didnt agree and says the name  
key cover is misleading. 
As Mrs M didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me.        
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mrs Ms complaint. I understand this will come as a disappointment to her, but Ill 
explain my reasons why.
Mrs M purchased a motor  breakdown service  policy which included keycare cover.  Under 
industry guidelines 2gether Insurance had a responsibility to provide information  that was 
clear, fair and not misleading when it sold Mrs M the policy.
Mrs M took out the policy online  through a comparison website, so I have considered the 
information she was presented with at the time of sale. 2gether  Insurance  has provided us 
with a screenshot of what Mrs M wouldve seen when opting  to apply the key cover to her 
policy. It said:
In the event of the vehicles keys being  damaged in any way, lost or issue  with key fobs or 
immobiliser keys, we shall recover the vehicle to the nearest garage able to effect a repair. 
Ref: DRN09243132When our investigator asked Mrs M about  this, she said doesnt remember  reading or seeing  
it as she automatically thought key cover meant the key would be replaced. She says this 
was because other companies  who sell key cover  replace the key if it were  to be lost so 
2gether Insurance mis-led her.    
2gether Insurance says the online description  of the key cover clearly made Mrs M aware  
that itd only recover  the vehicle to the nearest garage.  It acknowledges the policy terms and 
conditions dont include a description of the key cover. The policy  terms and conditions do 
specify under the general exclusions that it would  not cover any claims resulting from the 
policyholder not being  able to access,  drive or secure a vehicle because  of the keys 
(including immobiliser keys and key fobs)  being lost. As it was an additional cover  Mrs M 
opted for, I can understand why it wasnt included  in the standard  terms and conditions 
however Mrs Ms policy schedule does show she had included  key cover to her policy.
Mrs M says she didnt  receive the terms and conditions, so she wasnt aware. 
2gether Insurance has provided  us with screenshots of its system which show that it 
wouldve sent Mrs M a policy booklet  along  with the policy  schedule.  So, on balance, I think 
its more likely than not that the policy details, including  the terms and conditions, were  sent 
to Mrs M.
Taking everything into consideration, I cant say 2gether Insurance  did anything wrong. 
I say this because  2gether  Insurance did enough  to make it clear at the time of purchase that 
it would  only recover the vehicle should her keys get lost. So, whilst Mrs M may have 
thought the keycare cover  2gether Insurance was providing meant something different 
based on what she saw other companies advertising, she did purchase  the policy online 
without 2gether  Insurances involvement - and as such  it was her responsibility to read the 
information provided by it to ensure  she was purchasing a policy that was suitable for her 
needs. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 December  2019.
Asia Khanam
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0924313