K820x#14complaint
Mrs R has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold her late husband,  Mr R, 
an HSBC Plus (later renamed Advance) packaged bank account in 2007.  Mr R paid a 
monthly fee for the account which provided  several benefits in return.
background
Mrs R has referred  this complaint to us on behalf of her late husbands estate. Id like to start 
by offering my condolences to Mrs R on the loss of her husband;  I understand that the late 
Mr R passed away some time ago, but Im sure its still difficult  for Mrs R to think of him in 
circumstances such as this. 
Mr R sadly passed away after he initially referred the complaint to HSBC.  So as the majority  
of the complaint was made  by Mr R himself,  Ill refer primarily to him in my decision.
Final decisions  are published on our website.  To preserve Mr and Mrs Rs identity there are 
certain details I wont refer to in any depth within my decision. Mrs R has provided extensive 
information about Mr Rs health conditions and treatment  and Id like to thank her for 
providing me with such personal information. I can assure Mrs R that I have carefully read 
and thought about that information, but I wont refer specifically to Mr Rs condition  or his 
treatment in the decision. 
One of our adjudicators didnt think that HSBC mis-sold the packaged account to Mr R and 
didnt recommend that HSBC should  pay his estate any compensation. Mrs R didnt agree 
so she asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint and make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website.  
Ive used this approach  to help me decide what to do about  Mr Rs complaint. 
Where evidence is incomplete and matters  are in dispute, as they are here,  I make  my 
decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened  keeping  in mind everything 
Ive seen and been told.
After giving this complaint  a lot of thought, I dont think the Plus account was mis-sold to 
Mr R. Ill explain  why.
Ive started by thinking about whether Mr R was given a fair choice when he took his Plus 
account.
In his complaint  Mr R explained  that he was told by HSBC that he had to upgrade  his fee-
free account  to the Plus account in order to increase  his overdraft limit. He also said that he 
had to upgrade  his account to take a loan with HSBC.
Ref: DRN06583012I understand that Mr Rs account was upgraded around 12 years ago, and its very possible 
that his memory  was affected by both the passing of time and the treatment hed had, so Ive 
thought about what both Mr and Mrs R said, as well as the information that HSBC has 
provided about Mr Rs lending history with it.
Mr R had a £3,000 overdraft limit, which HSBC says had been  in place since 2003.  Around 
the time his account was upgraded in 2007,  I cant see that this limit was changed. In fact it 
remained at £3,000 until around four years  later, when it was reduced  to £2,800.
HSBC also says that Mr R had previously held a loan whilst he had a fee-free account.  And I 
havent seen anything to suggest he took a loan around July 2007,  when  he upgraded his 
account. 
On balance, Im not persuaded  that Mr R upgraded his account on the premise of obtaining 
further lending.  As I havent seen that he took any further facilities with HSBC around that 
time, I think he was aware that he had a choice  about whether to upgrade, and most likely 
did so for another reason. 
I dont think that HSBC personally  recommended  the Plus account  to Mr R. So it didnt have 
to check if the account was suitable  for him.
But HSBC  still had to give Mr R enough information  about the account  for him to decide  if he 
wanted it. 
Its hard to know exactly what was said at the time the Plus account was sold, but I do think 
that Mr R was at least told about  the benefits  it included  after all, hed have expected  to get 
something in return for the monthly  fee. 
Mrs R has explained that due to Mr Rs ongoing  health issues,  which had been present at 
varying degrees for several years, he wouldnt have been covered by the travel  insurance 
included with the Plus account. And I understand that its likely  this is the case;  Mrs R has 
said that Mr R often  had to have specialist travel  insurance to cover his condition,  and I have 
no reason to question  that. HSBC probably  didnt talk to Mr R about specific  conditions, but I 
do think that its more  likely than not that HSBC told Mr R that hed need to declare any pre-
existing medical conditions to the travel insurer. 
I say this because  Ive seen a record from 2010  where Mr R called the insurer  twice to 
discuss his medical conditions. Whilst I cant reconstruct everything  that was said in those 
conversations, it does looks as though the calls were medical-related, and this satisfies  me 
that HSBC made him aware  of the need to complete the medical screening before travelling.
Mrs R also says that Mr R didnt drive,  so the Plus accounts car breakdown cover wasnt 
useful to him. 
I fully understand  this point, but the Plus account  didnt  include car breakdown  cover  in July 
2007, as this was added as a new benefit  over a year later. So this doesnt make me think 
that HSBC wrongly  sold the account  to Mr R on this basis.
Ive thought very carefully about the information Mrs R has told me in relation to how Mr Rs 
ill health affected both his physical and mental  wellbeing. I can certainly understand that its 
unlikely thinking  about his bank  account wouldve been a priority for him, particularly whilst 
Ref: DRN06583013he was having  treatment and recovering from the side effects of that treatment. So its fair to 
say that Mr R possibly  kept the Plus account  for longer than he intended.
But in making my decision I have to consider  what HSBC did  or didnt do  and whether  it 
acted fairly.
For the reasons  Ive explained, I think Mr R was aware he had a choice about upgrading, 
and didnt do so on the false premise of obtaining further credit.  And I think  HSBC made him 
aware of the accounts main benefits,  and how to make use of them  if he wanted or needed 
to.
I completely understand that with hindsight the HSBC Plus account might  not have been as 
useful or as good value for money  as Mr R mightve expected. But in itself, that doesnt 
mean HSBC  mis-sold  the account. And although  I understand that Mr R said he was talked 
into keeping the account when he asked  to downgrade  I still think  he was aware of his 
option to do so, even if ultimately didnt go ahead with the downgrade.
I accept that its possible  HSBC didnt tell Mr R everything it should have about  the Plus 
account. But I think that Mr R chose to take the account, knowing he didnt have to, and I 
havent seen enough to make me think that he wouldnt still have taken  it, even if HSBC  had 
told him more about it. 
I want to reassure Mrs R that Ive looked at all the information I have about the late Mr Rs 
complaint. And Ive thought very carefully  about everything Mr R said, as well as all of the 
additional information Mrs R has provided.  But having done  so I dont think HSBC  mis-sold 
the packaged account to Mr R. So HSBC  doesnt need to put anything  right.
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs R, but for the reasons  Ive explained,  I dont uphold  this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 August 2019. 
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0658301